12-08-2021||Calcutta||Guardrail a source of danger in Calcutta||Guardrails that police place on Calcutta's roads to check vehicles at night or to facilitate traffic diversions through the day have emerged as potential dangers as many of them are not removed even when they serve little purpose. Last week, a biker knocked down a pedestrian and then fell off the vehicle after failing to negotiate through the space between a guardrail and a bus on the Prince Anwar Shah Road-EM Bypass connector. The biker, while trying to make room for the speeding bus, veered towards the footpath and hit the pedestrian. “The guardrails narrowed the space on the carriageway and the bus sped past us,” recounted a man who was riding pillion on the bike. Guardrails that are placed for night checks are usually removed by the morning. Senior police officers at Lalbazar said that at some places, especially near busy intersections, they were not removed in the morning because they also served the purpose of streamlining vehicle movement. The Telegraph toured the city and saw that at several places guardrails contributed little towards streamlining traffic and caused immense inconvenience to commuters. Prince Anwar Shah Road connector: Two guardrails were spotted on the connector, near the Garfa Main Road intersection. One of them was on the Stop Line. Vehicles were having a tough time making their way through the space between the two. Along the entire stretch, such barriers were spotted along one side of the road, eating into the road space. EM Bypass: On many stretches on the thoroughfare, guardrails were spotted before or after the Stop Line on one side. They were neither slowing down traffic nor facilitating crossing of the road by pedestrians. Ahead of the Peerless intersection from the Ruby crossing, a guardrail stood in the middle of the road just before a signal post. When the signal turned red, vehicles slowed down before coming to a halt. A few cars crossed over from east to west. The signal turned green and the vehicles, including a bus and small cars, moved from north towards south. “A car will stop anyway when the signal turns red. One doesn't need a guardrail to enforce that. If managing pedestrian movement across roads is a problem, the police can use ropes. What’s the point in installing guardrails,” said a motorist waiting at the signal in his car. SP Mukherjee Road: A guardrail was placed in the middle of the road ahead of the Rashbehari crossing from Hazra, just where vehicles are supposed to stop at a signal. When the light turns green and vehicles from behind start moving, drivers suddenly realise there is a guardrail in the middle. They have to veer to the left or right, resulting in chaos. Another guardrail stood in the middle of the road near the crossing leading to the Kalighat temple. The police said that at both locations, the guardrails were meant to alert motorists about a pedestrian crossing point. Motorists said a traffic signal did exactly the same job and guardrails only ate up the road space. Rashbehari connector: At the intersection of Swinhoe Lane and BB Chatterjee Road, near the Bijon Setu approach, a police console maintains the signal and sergeants are present most of the time to ensure there are no traffic violations. Ahead of the signal stood a guardrail on the Stop Line with the words "Go Slow" written in white on a red board. “Why do we need a guardrail to tell us to go slow? One just needs to follow the traffic signal. When lights turn yellow, vehicles slow down,” said a biker. Central Avenue: At the Colootola Street intersection, there are three guardrails. One was installed across in the middle of the road, ahead of the Stop Line, and two others were placed parallel to the pavement on one side. Vehicles have to slow down considerably to pass through the narrow space between the guardrail in the middle of the road and the ones along the side. Policespeak: “There are three reasons to put up guardrails — to slow down traffic, to warn motorists where the road is in bad shape and to alert motorists at crossings,” said Arijit Sinha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Man bluffing about having a coin from 1830 kidnapped, held captive||A man from Sonarpur who had allegedly been bluffing about having a coin from 1830 that was worth crores of rupees was kidnapped and held captive in a flat in Bansdroni for three days, police said. It was only after the gang was arrested and the 32-year-old victim — identified as “Pankaj, alias Akash Sardar” — rescued that it came to be known that the coin did not exist, the police said. Five men — including prime accused Sheetal Agarwal and Shahnawaz Mollah, the owner of the Bansdroni flat — have been arrested. The police said a ransom of Rs 20 lakh was to be handed to the kidnappers at Surya Sen Metro station on Tuesday evening. The victim’s sister went to the spot with a bag pretending to be carrying cash. As kidnappers approached her, cops in plainclothes arrested two men. The victim, who the gang had kept hidden in a Toyota Innova parked outside the station, was rescued. The police said they received a complaint on Tuesday afternoon that the man had been kidnapped two days ago. “We received a complaint saying a man named Pankaj, alias Akash Sardar, 32, who lives in Sonarpur and deals in antique goods, had been kidnapped two days ago by a man he knew,” said an officer of Sonarpur police station. The family had named Sheetal Agarwal, who lives in Mominpur and deals in antique goods, as an accused. Agarwal, the complainant said, was last seen with Sardar. Agarwal had apparently asked Sardar to meet him at a spot in Sonarpur, from where the victim was driven to Bansdroni. Sardar later told the police that since he knew Agarwal, he did not realise that he was being kidnapped. “We have come to know after a preliminary investigation that Agarwal and his associates had held Sardar captive for a coin from 1830,” an officer said. “Sardar had told Agarwal that the coin, which he said needed to be kept in a jar of grease and should not come in contact with light, was worth crores of rupees. He had been telling friends that the coin had chemical properties that could cause short-circuits in electrical appliances nearby if it came in contact with light.” After the abduction, the alleged kidnappers demanded the coin or Rs 20 lakh from Sardar’s family. The ransom was to be handed to them on Tuesday in front of Surya Sen Metro station. Sources said that as advised by the police, Sardar's sister went to the spot with a bag in her hand. As the woman waited, she received multiple calls from the alleged kidnappers, who asked her whether she was alone. “All the while, male and female cops from Sonarpur police station in plainclothes kept watch on her from a distance. After around one-and-a-half hours, two men approached the woman. The cops closed in on them and they were arrested on the spot,” a senior police officer said. Based on their statements at the spot, the cops found Sardar kept hidden inside a hired Toyota Innova, parked inside the perimeter of the station. Agarwal was allegedly in the same car. “After being rescued, Sardar was asked about the coin. He said he did not have the coin and that he had bluffed to friends,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans pledge to gift organs at three-day awareness drive ||A number of Calcuttans have pledged to donate organs after death at an event in City Centre, organised by the Calcutta chapter of Young Indians and partnered by The Telegraph. A kiosk named “Gift Your Organ” was set up at City Centre where men and women asked questions about organ donation. The kiosk was set up on Monday as part of a three-day drive that ended on Wednesday. Sukanta Mukhopadhyay, 52, walked up to the kiosk saying he wanted to pledge to donate organs after death. The former air force officer signed the pledge declaration. The initiative, part of Young India’s Gift An Organ campaign, was aimed at raising awareness among residents of the city about donating organs and encouraging people to register to donate organs after death. Kanupriya Pachisia, the chair of Gift An Organ, said they thought of organising such a programme as many lives could be saved if people pledged to donate organs after demise. “There are several myths regarding the process... we want to ensure that such myths are busted,” said Pachisia. Ankit Surekha, a member of Young Indians, the youth wing of the Confederation of Indian Industry, said they had noted down the contact details of all those who walked into the kiosk. “We will contact them and register them on the website,” said Surekha. Those willing to donate organs can log into www.giftanorgan.in to register. Ramesh Pandey, director of Ambuja Neotia group, which operates City Centre, described the drive as a “great initiative in these trying times”. “If anything, this pandemic has taught us the importance of good health. Donating organs can save lives, so we are proud to be associated with the initiative,” said Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
12-08-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta survey on students’ Covid vaccination status||IIM Calcutta has started a survey on the status of vaccination of the students of the two-year MBA programme before deciding whether more students could be called back to the campus. The institute asked the students’ council on Tuesday to start collating the data. The institute did not cite vaccination as a condition before letting all the 80 one-year MBA executive programme students and 25 per cent of the students of the two-year programme enter hostels and attend online classes. But with more students willing to return, the institute is now advising all to get vaccinated, said an official. An official said the survey was aimed at encouraging students to take both doses of a Covid vaccine. Manish Thakur, dean (new initiatives and external relations) and a member of the Covid committee of the IIM, told Metro: “Going by a general understanding, vaccination is seen as an antidote to Covid. With this idea in mind, the survey is being conducted.” The survey’s outcome will be shared with the institute in a week’s time, after which the committee will meet to take a decision on the recall of students. “There are teaching and non teaching employees staying in the quarters on the campus. So if the students who are coming back take both the doses, then the campus residents would feel safe,” he said. In mid April, the Joka institute had asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels after 70 students tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Bus rams into Parama flyover pillar||At least 12 passengers were injured after a bus crashed into a pillar of the Parama flyover minutes before it was to take a left turn at the Science City crossing on EM Bypass on Wednesday morning. The findings of a preliminary investigation by automobile experts suggest a puncture in a front tyre led to the 8.30am accident, police said. “One of the front tyres of the bus got punctured, after which the vehicle seems to have lost balance. It then crashed into one of the pillars of the flyover,” said an officer of the traffic department. The injured passengers were taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, from where they were discharged after treatment. The accident has once again turned the focus on the menace of speeding in Calcutta. An officer of Pragati Maidan police station said that from the way the bus had rammed into the pillar it was apparent that it was moving at a high speed. The driver apparently found it difficult to control the vehicle because of the flat. “The accident could have been averted had the bus been moving at a slower pace,” the officer said. The bus on route KB-21, which plies between Ganganagar in North 24-Parganas and Bantala, was heading towards EM Bypass from Park Circus when the accident happened. A case of rash and negligent driving under Section 279 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the driver. The bus has been seized but the driver fled the spot. According to statistics, buses — run by the government or privately owned — are one of the major contributors of road accidents in the city. The tendency to pick up and drop passengers in the middle of the road, reckless driving and the tendency to race with buses on the same route are some of the major causes of accidents in the city, the police said. Often, passengers are injured as buses start moving while they are getting on or off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Cables on Salt Lake road claim biker’s life||A 26-year-old man riding home suffered fatal head injuries after the front wheel of his motorcycle got caught in a mesh of cables lying on the road near Salt Lake's Baisakhi island and a water tanker ran over him on Wednesday evening. Subham Dhar, a resident of Canal East Road in Ultadanga, was riding along the Ultadanga-bound flank of First Avenue when the accident occurred around 6pm. Dhar, a medical representative, was wearing a helmet but it came off under the impact of the crash, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate's traffic wing said. “He lost balance when the front wheel of his bike hit the web of cables lying across the road. The front wheel got entangled in the mesh and he fell. A water tanker behind him went over him before coming to a stop,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. “The driver of the water tanker, operated by the Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad, had pressed the brakes seeing the biker fall but failed to stop the vehicle in time.” The cables that were lying on the road were all defunct, the officer said. Metro has reported multiple times how dangling cables pose a threat to bikers as well as pedestrians. Almost after every accident, the stretch where it occurred was cleared of cables, but thousands of kilometres of such cables are strewn across the city. Dilip Agarwal, a resident of BF Block who had gone to buy an LED baton, said he was waiting in front of the shop when he heard a sudden screech of tyres. “The shopkeeper and the customers rushed out and we saw a young man lying on the road, bleeding from nose and ears. His head had hit the concrete median divider,” Agarwal recounted. Agarwal and others alerted traffic policemen at a signal outpost near the island and flagged down a battery-driven rickshaw. Passengers got off the rickshaw following requests from the police and the residents. Dhar was taken to Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital, around 10 minutes away, in the rickshaw but he was declared dead on arrival. Dhar had started working in July 2018. A friend said he had in November 2019 bought the Yamaha MT 15 that he was riding on Wednesday. “He was fond of bikes. We would often go on short rides on weekends,” said the friend who did not wish to be named. Dhar, he said, was heading home from work early on Wednesday because of a family programme. In Salt Lake, cables lie on pavements and along median dividers. They can be spotted on Broadway, which connects Salt Lake to EM Bypass, in front of City Centre and along the Eastern Drainage Canal. Indira Mukherjee, the deputy commissioner of traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said they were aware of the cable mess in Salt Lake and adjoining areas. "This is an extremely unfortunate incident," said Mukherjee. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said that they were removing defunct cables. "It takes time," he said. Residents said the efforts to clear roads of defunct cables were half-hearted at best. So it is in Calcutta. In January 2018, an 18-year-old man riding a motorbike without a helmet died of head injuries after his two-wheeler got caught in a heap of cables on the east-bound flank of the Park Circus bridge. Mohammad Tausib Alam, a resident of Kasaipara Lane in Beniapukur, was headed for the Park Circus seven-point crossing from the Bypass when his bike crashed. He had lost his balance after the front wheel ran into the heap of cables. Cables strewn on the road have electrocuted many others over the past three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta teachers fear schoolgirls’ lack of access to sanitary pads||The long stay away from school — since March 2020 — has impacted schoolgirls’ access to sanitary pads, especially on the city’s outskirts and in districts, heads of several schools said. Schools had vending machines or organisations visit them to distribute sanitary pads and the girls would be comfortable taking pads for free or at subsidised rates. Now, with the livelihoods of many families being hit, the parents cannot afford to buy pads. Teachers fear the girls have slipped into unhygienic ways and the long stay away from school is not only taking a toll on their academic progress but also limiting their social development. Many girls used to rely on scraps of cloth. The schools conducted hygiene workshops and counselled them about using pads. “For many of our girls in the village, it is not easy to buy a packet from the store because there are boys around with curious eyes and hence they felt comfortable taking it from school,” said Murshida Khatun, the headmistress of Debkunda Sk. Abdur Razzak Memorial Girls High Madarsah in Murshidabad’s Beldanga block. The school had installed a vending machine and Khatun said a large bag of 5,000 pads have been lying on the premises since March last year. “The workshops and the availability of pads made the girls realise the convenience of using it,” said Khatun. But with the pandemic, the financial condition of the girls’ families has deteriorated sharply and pads have become an item of “luxury”. “When livelihood is at stake, parents cannot spare money for hygiene,” said Khatun. A school headmistress in Howrah said 60 per cent of girls in her school have parents who work as domestic help or are daily wage earners. “Many don’t have phones to attend classes and some of them have also told their class teachers that they cannot buy pads now. Before the pandemic, organisations would come to the school and distribute sanitary napkins but now, we cannot call the girls,” said Subhra Chakraborty, the headmistress of Howrah Jogesh Chandra Girls School. Chakraborty said an organisation contacted them recently and wanted to distribute pads with the ration for midday meals. Teachers, however, cited the difficulties of contacting the girls in the pandemic. “Many families have migrated to other places or the girls have been sent to villages. We have lost contact with many of our girls,” said Pritha Goswami, the headmistress at Kasba Balika Vidyalaya. The crisis is worse in the villages where access is even more limited. A headmaster was conducting a relief camp in the Sunderbans after Cyclone Yaas when he saw a girl waiting. “Just as we were to wrap up, the girl walked up to me and very softly asked if we had sanitary pads to give her. That is the kind of need these girls have but don’t have the money to buy,” said Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur in South 24-Parganas. School heads also feel that for many girls the unavailability of pads would make them fall out of practice of using it and some would not be even introduced to its use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||Four held for Rs 56-lakh bank fraud in Nodia||Four men were arrested from Nodia in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday morning for allegedly carrying out a fraud of Rs 56.64 lakh. The men allegedly forged  the signature of a senior official of a private company that has its account in a bank in central Calcutta and sent fake instructions over email on behalf of the company to transfer the amount from its account to seven accounts across India. The money was withdrawn from the seven accounts through ATMs. The nationalised bank lodged a complaint with Hare Street police station in the last week of July, following which the case was taken up by the anti-bank fraud section of the detective department. The four accused in custody are Yuvraj Dhingra from Greater Noida, Lavish Tripathi from East Delhi, Zeeshan Khan from Bareli and Ashwini Kumar from East Delhi. “Tripathi was the mastermind and Dhingra was caught on CCTV footage while withdrawing cash from an ATM,” said an officer. The accused were produced in a court in Nodia’s Gautam Buddha Nagar, from where they were handed to Calcutta police on transit remand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Calcutta||UK doctor with Calcutta roots helps fight Covid second wave||A 10-year childhood association with the city and its people prompted a London-based Bengali doctor to stand with Calcuttans during the second wave of Covid-19. Wales-born Rimona Sengupta, an alumnus of Julien Day School, Ganganagar, raised funds and offered help to many Covid-affected people and organisations who were working at the grassroots level to fight the pandemic here. From April to June, Sengupta sent oxygen concentrators, nebuliser machines, pulse oximeters, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, goggles, fogger and sanitiser machines worth over Rs 10 lakh to doctors, health care workers and many NGOs in Bengal and other parts of the country. For Bengal, she sent medical equipment worth over Rs 2.5 lakh, including an oxygen concentrator to the city. “My parents live in Calcutta. In March, when I was there, the Covid protocols seemed to me to be a farce. I knew tough times were ahead for India,” said the 42-year-old doctor from London. Her father, Samir Sengupta, is an ophthalmologist. He had worked in Wales and England before returning to Calcutta when Rimona was eight. After completing school at Julien Day, she got admitted to St Paul’s College, Calcutta. After her Class XII exams, she went to Russia and studied medicine at St Petersburg State Medical University. Rimona started working in the UK in 2005. “In April, I made a fundraising appeal on a website and formed a WhatsApp group, UK Covid Help, with all the Indians I know in the UK. However, the highest donation for India came from a Zurich-based research scientist, Alexander Hobbs,” she said. Rimona’s team partnered with the Khelduar Foundation in Jalpaiguri to reach out to the poor people of north Bengal. They sent 50 pulse oximeters, a thermal temperature gun, two sprayer machines, 30 PPE kits and financial aid of Rs 30,000 to buy oxygen cylinders to the foundation. “Dr Sengupta’s help came as a blessing. We could reach out to the tribal belt and help them detect the disease early,” said the organisation’s founder member Santanu Ghosh. Rimona’s team also sent masks, 30 PPE kits, a fogger machine and Rs 25,000 for oxygen cylinders to the Red Volunteers’ Dum Dum unit. Rimona feels it’s a huge teamwork that made everything possible. “I’m very thankful to all my team members in the UK, our volunteers, social media contacts, healthcare and social workers on the ground as well as contributors from all over the world,” she quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-21
12-08-2021||Business||Britain might require Facebook to sell Giphy||Britain might require Facebook to sell GIF website Giphy after the country's competition regulator said on Thursday its investigation found the deal between the two companies would hurt the display advertising market. Facebook, the world's largest social media company, bought Giphy, a website for making and sharing animated images, or GIFs, in May last year to integrate it with its photo-sharing app, Instagram. The deal was pegged at $400 million by Axios. The UK's Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) began a probe into the deal in January, and in April referred the deal to an in-depth investigation. ”Giphy's takeover could see Facebook withdrawing GIFs from competing platforms or requiring more user data in order to access them. It also removes a potential challenger to Facebook,” said Stuart McIntosh, chair of the independent investigation for the CMA. Another major provider of GIFs is Google's Tenor. The CMA found that, before the Facebook deal, Giphy was considering expanding its paid advertising services offered in the United States to other countries, including the UK. However, Facebook terminated Giphy's ad partnerships following the deal, according to the regulator. ”We disagree with the CMA's preliminary findings, which we do not believe to be supported by the evidence. As we have demonstrated, this merger is in the best interest of people and businesses in the UK - and around the world,” a Facebook spokesperson said. The representative added that the California-based company would continue to work with the CMA. Giphy declined to comment. This is not the first time the CMA has raised concerns about major deals. The $9.2 billion eBay-Adevinta deal has caught its attention, and the CMA has asked the new owners of supermarket chain Asda to fix fuel competition concerns. The watchdog said that it has engaged with other agencies reviewing the deal to help the CMA's investigation, and is now inviting comments from interested parties by Sept. 2 for its provisional findings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Centre ready to do everything to revive pandemic-affected economy, says Sitharaman ||Expressing the government's commitment to continue with reforms, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday assured India Inc that it is ready to do everything required to revive and support economic growth hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Stressing that there is a need to promote growth as it helps bring down poverty, she however said it would not be at the cost of inflation. RBI has been mandated to keep inflation at 4 per cent, with tolerance level of 2 per cent on either side. Both the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) are working in tandem to achieve the objective, she said while addressing the CII Annual Meeting 2021. "You would have observed that in Modi 2.0 particularly and even earlier, the relationship with the RBI has been one of those in which we are working like partners to address the issues of the economy, even now, even during pandemic," the finance minister said. Both are working in tandem -- monetary side is keeping the momentum in the right direction while fiscal side is being taken care of by the finance ministry and coordination continues, she said. "Growth will be given its importance. Growth will be pushed both by the Reserve Bank and by us. We also want to assure the industry that inflation in the last 7 years has not crossed 6 per cent except seasonal variation. Inflation has been well within that band which is before us," she said. Pointing out that she is not looking at growth versus inflation, Sitharaman said "we should attend to inflation, keep it contained, take all the necessary steps, but never forget that growth is what is going to make the difference to the economy's revival and growth is what is eventually going to remove poverty and bring in a certain level playing field for all the Indian citizens." She further said the government is looking at being an active participant in the economic recovery. "First thing is government is committed in doing everything that it requires to be done for the economy to be revived...,"she said. To a question if RBI would go for monetary tightening in line with developed economies, she said, "I don't think we have reached that level. And I am glad that the RBI has been voicing that understanding..." The central bank has not given any indication about wanting to suck out the liquidity which is available in the system, she added. Observing that some high frequency indicators are pointing towards economic revival after unlock measures announced by many states with decline in COVID-19 cases, she said foreign direct investment (FDI) has been flowing into India non-stop despite the pandemic because there was confidence about the macroeconomic fundamentals. "As a result, we probably were in the third or the fourth place in 2020, in getting FDI. And even this year, in the first five months of this year, we have had about 37 per cent more FDI coming into this country compared to the last year itself," she said. Foreign exchange reserves are at USD 620 billion as of July 2021, she said, adding exports are growing as far as core industry is concerned. Household savings are not only going to banks but also to stock markets, she said. Importantly, due to the significant buoyancy seen in both indirect and direct taxes so far, supplemented by the likelihood of impressive disinvestment receipts this year, the government will honour GST compensation payments to the states this year, she said. "So, the indicators are very clear that recovery is taking place and aspire for more. The messages and the indications which are coming are very clear that the economy is revving to come out," she said. On the commitment to reforms, she said the government is dedicated to the objective and it was reflected during the pandemic when it announced long-awaited farm and labour reforms. Despite disturbances for political purposes, the finance ministry and corporate affairs ministry alone got seven important bills, including DICGC Amendment Bill 2021, Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Insolvency and General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, cleared in Parliament. She also assured the industry that the government's commitment to disinvestment and privatisation announced in the Budget 2021-22 will be met. "Yes, all that will happen. And we will push for them to happen this year. Necessary rigorous work is going on. And we therefore commit ourselves to the disinvestment which was announced in the Budget. Aside from disinvestment and privatisation, we are also looking at asset monetisation," she said. The Centre has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including 2 PSU banks and one insurance company, in the current fiscal year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Retail inflation eases to 5.59 per cent in July||Retail inflation eased to 5.59 per cent in July mainly due to softening food prices, according to official data released on Thursday. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) based inflation was 6.26 per cent in June and 6.73 per cent in July 2020. According to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), inflation in the food basket slowed down to 3.96 per cent in July from 5.15 per cent in the previous month. Earlier this month, the RBI projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 -- 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for Q1:2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. The Reserve Bank of India, which has been mandated by the government to keep the retail inflation at 4 per cent with 2 per cent margin on either side, mainly factors in the CPI-based inflation while deciding its bi-monthly monetary policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty soar to fresh lifetime highs||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 318 points to end at its new lifetime high on Thursday, tracking gains in ICICI Bank, L&T and Tech Mahindra. The 30-share index ended 318.05 points or 0.58 per cent higher at its all-time peak of 54,843.98. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 82.15 points or 0.26 per cent to record 16,325.15. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 6 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, Titan, L&T, NTPC and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank were among the laggards. "Domestic equities recovered sharply mainly led by sharp rebound in IT and PSU banks. Additionally, strong buying was seen in midcap and smallcap stocks today after persistent selling for last couple of days," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT stocks remained in focus and investors continue to lap-up quality IT names as sustained double-digit revenue growth visibility backed by strong deal wins offer comfort, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses. Equities in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.17 per cent to USD 71.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Amazon India expands fulfilment network in Tamil Nadu||Amazon India on Thursday announced the expansion of its fulfilment network in Tamil Nadu by almost doubling the storage capacity this year. The fulfilment infrastructure to offer storage space of close to 4.4 million cubic feet to sellers in the State. The e-commerce giant launched a new fulfilment centre (FC) and a specialised FC for large appliances and furniture in Coimbatore. The company would also 'quadruple' its storage capacity at an existing Centre in Chennai, a company statement said. Chief Minister M K Stalin formally inaugurated the fulfilment centre in the presence of Industry Minister Thangam Thennarasu, company Vice-President (Customer Fulfilment Operations) and Supply Chain, Prakash Dutta, among others. In Tamil Nadu, Amazon India would have six fulfilment centres and double its storage capacity with close to 4.4 million cubic feet spread across a carpet area of more than one million square foot. The buildings are ready and operational ahead of the festive season and can support more than 50,000 sellers besides generating thousands of direct and indirect jobs. "Tamil Nadu continues to be a significant region for us, and we are elated to further deepen our investment in the State. This network of six fulfilment centres offering a storage capacity of more than 4.4 million cubic feet will provide a fillip to sellers as well as ancillary industries including packaging, transportation, logistics...," Dutta said. "While we continue to prioritise the safety of our teams and customers, we are confident that this expansion will help us enhance customer experience in Tamil Nadu, during and beyond the festive season," he added. The expansion in Tamil Nadu was part of Amazon's plan to increase its fulfilment network by close to 40 per cent across the country and to provide a total storage capacity of 43 million cubic feet to its sellers. "Of the six FCs in Tamil Nadu, two of them are specialized buildings and will house tens of thousands of products in the large appliances category consisting of air conditioners, refrigerators, washing machines and televisions and a selection of products in the furniture category", it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index heavyweights ITC, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 155.90 points or 0.29 per cent higher at 54,681.83, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 42.90 points or 0.26 per cent to 16,325.15. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by ITC, M&M, Bajaj Auto, ICICI Bank and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma and Asian Paints were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 28.73 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 54,525.93, while Nifty inched up 2.15 points or 0.01 per cent at 16,282.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 238.14 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. "Global equity markets have positive news from the US inflation data for July which has come at 0.5 per cent month-on-month. This is slightly lower than expected and confirms the Fed thesis that inflation is transitory, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The positive response of Dow and S&P to the inflation numbers and the decline in the dollar index will strengthen the bulls. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.04 per cent to USD 71.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Bengal govt seeing investor interest in setting up data centres ||The Bengal government is seeing investor interest in setting up data centres in the state, but the IT sector on Wednesday urged the state to come out with a comprehensive policy covering incentives and energy costs — two key considerations for any firm to consider putting up data centre infrastructure. Two developments relating to data centres have taken place in the state despite the Covid pandemic. First, in August last year the state government had cleared a proposal from Reliance Jio to set up a cable landing station at an investment of Rs 1,000 crore. A cable landing station could encourage more IT sector investments in the state. Reliance Jio has also taken around 40 acres of land at the Silicon Valley Hub at New Town to set up data centres. Second, the Mumbai based Hiraranandani group has evinced interest to invest around Rs 8,500 crore in Bengal to develop logistics and hyperscale data centre parks in the state. The data centres will be put up by group firm Yotta. Bengal industries and information technology minister Partha Chatterjee said Ctrl has also sought six acres of land at Silicon Valley Hub for setting up data centres. “The companies have asked for a policy and sought incentives and some have called for a reduction in electricity charges. We have heard their views,” said Chatterjee after a meeting with IT industry officials. The minister said that review meetings will take place at six month intervals to monitor the progress of projects. The matters discussed, including policy and incentive support, will be brought to the attention of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.  According to data compiled by JLL, Calcutta’s existing data centre capacity was 6 MW in 2020 (1 percent of total inventory) and the upcoming cable landing station could play a crucial role in expanding capacity in the medium term. In contrast, Mumbai has a capacity of 199 MW in 2020 with 9 cable landing stations. Several states are considering having a data centre policy amid the rising demand from enterprises on account of upgradation of IT infrastructure in Covid pandemic and data localisation requirements. Large projects Chatterjee said that two large IT projects in the state – Infosys and ITC Infotech – are progressing. The minister said that Infosys project could be completed within 20 months from the start or work and ITC Infotech’s project is expected to be operational soon. The state has also received applications for 88 modules in its own IT parks and has also seen investor interest in the electronics manufacturing sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Great Wall Motor decides to re-allocate portion of India investment to Brazil||Great Wall Motor has decided to re-allocate to Brazil a portion of its $1-billion investment in India, as the Chinese auto maker has been unnerved by a year-long delay in winning government approvals, three sources told Reuters. The re-allocation, which could range up to $300 million, comes as the sources said the maker of popular sport-utility vehicles (SUVs) and pick-ups was close to acquiring a former Daimler plant in Brazil to build cars. Great Wall has also tasked James Yang, its India president since last year, with the responsibility of assisting with operations in the Latin American nation, said the sources, who have direct knowledge of the matter. “Brazil is almost a done deal and it did not make sense to keep the funds blocked for India,” said one of the sources, explaining the rationale for the change of focus. Great Wall’s move is a fallout of India’s decision in April 2020 to more closely scrutinise investments from China, the sources said, as part of a crackdown that followed a border clash between the two Asian giants. Just two months before, amid the fanfare of India’s biennial car show, Great Wall had said it would invest $1 billion to build cars there, by buying a former General Motors (GM) factory, as well as making batteries and car parts. Two of the sources said the re-allocated funds, budgeted by Great Wall for India since 2020, would mainly have been used to buy GM’s factory, a cost that sources had earlier put at about $300 million. Great Wall declined to comment. The Indian government did not immediately reply to an email seeking comment. The step highlights growing nervousness and impatience among Chinese investors, who have seen roughly 150 investment proposals worth more than $2 billion held up by India’s slow approvals process, according to industry estimates. The delays are forcing Great Wall, which was expected to begin selling its India-made Haval brand of SUVs in the country this year, to look at taking a more measured approach. It may even consider entering the market with a fully-built imported vehicle before starting domestic production, one of the sources said. “When approvals in India come through, Great Wall will be ready with the money, but it may not be a straight decision anymore,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
12-08-2021||Business||Piyush Goyal welcomes Supreme Court ruling on Amazon, Flipkart||Commerce minister Piyush Goyal has displayed his verbosity in the Lok Sabha at the expense of foreign investors. The minister on Tuesday managed to  conjure up visions of the Quit India movement as he welcomed the Supreme Court decision to let the Competition Commission pursue its probe into the practices of Amazon and Flipkart “These companies used legal tactics to stall the investigation ... I am happy to tell you that yesterday (Monday), on the day of the Quit India Movement, all the efforts of these companies failed,” Goyal told the Indian law makers. “The top court decided that the CCI should probe the allegations of fraudulent, unfair trade practices that they engage in,” Goyal added Goyal’s crude attempt at symbolism from two events separated by a gulf of time is the latest indication of New Delhi’s discontent with the two US e-commerce giants, which have for years faced allegations of bypassing Indian laws to run their businesses and hurting smaller retailers. On Monday, the Supreme Court pulled up Amazon and Flipkart for trying to stall investigations ordered in 2020 by the CCI, saying big organisations like theirs should volunteer to assist in any inquiry. The minister flagged concerns about the influence of big online retailers that is adversely impacting the smaller players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||L&T sells its 100% stake in Singoli-Bhatwari Hydroelectric Project||Larsen & Toubro on Wednesday said it will divest a 100 per cent stake in Singoli-Bhatwari Hydroelectric Project to a subsidiary of Sumant Sinha-led ReNew Power Pvt Ltd for Rs 985 crore. ReNew Power is India’s largest renewable energy firm and counts Goldman Sachs, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) among its prominent investors. It is among a wave of clean-energy firms poised to benefit from India’s push into the renewables market. The 99MW power project is owned by subsidiary firm L&T Uttaranchal Hydropower Ltd. The move is part of the company’s strategy of divesting non-core assets and improving shareholder value, L&T said. In a separate transaction, ReNew Power announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire a 260MW of operating solar projects in Telangana. The two assets have a combined enterprise value of Rs 2,850 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||PwC India to invest up to Rs 1,600 crore to create additional 10,000 jobs||Global consultancy firm PwC India on Wednesday said it will invest up to Rs 1,600 crore and create additional 10,000 jobs in the next five years. Announcing its new business strategy ‘‘The New Equation’’, PwC India said the firm will also increase its campus hiring by over five times in the same time period. The New Equation is based on analysis of trends and thousands of conversations with clients and stakeholders, it said in a release. ‘‘India has strong economic fundamentals, a huge advantage in the form of its demographic dividend and an ecosystem to boost innovation. Our new strategy will enable us and our clients to further the country’s economic development, harness the potential of the domestic market and create more opportunities for society at large,’’ said Sanjeev Krishan, chairman of PwC in India. As part of the India commitments, the release said in the next five years, PwC will seek to invest up to Rs 1,600 crore and create over 10,000 additional jobs — a large proportion of these would come in the areas of digital, cloud, cyber, analytics and emerging technologies. At present, the firm has around 15,000 employees in India. PwC further said in the next five years, it will seek to enhance focus on existing tech-led alliances and explore avenues in areas of emerging technologies and work towards a minimum of 40 per cent gender diversity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||CESC Ltd posts 34 per cent jump in consolidated net profit||CESC Ltd has posted a 34 per cent jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 280 crore for the June 2021 quarter. Its consolidated net profit had stood at Rs 209 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year 2020-21. Total income in the June 2021 quarter rose to Rs 3,242 crore from Rs 2,662 crore in the year-ago quarter. Bata loss at Rs 71 crore Subdued demand across retail outlets on account of the second wave of Covid pandemic and ensuing lockdowns dampened the first quarter result of footwear major Bata India Ltd. The company posted a standalone net loss of Rs 71.32 crore for the quarter ended June 2021 against a loss of Rs 101.12 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The company had reported a standalone net profit of Rs 29.43 crore for the quarter ended March 2021. The consolidated net loss for the June quarter was Rs 69.47 crore compared with a loss of Rs 100.88 crore in the corresponding year-ago quarter. “The first quarter had some challenges for business across the country, including ours. While our retail outlets were largely shut, we were able to serve our customers through alternative channels such as our website, online marketplaces, Bata ChatShop and Bata Store on Wheels. These channels have enabled us to minimise the overall impact of the second wave,” said Gunjan Shah, wholetime director and CEO, Bata India. The board of directors of Bata India on Wednesday approved Shah’s appointment as the managing director and CEO for five years from October 1, 2021. Meanwhile, Emami Realty, the real estate arm of  Emami Group, posted a net sales of Rs 41.97 crore for the June quarter, up 39.5 per cent from Rs 30.09 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||Maharashtra government to purchase Air India building||The Maharashtra government has begun discussions with Air India to purchase its iconic building located in the Nariman Point area of the city overseeing Marine Drive. Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte discussed the valuation of the building with Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal on Tuesday. “Discussions are going on,” Kunte told PTI. Debt-ridden Air India had floated tenders for the sale of the 23-storey building, which stands on state government land, in 2018, but it failed to evoke a good response. Air India officials told Kunte that their internal valuation of the building was more than Rs 2,000 crore to which Kunte asked them to share it with the state government, official sources said. “The Air India building has become old. A private party will have to demolish the entire structure. We can use it for another eight to ten years to accommodate some government offices. The building cost cannot be over Rs 2,000 crore. Its actual cost would only be the strategic location and the land cost,” an official who attended the meeting said. Back in 2018, Air India had approached the then state government and sought its participation in the tender. “We did not participate in the tender process but the government wrote to Air India quoting a price of Rs 1,450 crore for the purchase. The actual price would have been around Rs 1,100 crore to Rs 1,200 crore since the government’s dues from Air India are around Rs 300 crore,” the official said. An Air India spokesperson declined to comment. The Air India building is a landmark on Mumbai’s skyline with the airline’s trademark Centaur icon on its top. The building served as the corporate headquarters of Air India till 2013. In February 2013, Air India officially vacated the building as part of its asset-monetisation plan and shifted its corporate office to New Delhi. The Air India building was one of the several high rises, including Express Towers and the Oberoi Sheraton that came up at Nariman Point, a 64-acre reclamation from the sea which was initiated as a project to ease the housing crisis in Mumbai but was later auctioned off in plots to various companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||Finance ministry to formally reach out to 17 firms to settle disputes||After getting Parliament’s seal on the rollback of retrospective tax, the finance ministry plans to formally reach out to 17 firms, including Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc, to settle their disputes. Finance secretary T. V. Somanathan said Rs 8,100 crore was collected using the retrospective tax legislation. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore was from Cairn Energy alone. This money will be repaid. As much as Rs 1.10 lakh crore in back taxes was sought from 17 entities that were levied taxes using the 2012 legislation. Of these, major recoveries were made only from Cairn. Analysts have expressed their doubts over whether firms, which have won international arbitration awards in their favour, would agree to the government’s conditions. With the passing of the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, all the tax demands made on companies like Cairn Energy and Vodafone using a 2012 legislation on indirect transfer of Indian assets prior to May 28, 2012, will be withdrawn.  The legislation also proposed to “refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon”,  it said. Addressing the CII annual meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the government’s move to end retrospective tax signified the undoing of a mistake in made in the past. “We undid a mistake of the past by removing retrospective tax. It will increase trust between the government and the industry. The feedback and appreciation from industry in this regard has been great to see,” he said. In 2012, the United Progressive Alliance government controversially changed tax laws retrospectively. International companies which had acquired assets of Indian companies before then were told they had to pay huge amounts. This led to a fierce legal fight between the government and the companies. Cairn and Vodafone won the international arbitration cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||Business||Modi extols virtues of his Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiative||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday tom-tommed the virtues of his Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiative, urging India Inc to plug into the booming opportunities for Made in India products even as he tried to lure foreign investors with the promise of greater reforms, quicker approvals, low taxes and a benign regulatory environment. Modi seemed to skate on a thin ice of paradoxical positions as he told the captains of industry at the CII annual summit that the responsibility for the success of India’s self-reliant mission critically depended on them. “Company bharatiya ho ye jaroori nahi; lekin aaj, har bharatiya bharat mein bani product ko apnana chahata hai (Every Indian wants to adopt Indian products even though the company making those products might not necessarily be owned by Indians),” he said, signalling that foreign investment in Indian companies would get an easy ride into the country but foreign brands may have to brace for tricky challenges. That is just the sort of double talk that will make foreign companies leery about committing funds to a very uneven economic terrain. Last week, the Modi government scrapped the retrospective element in a tax provision introduced by the UPA in 2012 but stuck to the principle of taxing indirect transfers of capital assets like shares held in tax-haven based companies that derive their value from an underlying Indian entity. The issue had snowballed into a major controversy after the Supreme Court found no merit in a tax demand slapped on Vodafone plc for its $11.1-billion buyout of a golden share in a Cayman Island based subsidiary in 2007, giving it a 67 per cent stake in Hutchison Essar’s telecom entity in India. Modi said his government had rectified mistakes by doing away with the retrospective taxation and hoped that this would build trust between the government and industry. But he glossed over the fact that the principle of taxing indirect capital asset transfers, irrespective of the residence of the entity, had been rejected by the apex court. All Vodafone-type deals post May 28, 2012 will still fall within the ambit of the amendment in the source rule of taxation laid out in section 9 (1) (i) of the Income Tax Act. Curiously, the Modi government has made no effort to scrap the 55-year retrospective element in the tax law amendment in Section 132 of the IT Act that it introduced in 2017 that freed tax authorities from the obligation to disclose “to any person or any authority or the Appellate Tribunal’’ why they had “reason to believe” or “reason to suspect” that a tax assessee is concealing assets and which would serve as sufficient ground for ordering a search and seizure operation. This is the clearest reminder that the government hasn’t junked the principle of retrospective tax law changes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
12-08-2021||India||Congress leader asks Twitter to stop being BJP's political platform||The Congress alleged on Thursday that its official Twitter handle as well as that of a large number of party leaders and workers have been blocked by the microblogging website, which justified the action saying it has been done for violating rules. The development comes close on the heels of the blocking of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Twitter handle after he shared pictures of the family of a nine-year-old alleged rape-and-murder victim in Delhi last week in violation of laws. The party's youth wing chief, Srinivas BV, shared a picture with an orange version of the Twitter logo on the platform and asked it not to act in the safffron party's favour. He also pointed out the platfrom's hypocrisy on its policies as there were other existing tweets on the following content on the platfor, and no such action had been taken against them. Twitter, on its part, said the blocking of the accounts of several Congress leaders, including that of Gandhi, was done to protect individual privacy and safety after they posted images that violated its rules. The Congress accused the website of acting under pressure from the government. The chief spokesperson of the party, Randeep Surjewala, said the Narendra Modi government will not be able to suppress their voice by threatening Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||EAM calls for understanding on vaccination certificates for foreign travel||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar suggested on Thursday that going forward some kind of understanding would have to be developed among nations on Covid-19 vaccination certificates rather than on particular vaccines for foreign travel, but acknowledged it would be a challenge as some countries will push the viewpoint that their vaccines are a must. He also expressed hope that an indication about the World Health Organisation's approval to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is likely by September. In his remarks made virtually at a plenary session of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Annual Meeting, Jaishankar asserted that the world stood by India during the second wave of Covid, especially in terms of oxygen supply, oxygenators and medicines as the country had helped others in the first wave of the pandemic. Asserting that India had "come through a test of fire" and the world had understood and appreciated its resolve in combating the pandemic, he also hailed India for helping out other smaller countries in vaccine supply, saying many of them would not have come within "sniffing distance" of vaccines if not for India. "I think, we have reputationally come out of this much stronger," Jaishankar added. Asked about the need for global vaccine passports and problems being faced by Indians in foreign travel, he said a lot of this travel impediment is speculation and not fact based. "The US does not insist on your being vaccinated to enter the US, it insists on you being RT-PCR negative before you board a plane. At the moment there is an India issue because they are not allowing people who have been in India for a certain period immediately to go to the US directly," Jaishankar pointed out. "I would say, still the general practice (for foreign travel) right now is very much testing-based rather than vaccination-based," he said. Jaishankar pointed out that the problem arose when Europe started issuing a notification that those with certain kinds of vaccinations would be exempt from quarantine. "We took up that issue bilaterally with a whole lot of European countries and made sure that initially Covishield which was excluded is included," he said. Noting that travel to Europe for those who have taken Covaxin was still a problem, he expressed optimism that this was likely to change once the WHO gives its approval to it. "Typically, the WHO takes two months plus to look at this and Covaxin filed its application on July 9, so I am hopeful that some time, maybe in September, we should get some kind of an indication (on approval for Covaxin)," Jaishankar said. He argued that the regulator has recognised only a limited set of vaccines so if countries only receive those who have been administered those jabs, very few foreigners will be able to enter any country. "So, the answer to my mind will have to be some kind of understanding on vaccination certificates, not on vaccines. There is a precedent for it in yellow fever, there were yellow fever certifications and nobody said you have to have injection 'x' or 'y'," he said. Jaishankar noted that these conversations are beginning to get traction and that the International Civil Aviation Organization has been having such discussions. The minister, however, added that he does see the issue as a challenge because some countries "will try to get across a viewpoint that their vaccines are a must". There will be a "push and pull" out here, he said and asserted that India as a country whose people look at the world as a global workplace where mobility and migration matter so much, it would be a priority as to how Indians are able to travel with least restrictions. Talking about the help provided by India to other countries during the pandemic, Jaishankar said he has received messages of gratitude from representatives of many nations for having sent out medicines, medical teams and food supplies when it was needed the most. He said that when the Covid pandemic broke out for the first time, India stood out for being decisive and largely effective in what it did, considering that Covid "caught us when our health infrastructure was very rudimentary, especially in terms of what we needed to do (to combat the situation)". "When the second wave of the pandemic hit us, it was a very different situation. The scale, intensity, seriousness of it was something which was very difficult to anticipate," he said and added that because of the delta variant of the coronavirus, it had some very specific implications in terms of oxygen demand which went up eight-nine times. The minister said that initially, the world looked at India and wondered how any country could deal with this kind of caseload and severity of pandemic. "Where we are today, I think the world understands and appreciates that we have pulled up our socks, gritted our teeth, shown national resolve, we have come through a test of fire," Jaishankar said. "The overall sense of the world is 'ok guys you have had a very rough time, but we've seen you have got a government which has pulled you through, you have a national resolve, you have reserves of strength, you have dug deep and come through it'," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Hindu outfit booked for assaulting ‘henna’ seller||Police here booked 25 members of a right-wing Hindu group for allegedly thrashing a vendor selling "henna", according to an official. The Kranti Sena has also been running a "campaign" against Muslims applying "mehndi" on hands of Hindu women. Police have registered a case of rioting and intimidation after the victim, identified as Perkash Chand, lodged a complaint against them, SHO Anil Kapervan said. However, it is not clear if the FIR mentions about the "campaign". Earlier, videos surfaced on social media, in which members of the group are purportedly heard talking about their "campaign" against Muslims applying "mehndi" on hands of Hindu women, accusing them of "love jihad". "Love jihad" is a term used by right-wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||False narratives and misconceptions about judges need to be refuted, says CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana Thursday said that false narratives and misconceptions created in minds of the people that judges supposedly lead an easy life need to be refuted by educating the public about the work put by them with limited resources. The CJI said the most obvious sacrifice to become a judge is monetary of course but one must be moved by the spirit of public duty to take such a decision. Justice Ramana, who was speaking at a farewell function of Justice R F Nariman organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), said that it is important for judges to stay in touch with society and not remained completely secluded. However, he said the undeniable fact is that "our engagement with society undergoes a drastic change when we become a judge." "I would like to flag the amount of work we put in as Judges, day in and day out. There exists a misconception in the minds of the people that Judges stay in big bungalows, work only 10 am to 4 pm and enjoy their holidays. Such a narrative is untrue," the CJI said. He said it is not easy to prepare for more than 100 cases every week, listen to novel arguments, do independent research, and author judgments, while also dealing with the various administrative duties of a Judge, particularly of a senior judge. "We either burn the midnight oil, or wake up before sunrise, or sometimes even both, to fulfil our judicial duties. We continue to work even during the Court holidays, do research and author pending judgements. Therefore, when false narratives are created about the supposed easy life led by Judges, it is difficult to swallow," CJI said. "We cannot defend ourselves. It is the duty of the Bar to refute these false narratives and to educate the public about the work put in by Judges with the limited resources given to them," Justice Ramana said. He said "there are a number of sacrifices one must make when one decides to become a Judge, the most obvious to become a judge is monetary, especially when one has a roaring practice, but one must be moved by the spirit of public duty to take such a decision." "Honestly, if Brother Nariman had continued to be a lawyer rather than becoming a Judge, he could have led a more luxurious and relaxed life. That he managed to balance all his duties and produce the quality of work he did, is a testament to his work ethic and his capabilities," the CJI said. Justice Ramana said at the tender age of 12 years, while other children were probably busy playing cricket or something else, Justice Nariman became an ordained priest of the Parsi faith. "This extraordinary grooming explains the evolution of his work ethic, commitment, focus and brilliance," he said adding that "I feel like I am losing one of the lions that guarded the institution. Our loss will be a huge gain elsewhere." Justice Nariman said he was leaving the institution with mixed feelings. "Now I won't have files waiting for me when I wake up at 6 in the morning. Although I'll still wake up but follow a routine like ordinary citizens," he said. Sharing his experience, Justice Nariman said when he was at the Bar he had no idea how it would be like at the bench. "This side (as a judge) is much more difficult than a lawyer. You have to read much much more. I enjoyed writing judgements and at the end it worked out well," he said. Attorney General K K Venugopal said Justice Nariman is a jurist par excellence, expert in constitutional law, commercial and tax law and also a religious scholar. Venugopal said Justice Nariman is one of the finest legal minds and one of the finest judges which the apex court has had. "Justice Nariman is a constitutional czar par excellence", he said. Justice Nariman, during his early years as a lawyer, had been a junior of Venugopal. "I cannot let Justice Nariman leave the Supreme Court without saying a few words. It was a great honour for me to practice before him. He was a junior in my chamber and he was a star among all my juniors," the AG said. SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh said his retirement evokes mixed feelings in him. It's my privilege that I am hosting this event of his retirement but also it's our loss that we are losing a brilliant judge today. Justice Nariman's one day salary as a lawyer is more than what he earned in these seven years as a Supreme Court judge. That is what he sacrificed, he said. The senior advocate requested the Collegium that all the judges Justice Nariman wanted to be elevated to the top court should be cleared and that will be the most befitting tribute. "I urge CJI Ramana that a quota for woman judges be introduced and that is the way to have more women judges in the Supreme Court," Singh said. SCBA Vice President Pradeep Rai, secretary Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad also spoke on the occasion. Apex court judges Justice U U Lalit, S K Kaul, V Ramasubramanian, A M Khanwilkar, B R Gawai, Navin Sinha and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta were also present on the occasion. Justice Nariman, who became the apex court judge on July 7, 2014, disposed of over 13,500 cases and delivered historic verdicts including the declaration of privacy as a fundamental right, setting aside of IT Act provision empowering arrests, decriminalising consensual gay sex and permitting women of all ages to enter Kerala's Sabarimala temple. Justice Nariman, born on August 13, 1956, became a senior lawyer in 1993 and Solicitor General of India on July 27, 2011, before being elevated as the judge of the apex court on July 7, 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Kanpur: Muslim man asked to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’, assaulted; daughter begs for mercy||A Muslim man was assaulted in the public and allegedly asked to chant "Jai Shri Ram" even as his minor daughter tried to save him, said police here on Thursday. A one-minute video of the incident surfaced on social media on Wednesday. The 45-year-old man is seen being assaulted by some men, who ask him to chant "Jai Shri Ram". The victim's daughter is seen trying to save her father, crying and asking the attackers not to beat him. Later, some policemen took the man to their Jeep. The footage also shows the man being hit while in police custody. Deputy Police Commissioner (South) Raveena Tyagi said the matter came to the fore at the Kacchi Basti locality near the Ram Gopal crossing in the Barra area of Kanpur on Wednesday. "On the complaint of the victim, we have lodged an FIR and legal action is under way," she said. Police, however, did not mention the name of the organisation involved in the act. The victim, an e-rickshaw driver, said around 3 pm, some people started abusing and assaulting him. They threatened to kill his family. He said he was saved by police. The man is a relative of a Muslim family, which is involved in a dispute with their Hindu neighbours in the Kanpur locality. Police statement says in July, the two families filed cases against each other at the local police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Centre: More than one bill per day passed in Rajya Sabha despite disruptions||On an average, more than one bill per day was passed by Rajya Sabha during the just-concluded Monsoon Session despite "highest disruption" since 2014, the government said on Thursday. The Upper House passed 19 bills, including a constitutional amendment bill on OBC reservation, which was the second highest since 2014, the government said, underlining that this reflects its "commitment , productivity and ability" to drive legislative agenda in parliament. The time lost due to interruptions or adjournments till August 11 was 76 hours and 26 minutes, and the highest average time per day lost due to interruptions/adjournments since the 231st session of Rajya Sabha in 2014 was four hours and 30 minutes. "Despite highest disruption since 2014, 1.1 bills was passed per day by Rajya Sabha. The number of bills passed per day during this session in Rajya Sabha was the second highest since 2014," the government said in a statement. "Despite all the chaos and disruption, 19 bills passed in Rajya Sabha, including constitutional amendment on OBC reservation, which are in the national interest and will benefit the poor, OBCs, workers, entrepreneurs and all sections of our society," it added. The government said it "successfully" carried out the government business during the Monsoon Session and the bills passed by the Rajya Sabha will "shape the future of our country". "This reflects the commitment, productivity and ability of the government to drive legislative agenda in the Parliament, which aims to fulfill the aspirations of its citizens," it added. During the session, the government said, 22 bills were passed by both the Houses of Parliament which include two appropriation bills relating to Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2021-22 and the Demands for Excess Grants for 2017-2018. The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, The National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021, The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill were among the key bills passed during the session. Both of the Houses considered and passed four bills to replace the ordinances promulgated by the President before Monsoon Session. They were The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2021 and The Essential Defence Services Ordinance, 2021. The Monsoon Session of Parliament, which commenced on July 19, was adjourned sine die on Wednesday. The session provided 17 sittings spread over a period of 24 days. "The session, which was originally scheduled to have 19 sittings from July 19 till August 13, was curtailed due to continuous disruptions in both the Houses and completion of essential government business," the government said. On opposition charge that bills were passed amid din without any debate, a government functionary cited media reports to say that the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had passed 18 bills, including the Andhra Pradesh (Reorganisation) Bill, 2014 and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation in the Posts and Services) Bill, 2008 "in a hasty manner" between 2006 and 2014. "UPA passed 17 bills in 72 minutes, one bill passed in approximately every four minutes," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Women struggling for representation in Parliament after 75 years of Independence: Activists||Women's rights activists and parliamentarians held a public consultation on Thursday to ensure passage of the Women's Reservation Bill in Lok Sabha, noting that even after 75 years of Independence, women have been struggling to get proper representation in Parliament. TMC MP Mahua Moitra extended her support to the Women's Reservation Bill, saying women have to be given representation at electoral politics and at organisational political level. The pending bill reserves one-third of all seats for women in Lok Sabha and the state legislative assemblies. Rajya Sabha passed the bill in 2010, but Lok Sabha never voted on the bill and it is still pending. The women rights activists held a public consultation to prepare a 'toolkit' for passage of the bill, noting that even after 75 years of Independence, women have been struggling to get proper representation in Lok Sabha and in state assemblies. TMC MP Moitra said there seems to be no political will around it. "Parties have enjoyed brute majorities but whether it is the Congress or the BJP there has been no consensus around the bill like there was in the OBC bill in Parliament recently. Actually we don't need a bill to tell us to do the right thing. So similarly TMC and BJD have not waited for any bill for doing this. We don't need a bill to give women representation," she said. "Every party has the ability to say we are going to give tickets to women. Women have to be at electoral politics but also at organisational political level and this is where all political parties have to get their act together. Reservation also means moving away from nepotism," the TMC MP said. Aruna Roy, social activist who founded the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan, said it is "ridiculous" that despite being 50 per cent of the country's population, women have such low representation in Parliament and in state assemblies. "We have had a volatile journey and we must ensure that on the 75th anniversary we must get the reservation. We need to think what we want from the bill and that is why this toolkit needs to be made. We are very worried about why this bill has not been passed. We have so much contribution then why we are not being given recognition," she said. Mohini Giri, who has been the chairperson of the Guild of Service and the National Commission for Women, said women's voices have to be made heard. "Till we are given equal rights who will hear our voices. I believe that now time has come to not call it reservation but we should say that in 75 years, why have we not even 75 per cent in Parliament and what men achieved to have such high representation, Giri said. "Women groups must call collective meetings involving women from all walks of life. We must make a decision to make strong women groups. Thirdly, I would like to say that when we demanded reservation some people opposed we must discuss those oppositions and what has been said in Parliament we must analyse that too to answer their opposition," she added. Vimal Thorat, the national convenor of All India Dalit Mahila Adhikar Manch, said women have been struggling for years and this struggle must reach a conclusion. "Dr B R Ambedkar has said till women don't progress a country cant progress and that holds true today. The role of all women whether they are Muslim, Dalit Adivasi must be fixed and all their contribution must be acknowledged and then only the government might acknowledge it. We must have one voice," she asserted. Syeda Hameed, a social and women's rights activist, said the nomenclature of the bill must be changed so that its impact increases. "On social media, we must present how we can project the stand of the political parties," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Naqvi targets Opposition over Parliament ruckus||Union minister and Deputy Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Thursday accused the Congress and some other opposition parties of "spreading pollution in Parliament and political hypocrisy on the streets with their lies" over the ruckus in the legislature during the Monsoon Session. Speaking to reporters, he said the opposition was trying to brazen it out by attacking the government after stalling Parliament during the session. The opposition was determined to ensure that the session is a washout and is today preaching us about rules, principles and parliamentary traditions, he said. The Congress and some other opposition parties had demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi convene an all-party meeting to discuss efforts being made to tackle the coronavirus pandemic but they boycotted when such a meeting was called, Naqvi said. They demanded that the farmer issues be discussed but then engaged in vandalism and scuffle in Parliament, he said. "The government from the day one had made it clear that it was ready for a positive and constructive discussion on all the issues. But opposition parties continued with their competition in commotion," he alleged. "In their contest to become champion of irresponsible politics, many opposition parties have now resorted to violence in the House," Naqvi alleged. Some opposition MPs are saying that they will do such "violence" a hundred times, he said, seeking strict action against them. Leaders of several opposition parties on Thursday took out a protest march here against the government on several issues, including Pegasus and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was "crushed" in the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Trinamul poses 8 questions to 8 ministers to counter government narrative||The TMC has posed eight questions to the Centre in response to a press conference by eight Union ministers on Thursday blaming the Opposition for the unruly scenes witnessed in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Putting the blame squarely on the Opposition, the ministers said the Rajya Sabha chairman must take the strongest possible action against those who broke rules. In a tweet, Leader of the TMC in the Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien said: "8 Ministers just addressed a press conference. To them we ask. Answer even one of these 8 questions. Try. Then talk to us about #Parliament. The United Opposition have a strong case. You are full of faff."  At a press conference, O'Brien, along with TMC's Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy and vice-president of the party Yashwant Sinha, hit out at the government, saying it should respond to these questions regarding the "operating procedures" of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. "What option does the Opposition have in a parliamentary democracy when the government crosses all limits? Do we still sit on our seats and suck lollipops? We represent more than 60 per cent of the people of India. Remember, the BJP got 37 per cent votes in the 2019 (Lok Sabha) election," O'Brien said. The party asked where the prime minister and the home minister were while the session was underway. "Why couldn't they find time to come and be present in Parliament to listen to us? Two former prime ministers, Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda, were present in the houses and actively participated in the proceedings. "The Opposition wanted a discussion on internal security, (the) Pegasus (snooping row) and the NSO connection, but the government did not allow it. We also wanted a debate on the farmers' protests, but even that did not happen. Why?" O'Brien asked. The TMC leaders said a total of 39 bills were passed in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, without any debate. "This is not how a democratic country works. The average time of passing a bill was 10 minutes and then you say that the Opposition is disrupting the session," Roy said. The TMC leaders pointed out that even in 2014, 60-70 per cent of the bills were sent to parliamentary committees for a review and claimed that now, only 11 per cent of the bills are sent to these panels. Raising another question on the use of ordinances by the government, they said these are used for passing extremely important bills on an emergency basis. They said in the first 30 years since independence, only one ordinance was used for every 10 bills and claimed that almost four ordinances are being used for every 10 bills now. "The prime minister is avoiding Parliament. Even Manmohan Singh was never that comfortable with the parliamentary system, but he used to answer our questions on a designated day. However, ever since the BJP came to power, (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi has never answered any questions. This is hooliganism," O'Brien alleged. The TMC leaders also questioned the government over its inability to appoint a deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha. "The government says it has a huge majority in the Lok Sabha. It's been two years, where is the deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha? Why has anyone not been appointed yet?" they asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya meets WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday met WHO Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan and held discussions over the global health body's approval for Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. Held a meeting with Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist of @WHO. We had a productive discussion on WHO's approval of @BharatBiotech's COVAXIN. @DoctorSoumya also appreciated India's efforts for the containment of #COVID19, Mandaviya tweeted. All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech for COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to the World Health Organization (WHO) as of July 9 and the review process by the global health body has commenced, the Rajya Sabha was told last month. Responding to question on whether it has come to the notice of the government that Covaxin used in India as Covid vaccine is not recognised by many countries, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply said, The Government of India is aware that Covaxin at present is not part of WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL). Elaborating on efforts that have been made by the government to resolve this issue, Pawar said, "All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech International Ltd. to WHO as of 9th July 2021. The review process by WHO has commenced. WHO usually takes up to six weeks to decide on Emergency Use Listing (EUL) submissions." Developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with National Institute of Virology and the Indian Council of Medical Research, Covaxin was approved for emergency use on January 3. Trial results later showed the vaccine has an efficacy of 78 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||ISRO should be allowed to work as scientific enterprise, says Congress leader Jairam Ramesh||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Thursday said ISRO should be allowed to work as a scientific enterprise as put in place by Vikram Sarabhai shortly after the failure of a GSLV rocket to inject the EOS-03 satellite into the orbit, prompting a sharp response from the government. Union minister Jitendra Singh, in-charge of the Department of Space, said most space-related pitfalls occurred during the Congress rule including the mysterious death of senior space scientist Sarabhai. Singh, who is the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office, said had Congress refrained from political interference, Sarabhai could have contributed valuably for many more years. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched GSLV-F10 rocket, with an earth observation satellite (EOS-03) on board from Sriharikota spaceport, however, the failure to ignite the cryogenic stage of the launch vehicle prompted the premier space agency to declare that the mission could not be achieved as intended. Earlier in the day, Singh said the first two stages went off fine, only after that there was a difficulty in cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be rescheduled some time again, he said. ISRO has the resilience to bounce back. And it will. However, it should be allowed to function as a scientific and technological enterprise as put in place by Vikram Sarabhai and Satish Dhawan. There is far too much political grandstanding on it now, Ramesh, who is the Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change, tweeted. Sarabhai is widely regarded as the father of the Indian Space programme. He died in 1971. Hitting back, Singh said, “Jairam ji, please don't forget, most of Space related pitfalls, including mysterious midnight death of Vikram Sarabhai, happened during Congress regime. Going by the same analogy, had Congress refrained from political interference, Sarabhai could have contributed valuably for many more years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||RTI activist Saket Gokhale joins Trinamool Congress||RTI activist Saket Gokhale Thursday joined the Trinamul Congress in New Delhi. He said the Mamata Banerjee-led party takes an "aggressive" stand on issues. "The TMC is the second largest Opposition party in Parliament and it has been my obvious choice. If you look at all the national parties, the TMC takes an aggressive stand. The way the chief minister of Bengal has been fighting on the front foot, that's what I'm looking for," Gokhale said after joining the party. The TMC in a staement said, "Saket Gokhale is a renowned RTI activist and began his career as a journalist. He has filed RTIs on issues of national importance for several years. Most recently, he filed queries on bank loans and budgetary allocation for Pegasus."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Pradhan accuses Opposition of ‘double-standards’ on OBC reservation||Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has accused the Opposition of having "double standards" on the issue of OBC reservation and asserted that there should be no doubt and confusion about the core policy and intention of the Modi government for the welfare of backward communities. Speaking on a constitutional amendment bill that has restored the states' rights to identify OBCs, he said in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday evening that the Modi government inherited many legacy issues from the previous dispensations and rectified them to boost the rights of communities getting reservation benefits. In this context, he cited the government's decision to ensure that reserved quota do not lapse in Central Universities like IITs. In LPG distributorship, the deprived communities were given their due by the Modi dispensation, he added. Noting that the parliamentary system is supreme, he said it has the right to decide on policies for the country and frame laws for the welfare of the people. Rajya Sabha passed the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to restore the states' power to prepare their own OBC lists. The bill has already been cleared by Lok Sabha and will soon become law following a notification. The Modi government is trying to give all the castes their rights, said Pradhan, the Union Minister of Education and Minister of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship. "It is, therefore, unnecessary to doubt our intention," he said. Some Lok Sabha MPs from the DMK party had recently met him and raised the issue of reservation in higher education institutions such as IITs and central universities for SC, ST and OBCs. "It was news for me," Pradhan said, adding that he enquired about the matter and found that the provision was there till 1989 that there will be reservation, but it will get lapsed if the vacancy was not filled up. "... if the desired candidate is not available, the quota will lapse the subsequent year. It was rectified by the prime minister in 2018-19, who ensured the reservation does not get lapsed," he said. The present government has implemented 27 per cent OBC reservation in NEET medical entrance examination. Besides, it has also implemented reservations for OBCs in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya and Kendriya Vidyalaya. Pradhan, former Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas also noted that during his tenure, 8 crore LPG connections were allotted based on the SC/ST list. He also congratulated H S Puri, his successor in the ministry, for granting one crore new connections on Tuesday. "The BJP government allotted 11,262 LPG distributorships when I was the petroleum minister. In this, it not only gave rights to the scheduled castes and tribes but also gave LPG distributorship to provide employment to 2,852 OBC youth. At that time, no such demand was made from the government," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Over 54.04 crore Covid jab provided to states, UTs so far, says Govt||More than 54.04 crore Covid vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, and 1,09,83,510 additional doses are in the pipeline, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. Of this, the total consumption, including the wastage, is 52,00,96,418 doses, according to data available at 8 am. A total of 2,55,54,533 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, Union Territories and private hospitals to be administered, the ministry said. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21, 2021. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry stated. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Government of India has been supporting the states and Union Territories by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid vaccination drive, the government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Sacked DU professor seeks FIR against principal for casteist remarks||A Delhi court has sought an action taken report from the police on a complaint filed by a sacked professor of a Delhi University college seeking registration of FIR under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against the principal for alleged casteist remarks. Additional Sessions Judge Charu Aggarwal has sought the report from the station house officer on the application. The complainant, who worked as an assistant professor, moved the court alleging that the principal along with four professors, hatched a conspiracy to terminate her from service by forging documents, creating false records, fabricating and giving false evidence. The behaviour of accused number 1 (principal) has been casteist, demeaning, discriminatory, threatening towards the complainant that the accused No.1 used to make casteist remarks so much so that on August 10, 2020, the complainant was refused her re-joining from the job, the complaint stated. The professor sought direction from the court to the police to register an FIR against the principal and others under various sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Indian Penal Code and punish them in accordance with the law. The complainant said that she got selected by a meticulous selection process on a post reserved for the scheduled caste community as she belongs to the Ravidasia caste. The complainant is still regularly receiving threat on behalf of accused persons by various anti-social elements and as such she and her family life is at the hands of the accused persons and their cohorts, the plea added. Furthermore, she apprised the court that the station house officer (SHO) of the Police Station Maurice Nagar in Delhi did not register the FIR on her complaint, following which she filed a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner of Police (North district) but no action was taken. She has also requested the court to direct registration of FIR under the SC/ST Act against the erring station house officer (SHO) for dereliction of duty and against the DCP for not taking legal action against the SHO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Terrorists attack BSF convoy in JK's Kulgam||An encounter broke out between terrorists and security personnel on Thursday after the ultras opened fired at a Border Security Force (BSF) convoy in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, officials said. The convoy was headed for Srinagar from Jammu when it was attacked, they said." Terrorists opened fire at a BSF convoy on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway at Malpora in the Qazigund area of Kulgam district," an official said. A police spokesperson said there were no reports of any injuries in the attack but the assailants were trapped. "Terrorists fired upon BSF convey at NHW #Kulgam. No injury reported. However, terrorists trapped," the Kashmir zone police quoted IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar as saying. The spokesperson said reinforcements have reached the spot and senior officers of the police, CRPF and the Army were also present there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Dalit girl rape case to be  heard by fast track court, announces Centre||The Ministry of Home Affairs Thursday said the Nangal rape and murder case of a minor girl as well as the Mayur Vihar rape incident will be heard in fast track special courts in Delhi. The ministry Thursday reviewed the two cases with the Delhi Police here. "As per the directions of the Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah, Ministry of Home Affairs reviewed the rape and murder case of a girl child in Nangal area of Delhi and rape of a girl child in Mayur Vihar with @DelhiPolice," a home ministry spokesman tweeted. "The Delhi Police is committed to file the chargesheet in the court within 30 days of the registration of the case, so that the trial of these cases can start at the earliest. Both the cases will be heard in fast track special courts in Delhi," the spokesperson said in another tweet. The Delhi Police's crime branch is probing the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl in Old Nangal village of the city. The girl died under mysterious circumstances, with her parents alleging she was raped and forcibly cremated. Police had earlier said based on the statement of the victim's mother, the charge of rape was added in the FIR. Four people, including the priest, have been arrested. In the Mayur Vihar case, a six-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 34-year-old man in her neighbourhood, police had said. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) Thursday issued a notice to city police seeking a detailed action taken report in the case. The panel said it has been informed that the girl was kidnapped and raped on August 11 when she was playing outside her house. The child was bleeding and has been referred to the AIIMS hospital, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Chandrayaan-2 detects presence of water molecules on moon||Chandrayaan-2, ISRO's second lunar mission, has detected the presence of water molecules on the moon, data obtained from the mission has revealed. In a paper co-authored by A S Kirankumar, former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman, said imaging infrared spectrometre (IIRS) is one of the payloads on-board Chandrayaan-2, which is placed in a 100 km polar orbit to acquire global scientific data. "The initial data analysis from IIRS, clearly demonstrates the presence of widespread lunar hydration and unambiguous detection of OH and H2O signatures on the Moon between 29 N and 62 N lat., after incorporating physics-based thermal correction to reflectance data," the paper which was published in Current Science journal said. Plagioclase-rich rocks have been found to have higher OH (hydroxyl) or possibly H2O (water) molecules when compared to the mare regions, which were found to have more dominance of OH at higher surface temperature, it said. The development also assumes significance considering that Chandrayaan-2 did not yield desired results. Planned to land on the South Pole of the moon, Chandrayaan-2 was launched on July 22. However, lander Vikram hard-landed on September 7, crashing India's dream to become the first nation to successfully land on the lunar surface in its maiden attempt. The orbiter of the mission is working fine and has been sending data to Chandrayaan-1, the first lunar mission, and showed evidence that there was water on the moon, the paper said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Opposition must apologise for what happened in the Parliament, demands government||Putting the blame on the Opposition for unruly scenes witnessed during the monsoon session of Parliament, a group of union ministers on Thursday said Rajya Sabha Chairman must take the strongest possible action against those who broke the rules. Addressing a joint press conference in New Delhi, they also accused the opposition leaders of manhandling marshals, while Union Minister Piyush Goyal said that the Opposition's approach of "my way or highway is highly condemnable" and the country also condemns such attitude. Goyal, also Leader of House in Rajya Sabha, said the group of ministers met Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the House and made an earnest appeal that the strongest possible action should be taken against the Opposition MPs for their deplorable behaviour and manhandling marshals. He said the Opposition was unable to digest the fact that the country has given up on them and their behaviour in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday was a new low of the parliamentary democracy. The Secretary General's table in Rajya Sabha is not meant for dancing and protesting, Union Minister Anurag Thakur said at the press conference, referring to an incident when an opposition leader was seen above a table inside the upper house of Parliament. "We demand that Rajya Sabha Chairman should take stringent action against those Opposition MPs who broke rules," Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said. He alleged that it was pre-decided by Congress and its friendly allies that they would not allow Parliament to function. Thakur alleged that "anarchy from streets to Parliament" was the Opposition's only agenda during the monsoon session. He said the Opposition should apologise to the nation for what happened in Parliament during the monsoon session. Earlier in the day, a group of union ministers, including Pralhad Joshi Piyush Goyal and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, called on Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu at his official residence here. Separately, a group of Opposition leaders also met Naidu and complained against the alleged heckling of MPs including some women. The ministers, on the other hand, are believed to have complained against the alleged unruly behaviour of some opposition members in the House on Wednesday. On Wednesday, Naidu broke down over the huge ruckus in the House and equated the act of some opposition MPs to "sacrilege in the temple of democracy". Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was also likely to meet Vice President Naidu in the evening. The tumultuous Monsoon session of Parliament was on Wednesday curtailed by two days. Leaders of several Opposition parties on Thursday marched in protest against the government on several issues, including Pegasus, farm laws, and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was crushed in Parliament and democracy was "murdered". Top leaders of several Opposition parties met in the chamber of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and then walked in protest from Parliament House to Vijay Chowk. In a joint statement, Opposition leaders condemned the "authoritarian attitude" and "undemocratic actions" of the government and said what had happened in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday was shocking and an insult to the dignity of the House and humiliation of the members. Accusing the government of stonewalling their demand for discussion, the Opposition leaders charged that was it running away from the debate on Pegasus snooping issue. "What happened in Rajya Sabha yesterday was shocking, unprecedented, sad and an insult to the very dignity of the House and humiliation of the members of the august House," they said in a joint statement. They alleged that without any provocation from the Opposition, "outsiders who were not part of Parliament security were brought in to manhandle the Opposition leaders and members, including women Parliamentarians who were only protesting against the Government's conduct, highhandedness and muzzling of the voice". "The Opposition strongly condemns the authoritarian attitude and undemocratic actions of the Government. We remain committed to continue our struggle against the assault on Parliamentary democracy and agitate the issues of national importance and people's concern," the joint statement said. Those who attended the meeting included Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Kharge, Sanjay Raut, Tiruchi Siva, Manoj Jha and other Opposition leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Puri's Jagannath temple reopens after three months||The famed Jagannath temple in Odisha's Puri reopened on Thursday in the first phase after remaining shut for over three months amid the COVID-restrictions. In the first phase, only family members of the servitors are being allowed to enter the temple, an official said. The temple will open for the public in the second phase, he said. The 12th-century shrine was shut on April 24 amid the second wave of the pandemic, and remained closed during the Ratha Jatra. The family members of the servitors are being allowed darshan from Mangal Alati till Rati Pahuda, the official said. While entering the temple, they are required to produce any identity card issued by the temple authority along with a government-issued identity proof such as Aadhaar card. In the second phase, residents of Puri will be allowed to enter the temple through the Lion's Gate from August 16, the official said. The general public will be allowed entry from August 23, he said. The temple will remain closed on August 21 and 22 in view of the shutdown in Puri on Saturdays and Sundays. Devotees from outside Puri will have to produce the final COVID-vaccination certificate or COVID-negative RT-PCR report of testing done within 96 hours. They will also have to carry a government-issued identity card such as Aadhaar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||All you need to know about the delta variant of Covid||Amid delta variant of the coronavirus wreaking havoc in the world, Dr. Mainak Malhotra, MBBS, MD (Medicine) and Visiting Consultant, Internal Medicine, AMRI hospital, Mukundapur, gives an overview of the most common questions asked regarding the strain. What is the delta variant? What are the symptoms of the delta variant? What is concerning about the COVID Delta variant? Where did the Delta variant come from? What are precautions should be taken to prevent this delta variant? Does Delta variant attack vaccinate persons? Treatment of affected persons? There are multiple articles floating on the internet that the kids are more prone to this variant. As they are unvaccinated. What is your viewpoint on this? For emergency call our 24x7 helpline number 6680 0000 For more details, please visit our website //bit.ly/2VLvSiI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||ISRO's former chairman expresses shock over GSLV rocket launch failure||Veteran space scientist G Madhavan Nair expressed shock over the unsuccessful GSLV-F10 launch mission but said the ISRO is resilient enough to bounce back. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched GSLV-F10 rocket, with an earth observation satellite (EOS-03) on board, on Thursday at 0543 hours as scheduled, from Sriharikota spaceport. "Performance of first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission couldn't be accomplished as intended", the space agency tweeted. Nair, during whose tenure of six years from 2003 as ISRO Chairman 25 successful missions were accomplished, indicated that setbacks of this kind is not unusual and said ISRO should not lose heart. "This is a very complex mission. Normally, the Cryogenic stage is the most difficult one compared to all other rocket propulsions", Nair told PTI. ISRO, he said, had mastered the cryogenic technology over the years and its track record on this count is not that bad compared to European countries and Russia where failure of cryogenic stage was in the range of about 20 per cent. "This is the eighth launch of cryogenic stage. The first one was a problem (unsuccessful). Subsequently, all other launches turned in text-book performance. There is a finite possibility of failure with any such complex system. We need not be disappointed. But at the same time, we should go to the root cause (of the failure) and fix it so that we don't repeat", Nair said. And he added: "It's a shock for all of us. But we will recover from this shock soon and we will be back on track. The ISRO community is resilient enough to face such difficulties". EOS-03 was a state-of-the-art agile earth observation satellite which was to be placed in a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit by GSLV-F10. Subsequently, the satellite was to reach the final geostationary orbit using its onboard propulsion system. The objectives of EOS-03 were to provide near real time imaging of large area region of interest at frequent intervals; for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and any short term events; and to obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, water bodies as well as for disaster warning, cyclone monitoring, and cloud burst / thunderstorm monitoring, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Congress accounts blocked for violating rules, clarifies Twitter||Twitter on Thursday reasoned blocking of several accounts of Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, for posting an image that it said violated its rules and the action was to protect individuals' privacy and safety. Twitter handles of Gandhi and several Congress leaders have been locked by the US firm for posting pictures of the family of the nine-year-old Dalit rape and murder victim last week in the national capital. The Congress party's official Twitter account has also been blocked. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson on Thursday said the company's rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone in its service. "We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options. Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals' privacy and safety," the spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that Twitter strongly encourages everyone on the service to familiarise themselves with the Twitter Rules and report anything they believe is in violation. According to Twitter, if a tweet was found to be in violation of its rules and isn't deleted by the account holder, the microblogging platform hides it behind a notice and the account remains locked until the said tweet is removed or the appeal is successfully processed. The US-based company said it was alerted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about specific content on the platform that allegedly revealed the identity of an alleged sexual assault victim's (and a minor's) parents. The said content was reviewed against Twitter's rules and policies as well as the concerns expressed as a matter of Indian law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Supreme Court stays Gujarat HC order granting furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai||The Supreme Court Thursday stayed a Gujarat High Court order granting two-week furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai, son of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu who is also undergoing life term for another rape case in Rajasthan. The apex court said however that it needs to examine whether the rules allow the annual furlough as per the calendar year or from 12 months after the last one was granted to a prisoner. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah issued a notice to Sai on Gujarat government's plea challenging the high court's single-judge order and stayed it till further orders. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Gujarat government, said the single-judge order of June 24, 2021, granted furlough to Sai for two weeks but the division bench had stayed it till August 13 and therefore the state has moved the top court challenging the June 24 order. The bench said that under the Bombay Furlough and Parole Rules, applicable in Gujarat as well, a prisoner can be granted furlough once every year after he completes seven years in jail. The idea of furlough is that a prisoner gets away from the environment of jail and is able to meet his family members, the bench said, and asked Mehta what are grievances with the order. Mehta replied that under the rules and even in a judgement of this court, it has been held that furlough is not an absolute right and it depends on various factors. He said Sai and his father were arrested for offences under rape charges and they wield considerable influence with money and muscle power. Mehta pointed out that they had even tried to bribe police officials, mobile phones were recovered from their cell in jail and even three prime witnesses crucial to their cases were killed. The bench said that now that he is convicted, all these contentions will not hold good as he was also granted furlough in December last year, which the state government has never challenged. Mehta said that last year Sai was granted furlough for two weeks as he wanted to visit his ailing mother and it was purely on humanitarian grounds that the state government did not find it appropriate to challenge that order. The bench then asked Mehta, whether during his last furlough were there any incidents of law and order situation or was there any danger to peace and tranquillity to which he replied that it is not on record. Mehta said, Problem now is that he is seeking furlough as a matter of right that he should be released every year on furlough. The bench said the point which needs examination is that under the rules it is said that a prisoner can avail furlough once every year after he serves seven year in imprisonment. "Whether once every year means once every calendar year or once every year means since the last time he got furlough. This is the point we need to examine. We are issuing notice to the respondent (Narayan Sai), the bench said. It asked the counsel appearing for Sai to file his reply within a week and posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. On April 26, 2019, Sai was convicted under the Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 323 (assault), 506-2 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (conspiracy) by a Surat court and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2013, after Asaram was arrested for allegedly raping a girl in Rajasthan, two Surat-based sisters had accused Asaram and his son of sexual exploitation. The elder sister had accused Asaram of sexual assaults between 1997 and 2006 when she lived at his Ahmedabad ashram. The younger sister had accused the godman's son of sexual assaults when she lived at Asaram's ashram in the Jahangirpura area of Surat between 2002 and 2005. The incidents of multiple sexual assaults and unnatural sex with the victim had taken place between 2002 and 2005, but the case against Sai had been filed only in 2013. Sai was arrested from the Delhi-Haryana border in December 2013. When Sai was in jail, Surat police had claimed to have unearthed elaborate plans to bribe police officers, doctors and even judicial officers to weaken the case against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Four more bodies recovered from landslide site in Himachal's Kinnaur||Four more bodies were recovered from the landslide site in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district where the search and rescue operation resumed early on Thursday, raising the death toll to 14, officials said. Four more bodies were recovered from the spot after the rescue operation resumed, Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said. He said 14 bodies have been recovered so far. The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which, along with other vehicles, was buried under the debris after the landslide, has been found in a badly damaged condition, State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. However, a Bolero car still could not be traced, he added. The HRTC bus was on its way from Reckong Peo to Haridwar via Shimla when it was hit by boulders after the landslide around Wednesday noon near Chaura village on national highway-5 in Nigulsari area of Nichar tehsil. A video of the rescue workers at the site near the mangled remains of the bus has gone viral whereby a rescuer is heard saying that the bus was found by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) 17th Battalion personnel. Another rescuer states that gloves should be brought for further carrying the operation. The rescue operation, being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the ITBP and the members of local police and home guards, resumed at 6 am on Thursday, Mokhta said. The authorities had suspended the operation on Wednesday at around 10 pm. Ten bodies were recovered on Wednesday, while 13 others were rescued with injuries. Several others are still feared buried under the debris. However the exact number was not known. On Wednesday, the Bhawanagar station house officer (SHO) had said around 25 to 30 people were trapped under the debris. When the initial reports came, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had told the state assembly that 50-60 people were feared trapped under the debris but the exact number was not known. The Kinnaur deputy commissioner had also told PTI that over 40 passengers were in the bus. Eight of the dead were found trapped in a Tata Sumo taxi during the search and rescue operation on Wednesday. A truck rolled down towards a riverside due to shooting stones and the driver's body has been recovered, officials said. A car had also been found in the damaged condition on Wednesday but no one was found in it, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||At least 15 crore children out of formal education system in India, says education minister||At least 15 crore children and youths are out of the country's formal education system, and roughly about 25 crore population is below the primary definition of literacy, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Thursday. He was addressing a session on "Job creation and entrepreneurship" organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) during its annual meeting. "If we take into account the numbers of children and youths between the age of 3-22 years who are enrolled in government, private and charitable schools, anganwadis, Higher Education Institutions and in the entire skilling ecosystem, the cumulative figure from all the verticals is around 35 crore while (the country's) population in the particular age group is around 50 crore," Pradhan said. "This means that at least 15 crore children and youth are out of the formal education system. We want to bring them into the education system," he added. The Education Minister said that a census following the independence of the country had found that 19 per cent of the population was literate then. "After 75 years of independence day, the statistics of literate population has reached 80 per cent. Which means 20 per cent population or roughly around 25 crore are still below the primary definition of literacy," he said. Elaborating on the various provisions in the new National Education Policy (NEP), Pradhan said it is not just a document, but a roadmap for the next 25 years to achieve "certain targets by the time we complete 100 years of independence". Pradhan, who is also the Minister for Skill Development, said that for the first time the government has combined education and skill departments. "The move has created a new approach for good livelihoods," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||TMC condemns 'blocking' of Congress' Twitter accounts||The Trinamool Congress on Thursday condemned the alleged blocking of the Congress's official Twitter account, questioning whether it was linked to opposing the politics and policies of the BJP. The Congress alleged that the party's official Twitter account and those of a large number of its leaders were blocked by the microblogging site. "What's going on @Twitter @TwitterIndia @jack What's going on? We strongly condemn the blocking of the accounts of @INCIndia and senior leaders of the Congress party," TMC Rajya Sabha party leader Derek O'Brien tweeted. The TMC's West Bengal unit general secretary Kunal Ghosh said it was a dangerous trend. "It means the BJP henceforth will control the social media platforms as well. They will control the narrative and will also decide who can tweet and who cannot. It has to be looked into whether this blocking of Congress's Twitter handle is linked with its opposition to the policies and politics of the BJP," he said. Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said the party's official Twitter account and around 5,000 accounts of its top leaders and workers had been blocked by Twitter. The Twitter accounts of AICC general secretaries Randeep Surjewala, KC Venugopal, Ajay Maken, party's whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev have also been locked, the party said. This comes close on the heels of the blocking of party leader Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account after he shared pictures of the family of the nine-year-old alleged rape and murder victim last week in violation of the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Glam Up Your Home with Asian Paints Royale Glitz, the Ultra Sheen paint that will steal your spotlight!||All that glitters may not be gold, but it sure does grab the attention. Asian Paints, India’s largest paint and décor company, has launched a new luxury paint offering, Royale Glitz – a luxurious interior wall paint that is certain to up the glam quotient of your home. The Teflon(TM) surface protector in the paint ensures stains wipe off easily. The ultra-sheen of the new Royale Glitz will give the walls of your home a rich and shiny finish that will immediately make a statement and undoubtedly #StealYourSpotlight. Key Features of Royale Glitz: Royale Glitz is a luxury interior paint which gives a luxurious ULTRA SHEEN finish. It adds a distinct quotient of glamour and luxury to consumer homes. Its key features are: •             Ultra sheen – best in class luxurious shiny finish •             Stain Repellent – Strong performance against stains and offers ease of cleaning Royale Glitz is a confluence of Décor and Performance, thus inviting everyone to experience LUXURY with TEFLON™. It also offers 35 designers shades under ROYALE DESIGNER PALETTE. These shades are exclusively curated by best design minds and impact luxurious sophisticated look to the consumer homes. The shades are inspired by the heartland story of India and carry names which reflect Indian culture. Chutney green, Calcutta rains, Coromandel Indigo to name a few. It also offers a strong shade selection tool. ROYALE BOOK OF COLOURS offers more than 100 refreshing shade combinations to select from. These are segregated basis moods and showcases refreshing wall textures as well. Known for creating aesthetic and quirky television commercials, the latest TVC by Asian Paints for Royale Glitz lives up to expectations. Conceptualized by Contract, the ad features brand ambassador, Deepika Padukone in a show-stopping look posing for a fashion photo-shoot. With a modern rendition of the classic song Baar Baar Dekho playing in the background and tongue-in-cheek humour, the ad goes on to show how the new paint has stolen the spotlight from Deepika who is visibly bemused. So, what are you waiting for? Give your home a modern look with Asian Paints Royale Glitz. To know more please visit Asian Paints – Royale Glitz.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Opposition takes out protest march against government||Leaders of several Opposition parties on Thursday took out a protest march in New Delhi against the government on several issues, including Pegasus and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was "crushed" in the House. Top leaders of several Opposition parties met in the chamber of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and then walked in protest from Parliament House to Vijay Chowk. Those who attended the meeting included Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Kharge, Sanjay Raut, Manoj Jha and other opposition leaders. The protesting MPs carried placards and banners against the government that read 'Stop murder of democracy' and 'we demand Repeal of anti farmers laws'. "The Parliament session is over. Frankly, as far as 60 percent of country is concerned, there was no Parliament session as the voice of 70 percent of people was crushed, humiliated," Gandhi told reporters. "On Wednesday, Rajya Sabha MPs were physically beaten," he charged. He said the Opposition was not allowed to speak inside Parliament and "this is nothing short of murder of democracy". Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had termed as "totally false" the Opposition's allegations that marshals manhandled their MPs and said one can check facts from CCTV footage. The protest comes a day after the passage of bills in Rajya Sabha amid charges of manhandling of Opposition leaders. What turned out to be the last day of the monsoon session saw the Rajya Sabha Chair crying and revealing that he spent a “sleepless night” after “the acts of sacrilege” in the House on Tuesday. Towards the end of the day on Wednesday, while the insurance bill was being passed in the Rajya Sabha amid protests, the Opposition alleged that women members were pushed back by male marshals. Veteran MP Sharad Pawar said: “In my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today.” The Congress, which had marshalled around 14 parties during the session, has accused the government of bulldozing democratic norms and traditions to escape parliamentary scrutiny of the Pegasus controversy and the agitating farmers’ demands. Responding to Naidu’s description of Opposition members climbing on tables as “sacrilege”, several MPs contended that what constituted sacrilege was running the Houses in a “partisan” manner and in disregard of the rules. “What is the option left if Parliament is not allowed to do its duty? The government only wants to push its business, pass bills without discussion and crush the voice of the Opposition,” the Congress chief whip in the Lok Sabha, Kodikunnil Suresh, told The Telegraph. Rashtriya Janata Dal member Manoj Jha told this newspaper: “It’s the ruling party that has committed the greatest act of sacrilege by throttling the spirit of parliamentary democracy. Such arrogance, such disdain for parliamentary tradition, such contempt for the Opposition had never before been seen in India’s history. “The manner in which women MPs were manhandled by staff and marshals on the directions of the regime reminds us of the ‘night of long knives’ moment in Germany.” Jha asked: “Is it imaginable that the parliamentary affairs minister blames the women MPs and demands action against them for manhandling marshals?" Suresh, the Congress MP, said: “This government has bluntly told the nation through its obduracy that Parliament is not for people’s issues. Why shouldn’t Parliament discuss snooping done with a foreign spyware? Isn’t national security and illegal surveillance a concern?” He had added: “Farmers are sitting outside Delhi for nine months; Covid mismanagement has played havoc with the people; the prices of petrol and diesel have crossed Rs 100 — shouldn’t these issues be discussed in Parliament? They did everything to black out the Opposition and they are blaming the Opposition. They used presiding officers to defame the Opposition.” The Opposition believes that Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla have been partisan in condemning the Opposition for disruptions and protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Congress says party's official account blocked by Twitter||The Congress on Thursday alleged that the party's official Twitter account as well as that of a large number of its leaders and workers have been blocked by the microblogging site. This comes close on the heels of the blocking of party leader Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account after he shared pictures of the family of the nine-year-old alleged rape and murder victim last week in violation of the law. Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said the party's official Twitter account and around 5,000 accounts of its top leaders and workers have been blocked by Twitter. He alleged that Twitter is acting against Congress leaders under pressure from the government. "Twitter is clearly acting under government's pressure, as it did not remove the same pictures shared by the Twitter accounts of National Commission for Scheduled Castes for a few days," Gupta said. The Twitter accounts of AICC general secretaries Randeep Surjewala, K C Venugopal, Ajay Maken, party's whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev have also been locked, the party said. "So! After Shri @RahulGandhi, the Lord @narendramodi Ji and Vassal @Jack & @twitter have locked @rssurjewala, @ajaymaken & @sushmitadevinc. @INCIndia registers its protest and promises to continue the fight for each and all being wronged! We shall hold on @AshwiniVaishnaw Ji," tweeted Pranav Jha, AICC secretary in-charge of party's Communications Department last night. His account was later blocked too at night. "The list goes on. @Twitter locks @JitendraSAlwar and @manickamtagore and many more. Doesn't Modi Ji understand that we @INCindia'ns have a legacy of fighting even from behind the locks of kaala paani," he had asked in another tweet. "He thinks the virtual locks of Twitter will deter us from fighting for India," Jha said. The Congress has accused Twitter of acting against Gandhi's account under pressure from the government. Gandhi had tweeted pictures with the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi last week. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) took cognisance of Gandhi's tweet and directed Twitter to act against the Congress leader's account for violating the privacy of a minor victim, mandated by the laws of the land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||India logs over 41,000 fresh Covid cases, 490 casualties in a day||India logged 41,195 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,20,77,706, while the active cases increased to 3,87,987, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,29,669 with 490 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases increased after registering a decrease for five consecutive days. They now comprise 1.21 per cent of the total infections, the ministry said, adding the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.45 per cent. An increase of 1,636 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 21,24,953 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 48,73,70,196. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 17 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.23 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,12, 60,050, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 52.36 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 490 new fatalities include 163 from Maharashtra and 116 from Kerala. A total of 4,29,669 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,364 from Maharashtra, 36,881 from Karnataka, 34,395 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,776 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,258 from West Bengal and 18,120 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||ISRO's GSLV fails to place earth observation satellite into orbit||ISRO's GSLV rocket on Thursday failed to inject into the orbit, the country's latest earth observation satellite EOS-03 due to a failure to ignite the cryogenic stage of the launch vehicle, prompting the premier space agency to declare the mission could not be achieved as intended. However, the first and second stages of the rocket had performed normally, the Bengaluru-headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation said. In a notification, ISRO said, "GSLV-F10 launch took place today at 0543 hrs as scheduled. Performance of first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission could not be accomplished as intended." According to ISRO, the cryogenic upper stage ignition was scheduled to take place 4.56 minutes after the lift-off. A formal announcement was also made at the Mission Control Centre by the range operations director, stating, "performance anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage. The mission could not be accomplished fully." ISRO Chairman K Sivan said, "(the mission) could not be fully accomplished mainly because there is a technical anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage. This I wanted to tell all my friends." ISRO, after facing hurdles caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, resumed its launch operations for the rocket to place the satellite with an objective to provide near real-time imaging of large areas of the country at frequent intervals and quick monitoring of natural disasters. As the 26-hour countdown concluded on Thursday, the 51.70 metre tall rocket with four stages lifted off majestically at 05.43hrs, leaving behind a trail of thick orange coloured fumes. The four-stage rocket was the first to carry a four-metre dia 'Ogive Payload Fairing' at the top of the vehicle to accommodate larger payloads. The rocket was supposed to place the EOS "an agile state-of-the-art satellite into the Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit, 19 minutes after lift-off. Thursday's unsuccessful attempt to launch the satellite came in the wake of scientists postponing the earlier planned missions earlier. The satellite, originally titled GISAT-1 weighing 2,268 kg was slated to be launched on March 5, 2020 but it was postponed a day before the lift-off due to 'technical reasons'. The Covid-induced lockdown further delayed the mission and once again it was scheduled for a March 28, 2021 launch but a 'minor issue' with the satellite forced yet another postponement. The objective of Thursday's mission was to provide near real-time imaging of large area regions at frequent intervals, for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, water bodies as well as for disaster warning, cyclone monitoring, cloud burst and thunderstorm monitoring. Before Thursday's launch, ISRO had launched Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passenger satellites in February this year. Thursday's mission is the eighth flight with indigenous cryogenic engine, 14th flight of the GSLV and also marks the 79th launch vehicle mission from Sriharikota. Previous launches of GSLV rockets include the GSLV-MkIII-M1/ Chandrayaan-2 mission in July 2019 while GSLV-F11 successfully placed GSAT-7A in December 2018. An earth observation satellite -- EOS-01 -- was launched in November 2020 by polar satellite launch vehicle PSLV-C49, ISRO said. ISRO had made arrangements to watch the launch through its various social media platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Opposition to address people on Modi govt's stance on Parliament||The Opposition, which closed ranks to demonstrate its collective strength this Parliament session, has decided to address the people directly to tell them the Narendra Modi government wants to render the House irrelevant. The decision came on a day both Houses were adjourned sine die, cutting short the monsoon session by two days, and a bill to privatise general insurance companies was passed in the Rajya Sabha in controversial circumstances. All the Opposition MPs have been told to assemble in Parliament on Thursday morning. From there, they will march to Vijay Chowk and talk to the nation through the media. What turned out to be the last day of the monsoon session saw the Rajya Sabha Chair crying and revealing that he spent a “sleepless night” after “the acts of sacrilege” in the House on Tuesday. Towards the end of the day on Wednesday, while the insurance bill was being passed in the Rajya Sabha amid protests, the Opposition alleged that women members were pushed back by male marshals. Veteran MP Sharad Pawar said: “In my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today.” (See Page 4) The Congress, which had marshalled around 14 parties during the session, has accused the government of bulldozing democratic norms and traditions to escape parliamentary scrutiny of the Pegasus controversy and the agitating farmers’ demands. Responding to Naidu’s description of Opposition members climbing on tables as “sacrilege”, several MPs contended that what constituted sacrilege was running the Houses in a “partisan” manner and in disregard of the rules. “What is the option left if Parliament is not allowed to do its duty? The government only wants to push its business, pass bills without discussion and crush the voice of the Opposition,” the Congress chief whip in the Lok Sabha, Kodikunnil Suresh, told The Telegraph. Rashtriya Janata Dal member Manoj Jha told this newspaper: “It’s the ruling party that has committed the greatest act of sacrilege by throttling the spirit of parliamentary democracy. Such arrogance, such disdain for parliamentary tradition, such contempt for the Opposition had never before been seen in India’s history. “The manner in which women MPs were manhandled by staff and marshals on the directions of the regime reminds us of the ‘night of long knives’ moment in Germany.” Jha asked: “Is it imaginable that the parliamentary affairs minister blames the women MPs and demands action against them for manhandling marshals?" Suresh, the Congress MP, said: “This government has bluntly told the nation through its obduracy that Parliament is not for people’s issues. Why shouldn’t Parliament discuss snooping done with a foreign spyware? Isn’t national security and illegal surveillance a concern?” He added: “Farmers are sitting outside Delhi for nine months; Covid mismanagement has played havoc with the people; the prices of petrol and diesel have crossed Rs 100 — shouldn’t these issues be discussed in Parliament? They did everything to black out the Opposition and they are blaming the Opposition. They used presiding officers to defame the Opposition.” The Opposition believes that Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla have been partisan in condemning the Opposition for disruptions and protests. “Presiding officers in Parliament are supposed to be neutral umpires, not partisan players,” the Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, tweeted. “They cannot present a totally one-sided picture of goings-on in the House and further aggravate the situation. Misplaced emotion leads to commotion.” Adhir Chowdhury, the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, said: “The government was itching to malign the Opposition and mislead the nation. The Opposition was collectively pressing for debates on important issues but the government was determined to steamroller all our demands. “None of our demands was unreasonable. The Pegasus snooping is not only related to national security, it affects India’s prestige as a nation, as a mature democracy. So many countries are investigating (allegations of Pegasus-enabled surveillance) but the Modi government won’t allow even a debate.” Adhir said the Opposition had insisted on a reply from Prime Minister Modi or home minister Amit Shah because the various ministries were talking in different voices on the Pegasus controversy. “The defence ministry gives one reply on Pegasus, the IT ministry gives another reply, the ministry of external affairs says something else. The nation is completely perplexed,” he said. “But the Prime Minister came to the Lok Sabha today when everything was over. This government is not interested in Parliament. This government is concerned with its own business and will do that by hook or by crook. The Opposition is now not even shown on (Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha) TV. This government is becoming a huge threat to democracy.” The Congress tweeted: “The Modi government is changing India from the world’s largest democracy to the world’s largest dictatorship. We will not stand for it. Will you?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Covid: India to evaluate impact of booster dose and jab mix trial||India is set to begin a clinical trial to evaluate the impact of a booster third dose of Covishield or Covaxin and probe whether it is acceptable to mix the vaccines in the two-dose vaccination schedule. Doctors at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, hope to start recruiting volunteers this month for the trial, which will examine the immune responses from a third dose in vaccinated people and a mixed dose schedule in unvaccinated people. Covid-19 booster doses may be needed to address waning immunity against the infection or severe disease, reduced protection against coronavirus variants of concern, and inadequate protection from standard dosing regimens. But the World Health Organisation has cautioned that “the introduction of boosters should be evidence-driven”, amid concerns that under current global vaccine supply constraints, boosters could exacerbate inequities. It is feared that boosters could consume supply while priority populations in some countries or within countries have not yet received primary vaccines. The CMC trial, approved this week by India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, is part of efforts to generate such evidence and to determine whether Covishield and Covaxin — the two main vaccines currently used in India’s vaccination campaign — can be mixed. “Our primary aim is to examine safety and immune responses,” Winsley Rose, professor of paediatrics at the CMC and the trial’s principal investigator, said. “If we establish that a mix of Covishield and Covaxin is non-inferior or as good as the current two-dose schedule, that by itself would be significant.” Rose and his colleagues hope to recruit 500 unvaccinated volunteers, some of whom will get the standard two doses of the same vaccine, while others will get the mixed dose regimen — either Covishield first, then Covaxin, or Covaxin first, then Covishield. Another group of 600 vaccinated volunteers who have received both doses of Covaxin or Covishield will receive a third dose — the same vaccine or the other vaccine. While the full trial is expected to last over a year, the earliest results relating to immune responses from the booster doses could be expected after 12 weeks, Rose said. The two vaccines use different immunisation strategies. Covishield uses a genetically engineered, harmless adenovirus while Covaxin uses the inactivated (killed) coronavirus to generate immune responses against Covid-19. “In theory, mixing vaccines could enhance protection by widening the scope of the immune responses from two different vaccines,” Rose said. “For instance, mixing vaccines could enhance immune responses against the variants of concern — but this needs to be rigorously assessed.” Scientists with the Indian Council of Medical Research had earlier this week reported that Covishield as the first dose and Covaxin as the second dose “elicits better” immune responses than two doses of the same vaccine. But the ICMR study was based only on observations on 18 people in an eastern Uttar Pradesh town who had been mistakenly administered Covaxin as the second dose after Covishield. The scientists had said the observations needed to be validated through a clinical trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Sana Mufti: The voice that beat the gag in Jammu and Kashmir||Many may wonder, herself included, why she qualifies for newspaper space. “Quote me?” she exclaims with a touch of alarmed incredulity, “But why? What have I done?” That said, Sana Mufti, daughter of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, isn’t shy of putting her mouth to how her mind ticks. “Quote me, but quote me to represent me as very angry and very upset and very outraged at what has happened in Kashmir and what is going on happening. Quote me to say that Kashmir is being used like a milch cow by New Delhi and its locally appointed actors. Quote me to say that it is a milch cow that is being bled to secure vote banks in the rest of the country. Say that from me, this needs to be said, someone has to say it.” This isn’t the first time Sana is getting into print or putting herself out to be heard in the public space. When she took over her mother’s official Twitter handle in the second half of 2019 — “I made sure I had written permission from her to operate the handle” — she virtually became Mehbooba Mufti herself, an appointed proxy who began to tell whoever cared to listen what the PDP boss wished to say but could not. There was a time, a fairly long time, after the abrogations of August 5, 2019, that no leader worth half a decibel’s voice in the Valley was spared the chains or the muzzle. Sana figured an innovative way of keeping the broadcast station — and the pervasive outrage in Kashmir — active. Sana says: “Maybe I should not even be saying this but I think for a long time they (the security agencies) couldn’t figure out just how Mehbooba Mufti was continuing to tweet, or even who was doing it.” It was a cheeky act, and a risk-laden one, but it “needed to be done”, Sana says. “We had been completely muffled, all of Kashmir had been brutally silenced,” she adds. “Someone needed to speak, and I was able to figure a way. I knew my mother wouldn’t want to be silenced, I decided to speak for her, for our people.” I ask her if she has progressed from playing proxy for her mother and become a political entity herself. “Oh, but why?” she chortles back, with the same tone of disbelief. “Why would I want to be in politics? Why does everyone expect me to be a politician? No, I am not, and I don’t plan to be.” But again, that said, she resumes to inhabit a very political self. “Look, in Kashmir, being a Kashmiri, you cannot help being political; everyone is political here, and perhaps they have to because of the situation here, because (of) the things that are happening. We have no choice. We are being crushed, we have to respond. Everything is political.” Sana speaks briefly of being often advised by close well-wishers that she should opt out, leave Kashmir, go away, maybe make a life for herself outside the country. “But I cannot do that, can I? This is my home, I have strong memories of my grandfather (the late Mufti Mohammed Sayeed) and of assisting him with work towards the end of his years when he was still chief minister. I have my mother here, I need to stand by her, she is struggling but she is a fighter, and I need to be with her.” But that’s already three-fourths of the way into what a politician does, isn’t it? “I am not sure if you can call it that. I am not a politician, no. My mother is one, and she is a good and hard one, and when she needs me, I am going to be there. I am not going anywhere. Everything around is so grim and so uphill, that’s where we are at the moment.” We are sitting in a large and commodious lounge overlooking a manicured lawn banked by evergreen hedges and flower beds of the kind that probably only spring in Kashmir. This is a flank of the Fairview villa on Gupkar Road where the late Mufti would often spend his working and conversing hours. And this is where the Mufti family has lived since 2005. An imperial driveway leads up to the main porch of Fairview from the main entrance, and all around the residence is an acreage liberally blessed with the natural gifts of the Valley. So it rings strange that mid-conversation Sana turns to liken it to a prison. But she’s at liberty to go and come as she wills, isn’t she, and she does go out often? “Well yes,” she says, “But I must always travel under guard, in secured vehicles, and wherever I go, they follow me. It is not as if I can go out unencumbered. We are always under guard, always being watched, and you know of course that for periods this house has also being designated a sub-jail by the government.” Fairview isn’t a place you can return from without being seduced by how gorgeous it is to behold. But in its shadows lie ogres of a past that refuse to be banished. During the peak of armed militancy in the Valley — from 1989 to 1996 — Fairview was known by another name with a ring so ominous its mention still triggers fear and foreboding: Papa II it was called, and it was a paramilitary-run interrogation and detention centre whose horror stories will not cease to be told for a while yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi remains locked out of Twitter for a sixth day||Rahul Gandhi remained locked out of his Twitter account for a sixth day on Wednesday for tweeting photographs of himself with the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who had died under suspicious circumstances in Delhi last week. The child’s death had triggered allegations of rape, following which police registered a rape case. No conclusive evidence from the forensic examination has emerged so far because the body of the child had been burned. Replying to questions from The Telegraph, Twitter indicated that Rahul would remain locked out until he deleted the tweet. The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) asked Twitter to remove the tweet, saying it revealed the child’s identity in violation of two laws meant to protect children. Tweets by former BJP MP Anju Bala, a member of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, and a tweet from the commission itself with images of the parents did not elicit a similar response from the child rights panel. Twitter hid all these tweets but did not lock out the Scheduled Castes panel or Bala. On Wednesday, Twitter locked the accounts of multiple Congress leaders, including Ajay Maken and Randeep Surjewala. Some of them had tweeted that Twitter India was “extremely fearful of the Modi government” and Rahul was singled out. In response to this newspaper’s questions on the differential treatment of Rahul and those sympathetic to the government, Twitter said in a statement: “As explained in our Help Center, if a Tweet was found to be in violation of the Twitter Rules, and has yet to be deleted by the account holder, we hide it behind a notice and the account remains locked until the Tweet is removed or the appeal is successfully processed. “We have also taken action on several other Tweets that posted the same image and will continue to do so if the content is shared. Our aim is to protect individuals from coming to physical harm as a result of their information being shared on Twitter and certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and can pose serious safety and security threats. “Information shared by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights in their legal request submitted via the India Grievance Channel citing specific provisions of the Pocso Act, provided context and was taken into account for the assessment.” On Wednesday evening, the tweets by Bala and the SC commission could not be found on their Twitter accounts. Twitter’s response did not answer questions seeking the specific rule under which Rahul has been locked out and asking how long he would be kept out. The Congress has said that “due process” is being followed for restoration. Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate had told reporters on Sunday: “Can you imagine how traumatising that must be and somebody who wants to stand with that family and ensure justice, you drop his tweet and block his account, so to Twitter I will say, ‘Daro mat, ye dara nahin sakte humein (Don’t be afraid, they can’t scare us).” In 2018, the Supreme Court had ruled: “…No person can print or publish the name of the (rape) victim or disclose any facts which can lead to the victim being identified.” Violation is punishable with a jail term of up to six months. In Delhi High Court on Wednesday, the bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh refused to issue a notice on a public interest petition seeking an FIR against Rahul for allegedly revealing the girl’s identity. PTI quoted Twitter counsel Sajan Poovaya as saying: “The account has been locked and the tweet is not available.” Satisfied with his response, the high court rejected petitioner Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar’s demand for an affidavit by Twitter and deferred the hearing till September 27. On August 1, the Dalit girl was hurriedly cremated by a priest and other crematorium staff who claimed she had been electrocuted while using a water cooler on their premises near Delhi Cantonment. After protests by local Dalits, the police — who face allegations of intimidating the girl’s parents — booked four men including the crematorium priest for offences including rape and murder. Rahul visited the protest site on August 4 and met the parents in his car, later tweeting photos of the meeting. The photos triggered a news conference by the BJP demanding action against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Opposition demands caste census in Rajya Sabha||The Opposition demanded a caste census and laws to enable states to provide ceiling-excess reservation during a debate in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that preceded the passing of a law to restore the right of states to maintain their own lists of Other Backward Classes. The Supreme Court had in May ruled that the states had no right to maintain their own OBC lists and that the central list would be followed for all purposes. The leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, and a few other members demanded during the debate that steps be taken for reservation in the private sector so that the deprived sections continue to receive quota benefits in case of disinvestment of PSUs. All the Opposition parties and some parties friendly to the government, such as the Biju Janata Dal and the TRS, demanded a caste census. Social justice minister Virendra Kumar was non-committal on both demands. He said 671 castes included in the OBC lists of the states would have been deprived of their reservation rights if the central list continued to be followed. Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the government had not released the caste data collected during the Socio-Economic Caste Census in 2011. He alleged that the government was doing away with the caste census. The Centre told Parliament on Tuesday that the Socio-Economic Caste Census had failed to collect data “correctly” and that it was now outdated. Kumar told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that there were a lot of complexities involved in conducting a Socio-Economic Caste Census. He said economic data from the 2011 exercise had been used to select beneficiaries for welfare schemes like the Ujjwala Yojana for free cooking gas connections and the PM Awas Yojana (housing scheme). The minister did not comment on the demands for a law to ease the ceiling on reservation and introducing quotas in the private sector. Singhvi said the 105th Constitutional Amendment Bill would not be beneficial as long as the 50 per cent cap on reservation, set by the Supreme Court, existed. “Now, states will maintain lists. But what will they do with the lists? So, you cannot stick to a 50 per cent figure as sacrosanct,” he said. The BJD, TRS, Samajwadi Party, JDU, RJD and the IUML made the same demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Rashtra Manch urges PM to restore statehood in Jammu and Kashmir||The Rashtra Manch, a political action group led by former Union minister and Trinamul Congress vice-president Yashwant Sinha, on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce in his Independence Day speech the restoration of full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir by the year-end. In a statement, the Manch said: “All the rationalisations given by the Government to justify its drastic actions (of August 5, 2019), and all the promises of ushering in a ‘Naya Jammu and Kashmir’, have proved to be hollow. Indeed, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi himself acknowledged the failure of his decisions when, in a meeting with Kashmiri leaders on June 24, he said he wants ‘to remove both dil ki doori (the distance between hearts) and Dilli ki doori (the distance with New Delhi)’.” The Manch also wants Modi to announce on August 15 that free and fair elections will be held in Jammu and Kashmir soon after the restoration of statehood, and the delimitation exercise will be deferred in the Union Territory to be taken up with the rest of the country. This apart, the Manch urged the Supreme Court to expedite the hearing on the constitutional validity of the scrapping of Article 370 and give its verdict soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||India||Bihar: Primary teachers to sell jute sacks at block headquarters ||Primary school teachers’ associations in Bihar on Wednesday decided to sell empty jute sacks at each of the state’s 534 block headquarters on August 13 and at all the 38 district headquarters on August 16. The move is a protest against the state education department’s July 22 order to primary and middle schools to sell the jute bags in which food grains for the midday meal scheme were supplied to them, as a way of raising revenues for the government. The associations have also demanded revocation of the suspension of Muhammad Tamizuddin, principal of a primary school in the Kadwa block of Katihar, whose act of hawking the sacks in the marketplace became public via a video. He was suspended on Sunday evening for “tarnishing the image of the government”. The July 22 order demeaned the state’s around 4 lakh primary and middle school teachers, and “we are planning to move court on the issue”, Bihar Rajya Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh president Pradeep Kumar Pappu told The Telegraph. Pradeep added: “We have asked the government to withdraw the order to sell empty jute bags and the suspension of Tamizuddin. If this is not done, all principals and teachers of primary schools will sell the sacks at their block headquarters on August 13, and district headquarters on August 16.” Teachers of primary and middle schools demonstrated at all the district headquarters on Tuesday by burning copies of the government order to sell jute bags and the suspension order on Tamizuddin. They chanted slogans demanding better teaching facilities. Anwar Karim, a leader of primary teachers from Purnea, said the July 22 order had forced the teachers to peddle jute bags at marketplaces because the traders were not willing to travel to schools to buy them in bulk. “In any case, everybody knows that teachers give the sacks to students who have to sit on the floor because most rural schools lack benches and desks,” Anwar said. “Most of the remaining sacks have been damaged by rats, floods and the passage of time.” The July 22 order was issued after the office of the comptroller and auditor general raised the spectre of revenue loss in its reports relating to financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. Around 1.27 crore jute bags had reached the schools under the midday meal scheme in those two years. With the teachers asked to sell each sack at Rs 10, the government was expecting to rake in Rs 12.7 crore from the sale. Asked about the controversy, education department special secretary and midday meal director Satish Chandra Jha told this newspaper there was “no issue at all”. He said the department had twice issued similar orders in recent years. But the teachers’ associations said the government had relented both times after the teachers protested, but had this time threatened punishment. Tamizuddin has begun reporting at the Kadwa block office every working day, as directed by the suspension letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||India||Parliament Houses adjourned sine die two days before schedule||The monsoon session of Parliament was on Wednesday cut short by two days without a discussion on the Pegasus controversy and after a bill to privatise general insurance companies was passed in the Rajya Sabha behind a wall of marshals. Hours after Rajya Sabha Chair Venkaiah Naidu cried and said he spent a sleepless night after the “acts of sacrilege” in the House on Tuesday when an Opposition MP clambered atop a table, the situation turned for the worse in the evening during the passage of the insurance bill. The Opposition alleged that some of the women members had been pushed back by male marshals while the government  insisted it was the other way round. NCP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sharad Pawar later told reporters: “In my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today (in the Rajya Sabha). More than 40 men and women were brought into the House from outside. It is painful. It is an attack on democracy." Leader of the House Piyush Goyal demanded a special committee to look into this so that stern action can be taken against those guilty. The Parliament session had started on July 19 and was scheduled to run till Friday. No reason was cited for the early closure. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was seen in the House for the first time after the day the monsoon session had commenced. Home minister Amit Shah too was spotted. The Opposition had been demanding a discussion on Pegasus in the presence of the duo. “I saw Prime Minister Modi for the first time today. When everything is over, he shows up,” Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury told reporters later. “Except for the OBC bill, the government passed bills without discussion within minutes, setting a record,” he added. On Wednesday, the Lok Sabha assembled in the morning as usual and after some obituary references, Speaker Om Birla adjourned the House sine die. While the Lok Sabha called it a day in the morning without transacting any business, the Rajya Sabha followed in the evening. Birla said the four-week monsoon session had transacted business for only 21 hours, adding that he was “hurt by the obstructions”. The Rajya Sabha’s productivity was 28 per cent, down from an average of 95 per cent in the previous five sessions. Despite the uproarious protests by the Opposition seeking to stall the proceedings over the demand for a debate on Pegasus, the government succeeded in introducing and passing most of the bills it had scheduled. As in the Lok Sabha, the Opposition called a ceasefire in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday to robustly back the bill to restore the right of state governments to maintain their own OBC lists. But after the bill was passed, the Opposition was back on its feet, objecting to the government’s bid to push ahead with the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill without referring it to a parliamentary panel for greater scrutiny. After a brief adjournment found no meeting point, the government passed the bill amid protests followed by an Opposition walkout. Earlier in the day, Lok Sabha Speaker Birla had invited Modi, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and other prominent leaders of the House to his chamber and urged them to ensure more productive sessions in the future, according to sources. Modi and Sonia sat on adjoining sofas along with other BJP and Opposition leaders, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||India||Patna floods: Nitish directs senior officials to take immediate steps||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday inspected the flood situation in and around Patna and directed senior officials to take urgent steps to protect the state capital and its 20 lakh population. “We must ensure that the floodwaters from the Ganga spilling into densely populated areas are contained. Barricading should be done at the ghats where excess water has come,” Nitish told officials during his visit. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha accompanied the chief minister. Nitish also visited Saran and Vaishali districts to inspect the flood situation. “The water level of the Ganga is increasing and our officials are saying that it is expected to rise further. A similar situation had also occurred in 2016. I have asked them to take into consideration the areas and districts affected then and prepare contingency plans to tackle the situation this time,” Nitish told journalists. The Ganga is flowing above the danger level throughout its route from Buxar to Katihar in Bihar posing a serious threat to all the districts located along the river, including Patna. Its level at Gandhi Ghat in Patna has risen to 49.90m, 1.30m above the danger level and just 62cm below the highest flood level observed in 2016. The Ganga is spilling over its banks in Patna forcing water resources department officials to place sandbags and block the drains and channels flowing into the river. They are planning to seal the openings in the Patna Town Protection (PTP) wall built in the aftermath of the devastating 1975 floods to protect the city. “Our main concern is the continuously rising level of the Ganga and the priority is to save the state capital from getting flooded. We have blocked all the drains and channels emptying into the river to stop the backflow of water. The water from the city side is being pumped out with the help of motors. We are also putting sandbags in the places where the Ganga is flowing at its brim,” a senior engineer of the water resources department told The Telegraph. At present several panchayats and blocks in Buxar, Bhojpur, Patna Bhagalpur, Munger and Khagaria districts are facing the deluge. Several localities in Patna have also been flooded. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast widespread rains across the state till August 15. Though the current high level of the Ganga is due to heavy rainfall in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, the spells of rain in Bihar could further worsen the flood situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||India||Job and cash for hockey players from Odisha government||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday handed over cash awards of Rs 2.5 crore each and an offer letter for appoint in the rank of deputy superintendent of police (DSP) to Birendra Lakra and Amit Rohidas, the two players from Odisha who were part of the Indian Hockey Team that scripted history by clinching the bronze medal ending a 41-year-long medal drought for the country in Olympic hockey. DSP posts are treated as junior class one. Naveen also handed over a cash award of Rs 50 lakh each to Deep Grace Ekka and Namita Toppo, who were part of the Indian Women’s Hockey team that narrowly missed the bronze medal. He commended fighting the spirit of the women’s team that rewrote history by reaching the semi-finals of Olympic hockey for the first time. Naveen advised them to continue their hard work and bring more laurels for the country. The chief minister also assured them of his government's full support in future. Birendra Lakra, the vice-captain of the men’s team, presented to the chief minister the team jersey with signatures of all the team members. Deep Grace Ekka, the vice-captain of the women’s team, presented to the Chief Minister the Team Jersey with the signatures of all the women team members. It may be mentioned here that the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar has turned into a global hub of hockey. It hosted the men’s Hockey World Cup in 2018 and is now all set to host the next edition of the tournament in 2023. Some of the matches will also be played at the upcoming Birsa Munda stadium at Rourkela, the steel city located in Sundergarh district which has been the cradle of hockey in the state and the country. The new stadium is coming up at a cost of Rs 120 crore. Thanking the Odisha government for its magnanimous gesture towards hockey players, Rohidas also recalled that his father, who died last year due to kidney failure, had a dream to see him winning a medal for the country in the Olympics. “He had a major contribution in my reaching where I am. He must been very happy and proud to see us return with an Olympic medal,” said the ace defender. Birendra Lakra said: “It was a tough journey and we got everyone’s support to earn the medal. We made a lot of sacrifices during the journey and remained committed and determined to achieve our goal. Odisha government’s unflinching support has helped us in realising our dreams.” Odisha has also announced to set up 89 multipurpose indoor stadiums at a cost of Rs 693.35 crore to produce Olympians in the coming days. All the stadiums will be completed within 18 months. Minister for sports and youth services Tusharkanti Behera and chairman, Odisha Hockey Promotion Council, Dilip Tirkey, private secretary to chief minister V.K. Pandian and secretary sports R. Veenil Krishna also graced the felicitation ceremony. The four hockey players from Odisha, who represented the country at the Tokyo Olympics, had been given a rousing reception on their arrival at the Biju Patnaik airport here on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dismisses rumours about 'Lakshmir Bhandar' scheme||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Thursday dismissed rumours that all taxes need to be cleared for availing benefits of the Lakshmir Bhandar (Lakshmi store) scheme and said a complainant can dial her office for redressal of her grievances. The chief minister's comment came in the wake of allegations of cut money being demanded in the districts though she did not cite any specific instance. Addressing a press meet at the state secretariat, the chief minister said, for enrolling on the scheme the beneficiaries will only have to fill up the form at Duare Sarkar (government at doorsteps) camps to be held for one month from August 16. Around 1.6 crore people are expected to be a part of the West Bengal government scheme, which was a part of the Trinamool Congress' election manifesto, aimed at providing financial assistance to women heads of families in the age group of 25-60 years. Under the initiative, the state government will provide Rs 1,000 per month to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families, and Rs 500 to those belonging to the general category. Asking people not to be swayed by any misinformation, Banerjee said "the form for Lakshmir Bhandar' will be free of cost and will be only available from Duare Sarkar' camps. There will be a unique ID given on the form which will be linked with AADHAAR. Only that form will be accepted." If someone collects the form from outside, printed by any agency, that will not be accepted, the chief minister said. Banerjee said a rumour was being spread in parts of North 24 Parganas district that one has to clear taxes to avail the Lakshmir Bhandar' scheme. But it is false, she said. Women not employed in government services or permanent private-sector jobs, and not getting retirement benefits will be eligible for the scheme, she added. "In case anyone has any complaint, she can call the toll free number at the chief minister's office. Any grievance will be dealt with on the lines of Didi ke Bolo' (tell Didi) helpline (launched two years back)," she added. While Lakshmir Bhandar is a financial benefit scheme for women, the Duare Sarkar camp was announced last year as an outreach programme. Meanwhile, the Leader of Opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari said the chief minister has broken her promise within three months of returning to power. Referring to the 'Laskhmi Bhandar' scheme announced by Banerjee, he said before the elections, the party had promised a minimum income for all women in West Bengal if it comes to power. About five crore women are residing in West Bengal. but after coming to power, the number of women beneficiaries of the scheme has been reduced to 1.6 crore, he said. Adhikari said the yearly outgo for the scheme will be Rs 15,000 crore and will add to the state's debt burden to a great extent. The chief minister further said, to reach essentials at the doorsteps of people, "Duare ration" will be launched from the day of Bhai Phonta (a festival when women pray for their brothers' long life and good health). The Duare Sarkar camp will be held till September 15 where people will get information about 18 schemes, including Swastha Sathi, Khadya Sathi, Caste certificate, Sikshasree, and Kanyashree . Already 17,107 camps have been shortlisted but the figure will rise as many areas are still submerged, she said. The chief minister also said as per a revised notification of the Union government, the state has declared August 20 as a holiday on the occasion of Muharram instead of August 19 as announced earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata warns of repercussions in Delhi for attack on TMC workers in Tripura ||Asserting that the Trinamul Congress will overcome Opposition from the BJP and win the assembly elections in Tripura, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday warned of repercussions in Delhi if there are atrocities against TMC workers in the northeastern state. At least 14 leaders and workers of the TMC, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers, were arrested in Tripura's Khowai district on August 8 for "violating Covid norms". Senior TMC leaders from Bengal are of late visiting the NE state where the Assembly election is due in 2023. Claiming that around 2 lakh people owing allegiance to the BJP had come to Bengal from outside the state and even from abroad during the assembly election held earlier this year, Banerjee wondered why TMC leaders cannot go to Tripura which is ruled by the saffron party. "We will certainly go and win the election in Tripura. The fight in Tripura will continue," Mamata, also the TMC supremo, said. "If there are atrocities in Tripura, its repercussions will be felt in Delhi," she said without elaborating. Mamata was talking to reporters after visiting injured TMC workers, who had been flown to Kolkata for treatment from Tripura, at a state-run hospital in Calcutta. Accusing the BJP of running an anarchic government in the NE state, she claimed that the Biplab Deb dispensation does not allow any voice of opposition to it. In a not so veiled threat of a tit for tat against the BJP, the chief minister said, "If they think that by registering an FIR, they will arrest them (TMC leaders) when they land there, they (BJP government) must remember that we also have the law in our hands here. We don't want to apply it and hope that charity begins at home." The Tripura Police on Tuesday registered FIRs against TMC all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, minister Bratya Basu and other senior leaders of the party for allegedly preventing government servants from discharging their duties at Khowai police station on August 8. Abhishek Banerjee, who is the Bengal CM's nephew and the de facto number 2 in the party, and others had gone to the police station to meet the apprehended TMC workers. The TMC supremo said that state Education Minister Bratya Basu will go to Tripura on Friday. The Tripura Police had also arrested some TMC workers from West Bengal on various charges. They were later granted bail by a district court in Tripura. Claiming that the BJP government in the northeastern state was indulging in atrocities there, Mamata said, "I want to ask the (Union) Home Minister (Amit Shah) what is he going to do now? How many human rights teams, tribal commission, women's commission teams have gone there and how many cases have been filed in courts?" A committee formed by the National Human Rights Commission on the instruction of the Calcutta High Court had visited Bengal last month to probe allegations of violations of human rights during post-poll violence in the state. Those who went to talk to officials at the police station were arrested as if they are criminals while those who attacked TMC workers in Tripura are roaming freely, the chief minister claimed. To a question on the Election Commission seeking views of political parties on holding assembly by-polls in Covid time, she said, "We will inform (the EC)". Seven Assembly seats are lying vacant in Bengal due to the deaths of candidates or the resignation of MLAs. A TMC parliamentary party delegation met the EC in Delhi last month to press for its demand for holding by-polls to the vacant assembly seats in the state at the earliest. The TMC is keen on the by-elections as Banerjee, who lost the assembly election from Nandigram, will have to get elected within six months to continue as the chief minister. In that case, the by-polls must be conducted by November 5. The by-elections are due in the constituencies of Khardah, Gosaba, Shantipur, Jangipur, Samserganj, Dinhata and Bhabanipur. Banerjee is expected to file nomination from Bhabanipur in Calcutta, which was vacated by winning TMC candidate Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, days after the results were declared. Mamata said that she will get a CT scan done of her leg which was injured during campaigning for the Bengal Assembly elections in March. The chief minister also visited her ailing sister at the state-run hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja: 66 Pally puja committee to have 4 women priests to conduct rituals||A crowd-puller Durga Puja committee in the city has decided to conduct the entire puja rituals by a group of four women priestesses marking a new precedent as it is in the domain of male priests. The 66 Pally Puja committee, which had decided to mark the new change in established practice after the death of its veteran male priest end of last year, is hopeful this will be accepted by residents of the locality and the public and they can carry on the practice in future. Puja committee senior office-bearer Pradyumna Mukherjee told PTI the "four women are all scholars having great command on scriptures, professors in their respective fields, and fit the bill as a worshipper of the goddess in every possible way." "Being woman cannot be the criteria of not appointing them. Don't women make all the arrangements for conducting puja rituals in household and para puja If there can be women clay modellers, if there can be women organisers, why not women priestesses?". He, however, added if the move is "successful and gets acceptance" the puja committee will repeat the exercise in next year. Also it depends whether the four-member team of women priestesses are willing to be associated with the puja in future. Recalling how the puja committee had roped in the four - Nandini Bhowmick and her three team members Ruma, Semanto and Poulomi - Mukherjee said a film had been made inspired by Nandini Bhowmick's life as a priestess breaking male bastion and we got in touch with the production team. "As we told them about our theme, they were taken in by the idea," he said, adding that Nandini is a known name in south Kolkata circles. But the four women team haven't conducted any Durga puja yet. The puja committee has themed its puja as 'Mayer Haate Mayer Abahon' (Mother goddess will be worshipped by mothers), Durga Pujor Itihase Ei Prothom (first in the history of Durga puja)." The puja committee will conduct the khuti puja on August 22 which will be a precursor to the five day puja in the second week of October. The khuti puja, which heralds the beginning of the setting up of the pandal, will be conducted by the women. "We are looking forward to the occasion," Mukherjee said. Bhowmik, who is a guest lecturer in the Sanskrit department in Jadavpur university after voluntary retirement from a college, is a scholar who considers Indology as her favourite subject. "We conduct rituals at social functions like marriage, rice ceremony and funeral. We do conduct grihoprobesh puja. We don't believe in segregating men and women, in segregating between humans. We strictly follow the scriptures. We think the scriptures need to be interpreted and communicated in an appropriate manner to the modern generation," she said. The puja committee had last year themed its celebrations on the Apu trilogy on the eve of 100th birth anniversary of Satyajit Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal relaxes night curbs, extends ongoing restrictions till August 30||The Covid-related restrictions in Bengal were extended till August 30 with relaxations in the curbs during the night hours, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. The restrictions, first imposed on May 16 amid the second wave of the pandemic and extended at regular intervals, were about to expire on August 15. "The Covid situation in Bengal is quite good but the danger of the third wave is still lurking. This is one of the reasons we have not allowed local trains," Mamata said, addressing a press conference. "So, we have decided to extend the ongoing Covid restrictions for 15 more days till August 30," she added. The chief minister announced that the night hours during which stringent restrictions are imposed will be reduced. "We have decided a few relaxations -- such as full lockdown during the night will now be from 11 pm to 5 am, instead of 9 pm to 5 am," she said. Mamata said the state was not getting the required doses of vaccines. "If we get vaccines, we can at least ensure one dose of vaccine for the rural population and then we can allow local trains," she said. To decongest the prisons, Mamata announced that her government will release 73 life convicts. "On August 2, we had announced to prematurely release 63 life convicts on humanitarian grounds. Today, we have decided to release 73 more life convicts," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||State to bring rural schools and hospitals under Jal Swapno scheme||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to bring village schools, anganwadi centres and hospitals under the Jal Swapno scheme which was originally initiated to provide pipeline-based water supply to nearly 2 crore rural households in Bengal. A senior state government official said most such facilities in rural areas didn’t have piped water and hence, a decision was taken to include educational institutions and healthcare centres in the scheme. Chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi had recently asked district magistrates to prepare the lists of schools, anganwadi centres and hospitals which needed to be linked to the Jal Swapno scheme at villages and send the same by end of August. According to sources, the state government is trying to ensure piped water for maximum number of rural households and the facilities, which were included in the priority list, before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “The target is that maximum number of people reap the benefits of the scheme before the next general election. The Trinamul Congress wants to prevent the BJP from making the scheme as a campaign tool ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said an official. The chief secretary also asked the district magistrates to monitor the scheme on a weekly basis and send reports to Nabanna. “We are already lagging behind... In 2020-21, we were supposed to give pipeline connections to 45 lakh households, but we could bring just 18 lakh under the scheme. This year, the target is to give 45 lakh connections, but it is clear we can take piped water to over 70 lakh consumers. It would be tough to achieve the target by the end of 2023, which is the deadline set by the state government,” said a source. Sources said the Rs 58,000 crore project — to be shouldered by the Centre and the state on a 50:50 basis — would require huge quantum of land to set up pumping stations and other facilities. Dwivedi asked the district magistrates to send proposals for purchasing land directly for the project and also find out unused government plots which could be used for the scheme. A source said water connections would have to be given at most to 50,000 schools, anganwadi centres and hospitals at villages. “If we can connect to 2 crore rural households, we would be able to link another 50,000 establishments to the scheme. We hope that the Covid-19 situation remains under control in the next few months. If the situation deteriorates, we would face trouble to complete the scheme on time,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Twenty-one tonnes of plastic bags seized from godown||The drive against the use of plastic carry bags continued in Siliguri for the second day on Wednesday. Siliguri Metropolitan Police raided a godown and seized 21 tonnes of plastic carry bags. Authorities of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) conducted a drive in another market of the city. The special operation group and the detective department of police reached a godown off Sevoke Road on Wednesday afternoon and found plastic carry bags packed in sacks. “Across Darjeeling district, there is complete ban on plastic carry bags. The civic board has started a drive and civic body officials have said raids are necessary at specific points to prevent entry of such bags in local markets,” said a police officer. SMC authorities took away the plastic bags and sealed the stockyard, Mriganka Dey, sanitary inspector of the SMC, said. On Wednesday, Gautam Deb, who chairs the board of administrators of the civic body, and officials held a drive against plastic carry bags at the DI Fund Market in Mahabirstan. “Soon, we will hold a meeting with NGOs and those who work for conservation of nature. The drive will go on in markets and an awareness campaign will be launched in the city,” said Deb. Around 40kg of plastic bags were seized by civic officials during the drive, SMC sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Hooghly river gulps 8 homes in 10 minutes in Nadia||The spate of erosion along the banks of the Hooghly continued in Nadia’s Santipur with at least eight houses tumbling into the river “in 10 minutes” at the town’s ward 16 on Tuesday night. Panicky at the fast-changing course of the Hooghly amid erosion, at least 30 families near the river bank in Char Saragar and Gobar Char areas of the ward dismantled their houses on Wednesday to shift to safer places with whatever belongings they could carry. Till Wednesday afternoon, 40 families had taken shelter at a primary school. A few others moved to homes of relatives nearby. Local sources said the erosion began around 7pm on Tuesday. Pradip Das, a farmer who lost his house, said: “The erosion was so sudden and rapid that we lost everything before realising what was happening. Around 10pm, I felt the earth below us shaking as if in an earthquake. The river gobbled up eight houses within 10 minutes,” he said. Ajit Das, another victim, said: “I lost everything I own.” On July 18, five houses and about 30 bighas of farmland were lost in erosion in the same area. Residents had blocked NH12 alleging the district administration’s apathy. “The administration had then assured us of preventive measures but did nothing,” a villager said. “All they did before monsoon was piling erosion-prone areas with sand bags. It is an eyewash and doesn’t help. Dredging the riverbed and building concrete guard walls along the erosion-prone stretch are needed, but those are not done,” he added. Former councillor and local Trinamul leader Brindaban Pramanik said: “Don’t know why preventive measures had not been taken.” A  state irrigation official said continuous rain worsened the situation. “In such a situation, no protective measures can arrest erosion, particularly since the water level of the river has increased alarmingly. Nevertheless, we will take up some temporary work once the water level drops,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Junior doctor at Burdwan Medical College and Hospital dies after fall||A junior doctor at Burdwan Medical College and Hospital was found lying in a pool of blood early on Wednesday on the ground behind his hostel by friends, who rushed him to the hospital where he died within a couple of hours. Sources at the medical college said friends and juniors of Sk Mubarak Hossain, 23, had heard a sound of something hitting the ground around 2.30am on Wednesday. Soon, they discovered the junior doctor lying in a pool of blood with serious head injuries behind the hostel on the campus. “We tried our best to save the junior doctor, but unfortunately he died. Now, it is the job of police to look into the incident,” said Suhrita Paul, the principal of Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. A senior police officer in Burdwan said: “We have started a case of unnatural death. We will probe all aspects to find out whether there was any foul play. We can tentatively say the death was the result of falling down from a great height.” Family members of Hossain said they spotted a large cut mark behind his head and suspected that he had been killed. Hossain was a resident of Nadanghat in East Burdwan, where his father is a small-scale trader. “We were informed that he was in a serious condition and found him dead on the hospital bed when we arrived. Many of his friends claimed that he might have jumped from the hostel to commit suicide. But we don’t think he was in a state to commit suicide. We suspect it to be a murder case and we will soon lodge a complaint with police,” said Sk. Safiqul Hossain, maternal uncle of the junior doctor. “My nephew had a problem in his relationship with a girl but that can’t be the reason for the death as that chapter of his life was over,” Safiqul added. Several leaders of Trinamul’s student wing reached the hospital as Mubarak was reportedly associated with the union as magazine secretary. “He was a doctor and his death is an unfortunate one. We demand an impartial investigation to find out the cause,” said Mohammed Saddam Hussain, the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad president in East Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Youth arrested with guns and bullets in Cooch Behar||A youth was arrested with a haul of arms and ammunition here on Tuesday night. Police said three revolvers, three magazines and 20 rounds of live bullets were from Sourav Singha Roy, a resident of Dinhata in Cooch Behar. “Roy had bought the weapons and ammunition from Begusarai in Bihar. We will interrogate him further to know why he had brought the illegal firearms,” said Sumit Kumar, Cooch Behar district police chief, on Wednesday. In another incident, a father-son duo were found dead near the rail tracks in Gitaldaha of Dinhata on Wednesday. Police suspect suicide. The deceased are Pradip Burman, 35, and Pallab, 14. Pradip is the husband of Bithika Burman, a former pradhan of Trinamul of Gitaldaha-II panchayat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata invited to attend international peace meet in Rome||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has got an invitation to attend an international event titled “World Meeting for Peace Peoples as Brothers, Future Earth” to be held in Rome on October 6 and 7. The invitation has been extended by the Community of Sant’Egidio, which works for the poor, homeless, sick and the needy. In the invitation letter sent to the chief minister, Prof. Marco Impagliazzo, the president of the community, wrote that Pope Francis, the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I, the Great Imam of Al-Azhar (Egypt) H.E. Ahmad al Tayyib, German Chancellor Angela Markel and highest Italian political authorities had already confirmed their participation in the event. The chief minister has been invited for her “commitment” and “generous battles” in favour of the weakest and disadvantaged. In the letter, Mamata has been congratulated for her electoral success. Sources said Mamata had not taken any decision on attending the programme in Rome as it was scheduled just before Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Special birthday party for 25 year old royal Bengal tiger ||It will be a special silver birthday party at the animal rescue centre in South Khairbari of Alipurduar district on August 23. The birthday boy is Raja, a royal Bengal tiger. Jaldapara wildlife division of the state forest department and the West Bengal Zoo Authority will celebrate the birthday on the date the then badly wounded tiger aged 12, arrived at the centre in 2008. Raja, who lived in the Sunderbans, had been crossing the Matla river when a crocodile injured his right hind leg. Rescued by forester, he was brought to Calcutta where vets saved his life but a part of the leg had to be amputated. The same year, he was sent to the animal rescue centre, said a forester. Royal Bengal tigers live for 17 years or so in the wild and up to 20 years in captivity. Raja’s longevity is rare. “Raja has lived for 25 years and hence a celebration has been planned,” said Deepak M, the DFO of Jaldapara wildlife division. As many as 19 other tigers, rescued from circuses after a ban was imposed on engaging tigers in circuses for entertainment, had also been brought to the South Khairbari animal centre over the years. “All of them gradually died of old age. Raja continues to live in good health,” said a source. As a part of the birthday celebration, the department is hosting an online drawing competition for children as well as an online quiz on tigers. Participants can upload their paintings and winners will be awarded. “We will share a link on our website where people can click and join the quiz. Every participant will get a certificate and the top 10 rank-holders will receive mementos. We will also upload pictures of Raja on the website with a brief description of him ,” said the DFO. At the animal rescue centre, the enclosure were Raja stays will be decorated with balloons and flowers. “We will also organise a cake-cutting ceremony,” added the forester. Elephant attacks Babulal Oraon, 57, a resident of Aibheel tea estate in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri district, died on Tuesday night after being attacked by a wild elephant. Sources said Oraon had come out of his hutment when an elephant that had strayed into the garden, wrapped him with its trunk and tossed him on the ground. Foresters recovered the body. In another incident, an elephant entered Madhya Khuttimari village in Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri on Tuesday night and damaged an anganwadi centre, devoured food grains stocked there and then left the village. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung meets Binay Tamang after four years, stirs political plot in Darjeeling hills||Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang, two prominent Gorkha leaders, met each other on Wednesday evening after a gap of nearly four years in a clear sign of another realignment in the political landscape of the Darjeeling hills. Tamang, accompanied by policemen travelling in pilot and escort cars, called on Gurung at Pattabong Guest House, about 7km from Darjeeling, and spent around an hour inside. “I met the founder president (of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha) Bimal Gurungji for about an hour and we discussed politics from 2007 to 2021 and issues we need to work on for the benefit of Gorkhas,” Tamang said after reaching his residence at Dali in Darjeeling late in the evening without revealing much. Both Tamang and Gurung had refused to entertain the media, camping outside the gates of Pattabong Guest House, but the meeting triggered a lot of speculations among political observers in the hills. In the middle of the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, Tamang fell apart with Gurung and formed his own faction in the Morcha. Since then, Gurung had been on the run as several cases had been slapped on him in connection with the violent movement. However, Gurung made a dramatic appearance in Calcutta last year and bought peace with the Bengal government and the Trinamul Congress. In the past one month, the political contours in the hills changed rapidly with Tamang sending his resignation as the Morcha president to Gurung. Tamang’s close aide Anit Thapa was elected as the faction’s acting president also. “There are signs of some political realignment in the hills... But we should not forget that Gurung, Tamang and Thapa are all with Trinamul now,” said an observer. Tamang, who had recently held a “secret” meeting with his supporters in Siliguri, had told this newspaper that more than “forming a new party”, he would concentrate on focussing on three issues and “a major development” was due to take place within a “fortnight”. The three issues that Tamang plans to work on are revision of Indo-Nepal Friendship Treaty, 1950, inclusion of the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai in the ambit of the Union ministry for the development of Northeast and establishment of an All India Gorkha Assembly. Tamang wants the Centre to set up a Gorkha Assembly which will not be restricted by any geographic boundaries. But he proposes that its members be constituted through adult franchise in Gorkha-dominated areas across the country. It was not clear whether Tamang spoke about those issues with Gurung during the meeting. There were no immediate reactions from the Anit Thapa camp but sources said they were not alarmed by the meeting. “It just shows Binay Tamang’s desperation to be relevant in hill politics.... Just watch earlier videos where both Tamang and Gurung had attacked each other,” said a leader in the Thapa camp. A section in the hills would be happy to see Gurung and Tamang talking to each other again, while some leaders in both the camps would be upset with the development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Six youths arrested for opening e-wallets to help cheats ||Bankura police on Wednesday arrested six youths who allegedly opened fictitious e-wallets to help conmen electronically route the money obtained from various bank accounts by fraud. Police said they busted the racket being run from Bankura with the help of distributors of SIM card providers of a mobile service provider. Over 8,000 mobile SIM cards, which were registered with fake identity proofs have been seized. “We got a tip-off that a person was buying SIM cards in bulk and that set us investigating. The trail led us to the kingpin of the racket, Abhishek Mondal,” a policeman said. The police suspect this racket has roots across the country. Abhishek apart, others arrested were his brother Abhijit, who helped him sell fictitious e-wallets to fraudsters, Ajit Mondal and Rajaram Biswas, who were the distributors of two mobile service providers, Ramprasad Digar, who collected fake ID proofs, and Rohit Mondal, an associate of the gang. All are aged between 21 and 30 years. Explaining the modus operandi, a senior police officer of Bankura’s cyber crime cell said: “Their prime job was to divert money acquired through fraud to various e-wallets. They first purchased and activated a SIM card against a fictitious name. Then they opened an e-wallet with that number and shared it with fraudsters who directly credited the cash into the e-wallet. Immediately, the cash was transferred to a bank account using the e-wallet registered against a mobile number.” The officer added: “To mislead cops, the fraudsters immediately ported the number to another service provider. As the e-wallets are opened with forged documents and photographs, it made tracking more difficult.” Police have recovered  from the youths 8,282 SIM cards, seven different bank accounts, 110 forged identity-proof documents, many computers, smartphones and other gadgets used in running the racket. “It is a modern crime involving e-wallets and e-accounts. Those that we have arrested today (Wednesday) are just the tip of the iceberg as they were opening e-wallets with forged documents to help bank frauds across the country. We have found several e-wallets opened by them and some are being used internationally,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the SP in Bankura. “We need to get several details from the arrested persons to find out all the people involved in the racket using e-wallets to commit frauds. According to primary information we think that the gang had defrauded people to the tune of at least Rs 50 lakh by using e-wallets,” he said. The arrested youths were produced at Bankura court on Wednesday and sent to police custody for seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 700 fresh Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 700 new Covid-19 infections, 746 recoveries and six deaths. Active cases fell by 52 to touch 10,163 now, with the total number of active coronavirus cases dropping for 52 continuous days in the state. Bengal now has 2.64 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 78 new infections and zero deaths. With North 24-Parganas logging 89 new cases, Wednesday was the sixth straight day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Sixteen Bengal districts reported two-digit figures and Kalimpong, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and Jhargram single-digit figures. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths.  Kalimpong, West Midnapore and North 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s recovery rate is 98.15 per cent, its highest ever this pandemic, ahead of the national rate of 97.42. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal’s daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.49 per cent on Wednesday. Bengal now has over 15.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.07 lakh recoveries and 18,258 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Ganga in Malda above extreme danger mark||Floods in Malda have worsened with the Ganga rising above the extreme danger mark on Wednesday morning, inundating new areas in Manikchak and Ratua-1 blocks. Nearly 8,000 families are affected in Manikchak and Ratua-I blocks, said sources. They added that the Ganga is flowing at 25.36m at Manikchakghat, above the extreme danger level of 25.30m. A red (secondary) alert has been sounded in unprotected areas along the river’s bank and the administration is keeping tabs on embankments. Mridul Halder, the additional district magistrate in charge of disaster management and relief, said on Wednesday that flood relief centres were open and relief items had been sent to the inundated blocks. Ganga apart, the Mahananda and Fulhar rivers of the district are also swelling. Rangaswamy Azhagesan, the general manager of the Farakka Barrage Project Authority (FBPA) and his team on Wednesday visited the eroded areas of Kaliachak-III block where nearly 150 families lost homes in a month. The FBPA, responsible for preventing erosion along a stretch of the Ganga’s left bank, promised permanent anti-erosion measures. In Nadia’s Santipur, eight homes were submerged in sudden erosion caused by river Hooghly on Tuesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
12-08-2021||North East||Mizoram: 128 children among 576 positive Covid-19 patients||At least 576 more people, including 128 children, tested positive for COVID-19 in Mizoram, taking the tally in the state to 46,896, a health department official said on Thursday. Two more fatalities due to the infection in the last 24 hours raised the death toll to 173, he said. Of the fresh cases, 323 were reported from Aizawl district, 71 from Kolasib, 57 from Champhai, 38 from Lunglei, 35 from Lawngtlai. The single-day positivity rate was at 9.30 per cent as the new cases were detected from 6,192 sample tests. At least 128 children and eight Border Security Force personnel are among the newly infected people, he said. Nine fresh patients have travel history, while 567 were found to have locally contracted the disease, the official said, adding that 313 have developed symptoms of Covid-19. Mizoram now has 11,989 active cases, and 1,012 people were cured of the disease on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 34,734. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients in the state stands at 74 per cent. Over seven lakh sample tests for Covid-19 have been conducted in the state so far. State immunisation officer Dr Lalzawmi said over 6.42 lakh people have been inoculated till Wednesday with 2.13 lakh of them having received both doses of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
12-08-2021||North East||Tripura police lodges FIRs against Abhishek, Bratya||Tripura police have lodged FIRs against Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee and three of his senior party colleagues for allegedly preventing public servants from discharging their duty. The suo motu FIRs were lodged against Banerjee, Bengal minister Bratya Basu, MP Dola Sen and Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh by Khowai district police on Tuesday. The alleged incident that attracted the FIRs had happened at Khowai police station on Sunday. The quartet were booked under Section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the IPC. The section is bailable and the offence carries a jail term of three months or fine of Rs 500 or both, if convicted Besides the quartet, two Tripura Trinamul leaders, Subal Bhowmik and Prakash Das, were also booked for the same offence. Banerjee and other Trinamul leaders had reached Khowai police station on Sunday to secure the release of 14 party activists who had been arrested on charges of violating Covid-19 restrictions the previous night. The arrests were made after a clash between activists of Trinamul and the BJP in Dhalai district on Saturday. Subal Bhowmik, who had joined Trinamul on July 30 after leaving the Congress, dismissed the charges in the FIRs. “There was no obstruction. The FIR was lodged after 48 hours. This shows that police are being misused,” he told the media. The police also arrested five Trinamul workers for violating Covid protocol. They were remanded in judicial custody for six days by a court Dhalai on Tuesday. Their case will come up for hearing again on August 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
12-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Allegations of sexual misconduct against Andrew Cuomo||Look within Sir — The allegations of sexual misconduct against the former governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo, do not come as a surprise. Powerful men often get away with wrongs by threatening their victims with retribution. It is shocking, though, that even while he was passing laws against sexual harassment, Cuomo himself was guilty of inappropriate behaviour. This development must come as an eye-opener. The actions of activists and those speaking up against sexual abuse, too, need to be questioned. The movement against sexual abuse should not fall prey to the very problems it is fighting. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta Cause for concern Sir — The Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, recently expressed concern about the prevalence of custodial torture in police stations at an event organized by the National Legal Services Authority, stating that the “threat to human rights and bodily integrity are the highest in police stations” (“Main threat to rights lies in police stations: CJI”, Aug 9). It is shameful that in spite of constitutional guarantees, police atrocities in custody continue to be one of the major problems plaguing the law and order machinery. Further, people who are arrested or detained often do not have access to timely legal representation, making it difficult for many to ensure that their rights are upheld. The grim reality is that most people in custody face ill-treatment at the hands of the police. There is an urgent need to check the excesses of the police and ensure that immediate legal aid is available to those arrested. The concerns raised by Ramana must be addressed. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Any sort of violence meted out to a person in police custody is unconstitutional and must be condemned. The accused should be produced before a court of law as soon as possible and investigating officers must be held accountable for any mishaps while in custody. The observations by N.V. Ramana regarding the state of affairs in police stations are illuminating. His suggestions about rectifying the situation by keeping an eye on police excesses, dissemination of information about the constitutional right to legal aid and the availability of free legal aid services must be implemented by the government. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — N.V. Ramana has rightly expressed anxiety about the persisting threat to human rights in police stations across India. It is unconstitutional to violate the bodily integrity of a person, no matter what his or her crime. Every democratic nation must ensure that the fundamental rights of all citizens, including the incarcerated, are upheld. The police force in India must be sensitized. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Real picture Sir — The recent spate of suicides by young women because of dowry-related violence reveals the cracks in the social and economic fabric of Kerala (“Much needed”, Aug 9). Last month, the Kerala High Court had observed that the attacks on women for dowry make matrimonial homes the most ‘dangerous’ place for them. In view of this prevailing situation, the chief whip of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala, K.K. Shailaja, has advocated premarital counselling so that a couple entering marriage understands that the marital bond is not based on money or sex but rather it is a lifelong friendship that must be respected and nurtured. In the United States of America, family-life education programmes are part of high schools and colleges, and more recently are taught as part of community adult education. Such courses are usually structured to impart knowledge about marriage, family and relationships, and to teach ways to apply that knowledge in practical ways. It is important that people in India understand that marriage is a social bond and not a monetary transaction. Male children should be sensitized against social evils such as dowry from an early age and taught to question women’s subjugation in society at large. Political and economic empowerment of women will be crucial in remedying this situation. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Blood ties||A polity tainted by blood is unacceptable. Two judgments by the Supreme Court seem to suggest that the onus of cleansing Indian politics of the scourge of crime is, unfortunately, the judiciary’s alone. In a scathing judgment, a bench of the apex court held most political parties guilty of contempt because of their refusal to honour rules that mandate the publication of the criminal antecedents of electoral candidates. Nine outfits have been fined for violating an earlier order that makes it compulsory to notify the Election Commission of relevant information about candidates. The highest court’s commitment to the principle of separation of powers is equally heartening. There is, the Supreme Court observed, ground for further intervention but for the moment the learned judges have relied on the strategy of disseminating information — the EC has been directed to create a dedicated mobile application — about pending criminal cases against public representatives so that voters can make an informed choice. The Supreme Court’s energy to cleanse politics must be contrasted with the inertia of elected governments. In a rap on their knuckles, another bench of the Supreme Court ordered state governments not to withdraw pending criminal cases against parliamentarians, members of legislatures and legislative councils without the express approval of high courts. Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttarakhand — the BJP is in power in these — and Maharashtra have already moved to dismiss such cases without the necessary judicial approval. The brazenness of state governments can be attributed to the endorsement of crime, a malaise that has gone unresisted by the people and politicians. This complicity is borne out by data — the court took cognizance of some figures — that indicate a surge in the percentage of winning candidates with tainted antecedents. Nearly half of the members of the 17th Lok Sabha, it was estimated two years ago, had declared criminal cases against them. The responsibility of punishing crime in electoral politics is collective. The court has shown the way; citizens and governments must now respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Death knell||The alarming frequency of natural calamities around the world caused in large part by global warming indicates the inevitability of climate change-induced disaster. The urgency of the threat, however, has been confirmed with the release of the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which has warned that a warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels is likely even before 2040. This is frightening, given that the 2015 Paris pact pledged to strive to keep the rise in global temperatures under 1.5 degrees Celsius and well below 2 degrees Celsius during this century. The projection bodes ill for India in particular — the nation and the subcontinent, according to the report, will be increasingly vulnerable to extreme weather events like heat waves, droughts, rainfall and, also, greater cyclonic activity. In a clarion call for damage control, the report has stressed upon the need for immediate cuts on global greenhouse gas emissions. That matters have come to such a pass is indicative not only of an inertia towards honouring climate commitments made in the Paris agreement but also the bottlenecks that continue to plague climate talks. These include prolonged — often fruitless — negotiations over comparative emission cut rates and the dogged unwillingness of richer nations to make greater concessions in the allocation of funds and technology to weaker economies. The next round of deliberations in Glasgow in a few months’ time must avoid these pitfalls. India, the world’s third-largest emitter, is one of the few nations that seem to be on track towards meeting the target they decided on in Paris. In spite of its lower carbon imprint and comparatively lower energy consumption, India must work on a war-footing to devise mitigatory, inclusive policy and modernize infrastructure to become climate resilient. The challenges are formidable in this respect. For one, it is one of the countries that is yet to update, or further stiffen, its nationally determined contributions, which nations were requested under the Paris pact to update by 2020. The synergy between green imperatives and industry is rare; only a handful of India’s sunrise sectors pay attention to the need to reduce carbon weightage. The scale of transforming the ecosystem of energy consumption, public transport, housing and the implementation of adaptation techniques is daunting. Climate refugees, a constituency that is likely to burgeon as erratic weather events intensify, are not recognized under most statutes, including the 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees, thereby rendering them ineligible for protection under Indian and global legal frameworks. Equally worrying is the absence of public mobilization in favour of policy interventions to address climate change. Not everything can be left to a dedicated, but fragmented, philanthropy. The political class would be forced to act only if the environment becomes a political, economic and civic issue, as opposed to a merely ecological one. But is there any time left?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Opinion||Hell in heaven on earth||In June this year, protests by Sikh groups rocked Jammu and Kashmir. They alleged that two women from their community had been ‘kidnapped, converted and married’ in Srinagar. One of the women was ‘rescued’ and married off outside Kashmir, while the other woman dismissed the allegation of forced conversion and said that she had married the man out of her own free will. The issue is complicated and a sectarian comprehension is unwarranted. Without getting into the debate on the authenticity of the claims and the counterclaims of this particular incident, there is a need to examine the other intersecting issues related to women’s agency and the complications engendered by their position in conflict zones. Trafficking has heightened relevance in conflict zones because of the enhanced vulnerabilities of women in settings of turmoil, especially when it converges with the social institution of marriage. Many women are brought to Kashmir from other Indian states — mostly Bihar, Bengal and Uttar Pradesh — for ‘marriage’ without the women being aware of where they are being led. Deception, abduction and the promise of monetary gain are common methods used to get them married. Most of these women hail from disadvantageous socio-economic backgrounds, making them easier targets. Their situation is made worse by facilitators or brokers who are involved in these arrangements. According to the victims, the facilitators who either deceive or ‘buy’ them belong to their own community. Many women have lost touch with their own families; some face domestic violence; while others have found some level of acceptance and made peace with their condition. The difficulty in tracing the trajectory of trafficking as well as that of the victims increases when trafficking intersects with marriage. This problematic intersection has been highlighted by reports of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. However, the linkages between trafficking and marriage are not obvious. The social endorsement of marriage as a dignified institution underscores the challenges in establishing a clear link between trafficking and forced marriages. Yet, such alliances are not uncommon in places like Baramulla, Kupwara and Kulgam. Enquiries revealed that such dubious marital alliances have existed for a long time, especially in the rural areas. Nisha’s story brings out how women’s vulnerabilities are exploited and how they become targets of trafficking. Now living in Kreeri tehsil of Baramulla, Nisha was brought from Bengal on a false promise of a tour to Kashmir with a group of people. Earlier, she lived as a single mother in Calcutta, working as domestic help after her husband deserted her. She had left her daughter with a relative as she thought she would return in a few days. But to her disbelief, she found herself confined in a hostel in Srinagar with many other young women who had been deceived before being forced into marriage. She also lost contact with her family and her daughter. Tahira, now a resident of Bangdara in Baramulla, was abducted from Firozpur in Saran, Bihar, when she was attending a function. Tahira did not have to convert after her marriage because she was a Muslim. Her experience of such a heavily militarized ambience as Kashmir convinced her that having a partner was a better option than facing the consequences of defiance. Tahira experienced the traumas and consequences associated with poverty, subordination, conservative and discriminatory cultural practices and systemic violence suffered by the other victims. In both instances, religious identity was not of any consequence in ameliorating their conditions within the larger matrix of transgressions. The violations rob victims of their most basic rights and their identity as a human being. These ‘servile forms of marriages’ are explained in the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery of 1956. Another woman brought from Bihar to Bangdara for marriage was branded mentally unsound and abandoned by her ‘husband’. Villagers confirmed that she was compelled to beg for a living and later went missing. Many such cases were also found in Kulgam’s Bhan village. The nonchalant responses to queries about complaints or cases reaffirmed the widespread prevalence and the subsequent normalization of such malpractices. However, it would be incorrect to view the multilayered challenge of trafficking through the superficial lens of religious conversion in a conflict zone like Kashmir. The intricacies of people’s realities — entrenched inequalities and the lack of accountability — are likely to get overshadowed by such a superfluous concern. Any effort to better the conditions of these women should be based on a deeper understanding of their situation. Reporting these incidents is equally complicated because of the intersections with socio-economic conditions and cultural sensibilities. There is a need to raise awareness of trafficking in the guise of marriage in restive areas where the attention of society and its institutions are directed at questions like security and sovereignty. Rarely does the focus shift to the challenges faced by women. And when it does, the real issues get overshadowed by those cherry-picked by stakeholders with vested interests. Tarushikha Sarvesh is Project Director, MHRD/ICSSR||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Opinion||Partially reformed||This year marks three decades of market-friendly economic reforms introduced in 1991 by the P.V. Narasimha Rao administration. Manmohan Singh was considered the mastermind behind breaking the shackles of the license-permit raj, an inefficient government, a stifled private sector, and a strictly controlled import regime. All these led to low economic growth, large incidence of poverty, an inefficient, unwieldy public sector, and pervasive corruption in public life. The foreign exchange crisis of 1991 forced a weak government to take the help of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to open up the economy to cheaper imports, easier flows of foreign investments, liberalized domestic manufacturing and services, and a government committed to refraining from domestic economic controls as far as possible. While these measures were hailed by private businesses in India and abroad, not everyone was convinced about what these reforms would actually yield. The then Opposition — the Bharatiya Janata Party and the communist parties — was vocally opposed to the ‘selling’ off of the nation to foreign economic interests. However, during the 1990s, all major political formations in India had a chance to run the Central government. By the end of the decade, a silent consensus regarding reforms was reached in the polity. There were noises made about the details of policy-making but no one openly critiqued the idea of opening up the economy, as some had done in the earlier years. The 1990s saw a number of changes in the economy. Policy reforms did take place but growth was not spectacular. It roughly exhibited the same trend as in the 1980s. The economy was more open though. This was also the era of the coming of information technology and the discovery of the comparative advantage that India, as a low-wage economy with lots of cheap labour, possesses. There was a gradual shift of the economy towards services. This was also the time when China was making giant strides into manufacturing and India was taking gradual steps towards the making of a service economy. By the turn of the century, India’s growth rate began to increase and for the first 15 years of the twenty-first century the GDP growth rate was impressively high and certainly comparable to that of China. Not that the entire agenda of economic reforms was completed. It is incomplete even now. For instance, the kind of reforms the IMF or the World Bank would have wanted in financial markets, labour markets, agriculture, or the privatization of the public sector, are far from complete. Many of these are politically difficult; witness the resistance labour market and agricultural reforms introduced by the current government is facing. If one were to describe, in broad brushstrokes, the changes in the Indian economy during the last thirty years, one would have to mention, possibly at the very outset, the visible growth of an urban middle class that is enamoured of consumerism. New goods, new lifestyles, new malls, the seduction of shopping from home, eating out, wearing designer clothes and jewellery, watching cable television and owning a car or a two-wheeler — these have become the distinguishing features of the new middle class. This class aspires to consume even more, purchase the latest gadgets or the latest model of an existing device. These people have little concern for social causes, for political issues, or even concern for neighbours and the extended family. These people are not rich by any stretch of imagination. A reasonable estimate would be that such a family of four members could be making around Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 a month. However, new goods and new brands are available aplenty and have become reasonably cheap. There is always the hire purchase scheme or the EMI from a loan from the bank, or the ubiquitous credit card to defer payments. For this class, the credit market is now much more accessible compared to the twentieth century. Jobs are a little easier to get, especially with the spectacular rise of the tail-end of the IT industry: the world of IT workers in back offices and call centres. This consumerism marks a class on the go: impatient, intolerant and self-centred. It lives in the world of social media. That, however, is only a small part of the story. The majority of Indians, somewhere around 80 per cent of the population, has not had the same experience with economic reforms. The deprived and vulnerable, with poor healthcare and inadequate, low-quality education, have continued to live on the margins of the economy. Even with new investments, the prospects of new jobs, especially those that require low skills and minimum education, are rapidly vanishing. Technology has increased labour productivity almost ten-fold. According to a recent estimate, a 4 per cent growth in earlier days would result in a 2 per cent increase in employment. Now an 8 per cent growth results in only a 0.5 per cent rise in employment. Jobs disappear rapidly, new jobs get created but are few and far between, and that too only for skilled, educated people. No wonder the government has been putting a great deal of emphasis on creating entrepreneurs who, if successful, would be self-employed and not crowd the labour market. New investments for capital accumulation require new resources like land and machinery. This displaces a set of marginal people from their homes and jobs. Unlike during the early phase of industrial development, new jobs are not created to re-absorb the displaced into the main economy. They have to survive in a burgeoning informal sector. These people comprise the nascent useless class that will swell over time. Thanks to political democracy, however imperfect, this class is aided by politicians to eke out an existence, simply because it is a vote bank. These people form a society of refugees in their own land who negotiate deals with local politicians for daily living outside the ambit of the laws of the land. In many cases, as the class begins to swell, the State has begun to find ways and means of leaving as many of these people outside the electoral rolls as possible. This type of growth and development has created massive degrees of inequality in wealth and income distributions during the past three decades. Rapid growth with new technologies creates a jobless development, which accentuates inequality, and the rising inequality drives a pattern of growth that enriches the small consuming class. Despite the façade of glitter and sparkle, economic reforms have failed to transform the lives of the majority of Indians. The New India that reforms have engendered has led to systematic deterioration in the quality of life. In many parameters used to rank nations, India has slipped considerably in the past few years: from worsening environmental degradation, to greater incidence of hunger, to failing human development, to the shrinking of democratic rights and the loss of media freedom. A corporate oligarchy has grown powerful and influential and has decisive influence over the political class. Capital is on the move. India’s faltering democracy may still be able to tame some of its brutal consequences. However, this may not be possible for long as public institutions and civil liberties erode rapidly. On top of that, the unanticipated pandemic has exposed many hidden scars of the economy. When the pandemic ultimately fades away, the viral dregs will be thick. The economy is already frail and fractured, and the rulers of India’s elected autocracy may have to further tighten their grip on the political whip.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city police thwart encroachment attempt||Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee officials and police on Thursday thwarted a section of political activists' attempt to grab land at a prime location in Sakchi. The land grabbers who are also functionaries of the local temple management committee had started constructing concrete pillars on Thursday for grabbing a vast stretch of land in the name of tree plantation. As the encroachment site was along a busy road, the matter came to the limelight in the morning, leading to the officials of the civic body to inspect the site. Soon, officials of the Tata Steel's land department also arrived at the spot.  In the afternoon, the police were called in at the encroachment site and it was cleared. The stretch of land which was attempted to be grabbed is situated at the landmark Ramlila Maidaan in Sakchi, along the Shitla Mandir Road linking the Sakchi-Sidhgora Road. Acting briskly, the land-grabbers had dug over a dozen pits and laid foundations with iron rods and cement concert in them for constructing pillars. Apparently the construction was aimed at setting up a row of shops along the road. JNAC's city manager, Ravi Shankar Bharti confirmed about the anti-encroachment drive that the civic body carried out with the help of police. "The land encroachers who belong to a leading political party besides being associated with a local temple had started constructing pillars at Ramlila Maidan in Sakchi. Initially, they had engaged labourers to dig pits in, declaring that they would do tree plantation there, but later started raising concrete pillars from the pits. We have dismantled the pillar-raising work, " said Bharti while talking to The Telegraph Online. The city manager pointed out that when the anti-encroachment drive was about to be started, the land grabbers claimed they were raising a fence for the tree plantation with an instruction of the local legislator Sarayu Roy. "But Roy expressed his unawareness about any such tree plantation drive at Sakchi. Then only we cleared the encroachment, "the city manager said. Sakchi thana OC, Kunal Kumar who had also reached at the said they will keep a close eye on the encroachers and ensure such anti-social act may not occur in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders demand redressal for power cuts||A delegation of traders and industrialists from different parts of Dhanbad district on Thursday met senior officials of Dhanbad circle of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Limited and expressed their concern over the problem of more than 10-12 hours of load shedding affecting trade activities. The delegation led by Rajiv Sharma general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association also raised the issue of delay in redressal of complaints with regard to over billing and also delay in allotment of new electric connections, low voltage problem, lack of information about power cut scheduled in industrial areas and lack of any one time settlement scheme for bill defaulters. Ajit Kumar, General Manager of Dhanbad circle of JBVNL accompanied by Executive Engineer Shailendra Nath Dwivedi on the other hand explained the immediate reasons including the technical snag in transformers of the Putki Grid of Damodar Valley Corporation affecting the load shedding problem and assured to solve the problem by next Sunday (August 14). Talking to the media after the meeting, Sharma who was also accompanied by the traders and industrialists of different parts of the district, including Dhanbad town, Jharia, Sindri, Saraidhela, Katras, Govindpur as well as Kandra Industrial area said, “We prominently raised the issue of load shedding during the meeting which is creating operational difficulties to the traders and the JBVNL officials further assured that apart from the solution of temporary problem arising from Putki grid a long term solution is also being worked out which is likely to be completed by August end bringing some major positive change in the power supply scenario of the district.” “With regard to the problem of load shedding being faced by the residents of Saraidhela and surrounding areas of the district the JBVNL officials informed us that underground cable laying work being carried out in the area under the Jharkhand Sampurn Bijli Achchhadan Dhan Yojana is major problem affecting the regular power supply and is likely to be sorted out by month end after the completion of cable laying work,” said Sharma. “We have explained to the delegation members about our stand on different issues raised by them including the low voltage issue and overall assured them that the significant improvement in the power supply scenario is likely by the end of this month,” Ajit Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city special school extends help to three mothers||Jeevika, a Sonari-based special school, has brought smiles on the faces of needy mothers of three intellectually impaired students by giving them work. Dolly Francis, Satinder Kaur and Anuradha, all residents of Sonari, were facing hardships in managing their families till Jeevika chipped in with the much needed helping hand. While Dolly remains busy in packing Diwali diyas, Satinder does stitching. Anuradha, on the other hand, deftly paints diyas and paper bags. All are occupied and, more importantly, earning to keep their families afloat in difficult times. "We gave work to these mothers on humanitarian grounds. They are from poor families and badly needed earnings. So, we decided to engage them in our daily work and also pay them remuneration. They have been with us for the past two months," said Jeevika founder Avtar Singh, a former international cyclist. According to him, they make Diwali diyas and gift bags every year. "Some of our students put varnish and also paint the diyas. Around 10,000 diyas are being made. Some are ready while work on the rest is underway. We needed extra hands for packing, painting and wrapping ribbons on the gift bags. We thought of the mothers of our intellectually impaired students and subsequently roped them in," Singh, who was recently elected secretary of Jharkhand Para Sports Association, added. Remuneration of Dolly, Satinder and Anuradha ranges between Rs1,500 to 2,500 for three hours of work on weekdays. The Jeevika founder added mothers' work was need-based since making diyas and gift bags are not made throughout the year. "But we'll certainly help them out whenever we need hands. We understand that several families are facing financial crisis in this pandemic. Dolly, Satinder and Anuradha are good at their respective work and this gives us immense satisfaction," Singh added. Dolly, whose son Ryan is a medallist in para athletics, said she loves working at Jeevika and thanked Singh and his wife Sukhdeep (secretary of Jeevika) for the timely help. "It's a great gesture from Jeevika in providing me work and remuneration," she added. Jeevika, an NGO, promotes special athletes through the medium of sports. It has taught them the importance of Covid protocols. One of the students N. Sai Krishna claimed medals in athletics at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Abu Dhabi in 2019. Other students have achieved success in national competitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS gets COBAS 6800 for quick RT PCR tests with minimal human intervention||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi has procured a COBAS 6800 machine, which is an automated device that can perform 1,200 RT PCR tests in 24 hours with minimal human intervention, doctors from Jharkhand’s premiere state-run hospital said on Thursday, claiming that this machine was the first such device to be installed in any government-run healthcare facility in the state. “We have procured a COBAS 6800 for fast and safe RT PCR tests. The machine has arrived at our facility and it will be installed within a couple of days,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of Covid-19 Task Force at RIMS. The COBAS 6800 performs RT PCR tests with minimal need for human intervention, and therefore, reduces the chances of infection in healthcare workers while they perform tests of nasal and throat swabs collected from suspected Covid-19 patients, doctors said. The COBAS 6800 was first introduced in India at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) back in May 2020. During the inauguration of the machine, then Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said that COBAS 6,800 is a sophisticated machine enabled with robotics that minimizes the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection to the health care workers since it can be operated remotely with limited human intervention. As the machine requires a minimum BSL2+ containment level for testing, it cannot be placed at just any facility. COBAS 6800 can also detect other pathogens like Viral Hepatitis B and C, HIV, MTb (both rifampicin and isoniazide resistance), Papilloma, CMV, Chlamydia, Neiserreia etc. The machine will be set up at the microbiology department of RIMS. The head of the microbiology department, Dr. Manoj Kumar, was not available for a comment as he was off duty due to health reasons. However, another doctor from the department said that the machine will be extremely helpful in detecting different kinds of viruses even in future. RIMS suffers from a shortage of lab technicians and a machine that requires minimal human intervention is expected to lower the burden on the technicians who usually work around-the-clock at the facility, sources said. The state health department has already asked RIMS to set up a genome studies department in the facility, while the procurement of a genome sequencing machine is also likely to get a nod from the governing body of RIMS in its next meeting scheduled later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly parents of officer found murdered in Daltonganj||The elderly parents of an officer posted in the Chief Minister Office were found brutally murdered in their house at the Fauji Gali in Daltonganj on Thursday. The officer, Arvind Kumar, is the secretary to the principal secretary to the chief minister. Kumar’s father Rajeshwar Ram, 75, and his mother Parmilla Devi, 70, were found murdered with a 'sharp edged weapon.' Police sources said the elderly couple were murdered on Wednesday night. Rajeshwar Ram who had served in the Indian Army was in the BJP currently after three decades of being in Lalu Yadav's RJD. He was a popular civil society activist. Parmilla Devi was a homemaker. She was found to be wearing a mask on her face when her body was discovered, said a police officer. SP Palamu Chandan Kumar Sinha said the ex-army man had multiple injuries inflicted with a sharp edged weapon. Police sources said his throat was slit and his chest was punctured. "The body of his wife Parmilla Devi was found with less number of injuries in the kitchen," said SP. The SP reiterated the twin murders didn't appear to be for any loot or theft of cash or any other valuable. He said one almirah was found broken but it could be just a ploy of the killer to pass it as murder for cash etc. Motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained. A team of forensic experts have arrived from Ranchi. “This twin murder case will be investigated and cracked by a special investigating team,” said SP. Footages of the CCTV camera installed in the Fauji Gali are being scanned by the police. Police sources said the couple lived alone but there were three cups of tea found in the morning. The couple’s son Arvind Kumar had arranged for security guard for his parents to look after them. SP Sinha said police have kept the crime scene intact. Former minister K.N. Tripathy was the first politician to reach the house of the deceased on Thursday. Tripathy said he believes this case will be solved soon. He quoted the police to  say the killer or killers seem to be known to the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly and  SAIL at loggerheads over dolomite mining ||Jharkhand Assembly committee and steel manufacturing PSU SAIL are at loggerheads over the resumption of dolomite mining activity at Bhawnathpur in Garhwa district, 260km from capital Ranchi. Jharkhand Assembly general purpose committee’s chairperson and Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Roy during a review meeting over the fate of the open cast dolomite mine at Tulsidamar under Bhawnathpur police station area, at the Garhwa on Tuesday evening went to the extent of recommending for cancellation of the mining lease. “The mining activity has been closed since 2020 and the SAIL official seems not keen to resume it. They should have sorted out contentious issues including payment of fines for violations at the mines secretary level so that the mines would have resumed. Nearly thousand contract workers are at the brink of starvation due to the closure of the mines and delay in clearance of their payments. We would recommend to the Assembly that if the SAIL authorities are not serious in resuming mining operation then steps should be taken to cancel their mining lease and put it for auction as per legal provisions so that new party can start mining activity on a serious note,” said Saryu Roy after the review meeting. Significantly, the open cast Tulsidamar dolomite mine under raw materials division of SAIL is in operation since 1975 and covers an area of 118.72 hectare and is located in Tulsidamar and Jangipur villages in Garhwa district of Jharkhand with a production capacity of 5 lakh tonnes per annum. The mine was started as a captive mine to Bokaro Steel Plant for supply of blast furnace grade dolomite to be used as flux, situated at a distance of about 375km from the mine. However, later dolomite from the Tulsidamar dolomite mine was dispatched to other SAIL’s steel plants also as per requirement. Roy told The Telegraph that the officials of the mines hinted that they were getting dolomite from Rajasthan at cheaper rates. “The Tulsidamar mines general manager Manoj Kumar informed us during the meeting that after the closure of the mines they were getting the dolomite from Madhya Pradesh at cheaper rate for SAIL plants at Bokaro and other parts. They were not keen on paying the penalty for various violations to the state government amounting to over Rs 8.59 crore. It would be better if they surrender the lease so that the government auctions it,” said Roy. Senior official of SAIL associated with Tulsidamar mines informed that unlike other states, Jharkhand is giving lease for minor minerals (like dolomite) for one year. “Our lease expired in March 2020 and we got the lease renewal from the Jharkhand government in February 2021 for a period of one year (till 2022) with a penalty of Rs 8.59 crore to which our corporate office objected. We are yet to get environmental clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forest and by the time we get environment clearance our lease period would get over and we would have to reapply for a fresh lease with another penalty. The government should give us a lease for a longer period,’ said the local official. Bokaro Steel Limited (which looks after SAIL’s raw material division units in Jharkhand) chief of communication, Manikant Dhan confirmed the meeting with the state Assembly committee over the dolomite mines in Garhwa. “We are aware of the matter and it is being looked into,” said Manikant Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
12-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: JMM backs caste based census||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha has welcomed the 127th Constitution amendment Bill, 2021 (OBC Bill) which was passed by the Lok Sabha on Tuesday but demanded the Narendra Modi government to remove existing cap of 50 per cent on the reservations in the country and inclusion of caste based census in the upcoming nationwide census. The passage of the OBC bill will restore states' power to make their own OBC list and notify it for reservation as per their needs. In Jharkhand, OBCs are demanding for 27 per cent reservation from existing 14 per cent. Almost all the political parties promised to work for it in their poll manifestos during the 2019 assembly elections in the state. The JMM and Congress, part of ruling alliance too individually promised for 27 per cent OBC reservation. Addressing a press conference in the evening, JMM's general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee welcomed the developments in the Lok Sabha but raised doubts on Centre's intention behind the move. He said, "We welcome the passage of 127th amendment bill of the Constitution giving rights of deciding reservation of OBCs to the states. It is a welcome break from Modi government's attempts to destroy country's federal system." (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A 60-year-old farmer, Banshi Saw, was beaten to death by his wife and son in Pundri village under Simaria police station in Chatra district on Monday evening. Officer-in-charge of Simaria police station, Gobind Kumar said after a dispute over some family related matter, Saw's wife Jirwa Devi and son Deepak Kumar started beating him with a lathi at home killing him on the spot. He said both have been arrested with his minor son Deepak being sent to a correctional home. He said they had recovered the lathi used to kill Saw. An FIR has been lodged against the duo and the body handed over to relatives after post mortem at Chatra Sadar Hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A joint team of Chatra district police and excise department arrested three smugglers with 14,300 bottles of country made liquor and 792 bottles of foreign liquor, who admitted that they were going to Bihar. Alcohol is banned by the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar. Due to this, many gangs are now active in bordering districts including Chatra, Koderma and Hazaribagh supplying liquor to the state, making huge profits. The arrested three smugglers were identified as Jaywant Kumar, Amit Kumar and Ranjeet. All three are residents of Hazaribagh. Subdivisional police officer Avinash Kumar confirmed the recovery. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
