13-08-2021||Calcutta||Delay bonus at Rabindra Tirtha event||Those who had gathered to watch the Baishe Srabon event at Rabindra Tirtha last weekend were in for a bonus. Since the chief guest arrived a good 45 minutes after the scheduled ending of the show, the performers played on for the extra time. They even took requests for songs from the audience. Firhad Hakim, the newly anointed chairman of West Bengal Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), reached after 8pm and the musicians were requested to play on till he showed up. Finally when Hakim and his wife Ismat arrived, they concluded the show by garlanding a Tagore portrait and watering a plant on stage. Between inauguration and the extended conclusion was a fiesta of music and dance themed around Tagore’s works on the monsoon. The day, other than being the 80th death anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore, was the ninth anniversary of Rabindra Tirtha itself. “Since 1942 (the year after his death), there is a tradition in Santiniketan to mark the day through tree plantation. We follow the same tradition,” said Rabindra Tirtha curator Anup Matilal. “When Rabindra Tirtha was opened, the chief minister had pointed out that it was not difficult to build an auditorium but there must be a constant line-up of programmes. Last year, even when there was a national lockdown, we had organised an online Poila Baisakh programme, with the same singers as today. But over the months we have all become tired of Zoom and Facebook Live. The government has allowed shows with 50 per cent attendance. It is such a pleasant sight to see you all in the auditorium,” said Hidco managing director Debashis Sen, addressing the audience. Father-daughter duo Debashish and Rohini Ray Chowdhury, who have been performing together for the last 10 years, started with Momo mon upobone, composed by Tagore at the age of 73. “Tagore was born in the heat of Baisakh and left amid monsoon showers 80 years later. He loved this season. Of all the season-specific songs he has composed, monsoon songs outnumber the rest,” narrated Debashis. Monsoon is linked to amorous adventures through the tradition of Vaishnav Padabali. Dark clouds and showers provide a backdrop to Radha’s dalliances, added Rohini, before starting the duet, which was accompanied by Mrittika Bhattacharya’s dance. His next song Esho go jwele diye jao had dance accompaniment by Arkadev Bhattacharya. Once the monsoon-themed programme ended, the singers obliged audience requests like Jokhon porbe na mor payer chinho. “Due to the pandemic last year, we turned to Facebook and YouTube to continue our art. Performing in front of people without a mask was quite a risk,” Rohini told The Telegraph Salt Lake later. “But the equipment here were sanitised and we are all more or less vaccinated.” Many local residents had come to watch the live show. “I came to know about the programme through social media, and came with my friends. Although this is the first cultural programme I am attending this year, I wasn’t scared as I kept my mask on,” said Santa Pal, a resident of DB Block, New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||EZCC goes online with Tagore show||The Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC)’s Baishe Srabon event this year had some 40 artistes on stage but not a single audience member was seated in the auditorium. Welcome to a cultural programme in Covid times. Aaji Srabone Rabir Parash was organised by EZCC, ministry of culture, in association with township-based NGO Initiative for Scientific and Public Awareness Target (Ispat) on Sunday and was streamed live on social media, allowing viewers to watch from the safety of their homes. Even though the state government now allows auditoriums to function with 50 per cent occupancy, the organisers decided to do away with the concept of live audience. Elderly artistes were not invited while those who were called needed to have been vaccinated with at least the first dose. “We have allowed only the artistes and technicians to come. The artistes too have been asked to leave immediately after his/her performance,” said Abhijit Chatterjee, administrative and documentation officer at EZCC. Artistes such as Sreeradha Bandyopadhyay took extra precautions. She carried a personal microphone cover with which she asked the technician to cover the mouth of the mic, before she began singing. Other prominent artistes such as Prabuddha Raha, Pranati Thakur and Debarati Shome also performed. While the artistes missed the excitement of performing before a live audience, it was for the best. “Our programme draws a lot of aged listeners but how can we risk inviting them in the middle of a pandemic?” wondered Manoj Murali Nair, who had come to sing with sister Manisha. “The reach of online shows is greater but the concentration of such audiences is less. At home, people listen to music while eating or chatting.” Secretary of Ispat Ritesh Basak said while many have been performing from home during the pandemic, a performance needs a solid sound system, which is only available on stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Taking the field for alma mater||A football tournament was the highlight of the alumni meet of Hariyana Vidya Mandir. The games took place at BA-CA grounds and ex-students got to play their hearts out. The tournament, which took place before the second wave of the pandemic, began with 10 teams divided into two groups of five, each drawn in the round robin format. Every team had to play a match against each of the opponents. Two teams from each group progressed to the semi-finals where the highest-ranked team from a group would face the second-placed team from the other group. Each half consisted of 10 minutes with a two-minute break in-between. There were to be eight on-field players inclusive of the goalkeeper along with two substitutes which made each team have 10 players in all. The Sunday chosen for the tournament was too sunny and it led to teams taking longer breaks, thereby compromising the time for the semi-finals and the final. Due to the falling daylight, each half of the semi-finals and final was reduced by three minutes, leading to 14-minute matches. In the first semi-final, Yellow Claus tied with Hustler FC on full time as well as on penalties and so the tie was decided by a toss of coin. Yellow Claus won the toss and progressed to the final. In the second semi-final, Hellraisers FC scored from a free-kick in the first half to defeat Matador FC 1-0 and make it to the final. While most of the alumni expected an early breakthrough in the final, both teams focused on ball possession. The first half saw Yellow Claus and Hellraisers FC making directed or lob passes. The second half increased the pressure on both sides to score and both were attacking through long balls but making defensive clearances when pressed. However like the first semi-final, this match too went to the penalties as the regulation time ended goalless. The penalty shootout was confined to three spot kicks. Hellraisers FC started by taking the first kick but it was a miss. Much to their dismay, Yellow Claus scored and were leading. The second kicks drew the teams level as Hellraisers FC scored and Yellow Claus missed. While the kick-taker from Hellraisers FC aimed for the upper centre, he put too much power on the ball which made it go over the bar. Yellow Claus needed one scoring kick to win and the penalty-taker slowly walked in, maintained his focus and took the shot making the ball hit the back of the net. Yellow Claus thus won the game on penalties, which had a scoreline of 2-1. Shubharthee Saha, the captain and goalkeeper of Yellow Claus, was happy with his team’s performance especially in the penalty shootout. “I could anticipate the direction of the first kick even before the run-up by looking at the player’s eyes and that made me save the shot. We all know how important a save is,” said Saha, who was also named Goalkeeper of the Tournament and the Man of the Match in the final. Vice-captain of Hellraisers FC, Souradip Basu, was also one of the organisers of the tournament. That the event could take place in the midst of a pandemic itself, he felt, was a success. “We had stipulated clear rules that an alumnus needs to have studied in Hariyana Vidya Mandir for at least two years to be a part of any team. There was a situation when a participant’s schooling in Hariyana Vidya Mandir was challenged and we had to ring up his mother to resolve the dispute. But in the end, all that matters is fun and we were glad to see such wonderful team chemistry despite not having played together for years,” said Basu, a resident of CA Block who is popularly known as Jiko, reminiscent of Brazilian football legend Zico. A lot of ex-students turned up to cheer for their friends who were playing. One such was Ritwika Bhadury, who wore yellow to show support for her friends playing for Yellow Claus. “While it was exciting to meet up friends, it’s true that it was a bit of a risk. Most of us came by public transport and as the games got more exciting, many masks were getting pulled below the chin to yell in support,” confessed Bhadury, a 2016 passout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||New Town shift for army college ||The Army Institute of Management has moved into a sprawling new campus in New Town and no, it’s not a training school for army officers. It’s a business school for everyone. “The perception among civilians is that this is either an institute for army officers or one exclusively for their children. We want to bust this myth,” said director of college, Major General (retd) Arun Sapra. Before this the institute would operate out of Command Hospital in Alipore but on its 25th foundation day, it started operating from the new premises opposite Uniworld City’s Downtown Mall. The ceremony On July 28, a torch was lit at their old Alipore campus and carried to New Town in an open jeep. The torch then lit the fire of a havan around which a puja was conducted. The National flag was hoisted and the bust of an alumnus, the late Lieutenant Navdeep Singh Bains, was installed. “After graduating from our institute, Navdeep had joined the army and is now a martyr. He won an Ashok Chakra posthumously. His bust was already installed in the old campus and our alumni association was particular that we shift it here ceremoniously,” said Sapra. The course Affiliated to Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), the college offers MBA with specialisation in marketing, finance, human resources, operations, management information systems and business analytics. Entrance is through CAT and JEMAT and admissions are now open. “The Army Welfare Education Society has different streams of colleges across the country, in fields like technology, law, fashion…. The management institute happens to be in Calcutta,” said professor of finance, J.N. Mukhopadhyaya. Malini Majumdar, another professor who has been teaching here for 13 years, was excited about the new campus. “Not only do we have space now to take in more students but we can also start new courses,” she said. The residential campus is spread over six acres and can house 120 students, with provision for 300 in future. Eighty per cent of the students however, are from an army background. “What marks our institute apart from others is the army ethos and discipline,” assured Sapra. “We also insist on students living on campus as it builds their personality. In the post graduation level, one accrues more dividends learning from one another beyond business hours than during them.” The campus Once offline classes resume, students will check into a beautiful campus. The main building, housing the classrooms and offices, is a G+5 building called Kalpavriksh. Walking into it, one sees an eye-catching ear-to-ear cityscape of Calcutta and a vertical panel – as high as the building itself - depicting an image of outer space with a model of the earth and moon suspended from the roof and side panels of auspicious Buddhist symbols. “The message is for students to reach for the sky, with divine blessings,” smiled Sapra. The offices and classrooms have no wood – it’s all smartly done with stone, steel, tiles and glass. The colour scheme is predominantly grey and white. Lecture halls are named after management gurus like Philip Kotler, seminar rooms after India’s two field marshals Sam Manekshaw and Kodandera M. Cariappa. The top floor auditorium, named after Tagore, has a capacity of 350. "The graduation ceremonies of two batches are pending due to Covid. We shall celebrate them here as and when they happen,” said the director. “Every floor will have a different theme, such as Calcutta and West Bengal, diversity, patachitra…” said Col (retd) Shantonu Roy, who runs an NGO for budding artistes called Uma Dream Foundation. These are the artistes who are now adding finishing touches to the paintings and sculptures all over the building. Incidentally, all the interior decoration has been done by small time artisans as the management wanted to support local talent. “There was even a painter, Subrata, who we found at an exhibition in Eco Park. He was dejected as nothing was selling so we commissioned him to create many a painting for our walls,” said Sapra. “There’s another clay artiste who is so needy she comes barefoot. We do not bargain with her and are trying our best to support such talents.” Besides art work, the building has many mirrors so students become conscious looking at themselves and always stay well-groomed. The girls’ and boys’ hostels have double rooms and several facilities. Each floor has a washing machine and ironing station. The men and women have their exclusive lobbies and common rooms with indoor sports like mini snooker, mini table tennis, TV, a kitchen set-up etc. Women have their own gym but can also use the common gym in the amenities building. This building has the dining hall where meals will be served, a canteen upstairs for snacks and parties, studios for yoga, zumba etc, a grocery store and unisex salon. “We shall not charge those who win the contract to set up the store and salon but they must offer subsidized rates to students. This is to protect students from the exorbitant rates charged at malls,” says Sapra. A basketball court is already up and arrangements are being made for more outdoor sports like volley ball and badminton. Giving back to society For the sake of hawkers and passersby, the institute is building public toilets, water coolers, rain shelters and an ATM counter outside their gates. Their buildings are also fitted with solar panels to reduce their carbon footprint. “Many outsiders are coming to ask if we impart training for SSB (the Services Selection Board assesses candidates for becoming officers in the Indian Armed Forces) and so we have decided to start this service for outsiders,” said Sapra, adding that they shall offer space and expertise for start-ups too. “We shall allow outsiders to set up “start-up garages” for incubation of their businesses within our campus. They are free to consult our faculty for advice too. This shall be backed by an in-house cell called Publication Research Incubation Innovation Consultation and Entrepreneurship (PRIICE),” the director said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Open-air Puja venue at BJ Block||The puja pandal at BJ Block this year will be modelled on a rajbari thakurdalan of yesteryears. “This will ensure an open-air pandal so there is ample space for visitors to stand at safe distances from each other and offer prayers,” said Uma Shankar Ghosh Dastidar, joint secretary of the puja committee, at their khuti puja. BJ Block Saradotsav Committee organised their khuti puja on Sunday in presence of Krishna Chakraborty, board of administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation  and ward co-ordinator Tulsi Sinha Roy. It poured that morning and BJ Park turned into a slushy field but even then residents came over to join the festivities and mark the beginning of their 38th Durga puja. Wooden boards had to be laid on the ground for residents and guests to walk to the centre of the park without stepping into the mud. A few of them even decided to walk without their shoes. “It is so difficult to walk on this slippery ground in shoes that I prefer to be barefoot. In our childhood, we used to walk barefoot across fields in monsoon. It’s been years since I did that,” smiled 58-year-old Usha Bhaduri, sandals in hand and smile on face. “The main attraction of our puja has always been the ekchala traditional idol by sculptor Pradip Rudra Pal and this will remain the same this year. Besides, that will be the attraction of the thakurdalan that is barely seen nowadays,” Ghosh Dastidar said. Joint secretary Anindya Sinha Roy added how last year  they had distributed bhog from the pandal so residents would not miss it. “This time we are thinking of distributing food packets on one day. We might deliver them at home. That way there will be no chance of gathering but residents will still feel they are a part of the celebration,” he said. “We are still at the planning stage and will take a call based on the Covid situation later,” added Anindya Sinha Roy, joint secretary. Krishna Chakraborty conveyed best wishes to the puja but asked residents to be vigilant about the pandemic. “We are going through a difficult time and we need to be cautious. Always wear a mask and sanitise your hands often. If the situation improves we will once again gather and perform puja with the same grandeur like before. But for now, we need to act responsibly and prevent the third wave,” said Chakraborty. saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Drive-by pandal in AE Block||The theme for AE (Part 1)’s Durga puja has not been announced yet but at their khuti puja recently, the organisers hinted that it could be inspired by the pandemic. “Context is always important to an artiste but we can choose to project it in a positive way. Without revealing the theme, we can promise that the pandal this year will be a riot of colours and be an optimistic one, despite the pandemic-stricken world around us,” said Partha Ghosh, who along with brother Siddhartha Ghosh will be the theme makers this year. They were at the helm at AE (Part 1) last year too. Secretary of the block Supriyo Chakraborty said they had learnt enough from last October to plan out a Covid-safe puja in 2021. “We will certainly have a theme as people from far and wide wait to visit our block during the Pujas. But we shall try to create the pandal in a way that allows visitors to enjoy the artwork or seek blessings of the goddess by just driving or walking past. The budget and other details will be chalked closer to the dates,” said Chakraborty, who has recently also been appointed local ward co-ordinator. “I have added responsibility this time and will fulfil both.” MLA and minister Sujit Bose dropped by. Other guests included ward co-ordinators Tulsi Sinha Roy, Nirmal Dutta and Ratna Bhowmick, who offered to organise a dhunuchi dance competition in the block on behalf of an organisation she runs. The most excited were residents. “This puja is always so beautiful and I have so many friends meeting here that it’s not worth going pandal-hopping anywhere else,” said Shelly Mukherjee, who lives across the street. “Usually we start rehearsing for plays or dances around this time but there won’t be any cultural programme due to Covid this year. Still, it makes us happy enough to meet our friends during khuti puja and Durga puja,” said Megha Gupta of Class VII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Gold mask for goddess at Baguiati khuti puja||A puja organiser in Baguiati has turned to Goddess Durga to drill sense into the maskless multitude. And She is to do so by example. A 6ft clay idol presided over the khuti puja of Ashwininagar Bandhu Mahal on Sunday. She had masks in six of her hands and in the other four there were a syringe to administer vaccine, a pulse oxymeter to check oxygen saturation, a thermal gun to check temperature and a sanitiser to minimise surface infection. But what caught the eye first was a glittering mask that covered her mouth. “We got the mask custom made of 15g gold. This idol will not be worshiped but will be part of the installation at our pandal,” said Swarup Nag, treasurer of Bandhu Mahal. The club is seeing this as an awareness drive. “Though the pandemic has not completely subsided, many people are tossing their masks away. In our country, people pay more heed to advice with a spiritual overtone. Hence we thought with the third wave of the pandemic looming, if Ma Durga herself prescribed wearing of masks those coming to watch the puja will feel the urge to use one as well,” Nag said. On the use of gold for the mask, he pointed out that gold was considered an auspicious metal. “Also craftsmen involved in jewellery-making have taken a hit along with those dealing with lights and floral decoration since the number of weddings has gone down. So the order was a way of helping craftsmen,” he added. The khuti puja was attended by Rajarhat Gopalpur MLA Aditi Munshi and Jayanta Kushary, the principal of Sarba Bharatiya Prachya Vidya Academy and the chief priest of the Sovabazar Rajbari puja. Kushary pointed out that the gold mask suited the complexion of the goddess described in the scriptures as tapta kanchan varna (heated gold colour, which takes reddish yellow hue). He drew a parallel of the coronavirus that replicates invisibly through human-to-human contact with Raktabij, the demon that spawned a thousand replicas on a drop of its blood touching the floor. “During that battle, Goddess Chandi was wearing dipicharma or a protective gear of elephant hide, which must have also masked her face. This can be equated to the PPE (personal protective equipment) that health workers wear to guard against the virus.” The club has already decided how to use the gold once Durga puja is over. “We support a local family of four in which the father was bed-ridden and the mother a cancer patient. We have an agreement with the jeweller that he will take back the gold and hold it in deposit to make jewellery for the weddings of the two daughters,” Nag said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||State of the parks||Parks in Salt Lake that are popular hangouts for residents, as well as children who go out to play, and are venues for Durga pujas are in a sorry state with defunct lights and tall weeds. The parks in Salt Lake are managed by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and have fallen into a dismal state with creepers and weeds growing on play equipment like swings and slides. Cattle can be spotted grazing inside the parks across the township. The civic body had in 2015 cleaned and decked out the parks in all three sectors spending more than Rs 30 lakh. Six years later, most of them are in such a state that residents don’t step inside once darkness sets in. The grounds of almost all the parks are covered in creepers and tall weeds and children’s rides such as seesaws, swings and merry-go-rounds lie in tatters. The lights are either defunct or they fail to illuminate the entire premises. At HB Park, for instance, a portion of the guardwall and a lamp post that was broken during Cyclone Amphan in 2020 has still not been repaired and the pole of the streetlight hangs dangerously over the road. Several trident lights have been broken in a park inside FD Block and most of the lights became defunct months ago. Some of the lamp posts have electrical wires sticking out dangerously. At GD Park, there are no swings, only tall weeds coupled with dumped construction waste greeting visitors who are bold enough to step inside. The civic body had dumped soil inside the park to level the ground and mounds of earth that were not levelled out properly can still be seen. In fact, walking inside is next to impossible without stumbling or slipping due to the uneven ground. At DB Park, a swing hangs lopsided as one of the chains snapped because of lack of maintenance, residents said. A rusted iron pole stands at the spot where a monkey-bar once stood. Sections of FD Park, a resident said, plunges into darkness every evening. “Many of the lights do not work properly. We feel unsafe to take a walk in the park after sunset,” said Ayantika Nath, a 21-year-old Jadavpur University student. Not a single child was spotted in AD Block Park despite the presence of colourful swings, slides and merry-go-rounds. None works and many of them are broken. “The children’s section of the park has at least 10 rides. All of them stopped working because of lack of maintenance,” a resident said. The broken base of a merry-go-round lies hidden under overgrown grass and anyone can trip over it and get injured. The merry-go-round itself lies overturned near the wall. A civic body official said that with the dissolution of the board the maintenance of the parks has taken a back seat. “To add to this, many of our labourers are not reporting for work regularly due to Covid-19. We need to prepare a detailed study before we can do any repair work,” said the official. While the existing parks are in a sorry state, a new one was inaugurated in CK Block on the main road near Tank 9 by the board of administrators chairperson Krishna Chakraborty and other members of the board recently. “We have already started a deweeding drive and will soon spruce up the other parks as well,” promised Chakraborty. Are you happy with the state of your neighbourhood park/ Green Verge? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||RKM to conduct Class V entrance test at 7 centres||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, will hold tests to screen students for admission to Class V at seven centres in November so that distancing norms can be maintained amid the pandemic. Last year, the test was held at the two traditional venues — the Narendrapur school and Ramakrishna Mission School at Uripok Bachaspati Leikai in Imphal, Manipur. The test will be held on November 7 and the results published on November 15 on the school’s website. Submission of applications to appear in the exam started on August 9 and will continue till October 30. Headmaster Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya said that till last year the candidates from Bengal and elsewhere, other than Manipur, would write the admission test at Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya in Narendrapur. “Since the pandemic is continuing, it will not be advisable to ask candidates… to congregate at the Narendrapur centre,” he told The Telegraph. “This year we have been able to make arrangements (to hold the test at more centres) in consultation with institutes under the Ramakrishna Mission.” An official of the school said the candidates would be allotted centres based on their place of stay. “For instance, the school at Narendrapur will be the centre for candidates from Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and Nadia. The applicants from Howrah and Hooghly will write the test at Ramakrishna Mission Sikshanamandira, Belur Math,” the official said. The details of the zones that will be covered by Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Jalpaiguri, Asansol Ramakrishna Mission High School, Jhargram, are listed on the website of the school. Only the candidates from Manipur will write the test at the Imphal school. The admission notice says candidates from places other than those mentioned on the school’s website will appear for the test at the Narendrapur centre. Admission tests at the school are held at two levels — Class V and XI. The school had cancelled its entrance test for Class XI on June 20. Instead, a 40-minute online test was conducted the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Two micro diversity hotspots identified at Indian Botanic Garden||Two micro biodiversity hotspots have been identified at the Indian Botanic Garden in Shibpur by a community participation project for the regeneration of the garden. The project, undertaken by the Botanical Survey of India along with the Asia Scotland Trust (AST) and the Edinburgh University, put the garden under microscope in May and June. According to the report, two important ecosystems exist in the garden that have the highest biodiversity — areas that have a high overgrowth of trees, plants, weeds and two of the 22 lakes on the premises. The Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden was set up in 1787 as India's first botanic garden and is now known for over 12,000 living plants of Indian and foreign origin that have been collected over the decades. “The role of the botanic garden needs to change from being a museum of species to that of a biodiversity hotspot,” said Neeta Das of NSDA — a Calcutta-based architecture firm and one of the local partners of the project. Wetlands have been known as “biological super systems” as they create large amounts of food and support high levels of biological diversity. “The lakes and their littoral zones (shore areas) were found to be the most biologically diverse regions in the garden,” said Das. Out of the 22 lakes or wetlands in the garden, two — King Lake and Shadir Lake — had the highest number of faunal and floral species, 10 were found to have medium diversity and the rest supported very low diversity. The other biodiversity hotspot is the naturally regenerated areas in the northern and riverside areas of the garden. “Natural regeneration is the process by which plants that have grown naturally replace plants that have died or been removed. Over time, the growth of natural regeneration re-establishes canopy trees. This process follows natural plant succession patterns and forms habitats for a multitude of fauna species,” said Tania Das, a CEPT University alumna who has worked on forest conservation at Jatun Sacha Biological Station, Ecuador. These areas support biodiversity because there is no intervention that creates a safe environment for nesting, hunting and hiding. One of the pet peeves of the garden authorities has been lack of funds, which hinder maintenance of the garden. “It will require next to no expenses to maintain these hotspots as no interventions are needed here,” said Das. BSI director A.A. Mao agrees that the garden has areas with high biodiversity. “But funds are needed if the garden is to be restored to its previous glory,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid test home collection stopped||The district health administration has put a stop to all home collection of respiratory samples for Covid-19 tests across North 24-Parganas. Complaints of used PPEs lying at streetsides are being cited as one of the major reasons that has prompted the decision. In an order issued on Monday, the office of the chief medical officer has instructed all laboratories and collection centres to adhere to the standard operating procedure and stop home sample collection till a compliance report is received with proper documentation. The order pointed to three areas in which stricter adherence to SOP was needed — bio-medical waste management during home collection, safety norms during transport of the sample to the testing centres and qualification of laboratory technicians collecting the samples. “There is a high risk of Covid transmission unless things are done properly. We have no knowledge of the way these people are taking and disposing PPEs or transporting the samples. If the people collecting the samples lack proper training and qualification, they may end up causing injury during swab collection. All these need to be looked into,” said a district health official. There are eight to 10 laboratories operating in the district which have been intimated about the urgent order. “There is no bar on home collection if they stick to the government guidelines. We are waiting for their reports which we will verify and then give the go-ahead again if we are satisfied,” the official said. The laboratories can continue with sample collection and Covid tests at their respective collection centres, as before, he explained. The drive-in swab collection kiosk on Smart Street also continues to be in operation, 8am to 5pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Freedom||Joydeep Karmakar Olympian shooter and shooting coach, Resident of: Rishi Ecoview, New Town This last year and half have shown us how limited the power of mankind is. In reality, we are not free at all. We think we have freedom of speech, freedom of enjoying facilities. All along, we thought we are all-powerful. We can switch on any appliance. We can post any picture or pass a comment for thousands of people to view or read in a moment. But in reality, we are dependent on technology and electricity. Think of a day without either, like it had happened to many after Cyclone Amphan. Money would mean nothing if we are deprived of these. The British may have left the country. So where is our independence? Rather, we are dependent on a host of new things, movement being just one  of them in these Covid-hit times. So many tournaments got cancelled last year. Once, I was supposed to travel to attend a Khelo India event and a laboratory staffer had come to collect my swab sample for the pre-travel Covid test. While he was here, I learnt that the Khelo India trials had been cancelled! Yes, the Tricolour will be hoisted and the national anthem will be sung in the complex on Sunday. Some people will go down to witness that. With double masking and great distance separating one from the other. Fear is in every mind. If it was fear of the British in pre-Independence days, of being punished or jailed, now it is fear of the virus, an invisible enemy which can come in any shape, like they do in the zombie movies! Manoj Mitra Theatre and film personality, Resident of: AG Block Freedom is now history. We are unlikely to get it back in our lifetime. Other than the date, nothing will remain of independence. We had got political freedom on August 15. For that matter, even on that day in 1947, many had not tasted independence as there was so much uncertainty which side of the border they would end up in. In the years that followed, many did not have freedom to cast their vote. Now there is no vestige of freedom left in our lives. The pandemic has erased our options. Our theatre group is meeting this evening. I am wondering what I will say. Can any of us decide when we can stage a show again? Even if we are allowed to hold a show with 50 people, ticket sales from that audience will not even cover the cost to clear the weeds at Academy of Fine Arts. We have reached the final act of the play where our freedom was being steadily and continually eroded, so far politically and socially, and now physically. Will we want to come back to such a world in the next birth? Sreeradha Bandyopadhyay Singer, Resident of: CE Block Of course, Independence Day will always be in our heart as a reminder of the sacrifices of the freedom-fighters. But people of their values are as scarce as the freedom that we had come to enjoy before the pandemic played massacre with out life and livelihood. Our life has become compromised with every aspect leashed by a killer virus, be it to step out of our homes or to meet people. Man is a social animal. Curbing our natural instincts tantamounts to infringing on our personal rights. We are locked in our home. And we do not even know if there will ever be a respite. With our physical constriction, even our mind is becoming restricted. We are suffering from loneliness and depression. So the mental ingredients to enjoy and celebrate independence will not be there this year. Behind closed doors, all we can do is pray to be rid of this calamity. The entertainment industry has taken the biggest hit because of Covid. People will have to survive first to listen to music. Stage shows are a rarity. Of course, many of us are doing virtual concerts. Kintu dudher swad ki ghole mete? Satarupa Sanyal Filmmaker, BC Block We have lost our freedom to a microscopic virus and it is making us stay home, wear masks, get vaccinated… The war with coronavirus will be a long-drawn one and we will have to wait for our freedom. Today our state can be blamed on nothing but our own greed. The philosopher Rousseau had said that man is born free, but he is everywhere in chains. True, but this is not the case for animals. Animals should be free to fly, swim and run without borders. But man’s greed is making him encroach on animals’ space. I believe this is how the virus jumped from bats to humans in the first place. People need to respect other’s freedom before they demand their own. In any case what we achieved in 1947 was political freedom. By no other measure can we call India independent. The pandemic has shown how appalling our medical infrastructure is.  The common man barely had access to treatment so we cannot even claim the right to decent healthcare. It’s not enough to sing Sare jahan se achchha. We want an India where health, education and safety are delivered as promised. Indians will truly be free the day a woman can walk home alone at midnight singing to herself without a worry. Sukanta Chaudhuri Educationist and retired teacher, Resident of: DA Block The concept of freedom has become more inwardly oriented, as philosophers say it ought to be — that freedom should be in one’s mind and not through one’s contact with other people. The pandemic has made less of a difference to the lives of retired people like us, who do not have a busy active life, provided one is in good health. Life is less of a deprivation if one can live by oneself. Salt Lake is a relatively open place and it is possible to walk around and get fresh air without being at risk unlike in the more congested areas of the city. Lot of people come round to sell things at the doorstep, so supplies are assured. It’s true there is a curb if one wants to meet people and go around. That way one’s freedom is restricted. But it’s not a human factor that is at work to restrict our freedom. If somebody were to put you in prison that would lead to discontent, anger and a sense of injustice. But there’s no point in being angry with the virus. You have to accept it like a fact of nature. It’s like staying home as it is raining. Of course, you wouldn’t want it to rain constantly. Then you look for more things to do within yourself and within your surroundings. But what if this pandemic had come 20 years earlier, before the ICE (information, communication and electronic technology) age? How would we have survived the pandemic without the internet and mobile phone, that are the mainstays of our social and professional interactions? This might have brought in a permanent change in the way we interact with others. We have got used to maintaining relationships over a distance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||City police orders 25 traffic guards to reduce multiple guardrails||One guardrail with retro-reflective tapes is enough to “alert a driver” about an intersection, the police top brass told the 25 traffic guards in the city on Thursday, forbidding them from putting up multiple barriers at one place. Multiple guardrails at one point, the officers in charge of the traffic guards were told, only created congestion. The Telegraph reported on Thursday how guardrails, instead of serving the desired purpose of streamlining traffic on busy thoroughfares, turned into a source of hazard for commuters. A screenshot of the The Telegraph report headlined “Guardrail a source of danger” went out from the traffic control room at Lalbazar to the traffic guard heads, with a message on how prudent use of barriers could help avoid traffic congestion. “At many crossings, different guards (referring to traffic guards) are using three guardrails to slow down vehicles, which is creating congestion. One retro-reflective guardrail is enough to alert drivers regarding a crossing. Also it will avoid traffic congestion,” read the message sent by Arijit Sinha, the deputy commissioner of police in charge of the traffic department. By Thursday afternoon, the number of guardrails had reduced considerably on several arteries, including stretches of the Bypass, Rashbehari Avenue and the Rashbehari connector. Retro-reflective material is made of tiny glass beads that reflect light and send a focused image back to the light source, in this case enabling a driver to locate the guardrail. This newspaper focussed on five thoroughfares — Central Avenue, Prince Anwar Shah Road connector, EM Bypass, SP Mukherjee Road and Rashbehari connector — to show how guardrails were not just inconveniencing commuters but posing a threat to them, while contributing little in streamlining traffic. They often cause accidents when two vehicles simultaneously try to negotiate their way through the narrow space between two barriers. On many stretches on EM Bypass, for instance, guardrails were placed on one side, before or after the Stop Line. They neither helped slow down traffic nor helped pedestrians cross the road. Officers said all traffic guards had been instructed to assess the requirement of guardrails and take a call on a case-by-case basis. “What motorists want would not always be in line with what pedestrians want. Traffic police have to strike a balance between contrasting interests,” Sinha told this newspaper. Several senior officers in the traffic department said police commissioner Soumen Mitra had asked traffic guards about a month and a half back to avoid indiscriminate use of guardrails. Sinha followed it up by passing on the instruction to all assistant commissioners and the officers in charge of traffic guards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority to conduct ‘condition assessment’ of EM Bypass||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) will conduct a “condition assessment” of EM Bypass, which had last received a coat of top layer in 2013 and gets riddled with cracks and craters every monsoon. The assessment, to be done by a consultant, will help the authorities prepare a blueprint for thorough repairs of the 16-km EM Bypass, which stretches between Ultadanga and Garia-Dhalai Bridge. The study, CMDA officials said, will identify stretches where the road is undulating and spots that have become so weak that potholes appear every year despite patchwork repairs. Every monsoon, the Bypass turns into a broken and battered road. The artery has not seen any overhaul in eight years; only superficial repairs to cover potholes were all the CMDA has undertaken. CMDA officials said they had not launched any thorough repairs because of construction of the New Garia-Airport Metro link. “Construction of piers for the Metro viaduct damages the road surface,” said a CMDA engineer. “The ground-level work for the Metro line along the Bypass has just ended, except at Chingrighata and Metropolitan. Only overhead work is left and that will not affect the road condition.” A senior CMDA official said: “The weak spots the study will identify will be strengthened. The consultant that will conduct the study will suggest solutions to the various problems they will identify. The CMDA will implement the solutions before laying a fresh layer. The assessment could take between three and four months.” A condition assessment of the road, the official said, has not been done for many years. “The study will help us know the exact problems and their locations. We are planning to do a thorough repair of the Bypass now so that it remains in good condition for many years,” the official said. Commuters prefer the Bypass, once Calcutta’s showpiece thoroughfare, to avert snarls within the city. It was once lined by water bodies in the north and trees and fields in the south. Over the years, the snarl-free Bypass has become like any other uncared for Calcutta road. Potholes are many, the road is undulating and trees have disappeared. Many feel Calcutta needs a bypass to EM Bypass. “Every year, the condition of EM Bypass becomes horrible during the monsoon. There are stretches that break twice or thrice in the same season. This happens every year. Bilking down the Bypass during the monsoon, especially if it rains, is very risky,” said Chandan Banerjee, a resident of Mukundapur, who rides to his workplace in Esplanade and back. Many Calcuttans feel the stretch between Science City and Garia has been historically worse than the one between Science City and Ultadanga. “The northern portion of the Bypass has not seen any construction activity post-2012. That explains why it is in a better shape than the southern section,” said an engineer. “Only a 700-metre stretch in the northern section, near Hyatt, has a Metro corridor. The ground-level work there got over by 2012. The Ultadanga-Science City corridor is in a better shape.” EM Bypass used to turn into a battered stretch even before Metro Railway construction had started. A decade ago, the road did not have any mastic asphalt topping. A mastic asphalt coat makes the road sturdy and reduces chances of wear and tear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Police commissioner on unexpected night tour to check curfew||Calcutta’s police commissioner Soumen Mitra went around the city between 2am and 6am on Thursday in what several officers said was an unscheduled tour to take stock of the night curfew. Police sources said Mitra travelled through Minto Park, Sarat Bose Road, Hazra Road, Taratala, Behala, EM Bypass and Patuli. Several officers The Telegraph spoke to said the top cop had stepped out of his home unannounced, keeping the Lalbazar control room and the Lalbazar traffic control room in the dark. As part of the protocol, the commissioner’s location and vehicular movement are communicated through secured channels to the respective traffic guards and police stations from Lalbazar. “I came to know only in the morning. Many police stations and traffic guards lost track of his movement as his location was not aired,” said an officer at Lalbazar. There was no statement on the cause of the top cop’s “night round”. Mitra did not respond to text messages from this newspaper. Officers close to him said the top cop was possibly trying to check how effectively the curfew from 9pm to 5am, part of the measures announced by the state government to contain the spread of Covid, was being enforced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Calcutta||Website launched to address issues of rights and responsibilities of artistes in India ||A lawyer batted for the protection of artists’ “right to offend” lest they started playing safe, at a programme to mark the launch of a website to safeguard the rights of artistes. “The day the artistes decide to play it safe and sanitise their artistic expressions, we will be a society diminished. It is already happening,” said Akhil Sibal, a senior advocate and one of the speakers at the virtual session on Wednesday. “Artistes are meant to push boundaries, to challenge our prejudices, the status quo, the thoughts we assume are right. They are meant to provoke us. They can only do that if, to some extent, they have the right to offend. So, we need to preserve creativity,” said Sibal, who had successfully defended painter M.F. Husain, battling charges of obscenity in his art. Sibal, son of Congress veteran and lawyer Kapil Sibal, spoke on the harassment of artistes by an intolerant mindset. “What concerns me is that we have for the past many years — and it is increasing — read about and witnessed the unwarranted harassment of artistes through the law, through an intolerant mindset. I worry that has had and continues to have a chilling effect on artistes,” he said. While puritanical censorship of artistes is not new in India, it has allegedly assumed an unprecedented scale under current rulers. The Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre and the Right-wing ecosystem have been repeatedly accused of stifling freedom of expression and targeting artistes critical of them. At the start of this year, stand-up comic Munawar Faruqui was arrested for alleged remarks made about Hindu deities and Union home minister Amit Shah even before his performance in Indore. Closer home, a music video created by some of Bengal’s young and accomplished artistes, in the run-up to the state elections, warned people against the Right-wing politics of hate. In the aftermath of the significant traction generated by the music video, the state BJP president, Dilip Ghosh, had allegedly threatened to “rough up (rogre debo)” artistes if they did not mend their ways. “We need to preserve the creativity and that pushing of the envelope that artistic expression must continue to do. That’s why a platform like this, which helps to provide artistes with access to their rights, to the boundaries as well that may exist, and to support that I believe would empower them to conquer that fear. The self-censorship is taking place because the artistes are saying ‘I do not want to create controversy’. So, before they express themselves, they are already censoring themselves. That should not happen,” he said. The platform he was talking about was www.unmute.help, which went live on Thursday morning. Spearheaded by Delhi-based arts scholar Arshiya Sethi, performer-arts manager Paramita Saha and dancer-lawyer-activist Somabha Bandopadhyay, a doctoral student at the West Bengal National University for Juridical Sciences, the website will address the issues of rights and responsibilities of artistes in India. At the virtual session on Wednesday, the founders described the website as an online resource centre covering issues like sexual harassment, copyright and plagiarism and obscenity in arts. The site’s content resulted from a series of public discussions titled “Arts and the Law: What they don’t teach you in Arts School”, rolled out as online audio-visual documentation. It was co-produced by Kri Foundation and the Visual Arts Gallery, India Habitat Centre, New Delhi. An English version in 2020 was followed by another in Bengali, “Shilpakala Ebam Ain”, earlier this year, addressing the specific needs felt by the arts community of Bengal. “Over the last many months, all the material that resulted out of the sessions has been quite a lot and very rich. People kept asking if they could have it in the form of a handbook, something easily accessible or readable. These questions were being constantly raised by our audiences. So, we thought the best way would be to have an online resource centre, which is exactly what the website plans to be. It is an online resource centre for performing artists to safeguard their rights,” said Saha, a contemporary dancer, curator, and arts manager working out of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-20
13-08-2021||Business||Founded by Kalyan and Vaibhav, Social Catalyzers is making strides in the domain Of Influencer and Content Marketing||With the increasing use of digital methods to build a brand, inbound marketing strategies that use educational, entertaining, or informative content emerged in the form of Content marketing to attract, engage, and grow a target audience. As the competition  grows leaps and bounds, marketers need to produce valuable content, not just more content. ‘Social Catalyzers’, one of the topmost digital content marketing agencies in the industry based in India, founded by Kalyan Kumar and Vaibhav Gupta has structured its methodologies in a way that derives and builds clients with a result-driven approach. Placing themselves as specialists in ‘earned media’, Social Catalyzers envisages driving ROI for brands and brand owners based on the grounds of  Advocacy, “Sentiment Building” through ‘conversation cladding’ and “Virality Signaling” led Organic Propulsion using Social Enablers (KOLs/Influencers) and aggregated communities, giving their agency the most apt tagline of ‘Engineering the Social Spread’. Kalyan often quips “Engineering the cascade for Virality and propulsion, is what moves content, not just the power of the content.” With a commendable experience of five years in the industry, Social Catalyzers have built an undwindling reputation among the brands and agencies alike. The Co-Founder and CEO of the agency, Kalyan Kumar along with Vaibhav Gupta, the COO and Financial Head of the firm have surely done it well and differently. They are assisted by Pratish Premkumar, who wears the hat of a Business Head in Indonesia, who having worked at Reliance, Dentsu across India and SE Asia, has brought much to the table. The initial years as a small influencer marketing company were mostly about Twitter with big and smaller influencers and hashtags that needed visibility for brands. Gradually, understanding the power and value of the digital space and noticing how everyone wanted to leverage its tools, they dived deep into other platforms like YouTube, Instagram, Facebook and even Dark Social as well. Using the power of influencers and community aggregation, Social Catalyzers have been perfecting the art of spiking, surrounding and sustaining the buzz by injecting a burst of conversations across digital social platforms. SoCat was probably among the first Influencer marketing firms to guarantee healthy KPIs in their campaigns, which they then delivered. Kalyan Kumar, who is a marketing guru with an 20 plus year long experience across various business verticals, says, “Content marketing is, and has always been, best served as an integrated infusion into a broader marketing strategy which acts as a multiplier. Content marketing is the opportunity to make everything done ten times better. There’s a lot to the Art and Science components to Content Marketing that we are bringing to the table as thought leadership. We don’t necessarily want to be the biggest firm out there, but we want to keep nudging the ‘smartest’ tag for ourselves.” The brand has worked with some of the most reputed names in the industry like Unilever, IndoFood, Danone, Kimberly Clark, Coke, P&G, Jet Privilege, Asian Paints, Bacardi, Motorola, LG, CEAT, Nestle, Diageo, Too Yumm, Foodpanda, National Geographic, Maruti to name a few; the list is long - over 227 at the time of this discussion. Apart from that, they have also worked with agencies like WPP Group M group -Mediacom, Mindshare, WaveMaker, Leverate, OMD, Foxy Moron, Dentsu, Isobar, WatConsult, and many others in India and internationally. Talking about their endeavor, Vaibhav Gupta says, “It is important to seek a holistic perspective on the definition and nature of digital content marketing. Along the journey it becomes evident that a recurrent theme in this sector is generating customer value. We have been taking mindful steps to make sure that our working builds credible measures for the company to see a tangible impact.” At a global level, they are a preferred partner for many leading and smaller agencies across India and South-East Asia (Singapore, Indonesia & Malaysia). Starting Social Catalyzers in 2016 as a small influencer marketing firm to now turning it into a mid-sized but coveted agency, Kalyan Kumar and his partners have truly made Social Catalyzers a team of digital innovators.   To know more, visit their website, https://www.socialcatalyzers.com/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
13-08-2021||Business||Recruitment Mantra uses technology to its fullest potential, making hiring manpower easier||Are you planning to start a new business but confused about where exactly to invest? Do not have much capital and space for the business but want to be an established entrepreneur? Are you running a business already? Still, looking for good business opportunities? Recruitment Mantra is here with answers to all these questions introducing a new era for all business-oriented persons. Acknowledging the fact that for any entrepreneur or business to grow, skilled support is imminent, and so they have brought forth economic methods to find the same. One of the fastest-growing HR consulting companies, Recruitment Mantra is treading on the path to solve all manpower recruiting needs for start-up firms and corporates against Rs. 999/- only. With their new and revamped methods, they have changed the old concept of biodatas as an integral part of an interview by replacing it with their new and unique products, webCV and live CV. Having a skilled team of professionals always proves to be of utmost benefit as it is one of the basic prerequisites for the smooth functioning of a company. Recruitment Mantra understands the importance of the same and henceforth has become the torchbearer of procuring meritorious individuals of the different fields without any difficulties. The effective and visionary team at Recruitment Mantra provides expertise on all aspects of recruitment and retention ranging from creative development, traditional and digital media advertising, national and local outreach, and information technology solutions. "Anyone who is looking for a fast-growing unique business opportunity against very small investment can join us as a franchise and contribute a revolutionary part in making India digital. For solving hiring needs of corporates and start-ups, our concept of 'hire employee @999/-only' has proved to be an immense success and we are delighted to be one of the first firms to bring a technology like this in the country," shares Mr. Arghya Sarkar, CEO of Recruitment Mantra. With the help of their newly launched products, Digital CV and Live CV, they have cut the use of paper to a minimal level and ensured that technology is amalgamated in this field. Through these utilities, a proper image of a job seeker is created, as the previous concept of sending a soft copy version of their CV or Bio-Data is no longer required. These products can demonstrate a candidate's profile thoroughly to an employer without their presence for a physical interview. One can for certain say that these are the ways technology is actually making a difference and helping employers to find their perfect employees for mutual growth and benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
13-08-2021||Business||Bengal scouts for more Swiggys to deliver swigs at home||Twenty-two-year-old Mukta Roy gets to deliver around 24-25 food packets a day, but dispatching a bottle of liquor is a no-no for her. Roy says it is because of her gender that she is restricted by her aggregator to deliver only food items. On the other hand, Santosh Yadav, who makes an almost similar number of rounds from his Santoshpur residence, delivers at least 12-14 liquor bottles to various addresses in the city every day. But Swiggy, their aggregator, may now have to do away with gender discrimination and allow Roy to deliver liquor bottles as the Mamata Banerjee government is keen to ensure residents of Calcutta have their home bars well-stocked, and, also, get to extend the practice to the rest of the state. On August 11, the West Bengal State Beverages Corporation invited expressions of interest from reputed online ordering and delivery platforms to ensure that people of drinkable age in the state are not deprived of their bottle. The new order has barred already empanelled service providers from applying, leaving other players like Zomato and Big Basket, among others, to enter the fray. Economics and not altruism is behind the move. State finance minister Amit Mitra has set a target of Rs 16,100 crore excise revenue, despite the state falling short of its target in the last financial year. “The lockdown is to be blamed for the shortfall,” said a senior official in the state finance department. In the 2020-21 budget proposal, excise collection was estimated at Rs 12,731.56 crore, while the state managed around Rs. 11,458.40 crore. With a large chunk of tax collection going under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the state’s chief sources of earning are excise, sales tax and VAT collected on petrol, diesel, tobacco products and registration and stamp duties. Needless to say, in an economy impacted with a virus gone global and no recoveries in sight, the government can only hope for more "sinners" to collect its toll. The Mamata Banerjee government can hope that Calcuttans will emulate fellow tipplers in Karnataka who had helped the state collect Rs 23,231.28 crore in excise surpassing the budgetary target of Rs 22,700 crore. Last year, obviously the people of Bengal had disappointed the state government which had expected the revenue collection to be at least Rs 2,500 crore higher than the estimate of Rs 12,731.56 crore. The government has been squeezing the brewing and distillery industry hard in Bengal, adding an additional excise tax to the existing excise rate. The producers also were asked to provide the ex-distillery price that is the break-up of the production cost and profit margin. Based on these inputs, the government has prepared its excise and additional excise duty to determine the maximum retail price of a bottle. Finance department sources said this system replaced the 30 per cent sales tax that the government had imposed in April 2020. The new pricing had come into effect in November last year, just about a month since the government had first invited private players to deliver liquor at home. Of all the companies that had initially shown interest only Swiggy has continued with the service. Among the conditions imposed by the corporation are Web and Mobile app-based service for facilitating online orders and purchase of liquor from licensed outlets. Only those companies with at least two-year experience in e-commerce with transportation of essential commodities or FMCG or drugs and having a minimum annual turnover of Rs 25 crore with local offices in and around Calcutta will be eligible. Excise licensed hotels, restaurants and liquor outlets with organisational strength and resource deployment are also eligible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
13-08-2021||Business||Adi Godrej steps down from role, passes baton to younger brother||Veteran industrialist Adi Godrej will step down as chairman as well as from the board of directors of Godrej Industries Ltd, passing on the baton to his younger brother Nadir Godrej, effective October 1, according to a company statement. The 79-year-old industrialist will continue to serve as chairman of the Godrej Group and chairman emeritus of GIL, said the statement. "Nadir Godrej, who is currently managing director of GIL, will take over as chairman and managing director of the company," it added. GIL is a holding company of the Godrej Group. It has significant interests in consumer goods, real estate, agriculture, chemicals and financial services through its subsidiary and associate companies, across 18 countries. Adi Godrej has served GIL for almost four decades. "It has been a privilege to serve Godrej Industries for over four decades, during which we have delivered strong results and transformed our company," said Adi Godrej. He thanked the board for its support and guidance, his team members, business partners, shareholders, investors, and communities, for their continued partnership. "I am very confident that our best years are ahead of us, and I look forward to Nadir and our team achieving our exciting aspirations," Adi Godrej. In the statement, Nadir Godrej thanked his brother for his vision and leadership, which shaped the company. "On behalf of our team at Godrej Industries and our board, I want to thank our chairman for his vision, values and exceptional leadership that has guided and shaped our company. "Our leadership team is committed to building forward on these foundations; continuing to serve our people and communities, and creating long-term value for all our stakeholders," said Nadir Godrej said. On August 4, Adi Godrej announced to step down from the board of group's FMCG arm, Godrej Consumer Products Ltd (GCPL), effective next month. In GCPL, he already passed on the baton to his younger daughter Nisaba Godrej in 2017 as chairman. But, he will remain as chairman emeritus of the FMCG firm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||6 Top Benefits Of Using Multi-currency Forex Card While Travelling||Looking to get a multi-currency forex card for your upcoming trip? Are you aware of the benefits that accompany multi-currency forex cards? Indians are increasingly embarking on international trips for business and leisure purposes. Whether you are travelling to sightsee scenic places or handle business matters, creating a budget to manage your overseas spending is extremely important. Determining your forex needs in advance is key to avoiding last-minute travel hassles that may spoil your experience. Factors like accommodation expenses and duration of stay must be taken into consideration while estimating travel costs. Once your travel budget is prepared, the next most crucial step is to decide how you are going to carry foreign exchange. The conventional methods to carry forex are banknotes and travellers cheques.  However, unjustifiably high charges associated with these methods and the fear of theft give multi-currency forex cards a clear edge over them. If you are looking for a reliable foreign exchange platform, you should consider Bookmyforex forex card as it is one of the best forex card providers in India. The platform compares forex deals across its wide-ranging network of reputed channel partners and offers multi-currency forex cards at best and lowest exchange rates. Without delay, we will cast light on the 6 best benefits of using a multi-currency forex card when you are travelling. 1. Easy to carry and use during travel The biggest advantage of multi-currency forex cards is that they are incredibly easy to carry and use during international travel. A heavy bundle of banknotes is bound to take up a lot of space in your baggage, thus resulting in inconvenience. Given the lightweight design of multi-currency forex cards, you can easily slide them into your pocket, wallet or whatever suits you best. Another problem with carrying banknotes is that you run the risk of going cashless in case all your money is lost or stolen. This is why carrying a multi-currency forex card becomes mandatory for ensuring peace of mind in unfortunate situations. With a multi-currency forex card at your disposal, you can save up to 2.5% over travellers cheques and currency notes. When you buy multi-currency forex cards from a notable online forex platform, you do not have to pay any issuance fees. You can also reload your multi-currency forex card online absolutely free. By cutting down on such unnecessary charges, you can save big in the long run. 2. Widely accepted across countries What makes multi-currency cards worth owning is the fact that they are widely accepted across countries at 30 million stores. Multi-currency forex cards can also be used at 2 million ATMs worldwide. The ATM pin will be included in the travel kit which you will get upon buying the multi-currency forex card. These cards can come in handy, especially when you are planning to embark on multi-country trips in a row. The reason being that you can load multi-currency forex cards with up to 16 different currencies at the same time. 3. Protection against forex fluctuations Investing in a multi-currency forex card is a sure shot way to ward off unpleasant rate related surprises. It is a known fact that currencies are subject to constant fluctuations and this can make expense management quite difficult. If you opt to travel with foreign currency in the form of cash, unfavorable fluctuations can cause your money's value to decline significantly. But there is no need to be concerned as you can easily protect your hard-earned money from currency fluctuations simply by using a multi-currency forex card. When you fill your card with foreign currency using a trusted online forex platform, the money is loaded at a fixed rate which cannot be changed. Since the rates get locked-in once your multi-currency card is loaded with money, it acts as a shield against currency fluctuations in the forex market. 4. Better savings over debit/credit card When it comes to going on an international tour, saving money is a crucial priority for everyone regardless of how affluent the person is. It has often been seen that a majority of people use their debit cards for making payments abroad and withdrawing money from ATMs. But little do these people know that they are subjected to exorbitant service fees just for swiping their debit cards overseas. The hefty transactional charges that follow debit/credit card usage can take a toll on your pocket without you even realizing it. If you want to save between 3.5% to 6.5% over your debit/credit card, your best bet would be to opt for a multi-currency forex card before departing on your trip. Above all, you can reload your forex card at zero service charges from the comfort of your couch provided that you have a fast internet connection. With the free unload facility, the unused balance in your card can be obtained in the form of INR when you return from your trip. If you want to claim exclusive discounts to further maximize your savings, make sure you buy your multi-currency forex card from a well-known forex platform that has an excellent performance history. 5. Real time expense tracking and free insurance cover Without a doubt, keeping a regular check on your spendings abroad is imperative. Multi-currency forex cards boast a real-time expense tracking facility with which you can track all the transactions you make during your international trip. Based on your preferences, you can opt to receive notifications for all your forex card purchases either via SMS or email. Since the fear of theft and counterfeit cases can intimidate some customers, leading online foreign exchange portals offer an insurance cover on their multi-currency forex cards. The cover is free of cost and it is provided solely to foster a sense of security in the minds of customers. 6. Backed with rigid security features There is no denying that instances of card-related frauds have been rising lately. People who have never used a multi-currency forex card usually assume that it is backed with little to no security. However, the truth is that multi-currency forex cards boast rigid security features which makes them ideal for foreign trips. In case your card lands into the wrong hands, the inbuilt fraud prevention technology will ensure that fraudsters don't gain unrightful access to your money. The security of multi-currency cards is further reinforced by its solid PIN protection mechanism. If things turn out to be unfortunate and your card gets lost, you need not lose your calm.  It is so because you can reach out to your respective forex provider and opt for emergency cash support. Also, eminent forex platforms employ adept customer support teams that follow a proactive approach and are active 24*7. In case you ever face an issue with your multi-currency forex card, you can get in touch with the support agents to receive a quick solution no matter what time it is. Traveling to foreign countries is indeed a fantastic way to break away from the ordinary and experience new cultures. Be it witnessing picturesque sights or interacting with native inhabitants, foreign trips can broaden your horizons greatly. However, things can get inconvenient if your forex needs are not taken care of prior to your travel. The good news is that multi-currency forex cards can go a long way in making your travel hassle-free. Therefore, ensure you rely on forex card to boost overall savings and simplify international payments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Market at new peak: Sensex scales 55k mark  ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 593 points to end above the 55,000-mark for the first time on Friday, propelled by gains in index heavyweights TCS, Reliance Industries and HDFC twins. The 30-share index rose 593.31 points or 1.08 per cent to its new all-time high of 55,437.29. It touched an intra-day record of 55,487.79. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty breached the 16,500 level, advancing 164.70 points or 1.01 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 16,529.10. It surged to a record of 16,543.60 during the day. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by L&T, Bharti AIrtel, HCL Tech, Tata Steel, Bajaj Auto and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finance and NTPC were among the laggards. "Sustained rebound in IT followed by recovery in financials and consumers aided benchmark indices to defy weak cues from Asian markets and scale fresh records, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT stocks remained in focus throughout the week and investors lapped-up quality IT names due to sustained double-digit revenue growth visibility backed by strong deal wins, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended in the red. Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.10 per cent to USD 71.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points to cross 55K in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points to cross the 55,000-mark in early trade on Friday, led by gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and TCS. The 30-share index was trading 258.4 points or 0.47 per cent higher at a lifetime intra-day peak of 55,102.42, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.80 points or 0.43 per cent to record 16,434.20 in initial deals. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by L&T, HDFC, ITC, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, PowerGrid and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 318.05 points or 0.58 per cent to close at 54,843.98, and Nifty advanced 82.15 points or 0.26 per cent to 16,325.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 212.11 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. "Bulls are showing no signs of fatigue as Nifty raced to another record... Global support to the rally is intact with the Dow and S&P setting yet another record high, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Retail investors relentlessly chasing stocks and the sheer momentum in the market has taken the Nifty to 16,500 levels, he said, adding that the rally is likely to be led by the leading high-quality private banks and leading IT names. US equities extended gains with Dow and S&P 500 closing at record highs. A consistent improvement in key economic data lifted sentiments and defied higher inflation, experts said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.59 per cent to USD 70.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Tata Steel posts consolidated net profit of Rs 9,768.34 crore||Tata Steel Ltd posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 9,768.34 crore in the first three months of this financial year, surpassing the profit earned in the whole of 2020-21. Backed by improved profitability of the chronically weak European business and an all-round performance of the intrinsically strong Indian operations, Tata Steel continued to deleverage the balance sheet by Rs 5,894 crore and widened the full-year target of reducing debt by at least $2 billion, doubling the target set previously. The highest quarterly profit came despite the fact that deliveries in India were lower in the first quarter because of disruptions linked to the second wave of Covid. Total income more than doubled over the same period last year to Rs 53,534 crore and it was also higher quarter-on-quarter (QoQ). Tata Steel had reported a loss of Rs 4,648 crore in the first quarter of the last fiscal. Profit after tax stood at Rs 7,162 crore in the fourth quarter of 2020-21, indicating  a sequential jump in profitability in the April-June period. Tata Steel Europe also posted a 28 per cent QoQ jump in profitability, with EBIDTA growing to Rs 1,533 crore from Rs 1,194 crore in the fourth quarter. It had a negative EBIDTA of Rs 626 crore in the same period last year. T.V. Narendran, CEO and MD of Tata Steel, said Indian markets were adversely impacted by the second wave. “Demand has begun recovering in India, though domestic steel prices continue to be at a steep discount to China import parity prices,” Narendran said. The buoyant market also encouraged the company to fast track the 5-million-tonne expansion of the second phase of the Kalinganagar unit. “We have accelerated capex allocation for the 6mtpa pellet plant and the CRM complex. Both are expected to be commissioned by the first half of 2022,” Narendran added. Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO, indicated that the impact of the rising steel spread in Europe is expected to have a positive impact in the coming quarters. Net debt to equity is less than 1x, while net debt to EBITDA is now down to 1.59x, he added. “Despite the increase in working capital due to higher prices of both steel and raw material, the company generated consolidated free cash flow of over Rs 3,500 crore during this quarter,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Bata India to continue expansion of retail stores||Footwear major Bata India will continue to expand its retail stores even as a subdued demand dampened the first-quarter performance of the company. Bata had opened 82 stores in 2020-21. It continued its retail expansion in the smaller cities through the franchise route by opening seven stores in the first quarter and taking the overall tally to 234 via franchisees. While the company has scaled back its capex drive to Rs 20 crore from around Rs 100 crore, company officials said around 50 stores would be added during the year. After the company’s AGM on Thursday, Gunjan Shah, CEO of Bata India, said the expansion will make the company ready for the post-pandemic scenario and ensure the footwear major can bounce back faster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Bharat Petroleum reports 27.6% drop in June quarter net profit||Privatisation-bound Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) on Thursday reported a 27.6 per cent drop in June quarter net profit at Rs 1,501.65 crore. The country’s second largest oil refiner and fuel marketing company had a net profit of Rs 2,076.17 crore in the April-June period of 2020-21, the company said in a regulatory filing. A sharp movement in oil prices — from $19-20 per barrel to $40 — in the April-June period of 2020 had led to a spike in marketing margins in the first quarter last fiscal. This year, the movement has been range-bound. Revenue from operations rose to Rs 89,687.12 crore in April-June this year from Rs 50,616.92 crore last year. With fuel demand rebounding on a pick-up in economic activity, BPCL refineries processed 6.84 million tonnes (mt) of crude oil in the first quarter of this fiscal, up from 5.4mt a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Sensex and Nifty dart up to fresh all-time highs||The Sensex and the Nifty darted up to fresh all-time highs on Thursday as investors lapped up power, IT and banking stocks amid mixed global cues. A strengthening rupee, which surged 19 paise against the dollar, further lifted sentiment, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex climbed 318.05 points, or 0.58 per cent, to close at its fresh record of 54843.98. Intra-day, it scaled an all-time high of 54874.10. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 82.15 points, or 0.26 per cent, to its lifetime peak of 16325.15. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, followed by Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, Titan, L&T, NTPC and ICICI Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||India to allow Boeing Co’s 737 MAX jets to resume flights||India is set to allow Boeing Co’s 737 MAX jets to resume flights in the country within days, Bloomberg News reported on Thursday, citing a person familiar with the matter. The country has been satisfied with the plane’s performance since it was un-grounded in the United States, Europe and a number of other markets, and Boeing has met India’s own requirements, which included setting up a MAX simulator, according to the report. Boeing said in a statement it continues to work with global regulators to safely return the 737-8 MAX and 737-9 MAX to service worldwide, and deferred the timeline to India’s air safety regulator. If the US plane manufacturer gets the go-ahead in India it would end a nearly two-and-a-half-year regulatory grounding of the model in a key travel market. India’s second-largest airline by market share SpiceJet has more than 100 737 MAX planes on firm order. The airline at present has 13 737 MAX planes grounded and is in talks with Boeing for compensation towards costs and losses it has suffered. SpiceJet and India’s civil aviation ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Shares in the carrier ended the day 5 per cent higher. About 30 airlines and 175 countries have allowed the 737 MAX to return to service following a nearly two-year safety ban. The ban followed two crashes five months apart which killed 346 people, plunging Boeing into a financial crisis since compounded by the pandemic. India and China, where Boeing conducted a test flight of the 737 MAX plane on Thursday, are the only two major markets where regulators are yet to give the MAX the go-ahead. More UK flights The ministry of civil aviation has increased the cap on special flights that operate between India and the UK to 60 flights per week from 30. The higher limit will take effect from Monday. The ministry’s decision has come five days after Sanjeev Gupta, secretary, inter-state council secretariat of the home ministry, had complained on Twitter that an economy-class ticket on the Delhi-London flights of British Airways, Air India and Vistara for August 26 was priced between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 3.95 lakh. Vistara had said on Sunday that pricing is always a function of supply and demand. “There are only 15 flights a week allowed on India-UK route for Indian carriers and when there is relaxation and more capacity allowed, it will automatically bring down prices,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries offers rights issue at steep 44 per cent discount||Shareholders of Kesoram Industries are in for a treat as the board decided to offer a rights issue at a steep 44 per cent discount to the market price. Dispersed over a period of six months, eligible shareholders will pay Rs 50 a share in two equal tranches to subscribe to the offer compared with the closing price of Rs 89.45 on Thursday. The company plans to raise Rs 400 crore primarily to reduce the high interest bearing debt burden which stood at Rs 1,850 crore at the end of the last fiscal. It has set a target to bring down debt by Rs 450 crore by the end of the fiscal through  improved earnings and the rights issue proceeds and another Rs 350 crore by August next year. “We have a target to reach a debt level of Rs 1,100 crore by this time next year,” said P. Radhakrishnan, CEO and whole-time director of Kesoram. The company recorded an EBIDTA of Rs 187 crore in the June quarter of 2021 compared with Rs 110 crore in the same period last year. It made a profit of Rs 13.8 crore compared with Rs 17.85 crore loss a year ago. Profit was impacted by the interest burden of Rs 118.66 crore. The board also approved the induction of Satish Jajoo as an additional director. Jajoo has 38 years of experience of working with Ultratech, Grasim and Hindalco. Entities controlled by AV Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla hold close to 20 per cent in Kesoram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
13-08-2021||Business||Retail inflation tumbles to three-month low of 5.59 per cent||Retail inflation tumbled to a three-month low of 5.59 per cent in July as food prices softened and was back within the Reserve Bank’s tolerance level after staying above the upper band of 4 per cent (+/-2)  for two straight months. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) based inflation was 6.26 per cent in June and 6.73 per cent in July 2020. Inflation in the food basket slowed down to 3.96 per cent in July from 5.15 per cent in the previous month. “With inflation expected to remain sticky in the 5-6 per cent range over the next three quarters, it’s increasingly difficult to characterise the pressures as purely transitory in nature. A small disruption could push inflation back above the 6 per cent threshold, which implies that some uneasiness will continue about how soon the MPC may embark on policy normalisation,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “CPI inflation will range between 5.5-6 per cent for the next couple of months. The base effect will weaken after October. Depending on how the kharif crop fares, CPI inflation will be largely guided.” Earlier this month, the RBI projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 — 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in the third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for the first quarter of 2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. Industrial output Industrial production surged 13.6 per cent in June mainly because of a low-base effect and a good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors but the output remained below the pre-pandemic levels. The manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), grew 13 per cent in June this year, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday. Mining sector output rose 23.1 per cent in June while power generation increased by 8.3 per cent. In June 2021, IIP stood at 122.6 points compared with 107.9 points in the same month last year. The index was at 129.3 points in June 2019 according to the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered but was still below the pre-pandemic level of June 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
13-08-2021||Business||FM says RBI must carry on with accommodative monetary policy||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday made it clear that the Reserve Bank of India will have to carry on with its accommodative monetary policy as the economy has not recovered to that extent from the pandemic to merit liquidity tightening measures on the part of the central bank. “I am glad that the RBI understands that quicker retrieval of the liquidity from the economy may not do the necessary things to win. They have not given any indication about wanting to suck out the liquidity that is available there,” Sitharaman said while addressing the annual meeting of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The liquidity in the banking system and funds with the government has risen to Rs 10 lakh crore. Another Rs 1.7 lakh crore will enter the system by the end of the next month from the redemption of treasury bills maturing between July and September. Besides, the central bank will purchase government bonds worth Rs 1.2 lakh crore this quarter under G-SAP 2.0 (G-Sec Acquisition Programme). Last week, the RBI’s monetary policy committee (MPC) unanimously agreed to maintain status quo on rates but voted by a 5-1 majority to continue with its accommodative policy” as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis. “Growth will have its priorities, growth will be given importance and growth will be pushed both by the Reserve Bank and by us (finance ministry). It’s not “growth versus inflation for us”, Sitharaman said. Clean energy focus Niti Aayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant said India can become a global leader in clean energy only if the domestic industry invests in cutting edge technology. This was needed in areas such as hydrogen, advanced solar panels, and next generation batteries. He asked industry to switch to digital technologies and embrace solar power where the costs are down to Rs 2 per unit and will go down to Re 1 in the next five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
13-08-2021||India||India prepared for evacuation of officials and nationals in Afghanistan amid Taliban scenario ||India is prepared for any possible eventuality including evacuation of its officials and nationals from Afghanistan in view of fast deteriorating security scenario with the Taliban wresting control of several major provincial capitals such as Kandahar and Herat, the second and third largest Afghan cities.  India is constantly monitoring the situation in Afghanistan and contingency plans are in place to deal with any situation including evacuation of officials and Indian citizens if required, people familiar with the development said.  It is learnt that a number of international organisations including media entities have approached Indian authorities to help them in the evacuation of their staff if the situation deteriorates further.  With the Taliban stepping up its onslaught across Afghanistan, the US has announced to send around 3,000 troops to Kabul to evacuate a significant number of its embassy staff.  The UK is also sending 600 troops to help British nationals leaving the country in view of the massive spike in violence.  India evacuated its staff from its consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif earlier this week in view of the rapidly escalating violence by the Taliban around the capital city of Balkh province.  "We are closely monitoring developments in this regard. We are concerned about the deteriorating security situation," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday about the developments in Afghanistan.  The Taliban has made rapid advances in the last few days and reports said it now controls about a third of Afghanistan's provincial capitals.  A US statement on Thursday said Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defence Lloyd J Austin spoke with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to stress that the US remains invested in the security and stability of Afghanistan in the face of violence by the Taliban.  The Taliban's capture of Kandahar and Herat is seen as a major setback for the Afghan forces.  The militant group has also captured the strategically located provincial capital of Ghazni on Thursday, increasing its territorial control in the country.  Meanwhile, the Afghan foreign ministry said it has raised with the international community the "grave concerns" of the government and people of Afghanistan over the Taliban's brutal attacks on cities, which have led to "war crimes and blatant human rights violations and humanitarian catastrophe". The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1.  The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
13-08-2021||India||Congress starts austerity drive, asks MPs to donate Rs 50,000 a year||In order to boost its kitty amid reports of a cash crunch, the Congress asked its parliamentarians to donate Rs 50,000 a year to the party's coffers. The opposition Congress party has announced a range of measures to cut costs and raise funds. Facing a lack of funds, the party has announced austerity guidelines for all party functionaries from secretaries to general secretaries. “The idea is to keep expenditure to the minimum. I am trying to save every rupee,” said Congress treasurer Pawan Bansal. Secretaries have been asked to travel by train and when not possible at the lowest airfare. General secretaries, who are members of parliament, have been asked to use their air travel benefits for travelling. “Secretaries, AICC would be reimbursed suitable train fare up to 1,400 km. For distances above 1,400 km, the Secretaries would be given the lowest airfare. The airfare will be given twice in a month only if the train fare is more than the airfare, they may choose to travel by air,” a Congress memo seen by NDTV read. “Expenses on canteen, stationery, electricity, newspapers, fuel etc. should be minimized by the AICC office-bearers themselves,” it said. Secretary and general secretary allowances of Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000 will be cut down too, the party said. “Most of them rarely use this amount and we are trying to curtail this expenditure too,” Bansal said. Congress MPs have been asked to contribute Rs 50,000 every year and seek out Rs 4,000 a year as contributions from two sympathisers of the party. Congress funds have depleted in recent years and the party is trying to ensure the proper utilisation of its war chest. The NDTV reported earlier this month how the Congress party’s collections from electoral bonds dropped by 17 per cent in the financial year 2019-20. In 2018-19, the Congress had received Rs 383 crore from electoral bonds. In 2019-20, it received ₹ 318 crore just 9 per cent of the total electoral bonds. In the same period, the ruling BJP made a whopping 76 per cent of the electoral bonds sold in 2019-20, shows data accessed by NDTV from the Election Commission. Altogether electoral bonds worth Rs 3,355 crore were sold in 2019-20, of which the BJP income was Rs 2,555 crore. This was a 75 per cent jump on the Rs 1,450 crore it received through the electoral bonds the previous year. Electoral bonds, which were introduced by the government in 2017-2018 in face of major political opposition, allows individuals as well as corporations -- including those partly owned by foreign entities -- to fund political parties anonymously. Before its introduction, the Congress had argued that through the bonds, the government was making “corruption official”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
13-08-2021||India||Had to face harassment from bureaucrats but licence raj came down under Modi govt: Poonawalla||Recalling how the industry used to face "hardships" in securing permissions and "harassment from bureaucrats" 50 years ago, chairman of the city-based vaccine maker Serum Institute of India (SII), Dr Cyrus Poonawalla, on Friday hailed the Modi government saying that red-tapism and licence raj have come down under its rule.  He also said that in the past, he had to "fall at the feet" of bureaucrats and drug controllers in order to get permissions, and added that the situation has changed now, which resulted in quick launch of SII's COVID-19 vaccine - Covishield.  Poonawalla was speaking at the event where he received the Lokmanyat Tilak National Award instituted by the Lokmanya Tilak Trust here.  "Serum Institute was founded in 1966 the morning after my marriage with Villoo, my dear late wife, to whom I dedicate this award. Fifty years ago, the industry had to face hardships in getting basic facilities like power, water, in getting permissions from bureaucrats. It had to face harassment from bureaucrats...I was not supposed to say this," he said.  "Transport and communication were also great problems and challenges that were faced by my staff and fellow directors...It was a long journey and a very painful one, which has now become very rewarding. I had to fall at the feet of bureaucrats and drug controllers, etc, to get permissions. But I must stress that difficulties, red tape are much reduced now under the Modi government," he said.  Licence raj has also come down, which has resulted in quick launch of the coronavirus vaccine, Poonawalla said.  "Certainly, one of the major reasons why we could launch our vaccine so quickly was forthcoming grant or permission, encouragement to industries as the licence raj has come down considerably. We have got a drug controller, which responds in the evening even after the office hours. There is no need for 'maska polish' now," he said.  Taking about the award, he said that he values it a lot although he had been honoured in America, UK and various other countries in the past.  Speaking on the occasion, Deepak Tilak, president of the Lokmanya Tilak Trust, said, "In unstable and challenging conditions, SII took immense efforts to develop an indigenous vaccine, which mitigated panic associated with COVID-19. This is the result of the effort and solid support of Dr Cyrus Poonawalla to his team."  Former Union minister and senior Congress leader Sushil Kumar Shinde also lauded Poonawalla for his work and said that with the SII vaccine was saving lakhs of lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
13-08-2021||India||Delhi records zero Covid-19 fatality, ninth time since onset of second wave with 50 cases||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Friday, the third consecutive day when the daily fatality count was nil, while 50 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the ninth time, since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11 and August 12, no death due to Covid-19 was recorded, as per official data. On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Friday, 50 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, according to the latest bulletin. On Thursday, the city had registered 49 cases and zero fatality, while the positivity rate stood at 0.07 per cent, according to the official figures. On Wednesday, the city recorded 37 cases and zero death, while the positivity rate stood at 0.06 per cent. The infection rate, which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, had been hovering below 0.10 per cent-mark in the last several weeks. But, it reached to 0.10 per cent again on Saturday, and again dropped to 0.07 on Thursday. On February 16, ninety-four people were diagnosed Covid positive while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. In a major upgrade of a field hospital in Delhi, a 300-bed ICU facility and a telemedicine centre was on Thursday inaugurated by Health Minister Satyendar Jain at a Covid care centre at Burari. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier had said the total number of Covid vaccine doses administered in Delhi has crossed the one crore-mark and of the eligible population in the city 50 per cent have received at least one jab. Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the Covid-19 situation here to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day, has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway", while sounding a tone of caution. Following the relaxations in norms, the Delhi Metro is running with full seating capacity from July 26, with still no provision for standing travel for commuters. A total of 73,324 tests, including 49,690 RT-PCR tests and 23,634 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin issued on Friday. The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 14,36,988. Over 14.11 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases dropped to 468 on Friday from 502 a day before, according to the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation decreased to 164 from 179 on Thursday, while the number of containment zones dropped to 250 from 258 on Thursday, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
13-08-2021||India||Chidambaram accuses chair of both Houses of being biased||With a tumultuous Parliament session ending with unruly scenes, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday said the Chair in both Houses was "not as neutral as it should be" and asserted that the last-day pandemonium in Rajya Sabha started because the government tried to pass a legislation by "stealth" while going back on its words. Chidambaram also questioned the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah from debates during the session and alleged that the "two-man army" BJP government has "scant respect" for Parliament and if the "two gentlemen have their way, they will lock down Parliament". In an interview with PTI, the former Union minister also asserted that with patience, further conversations and meetings, he is absolutely certain the difficulties in forging Opposition unity to take on the BJP in 2024 general elections shall be overcome and it will be a reality well before the polls. The Monsoon session of Parliament was curtailed by two days on Wednesday. Just before the Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die, opposition MPs jostled with marshals in the well of the House when they were trying to move towards the Chair and the treasury benches. While the government and the ruling BJP have blamed the Congress and other opposition parties for disruptions, the opposition leaders have accused the ruling dispensation of running away from debate on issues like Pegasus snooping allegations and contentious farm laws. Asked about the uproar in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday and the government fielding eight ministers to accuse the Opposition of disrupting the Monsoon session, Chidambaram said the chaos was created by the government going back on its word that after the Constitution amendment bill on the OBC reservation was passed by the House, it will be adjourned sine die. The Opposition had made it clear that it was opposed to passing the bill to amend the general insurance laws which would pave the way for privatisation of all general insurance companies and that it should be referred to a select committee of Parliament, he said. Chidambaram, a Rajya Sabha member and part of the Congress' strategy group in the House, said that since there was no agreement on that issue between the government and the Opposition, it was agreed that the bill will not be taken up in this session of Parliament. "But after the Constitution amendment bill was passed unanimously, the government tried to rush through the general insurance amendment bill and one or two other bills. This is a continuation of the BJP's practice of passing legislation by stealth," he said. Naturally, the opposition was infuriated and opposed the government vehemently, he said. "The chair, I am afraid, and I am sorry to say this, did not play a neutral role and therefore there was pandemonium in Parliament, but the starting point of the pandemonium was the government's attempt to pass legislation by stealth," Chidambaram alleged. Asked about Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu expressing disappointment with the behaviour of Opposition members during the session and the Opposition raising questions about the neutrality of the Chair, the senior Congress leader said, "We are increasingly driven to the conclusion, and I say this with a heavy heart and great regret, that the Chair is not as neutral as it should be and the Chair does not reflect the sense of the House." Chidambaram said that in this whole session, the prime minister and the home minister were "absent", did not answer a single question and did not participate in any debate. "This shows that the two-man army, which is the BJP government, has scant respect for Parliament. If these two gentlemen have their way, they will lock down Parliament," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Stop acting like opposition leader, fulfill poll promises: AAP to Sidhu||AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Friday asked Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to deliver on poll promises and stop acting like an "opposition leader". "Otherwise, it will be clear to people that your struggle was a fight for chair and power, not a fight for Punjab's progress," he said in an apparent reference to the infighting in the Congress ahead of Sidhu's elevation to the post of the state party chief. Sidhu has in the recent past criticised his own government for not fulfilling poll promises and has been pushing for the implementation of the 18-point agenda of the party high command. Addressing the media here, the AAP leader said Sidhu should stop acting like an "opposition leader" and he has written to the Punjab Congress chief to remind him of the poll promises made by his party in a 129-page manifesto before coming to power in 2017. Chadha said he told Sidhu that he was tasked with the responsibility of driving home these promises to every household of Punjab as in the past four-and-half-years not a single promise has been fulfilled. "I want to say to Sidhu that now you are the Congress party's state unit president. You have the blessings of the party high command. You have the support of each MLA. You, for all practical purposes, are the government of Punjab," said Chadha. "It will not be incorrect to say in cricketing terms that you are the batsman and the bowler with the pitch being entirely yours. It is your responsibility to fulfill all poll promises," said Chadha, a legislator in Delhi. He further stated that Sidhu had raised several issues like ending corruption and scrapping of power purchase agreements. Chadha said he heard that Sidhu promised to give power at Rs 3 per unit if his party comes to power again. "Whose party is in power in Punjab now? Is it the DMK or the RJD running the government in Punjab? Sidhu Sahab, there is a Congress government in Punjab today, he said, asking Sidhu to fulfill all poll promises within six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Pakistan's allegations against India on terror attack that killed 9 Chinese nationals 'lies': MEA||India on Friday described as "lies" Pakistan's allegations of Indian intelligence support to a deadly bus bombing in the Pakistani province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and said it is an attempt to deflect global attention from its role as the "epicenter" of regional instability and a "safe haven" for proscribed terrorists.  At least 13 people including nine Chinese engineers were killed in the suicide attack in Dasu area of Upper Kohistan district last month following which Pakistan had ordered an investigation into it.  Addressing a press conference in Islamabad on the completion of the probe, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi accused India's Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) and Afghanistan's National Directorate of Security (NDS) of carrying out the attack.  "We have seen reports on the absurd comments made by Foreign Minister of Pakistan on the incident in Dasu," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said.  "This is yet another attempt by Pakistan to malign India, in a bid to deflect international attention from its role as the epicenter of regional instability and a safe haven for proscribed terrorists," he said.  Bagchi was replying to media queries on the allegations made by Qureshi. "India has been at the forefront of global efforts against terrorism in partnership with the international community, which is well aware of Pakistan's credentials when it comes to terrorism," Bagchi said.  "Such desperate attempts by Pakistan at peddling lies and propaganda will therefore find few takers," he said.  In its reaction, China said it firmly opposes "any force" using terrorism to seek "geopolitical gains".  In response to a question on Pakistan's updates on the probe, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said that the Pakistani side's investigation into the terrorist attack has seen "major progress within a short period of time".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Bombay High Court questions Centre's new  IT rules||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the centre to explain its introduction of the new IT rules without it superseding (taking the place of) existing provisions that have been in effect since 2009. "Under 69A (1) (ii) of the IT Act, the 2009 Rules have been framed. What was the necessity for the union government to bring in subsequent rules without superseding prior rules..." the court asked Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who was appearing for the centre. Singh said the centre wanted new laws to check the spread of fake news and offensive content. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni was hearing petitions - filed by digital news website The Leaflet and journalist Nikhil Wagle - seeking an interim stay on implementation of the recently notified Information Technology (IT) Rules, 2021. The petitions - two of several filed in courts across the country - called the new legislations "draconian" and "vague", and warned it would have a "chilling" effect on citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression, and on which. they feared, unreasonable restrictions would be imposed. Before reserving its verdict for tomorrow evening, the court said it was inclined to grant the petitioners limited relief with reference to adherence to a code of ethics. Earlier in the day, ASG Singh defended that code of ethics by saying that even the Press Council of India (PCI) had similar provisions. The court, however, was unimpressed and pointed out that PCI guidelines were advisory norms that did not carry "drastic punishment for breaches". "How can you put such an exalted status on PCI guidelines? ...not following those guidelines will (not) lead to penalties... Unless you have liberty of thought, how can you express anything? How can you restrict one's liberty of thought?" the court asked. This was also in response to the centre playing down petitioners' fears of facing charges under the new "draconian" law while multiple challenges are still being heard in courts across the country. Last month - in a big win for those challenging the IT Rules - the Supreme Court refused to stop these courts from hearing individual petitions on this matter. Also last month - and in another big win - the Kerala High Court ordered the centre not to take any coercive action, for now, against a news broadcasters group for non-compliance with the Rules Similar pleas have been filed in the Madras High Court by journalists and activists. Today the court granted the centre 10 additional days to file its reply to that plea. News publishers have alleged the Rules infringe on basic constitutional rights, including freedom of the press, and are designed to allow the government a worryingly tight grip over online content. However, the government says the Rules are required to ensure that all online news websites comply with the law, and to regulate content on social media and OTT platforms like Netflix. But included in these Rules are several contentious provisions, like requiring messaging services like WhatsApp to break end-to-end encryption to identify senders and recipients. WhatsApp has challenged this part of the new laws in court, arguing that it would mean an invasion of privacy of its users and that a law like this needs the approval of parliament. Twitter also raised concerns and was accused by the government of flouting India's laws; the company was stripped of legal protection and at least four police cases were filed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Centre muffling voices of those seeking justice for Dalit girl, alleges Congress||The Congress on Friday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's silence' on the alleged rape and murder of a 9-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi and accused the central government of suppressing the voice of those seeking justice for her. The party said its leader Rahul Gandhi has not violated Twitter's policy by sharing pictures of the victim's family which were already in public domain and that the microblogging giant was acting under pressure of the government. It also accused the social media platform of "playing with democracy in the country" by blocking the accounts of the principal opposition party and its leaders. The party alleged that Gandhi and the Congress were being punished for standing with the Dalits, but they will continue to raise their voice for justice. Speaking at a joint press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate and former MP Udit Raj alleged that the Modi government was "anti-woman" and "anti-Dalit" and the same reflected in their actions. Shrinate said instead of getting justice for the victim's family, the government was busy suppressing the voice of those standing with the family, including Rahul Gandhi. "The prime minister, home minister and other ministers are silent on crime against girls in the national capital. The entire country is surprised that even after 13 days, the PM and the government are silent and have not uttered a single word on the incident, she told reporters. She further alleged that the Union government, PM Modi or Home Minister Amit Shah do not have any fear of democracy or the law and neither do they care about the constitution. "The prime minister and his government could not protect the victim, but at least they should talk about providing her justice and compensation, and punishing the perpetrators of the crime," Shrinate added. The entire debate today, the Congress spokesperson said, is on why the photograph (of victim's family) was shared and is diverting from the real issue of providing justice to the girl. She said this is the fight for morality . Taking a dig at the central dispensation, Shrinate said eight ministers can come to talk about the Monsoon Session, but will not speak a word on crime against minor girls. The issue is not about suppressing the voice of the opposition, but of suppressing the voice of poor girls and women," she said. The Congress leader was apparently referring to the Centre fielding a battery of eight ministers at a news conference to take on the opposition over the ruckus in Parliament during the Monsoon Session. Taking on Twitter, Shrinate said the microblogging site is against its own publicly prescribed policies. "We did not violate the rules. Rahul Gandhi was trying to help the family of the victim seeking justice. What Twitter is doing is being done under government pressure," she alleged. The 9-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped and killed in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal area. She died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest. Meanwhile, former MP Udit Raj alleged that under RSS and BJP's Ram Rajya , Dalits have no value and respect as no RSS or BJP supporter went to Delhi's Old Nangal village to meet the family of the nine-year-old girl. "The value of Dalits in the eyes of RSS and the BJP is even less than a cow. At least Modi ji, Amit Shah ji or Mayawati ji should have tweeted for the victim," he said. "The only fault of Rahul Gandhi is that he is standing with Dalits and its daughter, and that is why, his party is being punished," Raj, the Dalit leader, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Twitter transfers its India head to United States||Twitter has transferred India head Manish Maheshwari, against whom an FIR was registered in Uttar Pradesh in connection with a probe related to a video of an alleged hate crime, to the US. While the company did not specify any reason for the change, it said Maheshwari will move to the US as Senior Director (Revenue Strategy and Operations) and focus on new markets in his new role. Twitter Vice President Japan and Asia Pacific Yu Sasamoto shared the development in a tweet. "Thank you to @manishm for your leadership of our Indian business over the past 2+ years. Congrats on your new US-based role in charge of revenue strategy and operations for new markets worldwide. Excited to see you lead this important growth opportunity for Twitter," he said. When contacted, Twitter confirmed the development and said Maheshwari is "moving into a new role based in San Francisco as Senior Director, Revenue Strategy and Operations focused on New Market Entry". The company did not disclose details around the succession plan after Maheshwari moves to the US. Before joining Twitter, Maheshwari was the CEO of Network18 Digital. He has also worked with organisations including Flipkart and P&G, among others. Twitter has been facing flak over the past many months for its various actions taken on tweets and accounts of high-profile users as well as delay in compliance with the IT rules that came into effect in May this year. In June, an FIR was registered against Maheshwari and some others in connection with a probe related to a video of an alleged hate crime that went viral on social media. The US-based microblogging platform - which has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India - had courted controversy over the new social media rules, and the Indian government had confronted Twitter over deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the IT rules, despite repeated reminders. On August 10, the Centre had told the Delhi High Court that Twitter was 'prima facie' in compliance with the new IT rules by appointing a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and Nodal Contact Person on permanent basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||DCGI nod for Bharat Biotech's Covid nasal jab Phase 2/3 trial||The first nasal vaccine against COVID-19, developed by Bharat Biotech, has received regulator's nod for conducting phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, the Department of Biotechnology said on Friday. Phase 1 clinical trial has been completed in age groups ranging from 18 to 60 years, it said. "Bharat Biotech's intranasal vaccine is the first nasal vaccine that has received the regulatory approval for phase 2/3 trials," the DBT said. The regulatory approval has been received for conducting "a Phase 2 randomised, multi-centric, Clinical Trial of Heterologus Prime-Boost Combination of SARS-CoV-2 Vaccines to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of BBV152 (COVAXIN) with BBV154 (Adenoviral Intranasal COVID-19 vaccine) in healthy volunteers". This is the first of its kind COVID-19 jab to undergo human clinical trials in India, it said. BBV154 is an intranasal replication-deficient chimpanzee adenovirus SARS-CoV-2 vectored vaccine. Bharat Biotech has in-licensed technology from Washington University in St Louis, US, it said. "The company reports that the doses of the vaccine administered to healthy volunteers in the phase I clinical trial has been well tolerated. No serious adverse events reported," the DBT said. Previously, the vaccine was found to be safe, immunogenic and well tolerated in the pre-clinical toxicity studies. The vaccine was able to elicit high level of neutralising antibodies in animal studies, it added. The Mission COVID Suraksha was launched to accelerate COVID-19 vaccine development efforts as part of the third stimulus package, Atmanirbhar 3.0. The focus of this mission is to consolidate and streamline available resources towards a warpath for accelerated vaccine development in order to bring a safe, efficacious, affordable and accessible COVID-19 vaccine to the citizens at the earliest. "The Department through Mission COVID Suraksha, is committed to development of safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccines. Bharat Biotech's BBV154 covid vaccine is the first intranasal vaccine being developed in the country entering into late-stage clinical trials," Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT and Chairperson, BIRAC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Serum Institute chairman not in favour of mixing vaccines ||Serum Institute of India (SII) chairman Dr Cyrus Poonawalla on Friday said he was not in favour of administering two different coronavirus vaccines for better efficacy. Poonawalla, whose firm makes the Covishield vaccine, was speaking to reporters after receiving the Lokmanya Tilak National Award in Pune. "I am against the mixing of two different vaccines. There is no need to mix two different vaccines," he said, when asked about a recent ICMR study that a cocktail of Covishield and Covaxin could generate better immunity. "If cocktail vaccines are administered and if the result is not good, then SII may say that another vaccine was not good, vice versa, the other company might say that since you mixed Serum's vaccine, it did not give desired results," Poonawalla said. The efficacy of this approach has not been proven in field trials involving thousands of participants, he added. A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research involving 98 people, 18 of whom had inadvertently received Covishield as first dose and Covaxin as the second in Uttar Pradesh, showed that combining vaccines elicited better immunogenicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Centre bans use of single-use plastic items from July 2022||The Centre has notified amended rules prohibiting manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of identified single-use plastic items, including plates, cups, cutlery, and packing films around boxes for sweets and cigarette packets among others. The thickness of plastic carry bags will be increased from 50 microns to 75 microns from September 30, 2021, and to 120 microns from December 31, 2022, according to the notification dated August 12. "The manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of following single-use plastic, including polystyrene and expanded polystyrene, commodities shall be prohibited with effect from July 1, 2022: ear buds with plastic sticks, plastic sticks for balloons, plastic flags, candy sticks, ice-cream sticks, polystyrene (thermocol) for decoration; plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, spoons, knives, straw, trays; wrapping or packing films around sweet boxes, invitation cards, and cigarette packets, plastic or PVC banners less than 100 micron, stirrers," the notification read. In a statement, the Environment Ministry said plastic packaging waste not covered under the phase-out of identified single-use plastic items should be collected and managed in an environmentally sustainable way through the Extended Producer Responsibility of the producer, importer and brand owner (PIBO) as per Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. For effective implementation of the Extended Producer Responsibility, the guidelines being brought out have been given a legal force through the amended rules, it said. Extended Producer Responsibility is a policy approach in which producers take responsibility for management of the disposal of products they produce once those products are designated as no longer useful by consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Opposition bid to bash PM has turned into conspiracy to defame democracy||Union Minister and Deputy Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Friday slammed the opposition parties over the ruckus in Parliament during the Monsoon Session, saying the competition among them to bash Prime Minister Narendra Modi has turned into a conspiracy to defame democracy. Talking to reporters here, Naqvi said that some people are carrying bundle of sins and celebrating their deplorable crime of polluting the temple of democracy . The opposition parties are spreading pollution in Parliament and political hypocrisy on the streets with their lies," said Naqvi. Leaders of several opposition parties on Thursday took out a protest march in the national capital against the government on several issues, including Pegasus and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was "crushed" in the House. Naqvi said the opposition was determined to ensure that the session is a washout. The Congress and some other opposition parties had demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi convene an all-party meeting to discuss efforts being made to tackle the coronavirus pandemic but they boycotted when such a meeting was called, Naqvi said. They demanded that the farmers' issues be discussed but then engaged in vandalism and scuffle in Parliament, he said. "In their contest to become champion of irresponsible politics, many opposition parties have now resorted to violence in the House," Naqvi alleged. Some opposition MPs are saying that they will do such "violence" a hundred times, he said, seeking strict action against them. Naqvi also visited some of the flood-affected areas of Allahabad and said the Yogi Adityanath government has taken effective steps to provide relief to the flood-affected people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||International Climate Summit 2021 leading India’s Transition to Clean Energy||India is the world's second most populated country and the world's third largest economy. Its energy system is heavily reliant on fossil fuels, such as coal for power generation, oil for transportation and industry, and biomass for heating and cooking. India's per capita energy usage is 30% of the global average. India, being the world's third-largest oil consumer, is largely reliant on imports. By 2040, its energy demand will have doubled and its electricity demand will have tripled. The environment will suffer the most as a result of the rise. The energy sector is a major producer of pollution in the atmosphere, which contributes to climate change. In this view, International Climate Summit (ICS 2021) ICS 2021 will bring together distinguished speakers, academics, industry experts, and policymakers from around the world for sessions and discussions on hydrogen and its potential as an energy source. The summit is a timely endeavour that will send a favourable message to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow in November 2021. The eminent Summit Chair & Chairman, Environment Committee, PHDCCI, Dr. J. P. Gupta, shares his insights and objectives behind introducing such an exquisite summit. 1. Tell us briefly about the event International Climate Summit, and it's objective? The International Climate Summit 2021 is a virtual event scheduled for 3rd September, 2021 in an effort to position India as a leader in the field of renewable energy, specifically Green Hydrogen. The global summit is being organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry's Environment Committee in collaboration with NITI Aayog, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, and the Government of India's Department of Science and Technology. Greenstat Asia Norway, Gexcon Norway, Arena H2 Cluster Norway, India Hydrogen Alliance, and TERI are supporting the event by being the knowledge partners. This Global Summit will build a dialogue for India's transition to clean energy with a special focus on 'Powering India's Hydrogen Ecosystem.' The summit sessions will focus on cooperative efforts that will help establish solutions for storing and transporting pressurised and liquefied hydrogen, to build a hydrogen economy and supply chain in India. The International Climate Summit (ICS 2021) is a precursor to the 26th Conference of Parties (COP) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which will be held in Glasgow in November 2021. The summit will allow worldwide collaboration in establishing sustainable routes for production, storage, transportation, distribution, and ambitious deployment of hydrogen technologies, with the goal of moving towards a cleaner, greener, and more sustainable future. Addressing these factors, the International Climate Summit 2021 aspires to move India to the forefront of renewable energy. 2. How does the International Climate Summit intend to address the climatic concerns through a consolidated approach and timely interventions, ahead of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) meeting in Glasgow in November 2021? There has been an evident increase in the global energy consumption and thus the dire need to harness alternative energy sources that are not just green, but also renewable and plentiful. One such source with a substantially higher energy output per unit mass is hydrogen. Given that hydrogen development is at its nascent stage and there remains a lot of uncertainty surrounding its safety, it is pertinent to deliberate and understand the legal and regulatory requirements, investment cases, financing structures, operational requirements, revenue stream, sharing and other elements that need to be considered to formulate an effective acceptable commercialisation model. A gradual transition with adequate policy and safety standards will help build confidence among stakeholders and provide a conducive environment for a Hydrogen based economy. India is one of the best-suited countries for producing renewable energy from solar panels and the wind, making the manufacturing of hydrogen from renewables cost-effective. India has a competitive advantage due to abundant natural resources and favourable meteorological and geographical circumstances. To accelerate the adoption of hydrogen technologies in India, a step-change in government policy and business actions is required. National Hydrogen Energy Mission under the aegis of Government of India has set up National Hydrogen Portal - www.greenhydrogen-india.com, a single information source for research, production, storage, transportation and application of hydrogen across the country. 3. Given that the Indian government has already declared the National Hydrogen Energy Mission, how do you see hydrogen energy becoming economically and technically viable in the near future? In recent years, hydrogen has received a lot of attention as part of the transition from fossil fuels to emission-free alternatives. Moreover, hydrogen investment is being boosted to become a fundamental part of India's energy system and international collaboration as a tool for sustainable development and a transition of energy centered around human beings. By implementing smart grids and announcing notable investments in R&D, technology upgrades, and capacity creation, the government has already taken a significant step in this direction. Hydrogen is used as a fuel in the production, transport and energy storage. It has the potential to play a crucial cross-cutting role in the future low carbon economy, with applications across the industrial, transport, and power sectors. There has been a growing appreciation that complete electrification of our current energy systems could be prohibitively expensive and technologically challenging, given the important storage, flexibility, chemical, and heating attributes of current fossil fuels. Based on this, the experts have predicted that the hydrogen demand could increase five-fold by 2050, with use in the industry sector being the major driver. In power, hydrogen could be a cost-effective way of providing inter-seasonal storage in a highly variable renewable electricity system from 2040. Scaling up the use of domestically produced hydrogen can significantly reduce energy imports. 4. Who are the speakers, and what will be the takeaways from the summit? The International Climate Summit 2021 will take a step ahead in the mission of the 26th CoP summit, allowing for a unified approach and timely interventions to address climate concerns. The Summit will bring together stakeholders from across the global clean energy industry, along with other world leaders, in order to reach an agreement on climate change and sustainability issues. The summit includes some eminent speakers like Prof. Vijay Raghavan, PSA to Govt. of India; Amitabh Kant, CEO NITI Aayog; Dr. Vijay Saraswat, Member (Energy), NITI Aayog; R. R. Rashmi, Former Special Secretary, MoEFCC & Distinguished fellow TERI; Sturle Harald Pederson, Chairman, Greenstat Hydrogen Asia, Bergen; Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary Department of Science & Technology; Nobuo Tanaka, Ex ED, IEA, Japan; Dr. SSV Ramakumar, Director (R&D) IOCL; Dr. Karen Landmark, Chair of the Board Greenstat Asia, Norway; Dr. Ashish Lele, Director National Laboratory Pune; and many more, all of whom would share their leadership insights on the Hydrogen economy. The summit's proceedings will be broadcast to a global audience of more than 150 countries. Hence, the meet will aim to build an India-centric and action-oriented approach for building self-reliance in the hydrogen ecosystem and solutions. 5. How India intends to position itself as the world's cheapest hydrogen hub? Within the energy transition, India is already one of the global spearheads, with the fastest growth in renewable energy and as the fastest-growing consumer of energy. However, the current energy system in India is still strongly dominated by fossil fuels (76%,IEA) and the third-largest importer of oil - correspondingly in excess of ⅘ part of the country's consumption. The establishment of an “International Hydrogen Alliance” will create greater synergies between science, technology and entrepreneurship to create a win-win situation for all, inspired by The International Solar Alliance (ISA). A tight collaboration with Norway will be a good starting point to gain momentum. With a proactive attitude towards the implementation of hydrogen value chains in India, the country will gain advantages by becoming less dependent on other countries that have technological expertise, systems and technology. By taking an early offensive position in the battle for the hydrogen economy, India will be able to become a net exporter in this sector. Due to its geographical location, climate conditions, and quantity of renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, and hydro, India is well positioned to become the world's cheapest hydrogen centre by 2050. Having introduced such an innovative summit, International Climate Summit (ICS 2021) will address all issues pertaining to clean energy together, in order to find a set of balanced, positive and beneficial solutions for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||TMC likely to join Sonia's virtual meet for Opposition leaders||The Trinamool Congress has received an invite to a virtual meet for Opposition leaders by Congress president Sonia Gandhi slated for August 20, a political aide of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee confirmed. The TMC is likely to join the meeting. Gandhi has called the meet in the midst of a political row over alleged phone tapping of Opposition leaders, judges and journalists and rowdy scenes in Parliament. While the agenda of the meeting is not known, it is expected to discuss a raft of issues irking Opposition parties besides helping build bridge to forge Opposition unity. The DMK, NCP and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha are among parties that have been invited, according to multiple sources. Banerjee too had last month, during a trip to Delhi, made a pitch for Opposition unity. The West Bengal chief minister had, besides meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other central ministers, held parleys with Congress' Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Abishek Manu Singhvi. She also met Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and DMK leader Kanimozhi, besides making telephone calls to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad. More recently, on Thursday, the TMC came out against the suspension of the Congress' Twitter handles, displaying what many saw as signs of a rekindling of a spirit of Opposition unity. Banerjee's advisor and political campaign pundit Prashant Kishor has also been reaching out to various Opposition leaders, while Pawar has also held a meeting with eminent persons and Opposition leaders. Political analysts see these meetings as essential stepping stones to forging unity among political parties ahead of a raft of state assembly elections including in Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state, in the next three years leading to national elections in 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||No evidence to suggest Dalit girl was raped, Delhi Police tells court||Delhi Police has told a court here that no evidence could be collected so far to confirm whether the nine-year-old girl was raped before allegedly being killed near Delhi Cantonment in south-west Delhi earlier this month. The investigating officer (IO) of the case told the court that the disclosure statements of the four accused have revealed that two of them -- Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, and it's employee Kuldeep Singh -- had raped and killed the minor victim. The remaining accused persons -- Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan, both employees at the crematorium -- had helped them in trying to cremate the deceased minor, the IO told the court. The IO has further admitted that neither any statement of any eye witness nor any other evidence, including medical or scientific could be collected so far to confirm as to whether the victim child was raped or not. He has further submitted that at this stage, he cannot conclusively say as to whether the victim child was raped or not, the court noted in the order passed on August 12. Disclosure statements of the accused persons before police, unless supported by other evidence, is not admissible under law. Special Judge Ashutosh Kumar, meanwhile, awarded Rs 25 lakh as interim relief to the mother of the child for the loss of her daughter's life. The court, however, did not grant further interim relief on the additional ground of the alleged rape of the victim, in view of the submissions of the IO and in view of the fact that the investigating agency itself is not sure as to whether the victim was raped or not, the interim compensation qua the same is not allowed at this stage. The judge granted the liberty to the parties concerned to move a fresh application regarding compensation for rape, in case the investigating agency collects further material or comes to the conclusion that the victim child was raped. A per the government scheme, the maximum compensation awardable in case of loss of life is Rs 10 lakh. The court granted 25 per cent of the compensation amount as interim relief. The court, meanwhile, sent the four accused, who were all known to the girl's mother, to 14-day judicial custody. According to the FIR, the minor girl was raped, murdered and then cremated without her parents' consent. The case was recently transferred to the crime branch of Delhi Police. Delhi Police registered a case against the four accused on the basis of the statement of the minor's mother, who alleged that her daughter was raped, murdered and cremated without family's consent on August 1. The accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, along with the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||DMK slashes petrol price by Rs 3 in Tamil Nadu, slams Centre on soaring prices||The DMK government in Tamil Nadu on Friday announced a tax cut of Rs three on petrol per litre and held the Centre responsible for increase in the cost of fuel and said the onus of providing relief to end consumers lay with the union government. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, presenting the Revised Budget for 2021-22 to the Assembly, announced the tax cut. "I am happy to inform the House that this government has decided to reduce the effective rate of tax on petrol by Rs 3 per litre and thereby provide major relief to the toiling working class people in the state. This measure will result in a loss of revenue of Rs.1,160 crore a year," the Finance Minister said. Thiaga Rajan, referring to the white paper on the state's fiscal situation he released days ago, said it listed many ways that marked a dilution of the spirit of federalism. "Nowhere is this dilution of the spirit of federalism more apparent than in the taxation of petrol and diesel at the pump," he said. The overall union levies on petrol were increased from Rs.10.39 per litre in May 2014 to Rs.32.90 per litre, now. Similarly, the levies on diesel were increased from Rs.3.57 in May 2014 to Rs.31.80. Even as the union government's cesses and surcharges were increased, the basic union excise duty was brought down sharply. Hence, in 2020-21 even as the revenue to the union government from petrol and diesel went up by 63 per cent from the revenue in 2019-20, the share of the states declined sharply, the Minister said. "Hence, the onus of providing relief to the final consumers of petrol and diesel lies with the union government." The Comptroller and Auditor General of India has pointed out that the union government cesses levied for a specific purpose have not been fully utilised for the intended purpose, and surcharges meant for a limited time have continued almost indefinitely. To address such issues comprehensively and propose a new and comprehensive approach, "this government will establish an advisory council to develop a Federal Fiscal Model with renowned experts on legislation involving revenue and taxation (including GST)," he said. Tamil Nadu has 2.63 crore two-wheelers, which has become the most popular mode of transport for the working poor and they feel the pinch of the rising cost of petrol. The union government is solely responsible for the increase in cost of the fuel and has benefitted tremendously from the increase in taxation on petroleum products at the cost of states, he said. Chief Minister M K Stalin "feels the pain of the working poor and the middle class," he said announcing the tax cut. This is the first time Thiaga Rajan, a former investment banker is tabling the annual financial statement in the House. The DMK, among other assurances, had promised in the run-up to the April 6 Assembly polls that it would reduce prices of petrol and diesel by Rs five and Rs four respectively. Pointing to such assurances, the main opposition AIADMK has been demanding the DMK to fulfil its poll promises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Centre dragging feet on Bihar's concern over caste census, says Tejashwi Yadav||The opposition RJD in Bihar on Friday accused the Centre of dragging its feet over the state's "unanimous" demand for a caste-based census. The party's de facto leader Tejashwi Yadav, who addressed a press conference here, warned that if given a short shrift by the Narendra Modi government, political leaders in the state will "have no other option except to sit on a dharna at Jantar Mantar until their voices are heard". Referring to a letter sent by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over a week ago, seeking an appointment to discuss the issue, Yadav said "it is appalling that the PM has not deigned to give a reply". "This is despite the fact that the people of Bihar voted for the NDA overwhelmingly in the Lok Sabha polls when the BJP-led coalition won all but one of the 40 seats in the state," said Yadav, whose own party drew a blank in 2019 but made an impressive comeback in assembly polls two years later. By not even responding to the letter, the PM is in fact "insulting" our chief minister, said the 32 years' old leader of the opposition, in a deft attempt to fish in troubled waters between the BJP and Nitish Kumar, who controls the JD(U) and has been his father Lalu Prasad's arch rival. "The chief minister wrote to the PM after a meeting he held with all opposition leaders who suggested that the matter be taken up with the Centre since there is a unanimity on the issue in Bihar where resolutions to the effect have been twice passed in the legislature," said Yadav who had led the opposition delegation that met the CM during the Monsoon session of the assembly. The RJD leader was pointed out at the press meet that he claimed to be speaking on behalf of all parties though the BJP in the state has, of late, changed tack and started echoing the view of its top leadership which seems to be in favour of enumerating the population of just the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. "They (BJP leaders) may say anything. But they too had supported the resolutions in the legislature.......I hope if things come to a pass and we end up sitting on a dharna, they too will join us," said the wily leader with a smirk. Political temperature in the state has been soaring ever since the Centre disclosed its stand on caste census, proposing to keep out the OBCs, who are numerically powerful and have been dominating the politics in Bihar since the Mandal churn. Yadav also brushed aside queries about recurring run-ins between his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav and his confidant and state RJD chief Jagadanand Singh who was recently slighted by some uncharitable remarks by the maverick sibling. "All is fine. There are no problems in the party," asserted Yadav, who has been a favourite of his father and has come to overshadow all siblings who have evinced interest in politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Wockhardt partners with RDIF to produce, supply Sputnik vaccine||Drug maker Wockhardt on Friday said it has inked a pact with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to produce and supply COVID-19 vaccines -- Sputnik V and Sputnik Light. The agreement has been inked under the aegis of Enso Healthcare (part of Enso Group), RDIF's coordination partner for sourcing Sputnik V vaccines in India. "We are delighted to partner with RDIF to make a substantial contribution towards providing global supply of the Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines which is one of the most efficacious approved vaccines commercially available," Wockhardt Group Founder Chairman Habil Khorakiwala said in a statement. The arrangement upholds the company's ongoing commitment to fight against such a pandemic of global human importance, he added. It is our privilege to partner with RDIF and Wockhardt to facilitate large scale manufacturing of Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines," Enso Healthcare Chairman Vinay Maloo noted. In a regulatory filing, Wockhardt noted that subject to requisite approvals and other conditions, the company would manufacture and supply up to 620 million doses of the Sputnik V and the Sputnik Light vaccines to Enso. The term of the agreement is up to June 2023, it added. Till date, the Sputnik V vaccine has been registered in 69 countries globally with a total population of over 3.7 billion people. The data obtained by regulators of a number of countries during the vaccination of the population, including Argentina, Serbia, Bahrain, Hungary, Mexico, San Marino, UAE and others, demonstrates that Sputnik V is one of the safest and most effective vaccines against coronavirus. In particular, Sputnik V demonstrates 83.1 per cent efficacy against the Delta variant of coronavirus - higher than many other vaccines. The vaccine is based on a well-studied platform of human adenoviral vectors and uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination, providing immunity with a longer duration than vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots. Sputnik Light is the first component of Sputnik V and is based on human adenovirus serotype 26. Wockhardt shares were trading 4.92 per cent up at Rs 513.35 apiece on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Kanpur: 3 arrested for thrashing Muslim man, forcing him to chant 'Jai Shree Ram'||Three people, including one having affiliation to the Vishva Hindu Parishad, have been arrested for allegedly thrashing a Muslim e-rickshaw driver in Kanpur and asking him to chant "Jai Shri Ram", police said on Friday. The incident had taken place at the Kacchi Basti locality in the Barra area of Kanpur on Wednesday. A one-minute video of the incident surfaced on social media, in which 45-year-old Asrar Ahmad is seen being thrashed by some men, who ask him to chant "Jai Shri Ram". Ahmed's daughter is seen trying to save her father, crying and asking the attackers not to beat him up. Kanpur Police Commissioner Asim Arun said the three men were arrested on Thursday night. One of the arrested, Aman Gupta, has affiliation to the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), police said. Besides Gupta, the two others arrested are Rajesh, alias Jay, and Rahul. The accused are aged between 25 and 30. They are residents of the Barra area. Asim Arun said the victim was saved by police, who brought him to the police station. On the basis of a complaint by the victim, a case was registered against the people seen assaulting him in the video. DCP (South) Raveena Tyagi told PTI, Once the viral video came to our notice, we took cognisance and registered an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC. Several teams were formed to identify and arrest the culprits, she added. After the arrests were made, some people associated with Hindu outfits sat on a dharna outside the DCP office on Thursday night. They left after police convinced them to end their sit-in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi banned from only place where he was active, mocks BJP ||The BJP Friday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over Twitter temporarily locking his account for allegedly violating its rules, saying the Congress leader has been shown the door from the only place he was active and he should use the new social media rules enforced by the Modi government to restore the account. Addressing a press conference, BJP MP and the party's youth wing president Tejasvi Surya said the same Congress was crying hoarse and attacking the government when it framed the new rules to "empower" social media platform users. Now, Gandhi cannot take umbrage behind the freedom of expression argument after he tweeted a picture of a rape and murder victim's family members, Surya said, adding it was "indecent, illegal and inhuman". The law prohibits the disclosure of a rape victim's identity, including address or her family members' details, promoting the BJP and the official child rights body to hit out at the Congress leader. The Congress has argued that Gandhi is raising the family's voice for justice and that the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and a BJP MP had also posted the family's pictures. Surya said the issue now is whether it was right on Gandhi's part to publicly disclose the victim's identity as the law of the land frowns upon such acts. "The only place he was active was on Twitter. Unfortunately, even Twitter has shown him the door," he said wryly. Gandhi and the Congress should make usage of the rules and regulations made by the Modi government and attempt to get his account restored, he added. In another dig at Gandhi, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said, "Disney prince Rahul Gandhi should not have disclosed the victim's identity for his petty politics. He should understand this is real world, not his Disney world." Gandhi on Friday accused Twitter of being biased and interfering in the country's political process by blocking his account. In a strong attack, Gandhi said Twitter was denying his millions of followers the right to an opinion and termed it as an attack on the democratic structure of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Pakistani terrorist planning attack on JK highway killed in Kulgam encounter||Security forces achieved a major success as a Pakistani terrorist planning an attack along the national highway in Jammu and Kashmir was killed in an encounter in Kulgam district, officials said Friday. They said the overnight encounter began after two terrorists, who had positioned themselves in a building, started firing "indiscriminately" on a BSF convoy on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway. Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the slain ultra, identified as Usman from Pakistan, was a "dreaded terrorist" active for the past six months. "Around 3 pm (Thursday), terrorists fired upon the convoy of BSF on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway near Malpora Mir Bazar area of Kulgam. The fire was retaliated by an ROP (road opening party) of police and security forces," a police spokesman said. There were no injuries in the initial attack. Police and Army reinforcements reached there immediately and cordoned off the area, the spokesperson said. "The force party ensured not to give any chance to the terrorists to escape. The terrorists managed to took shelter in a nearby huge building. The holed-up terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the joint party of police/security forces which was retaliated, leading to an encounter," he said. The IGP said there was a general input for the last one week that "terrorists were planning an attack on the national highway on Baramulla-Srinagar road or Qazigund-Pantha Chowk". "So, the police and security forces were ready. This shows how good the response of the security forces has been that there was retaliation and the militant was not allowed to flee," Kumar told reporters here. He said when the BSF convoy was coming, "two terrorists fired indiscriminately from a huge building, but there was no injury to us". "Security forces cordoned off the area and the encounter ensued. GoC (general officer commanding of the Army's south Kashmir-based) Victor Force and I monitored the operation during the night. We used rocket launcher and a militant was neutralised during the night. "Since it is difficult to search in the dark, in the morning, the dead body of a Pakistani terrorist identified as Usman, who had been active for the last six months, was recovered," he said. A huge cache of arms and ammunition, which includes an AK-47 rifle, magazines, grenades, RPG-7 rocket launcher, was recovered from the encounter site, he said. Kumar said it shows the "terrorists they were planning something big". "It is after a long time that RPG-7 has been recovered (in Kashmir) and the police and security forces have averted a major incident. I am proud of the police and security forces," he said, adding, "We achieved a major success by killing Usman the dreaded Pakistani terrorist." The police spokesman quoted above also said a CRPF jawan and an Army personnel and two civilians got injured in the "indiscriminate firing by the terrorists". All the injured have been taken to a hospital for treatment, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||India joins 11 nations to not recognise any Afghan government formed by force||Twelve nations, including the US, India and China, along with representatives of the UN and EU have decided that they would not recognise any government in Afghanistan that seeks to take control through the barrel of a gun, the State Department has said, amid the continued Taliban offensive across the war-torn country. Representatives from the United States and Qatar, the UN, China, Uzbekistan, Pakistan, the UK, the EU, Germany, India, Norway, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan joined a regional conclave on Thursday to discuss ways to contain the escalating security situation in Afghanistan. The conclave was hosted by Qatar. The participants "agreed, first and foremost, that the peace process needs to be accelerated. And they also agreed, importantly, that they will not recognise any government that is imposed through military force," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters on Thursday. His remarks came as the Taliban advanced across Afghanistan and took control over key provincial capitals. Reports say that the militant group has captured Herat and Kandahar, the country's second and third largest cities after Kabul, and a strategic provincial capital on Thursday. It comes just weeks before the end of the American military mission in Afghanistan. The US Embassy in Afghanistan issued a security alert Thursday, urging Americans to leave Afghanistan immediately using available commercial flight options. "So this is not just the United States making this point. This is not just the United States speaking with our voice. This is the international community, as you see represented in the consensus that has emerged today," Prince said. He said the consensus is on "this very simple point: any force that seeks to take control of Afghanistan with the barrel of a gun, through the barrel of a gun, will not be recognised, will not have legitimacy, will not accrue the international assistance that any such government would likely need to achieve any semblance of durability." Price said the international community came together to speak with one voice on this point over the course of weeks and months. "I've spoken just recently about the UN Security Council statement that emanated last week, where the members of the Security Council recalled Resolution 2513, reaffirmed that there is no military solution to the conflict, and declared they do not support the restoration of an Islamic emirate," Price said. J P Singh, the Joint Secretary in the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), represented India at the meeting in Doha, officials said in New Delhi. India on Thursday said the situation in Afghanistan is of concern and that it continues to hope for a comprehensive ceasefire to end violence in that country. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi also said India is in touch with all the stakeholders in Afghanistan and closely monitoring the ground situation in the strife-torn country. Zalmay Khalilzad, the US envoy, travelled to Doha, Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office to persuade the insurgents to return to peace talks with the Afghan government as American and NATO forces finish their pullout from the country. The latest US military intelligence assessment suggests Kabul could come under insurgent pressure within 30 days and that, if current trends hold, the Taliban could gain full control of the country within a few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||India expects to get huge boost in Covid-19 vaccine doses, assures Nadda||India expects to get about 266 million COVID-19 vaccine doses in August as a simpler licensing process has helped the government secure far more than earlier expected, the president of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's party said on Friday. Late last month, a senior government official told reporters that the government could only count on getting about 150 million doses in August. Since then, India's drug regulator has approved the Johnson & Johnson (JNJ.N) vaccine - though the company has not yet committed to a delivery schedule - and commercial production of Russia's Sputnik V in India could start too. Indian drugmaker Cadila Healthcare's (CADI.NS) ZyCoV-D could also be approved soon, the health minister said this month. read more Writing in a column for the Times of India daily, Jagat Prakash Nadda, president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, credited Modi for making it easier for vaccine makers to get approval. "Among the many significant decisions taken by the PM is simplifying compulsory licensing policy to speed up vaccine production," Nadda wrote. "It ensured clearance for manufacturing of Russia's Sputnik V in the country and just a few days back Johnson & Johnson vaccine has also been given clearance. In the coming days more vaccines will be available in India." Nadda, who was the health minister in Modi's first term, said India's vaccine supply will reach 266.5 million doses in August, 261.5 million in September, 282.5 million in October, 282.5 million in November and 285 million doses in December. The health ministry, whose end-July target of supplying 516 million doses fell short, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Nadda's projections. India wants to vaccinate its entire adult population of 944 million by the end of this year. It has so far administered 528.6 million doses, giving at least one dose to about 44% of its adults, while 12% have had the required two doses. India is the world's biggest vaccine maker, thanks to the Serum Institute of India. The company stopped all exports of COVID-19 shots in April as the government asked it to divert supplies to the domestic inoculation drive as infections surged. India has reported 32.11 million COVID-19 infections, the most after the United States, with about 430,000 deaths, though experts say these are gross underestimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||HC seeks response from Centre, Delhi govt on PIL against child begging||The Delhi High Court Friday sought response from the AAP government and the Centre on a public interest litigation seeking eradication of begging by children here. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Amit Bansal issued notice on a PIL by Ajay Gautam and also sought responses from Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights and Delhi Police. In his petition, Gautam has sought directions to the authorities to rehabilitate children who are beggars and to identify and arrest the persons who are pushing women using toddlers, teenage girls and small children into begging and...crime and exploiting young girls. Gautam has alleged that in spite of the presence of beggars in every part of the city, the authorities have failed to take any remedial steps to curb the menace. "Everyone knows that begging mafia is actively behind this menace of begging by the children and they in fact they kidnap, train, force and torture innocent children for begging," the petition states. It is further said that small children are deliberately harmed and injured to get maximum sympathy of people. "It has been commonly seen in winters that young girls hold toddlers without clothes to gain maximum sympathy. It is also not out of context to mention here that in many cases these gangs I mafias and young girls intentionally give sedatives to small children to gather sympathy of people risking lives of toddlers as young as 9-12 months," reads the petition. The petition argues that the Constitution of India mandates the State to make efforts to provide best opportunities for the development of children and ensure that they are not abused. The matter would be heard next on September 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||NCPCR targets Rahul Gandhi's Instagram profile now, asks Facebook to take action||After Twitter, apex child rights body NCPCR on Friday asked Facebook to take action against the Instagram profile of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for posting a photo of the family of the nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, saying it violated the law. On August 4, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to Twitter, asking it to take action against the handle of Gandhi for posting the photo of the family. The microblogging site blocked the account of Gandhi following the complaint. In a letter to Facebook, the Commission said it has come across a video posted on the Instagram profile of Gandhi wherein the identity of the victim minor girl's family has been disclosed. In this video the faces of the father and the mother of the deceased girl can be clearly seen, which is in violation of the prescribed provisions of law, it added. The NCPCR asked Facebook for taking appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Gandhi over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. "Therefore, posting of the video of the minor victim's family on social media platform-Instagram has been observed by the Commission to be a violation of Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, Section 228A of the IPC and the guidelines of the Hon'ble Court as well. "In view of the same, the Commission deems it appropriate to take suo-moto cognisance under Section 13(1) and notice under Section 14 of the CPCR Act, 2005 in this matter," the NCPCR said. "Accordingly, the link to the Instagram video is being forwarded for taking appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Rahul Gandhi for violation of provisions of JJ Act, 2015, POCSO Act, 2012 and IPC and removal of the Instagram video from the platform," it added. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and will not back down even an inch . Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Twitter and wrote in Hindi, Parents' tears are saying only one thing their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice. The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Govt raises caps on domestic airfares by 9.83-12.82 per cent||Domestic air travel is set to become costlier as the Civil Aviation Ministry has raised the lower as well as upper caps on fares by 9.83 to 12.82 percent, according to an official order. India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services were resumed on May 25, 2020, after a two-month lockdown due to coronavirus. The lower caps were imposed to help the airlines that have been struggling financially due to coronavirus-related travel restrictions. The upper caps were imposed so that passengers are not charged huge amounts when the demand for seats is high. In an order dated August 12, 2021, the ministry increased the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration from Rs 2,600 to Rs 2,900 -- an increase of 11.53 percent. The upper cap for flights under 40 minutes of duration was increased by 12.82 percent to Rs 8,800. Similarly, flights with duration between 40-60 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 3,700 instead of Rs 3,300 now, the order said. The upper cap on these flights was increased by 12.24 percent to Rs 11,000 on Thursday. The flights with duration between 60-90 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 4,500 -- an increase of 12.5 percent. The upper cap on these flights was increased by 12.82 percent to Rs 13,200 on Thursday. Now, domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes have lower caps of Rs Rs 5,300, Rs 6,700, Rs 8,300 and Rs 9,800, respectively, as per the ministry's order. Till date, domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes had the lower limits of Rs 4,700, Rs 6,100, Rs 7,400 and Rs 8,700, respectively. The lower cap on flights between 120-150 minutes duration was increased by 9.83 percent to Rs 6,700, as per the new order. On Thursday, the upper caps on domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes were increased by 12.3 percent, 12.42 percent, 12.74 percent and 12.39 percent, respectively, as per the order. The caps mentioned by the government in its order does not include the passenger security fee, user development fee for the airports and the GST. These charges are added on top when the ticket is being booked by the passenger. The ministry's order on Thursday stated that the government has taken this decision of increasing the lower limits as well as the upper limits keeping in mind the "prevailing situation of COVID-19" in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Mumbai logs first death due to Delta Plus variant of Covid-19||Mumbai has recorded its first death due to the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus with a 63-year-old fully vaccinated woman succumbing to it in July, a civic official has said. Following her death, at least two of her close contacts have also been found infected with the Delta Plus variant, which is considered highly infectious, he said. It is the second death due to this variant in the state as it had claimed the life of an 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri district on June 13. That woman had not taken even a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, officials said. In the latest case, the woman, a resident of eastern Mumbai suburb of Ghatkopar died on July 27 while undergoing treatment in a hospital ICU. However, it was only on August 11 that the state government authorities came to know that she was infected with the Delta Plus variant which came to light in the genome sequencing report, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. The woman had taken both the doses of Covishield vaccine, but tested coronavirus positive on July 21 with synonyms like dry cough, loss of taste, bodyache and headache, he said. She was put on oxygen support and given steroids and Remdesivir as part of the treatment, the official said, adding that she did not have any travel history or history of reinfection. Six close contacts of the deceased woman have also tested coronavirus positive. After their samples were sent for whole genome sequencing, two of them were found to have been infected with the Delta Plus variant, and the result of others is awaited, he said. Two days back, the Maharashtra government had said that as many as 20 new cases of the Delta Plus variant were detected in the state on Wednesday alone and seven of them were in Mumbai. With this, the number of patients found infected with this variant in the state had increased to 65, said a statement issued by the health department. Out of the newly detected cases, seven were in Mumbai, three in Pune, two each in Nanded, Gondia, Raigad, Palghar, and one each in Chandrapur and Akola districts, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||I-Day: Indian diaspora in US gears up to celebrate 75 years of independence||Thousands of Indian-Americans have begun early celebrations to mark the 75th anniversary of India's Independence and the milestone in the country's history. From iconic Times Square in New York, where the Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) would unfurl the largest ever flag in the Big Apple on Sunday to the US Capitol here and mansions of several governors across the country, India's 75th Independence Day is being celebrated in a big way. The One World Trade Center, the tallest building in America that stands on the site of the 9/11 terror attacks, and two other popular New York City buildings, will also be lit in colours of the Indian flag on August 15. "This is a historic moment for all of 1.4 billion people in India and 4.5 million Indian-Americans. To celebrate the occasion, we are unfurling the largest flag on Times Square," Ankur Vaidya, FIA president told PTI. "It's a 60 square feet flag over a 25 feet high pole," he added. Several buildings in the US, including the Empire Estate, are being lightened with Indian tri-colour over the weekend, while another group of Indian-Americans are celebrating the 75th Independence Day over a ferry on the Hudson River. "India in these 75 years has emerged as a mature democracy and a pillar of global peace. This year is special for all of us. The United States has a Vice President who is of Indian origin," said Alok Kumar, an IT entrepreneur from New Jersey. In a Virginia suburb of Washington DC, hundreds of Indian-Americans are likely to gather to celebrate Independence Day with film star Anupam Kher and live performance by Sukhbir Singh on Sunday. Top politicians from Maryland and Virginia are likely to attend. "India's Independence Day is three days away, but Queens is getting the celebration started early with our Independence Day ceremony tonight at 6 pm. Join us as we honour the contributions of the thousands of Indian-Americans call Queens home," said Queens Borough President Donovan Richard. "Queens would not be the place it is without our thriving Indian-American community," he added. In Boston, Niren Chaudhary, CEO of Panera Bread will be the Chief Guest at India Day Festival organised by India Association of Greater Boston. Berklee Indian Ensemble from Berklee College of Music will stage a live concert here, organisers said. In fact, several hundred independence day celebrations are being organised across the county, with scores of them being attended by Congressmen and State Governors. The Connecticut Chapter of the Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (GOPIO-CT) celebrated India's democracy and the unity and diversity of India and Indian Americans, in Stamford on August 8. Connecticut General Assembly has issued a citation honouring the Indian Day Celebration. In his proclamation Samford Mayor David Martin said that the Indian Independence was marked largely by non-violent resistance and civil disobedience and the Independence Day is celebrated by the Indian Diaspora worldwide. The proclamation further noted that Stamford city will honour Indian community which is an integral part of city's diversity, success and great future. Aligarh Alumni Association of Metro Washington, in association with GOPIO organised its annual Independence Day Mushaira / Kavi Sammelan program on August 8, 2021. Last week, Indian Americans living in Long Island part of New York organised India Day parade as well. The City of Cupertino and Cupertino-Bhubaneswar Sister City Initiative have announced plans to celebrate the 75th Anniversary of India Independence Day on August 17. The South Asian Engagement Foundation said it is working with The Durst Organisation to light up the One World Trade Center's 408 feet tall and 758-tonne spire as well as its podium in hues of the Indian tricolour on August 15th. As part of the celebrations, other Durst installations at One Bryant Park and One Five One in mid-town Manhattan will also be lit up in the tricolours. The lighting would turn on at sunset, New York City time, on August 15th on the spire of One World Trade Center, One Bryant Park and One Five One in mid-town and remain lit until 2:00 AM. Additionally, the Indian tricolour would be visible on the podium of the World Trade Center. Traditionally, the Empire State Building in New York is lit every year in the Indian tricolours on the occasion of the country's independence day. Mark Domino of The Durst Organisation, who oversees Spireworks, said in the statement that his company is proud to partner with the South Asian Engagement Foundation as it celebrates India entering its 75th year of Independence. Rahul Walia, the founding trustee of SAEF, described the event as a historic moment commemorating India's Independence and most importantly the expression of love between the US and India. "We hope to continue the tradition and enhance the experience for everyone with more imagery on the podium, he said. The South Asian Engagement Foundation is a non-profit organisation based in New Jersey with a mission to increase leadership potential in Indian-American communities by providing incentives using educational initiatives and civic engagements. Amongst its initiatives, SAEF supports programs like the South Asian Spelling Bee and the Cricket Bee. The Durst Organisation, founded in 1915 by Joseph Durst, is the owner, manager and builder of 13 million square feet of premiere Manhattan office towers and over three million square feet of residential rental properties with 2,500 rental apartments built, and over 3,500 in the pipeline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Scrapping policy will help phase out unfit vehicles, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the national vehicle scrappage policy, saying it will help phase out unfit and polluting vehicles and also promote a circular economy. The policy will give a new identity to India's mobility and auto sector, Modi said in a video address to the Investor Summit held to invite investment for setting up vehicle scrapping infrastructure under the Voluntary Vehicle-Fleet Modernization Programme. We are promoting a circular economy. The aim is to develop a sustainable and environment-friendly economy, he said. A circular economy is one where products are designed for durability, reuse and recyclability. The policy will give a new identity to India in the mobility and auto sector, Modi said. "This policy will play a major role in removing unfit vehicles from our roads in a scientific manner. It will modernise the vehicular population on our city roads, he said. The prime minister said that India should work for clean, congestion free and convenient mobility in the 21st century. The policy will play a key role in 'Waste to Wealth' programme, Modi said, adding it will also help in reducing pollution in our cities. The launch of Vehicle Scrappage Policy today is a significant milestone in India's development journey. The Investor Summit in Gujarat for setting up vehicle scrapping infrastructure opens a new range of possibilities. I would request our youth & start-ups to join this programme, Modi tweeted before the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Twitter interfering in India's political process, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused Twitter of being biased and interfering in the country's political process by blocking his account. In a strong attack, Gandhi said Twitter was denying his millions of followers the right to an opinion and termed it as an attack on the democratic structure of the country. The former Congress chief asked whether Indians should allow companies just because they are beholden to the Government of India to define our politics. "It's obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It is a biased platform. It's something that listens to what the government of the day says," he charged in a video message posted on social media. "By shutting down my Twitter they are interfering in our political process. A company is making its business to define our politics. And as a politician I don't like that," he said. "This is an attack on the democratic structure of the country. This is not an attack on Rahul Gandhi. This is not you know simply shutting Rahul Gandhi down. I have 19-20 million followers. You are denying them the right to an opinion. That's what you are doing," Gandhi said in his video message. As Indians, he asked, "we have to ask the question: are we going to allow companies just because they are beholden to the Government of India to define our politics for us". "Is that what this is going to come to? Or are we going to define our politics on our own? That's the real question here," the Congress leader said. He alleged that this is not only patently unfair, this is their breaching the idea that Twitter is a neutral platform. And for the investors this is a very dangerous thing because taking sides in the political contest has repercussions for Twitter, Gandhi said. "Our democracy is under attack. We are not allowed to speak in Parliament. The media is controlled. And I thought there was a ray of light where we could put what we thought on Twitter. But obviously, that's not the case," he said. Twitter had temporarily suspended Gandhi's account after he shared pictures of the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi, which is against the rules and the law. Twitter on its part has said that it has followed the due process as Gandhi's tweet on the family of the victim was against its rules and the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Bombay HC flags parking problem, says families without adequate space must not own multiple vehicles||Expressing anguish over the lack of any uniform policy in Maharashtra over designated parking spaces for vehicles, the Bombay High Court has said that authorities must not allow citizens to own multiple personal vehicles if they didn't have adequate parking space. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said on Thursday that authorities "should not allow families owning only one flat to have four or five cars if they do not have sufficient parking space" available in their respective housing societies. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Navi Mumbai resident and activist Sandeep Thakur, challenging a government notification that amended the Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations Rules, permitting developers to reduce car parking space. Thakur said in his plea that developers do not provide sufficient parking spaces in new highrises, thereby forcing residents to park outside the premises of the housing society. "Reduction in the purchase of new cars is needed. You can't permit one family to have four to five vehicles just because they can afford it. You should cross-check if they have parking spaces or not," the high court said. The HC questioned the rules challenged in the PIL and said there will be "chaos if a proper policy on vehicle parking is not formulated". "All roads are flooded with vehicles and everywhere, 30 per cent space of roads is taken away by parking on both sides. It is a common phenomenon," it said. "These are genuine public concerns which have to be taken into consideration to come up with long-term measures so that we do not have a chaotic society. There has to be a policy in place." The high court directed state's counsel Manish Pable to file a reply to the PIL within two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||India records over 40,000 fresh Covid cases, 585 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 40,120 coronavirus infections, taking the tally of cases to 3,21,17,826, while the recovery rate rose to 97.46 per cent, the highest recorded so far, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated Friday. The death toll, meanwhile, climbed to 4,30,254 with 585 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The ministry said the number of active cases has declined to 3,85,227 or 1.20 per cent of the total cases, the lowest percentage since March 2020. A decline of 2,760 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. The recovery rate has risen to 97.46 per cent, the country's highest since the start of the pandemic, the ministry said. Also, 19,70,495 tests were conducted Thursday, taking the cumulative tests carried out so far for the detection of COVID-19 in the country to 48,94,70,779. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.04 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 19 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.13 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,13,02,345, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 52.95 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Tuesday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 585 new fatalities include 208 from Maharashtra and 160 from Kerala. A total of 4,30,254 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34, 572 from Maharashtra, 36,911 from Karnataka, 34,428 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,780 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,280 from Kerala and 18,268 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Death toll rises to 15 in landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district  ||The death toll in the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district has climbed to 15 with the recovery of one more body on Friday, a senior disaster management official said. Rescue operations resumed this morning to trace the 15 others still missing in the landslide that occurred near Chaura village in the district on Wednesday. While 10 bodies were recovered on Wednesday, four were found on Thursday from the landslide site.Besides 13 people were rescued on Wednesday itself. State Disaster Management Director, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, said search and rescue operations resumed at around 5.30 am. The authorities had suspended the search operation on Thursday night. A Bolero and its passengers feared buried under the rubble could not be traced, Mokhta said, adding that it might be possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris. The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the members of local police and home guards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Three-year-old injured in grenade attack on BJP leader's house dies in JK's Rajouri||A three-year-old child succumbed to injuries he sustained after terrorists lobbed a grenade on the residence of a BJP leader in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri, officials said Friday. Veer was among the seven members of BJP leader Jasbir Singh's family who were injured in the attack on his house in Khandli area of the district last night, they said. Veer succumbed to his injuries during treatment at the government medical college hospital in Rajouri around midnight, sources said. The body been handed over to the family for last rites, they said. The BJP strongly condemned the attack and appealed to the police to immediately arrest those responsible for it. The incident triggered protests by locals and the BJP leader's kin who alleged Singh was not provided enough security. Singh was also injured in the attack. Soon after the attack, police and security force conducted searches in and around the town. Terming the incident an act of cowardice, J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina said terror attacks on BJP leaders were being orchestrated by Pakistan. "We strongly condemn the attack. Police should immediately arrest the terrorists responsible for it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||CJI dwells on retirement age for Supreme Court and HC judges||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Thursday appeared to throw his weight behind the growing demand for raising the retirement age for Supreme Court and high court judges. Justice Ramana’s remark came at the farewell to Justice R.F. Nariman, who retired on Thursday at the age of 65. “The retirement of luminaries such as brother Nariman who are repositories of legal acumen makes one wonder if a person’s age is the appropriate yardstick to decide the tenure and time of retirement,” the Chief Justice said. Justice Ramana’s comment comes at a time massive vacancies of judges in the country — amid a huge backlog of cases — has strained relations between the judiciary and the Centre, which is seen as delaying judges’ appointments. Earlier, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and the Supreme Court Bar Association, including its president Vikas Singh, had demanded raising the retirement age for Supreme Court judges from the current 65 to 70 and that for high court judges from 62 to 65. About 40 per cent of judges’ posts are vacant in the high courts, which have a sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges. Justice Nariman’s retirement has reduced the Supreme Court’s strength to 24 judges against a sanctioned strength of 31. On April 20, vexed with the government’s attitude, a special apex court bench of then Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant had issued several directives to the Centre to speed up judges’ appointments. It had also used its extraordinary powers to allow the appointment of retired judges as ad hoc judges of high courts to clear the backlog of 57 lakh high court cases. “The high courts are in a crisis situation. There are almost 40 per cent vacancies in the high courts, with many of the larger high courts working under 50 per cent of their sanctioned strength,” the bench had said. One reason for the vacancies is that the judiciary often struggles to find an immediate replacement for a retired judge because of a dearth of suitable candidates. Another is the Centre’s tendency to sit on recommendations from the collegiums of judges. There’s been constant friction between the Narendra Modi government and the judiciary on the subject since a constitution bench in 2014 struck down as “unconstitutional” the National Judicial Appointments Commission that sought to give the government a larger say in judges’ appointments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Congress members change Twitter DP to Rahul Gandhi's to protest locking of his account||When you open Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s Twitter handle, Rahul Gandhi’s image pops up as the profile photograph. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas’s Twitter account too shows Rahul’s name and photograph. Open party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate’s account, and again you see Rahul. The Congress calls it “lock-tantra”, no relation to loktantra, or democracy. Rahul’s Twitter account remains locked. Many Congress leaders have changed their profile picture to show solidarity with the former party president. Some have added Rahul’s name to their handles to send out a firm message to the social media giant. The Congress on Thursday alleged that the accounts of hundreds of its leaders, state units and frontal outfits too had been locked. The party initially claimed the number could be 5,000 but sources later said it was difficult to count every such locked handle across the country. Among the prominent accounts that have been locked are the party’s official handle as well as those of Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala; general secretaries K.C. Venugopal, Ajay Maken and Harish Rawat; office-bearers Manickam Tagore, Sushmita Dev, Jitendra Singh, Rajni Patil, Gourav Vallabh, Ripun Bora, Balasaheb Thorat, Pawan Khera and Revanth Reddy; and social media head Rohan Gupta. The party is using other social media platforms, describing Twitter’s action as an “attack on free speech”. Rahul’s Twitter account was locked after he tweeted photographs of himself with the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who had died after being allegedly raped in Delhi. According to India’s child rights watchdog, the post violated the laws protecting the identity of alleged victims of sexual assault. Rahul has posted several messages on Instagram, indicating he isn’t rattled by the Twitter action. “If showing compassion and empathy is a crime — then I am guilty. If fighting for justice for a rape and murder victim is a crime — then I am guilty. They can lock us out on a platform. But they can’t lock our voice for the sake of the people. The message of compassion, love and justice is universal. 1.3 billion people will not be silenced.” Priyanka, the Congress general secretary, posted several messages on Twitter, saying: “Is Twitter following its own policy for the suspension of Congress leaders’ accounts or the Modi government’s? Why hadn’t it locked the account of SC commission that had tweeted similar photos before any of our leaders did?” She added: “By locking Congress leaders’ accounts en masse, Twitter is blatantly colluding with the stifling of democracy by the BJP government in India. While the BJP government in cahoots with Twitter locks down the voices that cry for justice, let’s not forget the real issue. “The real issue is the brutal rape and forced cremation of a 9-year-old Dalit girl in the heart of India’s national capital. The real issue is the Delhi police disallowing the lodging of an FIR for 15 hours. Narendra Modi, why have you not uttered a single word about this heinous crime against an innocent child?” Shrinate alleged that Twitter was acting under pressure from the Modi government. She underscored that Twitter’s policy says action won’t be taken if the information is already available elsewhere and the intention is not to cause harm or defame but to help someone. Srinivas put out several messages showing a post by the BJP’s IT cell head, Amit Malviya, that purportedly reveals the identity of the Hathras rape victim and her mother. Twitter response In response to this newspaper’s queries on Twitter locking out more Congress leaders, the micro-blogging site merely repeated its policy statement that it had sent on Wednesday relating to Rahul being locked out. This newspaper sent the following questions on Thursday to Twitter officials in India: Keya Madhvani Singh, head of communications in Mumbai, and Pallavi Walia, head of policy communications in Delhi. 1a) Under which specific rule of Twitter has Congress leaders’ accounts been locked? b) Kindly list the specific rule they have violated, as you have not listed any specific rule in response to a query sent by The Telegraph yesterday for the locking of member of Parliament Rahul Gandhi’s account. I am unable to find any specific rule in the “Help Centre” link you have given which prohibits any content shared by Mr Gandhi. Could you please tell me the specific rule under which Mr Gandhi has been locked out of his account for a week now? 2. The owners of the locked accounts have received a message saying that their tweets — challenging Twitter on the locking of Mr Gandhi’s handle — violated rules on posting private information. The said tweets do not contain any photograph. Could you please explain what the private information is that was revealed in their tweets and have led to the locking of their handles? 3. Has Twitter ever restricted multiple accounts of Opposition parties and their leaders simultaneously in other countries, during a session of their respective legislatures or during their participation in public campaigns? 4. Former BJP MP Anju Bala, the National Commission of Scheduled Castes (NCSC) and several other users had also tweeted photos of the same people on August 2, that Mr Gandhi did two days later. Regarding this, could you please clarify on record which specific rule was applied to the Congress leaders that does not apply to Ms Bala, the NCSC and other users who tweeted photos of the parents of a deceased girl? A Twitter spokesperson replied: “The Twitter Rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone on our service. We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules, and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options. “Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals’ privacy and safety. We strongly encourage everyone on the service to familiarise themselves with the Twitter Rules and report anything they believe is in violation.” Additional reporting by Pheroze L. Vincent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Opposition not allowed to raise issues in the House: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the Opposition was not allowed to raise issues concerning the farmers, the poor, the youth and the Pegasus snooping controversy in Parliament because Prime Minister Narendra Modi was selling India to a chosen few industrialists. Leading a group of 14 political parties in a symbolic march of protest from Parliament to Vijay Chowk in the morning, the Congress MP said: “I want to tell the country why the Opposition was not allowed to speak, to raise issues about the poor, the farmers, youth. Who stopped the Opposition from speaking? The Prime Minister. Hindustan ka pradhan mantri Hindustan ko bech raha hai (India’s Prime Minister is selling India). He is selling India’s soul to a few industrialists.” Rahul and the other MPs had assembled in Parliament in protest against the move to adjourn the session two days before the scheduled closure without allowing Opposition members to speak on any of the issues they were agitated about while the government’s business was completed in the turmoil. The leaders of almost every party pointed to the peril Indian democracy was in and vowed to fight the Modi government’s authoritarianism on the streets. Rahul said: “The session is over without the participation of 60 per cent of the population. The voice of 60 per cent of India was crushed, humiliated. In the Rajya Sabha yesterday (Wednesday), MPs were physically beaten for the first time. We are speaking from here because we were not allowed to discuss the price rise, farmers’ agitation and the Pegasus snooping inside the House. This is nothing short of the murder of democracy.” Rahul flared up when a reporter asked him about the pain and anguish expressed by the Lok Sabha Speaker and Rajya Sabha Chairman over the continued disruptions, saying: “Are you a government spokesperson? You are worried about the pain felt by presiding officers. What is their responsibility? Why did they not run Parliament? Why can’t the Opposition speak in Parliament?” The Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut said: “What session if the Opposition couldn’t speak? The session hasn’t happened. What happened is murder of democracy. Last night in the Rajya Sabha, I felt I was standing at the Pakistan border. Never seen such scenes in Parliament. Marshals and private people in uniform attacked women members. But the Opposition is united and will protect democracy.” Many other leaders alleged that outsiders had come to Parliament and behaved like “goondas”. An Opposition delegation called on Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and lodged a strong protest at the manner the House was conducted. A letter written to Naidu by the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, and signed by all the parties, said: “The Opposition strongly condemns the authoritarian attitude and undemocratic actions of the government. We remain committed to continue our struggle against the assault on parliamentary democracy and agitate on issues of national importance and people’s concerns.” The Opposition parties also issued a joint statement that accused the government of deliberately derailing the session knowing full well that the Opposition wanted to discuss four issues — Pegasus snooping, the farmers’ agitation, inflation and economic situation. Arguing that the government was hell-bent on escaping parliamentary scrutiny, they said it relied on brute majority to misuse Parliament and the power of propaganda to mislead the nation. Later in the evening, Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien and the RJD’s Manoj Jha responded to the defence of the government’s conduct by eight ministers with eight questions: 1. Why was Modi not present in House during the passage of the OBC constitutional amendment bill? 2. Why were 38 bills bulldozed through without discussion and within minutes? 3. Why are bills not sent to select committees for proper parliamentary scrutiny? 4. Why the rain of ordinances? 5. Why has the PM not answered one question in the last five years? 6. Why has a Lok Sabha deputy Speaker not been elected? 7. Why were discussions not allowed on Pegasus, farmers and inflation? and 8. Whose responsibility is it to run Parliament? Rahul continued his attack on the government at a massive “Halla Bol (Raise your voice)” demonstration organised by the party’s Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes department, saying: “The Prime Minister is attacking India’s Constitution in connivance with a few industrialists. We are not allowed to raise people’s concerns in Parliament. Yesterday MPs were beaten up inside Parliament. Modi first tries to snatch farmers’ rights and then brands them terrorist. Even the media is not working for the country; they work for the RSS, Modi and the interests of some industrialists.” But he predicted: “This is a country of mature people. They are gradually understanding the game. The poor, Dalits, farmers, workers are beginning to speak in one voice. This voice will get stronger and raise a storm one day, throwing out the Modi regime. We don’t have to fear these cowards. If you stop getting frightened, they will run away. The job of the Congress is to tell the citizens that India belongs to everyone and there is no need to fear.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||ISRO Earth observation satellite suffers mid-flight engine failure||India’s space programme encountered a setback on Thursday when its Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle, after a successful launch, suffered a mid-flight engine problem and failed to ferry an advanced Earth observation satellite into space. Space sector analysts say the failure is likely to push back the country’s GSLV-linked projects by months and might add further delays to India’s plans for human space missions, already disrupted by delays linked to Covid-19. The 15-storey tall, three-stage GSLV lifted off from the Sriharikota island spaceport on the Andhra Pradesh coast at 5.43am. All appeared to go well for nearly five minutes when something went wrong in the rocket’s third stage — the critical cryogenic engine. “(The) performance of first and second stages was normal. However, (the) cryogenic upper stage ignition did not happen due to (a) technical anomaly. The mission couldn’t be accomplished as intended,” the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) said in a statement. The rocket and its passenger — described by Isro as the country’s first state-of-the-art agile Earth Observation Satellite (EOS-3) — were at the time of the anomaly at an altitude of over 130km above the Bay of Bengal, nearly 800km from Sriharikota. The Isro statement did not specify the fate of the launch vehicle, but space sector analysts believe the rocket and the satellite would have fallen into the sea. The EOS-3 was to have been used to monitor cloudbursts, thunderstorms, crops, forests, waterbodies, and to deliver images of large areas at far frequent intervals than possible with existing satellites. While the loss of the rocket and satellite is a setback, space sector analysts said the failure analysis investigation that Isro is certain to initiate is expected to throw light on the source of the problem leading to the failure. “We’ve seen a string of successful GSLV flights — it is a proven operational launch vehicle,” said Gagan Agrawal, a space industry executive who was formerly with the Isro and Northern Sky Research, a global space market research company. The flight was the 14th GSLV launch and the eighth GSLV flight powered by a homegrown cryogenic engine. After two launch failures in April and December 2010, all the six GSLV launches since 2014 have been successful. “Given that what happened today could likely be a nuts-and-bolts or supplies or a quality control issue, I’d expect Isro to bounce back within months to a year,” Agrawal said. The anomaly occurred in what many space technology engineers consider the most complex and challenging of GSLV’s stages — the cryogenic engine, fuelled by liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen — required for the final stages of the flight. “This is not anything unusual — liquid oxygen-hydrogen combos are known to be very temperamental,” a former top Isro official and senior space technology expert told The Telegraph. “Other space agencies have also had ignition-in-vacuum issues.” But the GSLV failure in April 2010 had also occurred due to a cryogenic stage ignition failure. “Given that this is a repeat failure, I would mandate a deep academia-based investigation on ignition issues in cryogenic engines,” said the expert who requested anonymity. “But who will mandate such an investigation? The culture of getting outside expertise in failure analysis died with Satish Dhawan.” Dhawan, the Isro chairman from 1972 to 1984, had given shape to India’s space programme and was respected for his unique management style that included drawing expertise from outside the space agency. He died in 2002. Isro plans to use an advanced version of the GSLV called Mark-III for its human space missions that were initially envisioned for 2022 but have been delayed. Isro chairman K. Sivan had told PTI in July this year that the first uncrewed mission planned for December, as part of preparations for the human space flight programme, will be delayed. “It’s delayed. It (the uncrewed mission) will shift to next year,” Sivan had told PTI. The planned three-astronaut mission will have to be preceded by two uncrewed flights. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on August 15, 2018, announced that Isro would sent an astronaut into space by or before 2022. The Centre had in December 2018 approved Rs 9,023 crore for the plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Muslim man thrashed in Kanpur for alleged molestation||A Muslim man was thrashed on a Kanpur street on Wednesday by alleged supporters of the Bajrang Dal and other Hindutva outfits who accused him of molesting a woman. A video circulated on social media shows a girl, aged five or six, crying and trying to save a middle-aged man who is being punched, kicked and dragged along the road by a dozen-strong mob. Local people told reporters the girl was the victim’s daughter and that many of the attackers were associated with Sangh parivar outfits. The police have registered an FIR for “assault, rioting and threatening to kill” but not for spreading enmity among religious groups. No one has been arrested yet. When The Telegraph rang Raveena Tyagi, deputy commissioner of police for South Kanpur Nagar, city police PRO Brijesh Kumar Singh took the call. “The police registered a case immediately. A probe is in progress. Madam (Tyagi) has released a video of her statement on Twitter,” he said. Tyagi says in the statement: “A video has come to light in which some people are beating a man in Kachchi Basti area near Ram Gopal Chauraha. We have registered a case against some identified and unidentified persons on the basis of a complaint from the victim. We are taking action against the accused.” Earlier on Wednesday, Tyagi had told local reporters: “Afsar Ahmad, the victim, was accused by a woman on July 12 of inducing her to convert.” Police sources said the woman had accused Afsar of offering her money to convert, which she rejected. Afsar couldn’t be contacted. “A few days later, Afsar’s wife accused the woman’s husband of molesting her. On July 31, the woman who had accused Afsar of inducement filed a fresh case of molestation against him,” Tyagi said. She didn’t confirm the involvement of Hindutva outfits in the assault on Afsar and said Ajay Kumar, who runs a brass band, his son Don and eight to 10 unidentified people had attacked him. “The police had rushed to the spot and saved Afsar,” Tyagi said. She did not explain why Ajay and Don had not been arrested. Dilip Singh, district convener of the Bajrang Dal, said members of his group had grabbed Afsar and were taking him to the police station. “The woman who was being induced to convert had come to us and we were taking the accused to the police station. We cannot sit silent if our sisters and daughters are targeted,” Singh said. Told that the video showed the mob beating Afsar, he declined comment. Police sources said they were probing the inducement and molestation allegations too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Ministers are threatened in New India, says Pralhad Joshi||The Centre on Thursday fielded eight ministers to launch a counter-attack on the Opposition, accusing it of threatening behaviour, denigrating Parliament and seeking an apology and strongest possible action. The eight ministers were fielded in response to the Opposition’s attack on the government over the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The ministers took turns to attack the Opposition, claiming there was an attempt to “strangulate” the Rajya Sabha marshals and denigrate the Chair, before demanding an “apology to the country”. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi claimed the Opposition had “threatened a disastrous situation” if the government tried to pass more bills after the passage of the OBC bill. “In the morning itself (on Wednesday), we were threatened. I am using the words very carefully,” Joshi said. “We were threatened that if we try to pass the insurance and other bills after the OBC bill, there will be a more disastrous situation than what had happened yesterday,” he added, pointing out that the government decided to end the monsoon session two days before schedule because of the threat. Joshi claimed the threatening words were “clearly and unambiguously” addressed to the government when it approached the Opposition seeking cooperation to pass the bills. The minister said they had met Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and demanded “strong action” against the Opposition members to prevent a repetition of such misconduct. “I demand that if they have little sense of responsibility and democracy, they should apologise to the country,” Joshi said. After Joshi, leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, took over and accused the Opposition of trying to divert attention by making claims on manhandling of MPs by marshals to escape action for their “shameful conduct”. He firmly denied the Opposition charge that outsiders were deployed inside the Rajya Sabha. “A total of 30 marshals were there, 18 men and 12 women. No outsiders,” Goyal claimed. His claim, however, didn’t match the statement issued by Naidu’s office. “Later in the day, the officials (of the Rajya Sabha) reported to Chairman Shri Naidu that no outsiders were deployed as marshals... only watch and ward staff of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha secretariats were deployed, which is permitted, based on the need,” the statement from Naidu’s office said. The statement added: “They (RS officials) also informed that only 13 marshals were deployed to start with and was gradually scaled up to 42, based on the situation in the House.” Asked why the government couldn’t break the stalemate as the Opposition was only demanding a discussion on the Pegasus row in both Houses, Goyal said a suo motu statement had been made by information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. “A suo motu statement (on Pegasus) was given by the minister. In the Rajya Sabha, the Opposition would have got ample opportunity to seek clarifications and ask questions,” Goyal said. The Opposition had demanded a detailed discussion and clarification from home minister Amit Shah on the Pegasus row as it involved national security. On the allegation that bills were passed without discussion, the ministers said the government was ready but Opposition rejected it. “It was pre-decided by the Congress and its friendly parties that they will not allow Parliament to function,” Joshi said. He justified the passage of bills amid the din, saying it was “basic duty of Parliament to pass bills”. The ministers said they had demanded a high-level inquiry into the ruckus inside the House on Wednesday and “strongest possible action” against the Opposition MPs. The government’s delegation of eight ministers met Naidu after his meeting with a group of Opposition leaders. On the Opposition’s claim that the passage and timing of the bill to privatise general insurance companies was in violation of norms, the government denied it. The government delegation told Naidu that the passage of the bill on Wednesday was “preceded by discussions with leaders of some Opposition parties and was in pursuance of an earlier understanding that the House would sit beyond the scheduled hours, if required, to complete the business of the day”. Asked about NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s statement that in his 55 years of parliamentary career he had never seen women MPs being attacked, Goyal said the veteran leader had been misinformed. “Mr Pawar has been wrongly informed,” Goyal said and asked how the veteran leader could “condone” the misconduct of his Opposition colleagues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Merit always comes first, says Rohinton Fali Nariman||Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, the second senior-most judge of the Supreme Court, demitted office on retirement on Thursday amid glowing tributes by judges and lawyers at an event organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association. Justice Nariman, besides reviving the Babri Masjid demolition conspiracy charges in April 2017 against BJP leaders L. K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharati, Kalyan Singh and others, was part of the nine-judge constitution bench in the 2017 Justice K. Puttaswamy vs Union of India case in which the top court had ruled that the right to privacy was part of the fundamental rights under Article 21, which guarantees life and personal liberty. He was also part of the five-judge constitution bench in the triple talaq row in which the top court by a majority of 3:2 declared the age-old practice as unconstitutional. In 2015, Justice Nariman, heading a two-judge bench in the Shreya Singhal vs Union of India case, had struck down as unconstitutional Section 66A of the IT Act, which had empowered the authorities to put in jail any person articulating dissenting or critical views on the Internet. At the event organised by the SCBA, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said few were aware that “at the tender age of 12 years, while other children were probably busy playing cricket or something else, Brother Nariman became an ordained priest of the Parsi faith. This extraordinary grooming explains the evolution of his work ethic, commitment, focus and brilliance”. Justice Nariman said: “I believe nobody has a ‘legitimate expectation’ to come to this court. I believe there is a ‘legitimate expectation’ in the people of India and the litigating public to get a certain quality of justice from this final court. For that, it is very clear, merit must predominate, subject to other factors. But merit always comes first.” CJI Ramana said Justice Nariman had left an indelible mark on the jurisprudence of the country by authoring 350 judgments as a judge of the Supreme Court and disposing of nearly 13,565 cases. “I feel like I am losing one of the lions that guarded the judicial institution,” Justice Ramana said. Justice Ramana took the opportunity to debunk “a misconception in the minds of the people that judges stay in big bungalows, work only from 10am to 4pm and enjoy their holidays”. “Such a narrative is untrue. It is not easy to prepare for more than 100 cases every week, listen to novel arguments, do independent research, and author judgments, while also dealing with the various administrative duties of a judge, particularly of a senior judge. “We either burn the midnight oil, or wake up before sunrise, or sometimes even both, to fulfil our judicial duties. We continue to work even during the court holidays, do research and author pending judgments. Therefore, when false narratives are created about the supposed easy life led by judges, it is difficult to swallow. “We cannot defend ourselves. It is the duty of the Bar to refute these false narratives and to educate the public about the work put in by judges with the limited resources given to them,” Justice Ramana said. Justice Nariman underlined the need for more members from the Bar to be appointed as judges of the Supreme Court and asserted that merit should be the sole criteria for appointment as judges. Justice Nariman was directly elevated from the Bar to the Supreme Court as a judge in 2014. Since 2005, judges and chief justices of the high courts were normally elevated to the Supreme Court as judges but the convention of elevating lawyers was revived in 2014 by the Supreme Court collegium headed by then CJI R.M. Lodha, who had elevated senior lawyers like R.F. Nariman and U.U. Lalit. Between 2005 and 2013, the convention of appointing senior advocates directly from the Bar to the Supreme Court was stopped for some inexplicable reasons, only to be revived in 2014. Several judges of the Supreme Court and various high courts, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, SCBA president Vikas Singh and other legal luminaries were present at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||RTI activist Saket Gokhale joins Trinamul Congress in New Delhi||RTI activist Saket Gokhale joined the Trinamul Congress in the capital on Thursday in the presence of recent entrant from the BJP, Yashwant Sinha, and other senior leaders such as Saugata Roy and Derek O’Brien. Interacting with the media after joining Trinamul, Gokhale appeared appreciative of the party’s ability to take an aggressive stand on issues. “The TMC is the second-largest Opposition party in Parliament and it was my obvious choice. If you look at all the national parties, the TMC takes an aggressive stand. The way the chief minister of Bengal has been fighting on the front foot, that’s what I am looking for.” Explaining his decision on Twitter, Gokhale said: “The fight to safeguard our democracy & its institutions needs all hands on deck. I hope to contribute in the best way I can.... The battle for me remains what it always has been. I will continue to do what I do with greater strength. The need for Opposition unity today is greater than it has ever been. Everyone that is fighting the monster of BJP’s fascism is forever a friend & ally of mine.” It was in response to an RTI filed by Gokhale that the Union home ministry had in January last year said it “has no information concerning tukde-tukde gang”. Gokhale had filed the RTI application on December 26 after Union home minister Amit Shah had told a rally in Delhi that the “tukde-tukde gang” needed to be taught a lesson. Since the term was coined in the wake of protests at Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2016, the BJP leadership and the Right-wing ecosystem had been using it not just in the context of JNU but also that of political opponents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Covid: Probe must to establish oxygen death, says Manish Sisodia ||It is difficult to ascertain without a probe if there were any oxygen-related deaths during the second Covid-19 wave, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has told Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in a written communication. Addressing a news conference on Thursday, Sisodia said the Delhi government had  in June formed a committee to probe the deaths and prepare a report so that the affected families could be given a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each. “But through the LG (Delhi’s lieutenant governor), the Centre did not allow that committee to be formed. We are sending the file again to the Delhi LG. We will carry out the probe with full responsibility and even punish the guilty,” he said. Delhi has recorded over 25,000 fatalities because of the infection, he said, adding it will have to be probed how many of these were linked to the oxygen crisis during April and May. “We cannot say that there was no oxygen crisis. The families of patients, hospitals were sending out SOS messages for help at that time,” he said. Last month, Opposition parties had hit out at the government for informing Parliament that no deaths because of oxygen shortage were reported by states and Union Territories during the second wave. On Tuesday, a top official said only one state had till now reported “suspected” death due to oxygen shortage during the second wave after the Centre sought data from them on such fatalities following raising of the issue in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
13-08-2021||India||Rape case: Supreme Court stays Gujarat High Court order granting two-week furlough to Narayan Sai||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed a Gujarat High Court order granting a two-week furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai, son of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu who is also undergoing life term for another rape case in Rajasthan. The court, however, said it needed to examine whether the rules allowed the annual furlough on the basis of the calendar year or from 12 months after the last one was granted to a prisoner. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah issued a notice to Sai on Gujarat government’s plea challenging the high court’s single-judge order and stayed it till further orders. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Gujarat government, said the single-judge order of June 24, 2021, granted furlough to Sai for two weeks but the division bench had stayed it till August 13 and therefore the state had moved the top court challenging the June 24 order. The bench said that under the Bombay Furlough and Parole Rules, applicable in Gujarat as well, a prisoner could be granted furlough once every year after he completed seven years in jail. “The idea of furlough is that a prisoner gets away from the environment of jail and is able to meet his family members,” the bench said and asked Mehta about the grievances with the order. Mehta replied that under the rules and even in a judgment of this court, it had been held that furlough was not an absolute right and it depended on various factors. He said Sai and his father wielded considerable influence with money and muscle power. Mehta said they had tried to bribe police officials, mobile phones were recovered from their cell in jail and three prime witnesses crucial to their cases were killed. The bench said that now that he is convicted, all these contentions will not hold good as he was also granted furlough in December last year, which the state government has never challenged. Mehta said that last year Sai was granted furlough for two weeks as he wanted to visit his ailing mother and it was purely on humanitarian grounds that the state government did not find it appropriate to challenge that order. The bench then asked Mehta, whether during his last furlough were there any incidents of law and order situation or was there any danger to peace and tranquillity to which he replied that it is not on record. Mehta said: “Problem now is that he is seeking furlough as a matter of right that he should be released every year on furlough.” The bench said the point which needs examination is that under the rules it is said that a prisoner can avail furlough once every year after he serves seven years in imprisonment. “Whether once every year means once every calendar year or once every year means since the last time he got furlough. This is the point we need to examine. We are issuing notice to the respondent (Sai),” the bench said. It asked the counsel appearing for Sai to file his reply within a week and posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. On April 26, 2019, Sai was convicted under the Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 323 (assault), 506(2) (criminal intimidation) and 120B (conspiracy) by a Surat court and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2013, after Asaram was arrested for allegedly raping a girl in Rajasthan, two Suratbased sisters had accused Asaram and his son of sexual exploitation. The elder sister had accused Asaram of sexual assaults between 1997 and 2006 when she lived at his Ahmedabad ashram. The younger sister had accused Sai of sexual assaults when she lived at Asaram’s ashram in the Jahangirpura area of Surat between 2002 and 2005. Sai was arrested from the Delhi-Haryana border in December 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
13-08-2021||India||Allahabad court asks police to probe authenticity of academic certificates of Yogi’s deputy||An Allahabad court has asked police to probe the authenticity of the academic certificates and mark sheets of Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya following a forgery complaint from a BJP colleague. Right to Information activist and district-level BJP functionary Diwakar Nath Tripathi had lodged a case with additional chief judicial magistrate Namrata Singh’s court seeking a directive to the police to file a forgery case against Maurya. The court has asked the police to submit an inquiry report before the next hearing on August 25. “When Maurya filed his nomination for the Assembly elections from Allahabad West in 2007, he had furnished two mark sheets and an intermediate (Plus II) certificate from the Hindi Sahitya Sammelan, which is not recognised by any educational board,” Tripathi told The Telegraph. “Allahabad High Court and the Supreme Court had in the past ruled that the Sammelan’s degrees and certificates are not recognised.” The Sammelan conducts intermediate courses in the Hindi language and literature. Its first and second-year courses are called Prathama and Dwitiya. “Maurya contested Assembly elections from Allahabad West in 2007 and from Sirathu in 2014, the Lok Sabha elections from Phulpur in 2014, and the legislative council elections in 2017. Each time, his educational certificates were different. This indicates fraud,” Tripathi said. “The enrolment number mentioned in Maurya’s mark sheet for Dwitiya is fake. According to the Sammelan’s records, one Manju Singh was enrolled against the same number.” Maurya dismissed the case as “a politically motivated allegation before the Assembly elections” and hinted at a role by the Opposition. Tripathi’s answer to the question why he had filed a case against a leader of his own party suggested a personal grudge. “Maurya is bad-tempered.... I was in charge of the party membership drive in 2004 and inducted him into the BJP after the VHP had discarded him. He then began working against me,” he said. “I was regional vice-president of the Kashi Prant of the BJP till two years ago before Maurya hatched a conspiracy to remove me. The Samajwadi Party government had provided me with police security but Maurya withdrew it. I won’t spare him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
13-08-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education chief removed from post||The Bengal government Friday removed Mahua Das from the post of president of state higher secondary council and appointed Jadavpur University pro-vice-chancellor Dr. Chiranjib Bhattacharya in her place. In a notification dated August 12, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said Dr. Chiranjib Bhattacharya is being appointed s president of West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE) for four years with immediate effect and it has been approved by the education minister. Das had been in the eye of a storm ever since the publication of higher secondary results on July 20 in which initially about two per cent of the total 8,19,202 candidates were declared failed leading to protests by the unsuccessful candidates across the state, and for having revealed the religious identity of the topper triggering a controversy. The number of failed candidates was pegged at around 18,000 based on an evaluation method adopted by the council as exams could not be held this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The evaluation method had been worked out this year based on the marks obtained by an examinee in the Madhyamik (class 10) examination) and the best of four of the subject marks in class 11 annual test. The assessment marks in class 12 practicals in the case of science subjects and projects by students of humanities were added to the evaluation criteria. At the intervention of the state government and Higher Education minister Bratya Basu, the results of the failed candidates were re-evaluated and the council on August 2 announced all the unsuccessful candidates to have passed. Bhattacharya, who is currently not in town, confirmed the news and thanked the higher education minister for giving him the responsibility. "I intend to take up the charge on Monday," he told reporters. A top JU official said the university has not yet been formally intimated about the decision of the higher education department and it was not sure whether Bhattacharya will be in full-time charge of the WBCHSE or will be able to simultaneously discharge his responsibilities at the varsity. Das did not take calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal second highest in people consuming alcohol, says study||Bengal ranked second after Uttar Pradesh in terms of absolute number of people who consume alcohol, a joint study by economic research agency ICRIER and law consulting firm PLR Chambers said. According to the study, nearly 1.4 crore people in West Bengal consume alcohol, and this sector is among the top three revenue earners of the state. The price model in the state has been tweaked recently from a free market to a lowest ex-distillery price (EDP) and an increase in taxes has been witnessed, which is a major concern for the industry, the study said. It revealed that steep hikes in the market retail price have resulted in substantial decline of India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) sales in the state. Therefore, even though the formula for calculation is lowest EDP, the excise duty has been hiked and this issue needs to be studied taking into account how consumers react to price changes, it said. The report found that India is one of the fastest growing markets for alcoholic beverages globally, with an estimated market size of 52.5 billion US dollars in 2020. The market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 6.8 per cent between 2020 and 2023. Production of alcoholic beverages increased by about 23.8 per cent during the period between 2015-16 and 2018-19 and the sector contributed to around 1.5 million jobs and generated around USD 48.8 billion in sales revenue in 2019, the study noted. Yet India is unable to become a large exporter like Chile, Argentina or China, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to relax night-time curfew by two hours from August 16||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced her government’s decision to relax night-time restrictions by two hours from August 16. But she added that the stricter restrictions would continue till August 30. “The night-time restrictions will be in place between 11pm and 5am. Earlier, outside activities were barred between 9pm and 5am. The additional two hours will help shops and other establishments carry out their business properly,” Mamata said at Nabanna. The state government will allow theatres, swimming pools and sporting arenas to operate at 50 per cent capacity. The chief minister made it clear that suburban trains would not run till at least August 30 although she conceded that the absence of local trains posed a problem for many. “Many were asking me why local trains were not being allowed to run.… As vaccination in the rural areas has not been up to the mark owing to a shortage of supplies, I would request all to bear with the pain for a few more days,” Mamata said. The chief minister said the state would allow local trains to run once 50 per cent of the rural population got vaccinated. She said 75 per cent of the urban population had already been vaccinated with at least one dose. An official said: “A number of special trains in the suburban areas has been allowed and the state government has requested the railways to allow people working in certain fields to board these trains. This is how we have to manage the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang: Platforms different, but mission same||Binay Tamang on Thursday said he and Bimal Gurung would work from “different platforms” on various issues for the benefit of Gorkhas by “taking the state government into confidence”. Tamang added a new dimension to the ever-changing political landscape in the Darjeeling hills when he called on Gurung for a one-on-one meeting on Wednesday evening. “We have decided to work from different platforms to raise the issues of the Gorkha community by taking the state government into confidence,” Tamang told this newspaper on Thursday. There were rumours in the hills about the possibility of Tamang joining Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha but the former ruled it out “at the moment”. Speaking at a different location in Darjeeling on Thursday, Gurung also said he and Tamang would work from different platforms, but he was quick to add that “anything can happen” in politics. The two leaders’ statements clearly indicated that while both of them had agreed to work from different platforms at the moment, they remained open to the idea of different political permutations and combinations, which some observers think will add to the element of uncertainty in the hills. In the middle of the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, Tamang fell apart with Gurung and formed his own faction in the Morcha. Since then, Gurung had been on the run as several cases had been slapped on him in connection with the violent movement. The political equations in the hills started to change after Gurung dumped the BJP and allied with the Trinamul Congress last year. Tamang’s meeting with Gurung on Wednesday comes after the former quit his own faction in the Morcha on July 15. Anit Thapa is now heading the Morcha faction that Tamang headed. Observers believe that though Gurung, Tamang and Thapa are all allies of Trinamul, Gurung and Tamang have joined hands to take on Thapa. The Thapa camp said the new development would only help their faction. “It has exposed Tamang and let us see how other leaders in the camps of Gurung and Tamang react to this development. We have nothing to lose from yesterday’s development,” said a leader from the Thapa camp. Speaking to The Telegraph over the phone from Kalimpong, Thapa said he would announce the date of the launch of his new party at a meeting to be held on August 17. Sources close to him had earlier told this newspaper that Thapa would launch the new party “either in the last week of August or the first week of September”. Thapa was in Kalimpong on Thursday where a former GTA Sabha member Gopal Ruchal joined his faction while Tamang started a tour of the foothills of Kalimpong and the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Six Bangladesh youths held for infiltration||Acting on a tip-off, a team of the 148 battalion of the Border Security Force (BSF) arrested six Bangladeshi nationals on Wednesday for allegedly infiltrating India via the international border at Kuchlibari in Cooch Behar. According to BSF sources, after entering Indian territory, the men, aged between 24 and 40, had hired a van when the BSF team arrested them. “The van’s driver and the cleaner were also arrested. All were handed over to Mekhliganj police. They need to be interrogated why they infiltrated India,” said a BSF officer. All the six Bangladeshis, aged between 24 and 40 years, are residents of Parsinghra village of Natore district in the neighbouring country.  The driver and cleaner are from Kuchlibari. On frisking, Rs 24,875 in cash, some currencies of Malaysia and South Africa, six cell phones, two Aadhaar cards and some suspected herbal medicines were found on them. In recent months, this is the first time in north Bengal that six Bangladeshi nationals have been arrested at one go. The BSF in a special anti-smuggling drive along the India-Bangladesh border in different areas of north Bengal on Thursday have seized items, including cough syrup bottles and cattle, altogether worth Rs 2.12. “These were supposed to be smuggled to Bangladesh from India,” said a BSF source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Rain triggers landslides, NH10 hit for hours||Incessant downpour across the sub-Himalayan north Bengal since Wednesday night led to landslides in a number of locations across the hills. As the slides brought down debris, traffic came to a halt along a number of roads, including NH10, the principal highway that directly connects the Himalayan state of Sikkim and Kalimpong district in Bengal with the rest of the country. The slides also damaged houses in many hilly hamlets of Mirik and Kurseong town. As monsoon rain continued to lash the region even in the early morning hours of Thursday, a chunk of debris fell on NH 10 at Hatisuray, a locality between Sevoke and Kalijhora, also known as SNT-Dara. Boulders and earth blocked the road, halting traffic. Vehicles bound for Sikkim and Kalimpong from Siliguri and vice-versa had to take detours on small interior roads. The debris on NH10 cleared partly by Thursday night and traffic in a single file was restored by 10pm. “The landslide on NH10 near Coronation Bridge of Sevoke (around 30km from Siliguri) cut off direct connectivity to Sikkim and Kalimpong. Officials of the NH division of the state PWD did the restoration work,” said a source in Darjeeling district administration. Excavators have been engaged to clear the highway. However, there is risk of fresh slides  if it rains again. Rainfall also triggered slides in localities like Dumaram Busty, Subedar Busty, Sherpa Busty, Rajbari Busty, Ranicoop and Gurukul of Kurseong town at different times in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, damaging at least six houses. “Also, three houses in Ninth Mile and Thurbo area of Mirik subdivision and one more at Neez Gaon that is in ward I of Mirik town were partially damaged because of the slides,” said a source in the district disaster management section (DDMS) in Darjeeling. Rainfall on Wednesday night caused cave-ins of portions of a road that connects Rimbick and Bansbotay in Darjeeling district. The road was built by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. Damages were reported from Namla under Rimbick panchayat. Weathermen who earlier predicted steady downpour from Wednesday, on Thursday said further bouts of heavy rainfall could occur during the next couple of days. In past 24 hours, that is, till 8.30am on Thursday, it rained 1349mm in Siliguri. “We are on alert. All necessary arrangements have been made to handle any emergency situation,” said a senior official of Darjeeling district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Headless body of a 62-year-old found in Balurghat||The decomposed and headless torso of a 62-year-old man who had been missing from home for six days was found in a patch of forest located on the outskirts of Balurghat town in South Dinajpur district on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Jyotirmoy Mondal, a resident of Tank More in Raghunathpur area of the town. Police have sent the body for post-mortem and have initiated a probe. Sources said Mondal used to practise homoeopathy. “He was not a registered homoeopath but used to provide homoeopathy medicines to people of his surrounding areas,” said a police officer. Last Friday, Mondal went missing. When the sexagenarian did not return home, his family members started a search for him but could not locate him. Eventually, they filed a missing diary with the police. Police initiated a search. On Thursday, some residents of Madhuban, an adjoining area of Raghunathpur, sensed a foul smell emanating from the forest nearby. Some residents went to the forest area to discover the root of the odour and found the decomposed body. Police were informed and soon a team of Balurghat police station reached the spot. “We were surprised to learn that my brother’s headless body has been recovered from the forest. We have no inkling at all as to how he died. Police should find out what led to his death,” said Tapan, the victim’s brother. Senior police officers suspect that Mondal died some days back and dogs or foxes in that patch of forest took away his head. “We are waiting for his post-mortem report to know how this elderly man’s head got severed. Our officers are talking to his family members to obtain more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Special farm trains to Calcutta launched||The Eastern Railway on Thursday launched an exclusive train service for farmers in its suburban section on an experimental basis for transportation of agricultural and perishable products to markets in Calcutta. Two trains — Krishak Special — will run between Gede and Sealdah as well as between Santipur and Sealdah six days a week. Vendors will be allowed to travel with their produce on the trains. The two trains will help a large number of farmers and vendors from Nadia district and some parts of North 24-Parganas district to bring agricultural produce, particularly green vegetables, to markets in Calcutta. On August 7 last year, the railway ministry had introduced the inter-state farmers’ special train (Kisan Rail) between Devlali (Maharashtra) and Danapur (Bihar) in pursuance of an announcement in the 2020-21 Union Budget. This followed the launch of more similar inter-state Kisan special trains. But Eastern Railways’ Krishak Special is the first ever intra-state service launched in the suburban section to cater for a huge number of farmers and vendors who regularly struggle to transport their produce to the city markets from rural areas. Otherwise, they travel largely in general compartments. The nine-coach trains from Gede and Santipur will have limited stops and general passengers will not be allowed to travel, a railway official said. The Krishak Special train would leave Gede at 3am and reach Sealdah at 5.46am. On the other hand, a similar train from Santipur will start at 1.20pm and reach Sealdah at 3.50pm. “Vendors will be allowed to carry their agricultural produce by using their monthly vendor season ticket, luggage tickets as well as unreserved tickets to travel in the train,” an ER communication stated. Speaking about the objective of the two trains, an ER official said: “The early morning train from Gede is aimed at helping farmers ferry agricultural produce, particularly green vegetables, so that they could ensure supply to the city markets in the morning. The other train from Santipur is to help chhana producers who regularly supply huge quantities of cottage cheese to satisfy the demand of the confectioners,” the official added. ER authorities have decided that if this new special service becomes popular, similar trains will be introduced gradually in other suburban sections as well. “This Krishak special train service has been introduced on an experimental basis in the suburban section. If this experiment becomes successful, launching of similar train services will be considered in other suburban sections as well,” Ekalavya Chakraborty, chief public relation officer of Eastern Railway, told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections: Yechury highlights mistakes made by state comrades||CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday used a review of the Bengal election results to highlight the mistakes made by his Bengal comrades in their approach to the Assembly polls in which the party could not bag a single seat. The review had already been adopted by the central committee, the party’s highest decision-making body. “Sitaram was furious. He kept accusing the state leadership of not conforming to the party line. There was hardly any defence from the state leaders,” said a CPM leader who was present at the state committee meeting. “Even after coming back to power with a landslide victory, look at Trinamul’s groundwork. What are you doing? You are not even able to identify the issues properly,” a source quoted Yechury as telling the Bengal comrades while wondering how they could be oblivious to the decay in the party’s organisational abilities. The CPM general secretary has always been aligned with his colleagues from Bengal and had often lent his weight behind the so-called Bengal line in times of debates on the political-tactical line. But he was unsparing this time. A source in the party said that with the central committee (CC) adopting the review that the politburo had prepared — after discarding an electoral analysis drawn up by the state committee — it was practically impossible for Yechury to stand by the state committee that has been accused of flouting the party line. The report adopted by the central committee says: “During the course of the campaign, the seat adjustment with the Congress party and the Indian Secular Front were projected under the terminology of Sanjukta Morcha as a United Front calling for an alternative government. This was wrong and not in consonance with the CC understanding.” A segment of state leaders want to carry on with this electoral understanding. Their line came under fire from Yechury as the central committee’s view was laid on the table. This central committee note, a party source said, is going to be a bitter pill that the Bengal unit will have to swallow in all subsequent discussions — to be carried out across districts — on the Assembly poll outcome. The review of the election results did not restrict itself to the alliance the state unit had entered into. It highlighted how state CPM leaders had overestimated the anti-incumbency against Trinamul and how the ruling party’s attempts at tackling the people’s grievances were brushed aside as “dole politics”. Over the past few years, the CPM has often tried to criticise Mamata’s pro-poor measures as “dole politics”. A section in the party never approved of this line but got overruled in various forums. Now that the central committee has castigated this approach, it will be interesting to see how the state leaders, who had been in denial despite successive electoral debacles, chart their future course and criticism of Mamata. One of the central points of Yechury’s criticism of the state unit at Thursday’s meeting was its approach on the question of land, an issue believed to be at the core of the slide in the party’s support base since 2008. “The slogan of land as our basis and industrialisation as our future, coined at the time of the Nandigram developments, continued to be used even in this election campaign. In the current situation, this slogan was seen by the people as a continuation of the land acquisition policy, reviving memories of that period which had alienated rural people from the Left Front,” the source quoted Yechury as having told the meeting in reference to the note. Amid the current agrarian crisis and the farmers’ agitation, any talk of acquiring land would deepen the peasantry’s alienation from the party, the note said. Yechury reiterated the point. The Bengal unit’s repeated assertion during the poll campaign that the BJP and Trinamul were two sides of the same coin too came under attack at the meeting. The general secretary explained how this approach had damaged the party’s credentials as an uncompromising defender of secular democracy that opposes the BJP. The Bengal unit of the party, led by Surjya Kanta Mishra, has publicly acknowledged its mistake in coining the term “Beejemul”. The question, however, is how the state leaders will react to the other lacunae the central leaders have highlighted in their assessment of what went wrong in the Assembly polls. “During the central committee meeting earlier this week, some Bengal comrades seemed defiant in the face of criticism from comrades from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tripura,” a source said. “One of them went to the extent of asking a Tripura comrade about the party’s performance in the tribal council polls in his state without acknowledging that the CPM remained a force in the northeastern state. We will have to see how the Bengal unit reacts and redraws its strategy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Three more held in e-wallet fraud||Bankura police on Thursday arrested three more youths associated with the e-wallet racket that helped bank conmen across the country to electronically route fraudulently acquired money. Six youths, including alleged mastermind Abhishek Mondal, were arrested on Wednesday with over 8,000 SIM cards and several computers and smartphones. “After interrogating the six, we got to know about the three more who were arrested today (Thursday). They supplied SIM cards and forged documents,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief. Those arrested on Thursday were Dipak Guin, an expert in making fake voter ID cards, and Manas Sahana and his brother Kripasindhu, who supplied SIM cards using forged papers. Police also sent half-a-dozen phones to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Calcutta to track those who gained from the fake e-wallets. SP Sarkar said the accused had deleted thousands of messages exchanged with bank fraudsters and those needed to be retrieved. “The forensic lab will help us access this data,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Social cost of schools shut: teen weddings in twin Midnapores||The continued closure of schools amid the pandemic-induced lockdown has resulted in dropouts and at least 500 instances of underage girls being married off in the twin Midnapores this year. Reports of many minor boys being sent off to work in other states as migrant labour have also surfaced in the two districts. The causes, sources said, were an agglomeration of the lack of facilities for online classroom teaching in rural areas, heightened financial need in families and a loss of interest in education because of prolonged lockdowns since last year. “Government schools have largely not had the means for online learning. In the districts, we have a system of sending monthly home assignments but the enforcement is very poor,” said a district official in East Midnapore. The link between closure of schools and marriage of girls below 18 was first highlighted by officials in the twin districts early last year while surveying a spike in child marriages during the first lockdown. The problem seems to have come further to light this year during the assessment of the Kanyasree awards, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s flagship conditional cash transfer scheme to empower girls, one of whose provisions is a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 to a student on turning 18, provided she is unmarried and studying. Sources said a significant portion of the grant funds sent to schools were returned to the state as the beneficiaries had apparently been married off by their families. “More than 10,000 children of both districts dropped out of school since the first lockdown. We were able to confirm this from the Class XI to XII migration forms,” said an official, adding that authorities were monitoring marriages of those aged below 18 closely. “Lack of online resources is one contributing factor, but students are en masse losing interest in education. The outcome may be disastrous,” said headmaster of the Bhadutala Vivekananda High School, Amitesh Chowdhury. Chowdhury, also the West Midnapore district president of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses, explained of 80 Kanyasree allottees in his school this year, 11 had been married off. At East Midnapore, eight of the 18 Kanyasree grants at Haldia’s Dalimbochowk High School were returned for the same reason. “Among the boys, on the other hand, at least 35 out of 135 in Class X have dropped out and entered the migrant labour force,” said headmaster Amitabha Nanda. “We have no income, so what else can we do? We sent him to Gujarat to work," said Roma Das, mother of a boy who was studying in Class X. East Midnapore district inspector of schools (secondary) Aminul Ahasan said greater efforts would be taken to ensure monthly home task modules were given to students and returned after being checked by teachers. Ahasan’s statement comes in the wake of reports of lacklustre enforcement of the home task mode in some schools. “We heard that some schools are slacking. We will write to them to ensure government norms are obeyed,” said Ahasan. On child marriage in this district, social welfare officer Purnendu Pouranik agreed that lockdown-induced closure of schools and financial distress exacerbated pre-existing social trends. “At least 15 FIRs have been filed since last year but the real number of child marriage cases is closer to 500, of which 84 were reported and 76 prevented outright,” a district official said. Pouranik also explained that as schools were closed, students were out of touch with their respective Kanyasree Clubs, an after-school activity that fostered strength and togetherness among adolescent girls and possibly played a part in preventing forced marriages in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Six persons arrested from different locations in Malda with around one kilo of brown sugar||Six persons, including two residents of Bihar, have been arrested from different locations in Malda district in the past 24 hours with around one kilo of brown sugar — a derivative of heroin. Malda police and the Criminal Investigation Department conducted joint raids as they had information that the drug was being supplied to Calcutta and Bihar from Malda district. On Wednesday night, the officials arrested Serajul Sheikh and Dalu Sheikh from Khochpara of Birnagar under Baishnabnagar police station with around 250 grams of brown sugar. Jalaluddin Momin was nabbed from Shershahi under Kaliachak police station with 275 gram of the narcotic. On Thursday morning, Kaliachak police seized 540 grams of brown sugar from an SUV that was heading to Bihar and arrested Pranab Roy and Ranjoy Roy, both residents of Bhagalpur in Bihar, along with driver Sandip Chowdhury. The estimated price of the seized drug is around Rs 40 lakh. Malda district SP said cases under the NDPS Act had been registered against all the arrested persons. “We will continue to conduct such raids to prevent smuggling and peddling of narcotic substances in the district,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid situation under control in Bengal: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in Bengal was under control with daily infections in the range of 600-800 and 3.32 crore people had been inoculated (at least with one dose) in the state though the Centre hadn’t made available adequate quantum of vaccines. Bengal on Thursday reported 747 infections, 773 recoveries and 10 deaths. While Calcutta logged 77 infections, North 24-Parganas recorded 88. The total of active cases fell by 36 to 10,127. “The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was around 1.5 per cent now (1.64 per cent on Thursday). We have not been getting adequate vaccines, in spite of that, we have been testing so much daily (around 46,000 on Thursday), getting only 600-800 cases daily,” said the chief minister, adding that the recovery rate was 98.15 per cent currently. Mamata said there had been a total of over 3.32 crore vaccine doses administered in Bengal. The state has managed to vaccinate over 33.2 per cent of its population (with at least one dose) against the novel coronavirus, which is substantially higher than the national average of 30.3. “Of them, the first dose has been given to 2.39 crore (23.9 per cent of the population). Both doses to 0.92 crore (9.2 per cent of the population),” she said. Despite the alleged lack of cooperation and step-motherly treatment towards Bengal by the Centre, the state is third on the list of most people vaccinated after Maharashtra and Gujarat. Mamata reiterated that the state had the capacity of vaccinating 11 lakh people daily, but had been getting doses enough for 3-4 lakh. “We have the minimal wastage, at seven per cent. Our vaccination (infrastructure and pace) is the best in the country,” she said. Bengal’s 9.2 per cent – of fully vaccinated population – is much higher than the national average of 8.7. Mamata said since there were fears of a third wave in September, the administration was still trying to have some restrictions in place. She said the state government was trying to increase vaccination in rural areas. “Especially, the two 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, East Burdwan, Nadia,” added Mamata. With Calcutta logging 77 infections and North 24-Parganas 88, Thursday was the seventh consecutive day again of not a single Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. North Dinajpur, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and West Burdwan logged single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday, while Jalpaiguri, Hooghly, South 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.36 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.08 lakh recoveries and 18,268 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal decides to bring five more schemes to citizens' doorsteps||The Bengal government has decided to bring in five more schemes at Duare Sarkar (government on doorstep) camps to be held between August 16 and September 15 across the state in an attempt to expand the scale and scope of the initiative that many believe helped the Trinamul Congress beat anti-incumbency in the recent Assembly polls. The government set up Duare Sarkar camps for the first time in 2020 to enable people to avail themselves of 13 welfare schemes if the benefits had failed to reach the applicants. This year, people can avail themselves of 18 schemes at the camps. “People can benefit from 18 schemes at 17,107 Duare Sarkar camps which will start from August 16. Eligible applicants would get benefits at the camps between September 24 and 30,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Thursday. She said a total of 32,830 camps had been organised during the first phase of Duare Sarkar in December last year. This time, camps could not be set up at places that still remain marooned because of monsoon rains. “The state would set up camps in these areas later,” said the chief minister. According to the schedule of the outreach programme, five new schemes would be made available at the camps. “The most sought-after scheme at the camps this year would be Lakshmir Bhandar, which offers Rs 500 to general caste women and Rs 1,000 to SC/ST women a month. This is going to be the centre of attraction as nearly 1.6 crore beneficiaries would try to register themselves at the camps,” said a senior official. Among other new schemes, the camps would offer registration under the student credit cards, free of cost social security scheme, mutation and rectification of land records, opening of bank accounts and registration under the new Krishak Bandhu scheme that offers Rs 10,000 per an acre annually. As registration would be done under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme at the camps, officials estimate that this year’s programme would surpass the total footfall of last year’s camps. Last year, a total of 2.75 crore footfall was recorded and 1.77 crore applications were submitted in the camps. “This year, we are expecting 1.6 crore applications under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. So, it is expected that this year’s outreach programme will be more successful,” said an official. Sources in Trinamul said the state government’s target was to surpass last year’s Duare Sarkar programme considering the fact that the ruling party in Bengal was laying stress on 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “The success of last year’s Duare Sarkar camps had helped us regain lost ground in many areas, particularly at villages. If this year’s camps are more successful by offering more schemes, it will help us in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a Trinamul insider. Aware that the state has a history of irregularities in government schemes, the chief minister stressed that she would not tolerate any kind of irregularities at the camps. “This gives a clear hint that the top brass of the government is very sensitive about delivering through the camps. This is why the entire administration would be busy in making the programme successful for the next one month or so,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||North East||Assam Assembly okays bill to regulate cow slaughter, opposition stages walkout||The Assam Assembly on Friday passed a bill to regulate slaughter, consumption and transportation of cattle even as a walkout was staged by the opposition parties in protest against the government's refusal to forward the legislation to a select committee. The ruling BJP members shouted ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ and ‘Jai Shree Ram’ slogans and thumped desks as soon as Speaker Biswajit Daimary announced The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021 as passed. The lone Independent legislator, Akhil Gogoi, had walked out of the House when the bill was taken up for consideration. The legislation seeks to ensure that permission for slaughter is not granted to areas that are predominantly inhabited by Hindu, Jain, Sikh and other non-beef eating communities or places that fall within five-kilometre radius of a temple, satra, and any other institution as maybe prescribed by the authorities. Exemptions might be granted for certain religious occasions, it stated. Transportation of bovines through the state without valid documents has also been sought to be checked by the bill. All offences under this new legislation shall be cognizable and non-bailable. The opposition Congress, AIUDF and CPI (M) had urged the government to refer the bill to an Assembly select committee for vetting, but Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, during his reply on a discussion on the legislation, rejected the proposal on behalf of the BJP-led ruling coalition. Sarma, in his response, said the bill had no bad intention and claimed it will strengthen communal harmony. The legislation doesn't intend to stop anyone from consuming beef, but the person who eats so must also respect the religious sentiments of others, the CM said. “I would like it more if you (referring to Muslim MLAs in the House) do not eat beef at all, though I can't stop you from it. I respect your right. Conflict starts when we stop respecting other’s religion,” he said. Addressing the AIUDF legislators, a party representing religious minorities, Sarma further said they should take the initiative of ensuring that sentiments of the Hindus or any other community are not hurt due to consumption of beef near them. “It can’t be that only Hindus are responsible for maintaining communal harmony, Muslims must also reciprocate,” he added. On objection to a clause in the bill that prohibits cattle slaughter within 5-km radius of temples or satras, Sarma claimed that there are “kilometres and kilometres of area with no temples, and 70,000-80,000 habitations in the state have no Hindus at all”. He, however, accepted an amendment moved by AIUDF legislator Aminul Islam to remove 'buffaloes' from the definition in the bill. Claiming that the new bill contained almost similar provisions as the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950, the chief minister said only three new additions have been made to the old Act, which would stand repealed when the new legislation comes into force. He maintained that the new clauses are ban on transportation of cattle throughout the state without proper documents, bar on bovine slaughter in areas where non-beef eating communities reside and also within 5-km radius of temples, satras and such religious institutions. “Other provisions like bar on slaughter of cattle which are below 14 years of age or slaughter only at specific areas existed in the old Act, though we have made minor changes to these clauses,” he stated. To a contention of the opposition that rural households which rear and sell cattle to meet financial exigencies will be hit due to the ban, Sarma said, “Cows are not reared as fixed deposits to be sold when financial problems come.” According to other provisions of the Bill, which was introduced by Sarma in the House on July 12, slaughter of cattle will be prohibited unless necessary certificate issued by the registered veterinary officer of a particular area has been obtained. It further said that the veterinary officer will issue a certificate only if he is of the opinion that the bovine, not being a cow, is over 14 years of age. A cow, heifer or calf may be slaughtered only if it is permanently incapacitated, it said. Also, just duly licensed or recognised slaughter houses will be allowed to butcher cattle, the bill maintained. Defending the decision to prevent slaughter of cows, unless it is incapacitated, the chief minister said, We (Hindus) worship cows. That is the fundamental thing. On economic repercussions of the bill, the chief minister maintained that cow slaughter cannot be allowed for the sake of earnings. He quoted from several writings of Mahatma Gandhi to emphasise the importance and reverence of cow in Hinduism and India. Earlier, participating in the discussion on the Bill, Leader of Opposition Debabrata Saikia said more expert opinion should be taken and consultations done on the proposed legislation. The Congress leader urged the government to send it to a select committee for further analysis, a demand also supported by the AIUDF and the CPI(M). AIUDF legislators Aminul Islam and Rafiqul Islam asserted that eating of beef is not mandatory for followers of Islam and the bill must not be viewed along religious lines. They, however, questioned the purpose of the bill, contending that it will adversely affect the economy of the state as a large section of people are linked with cattle trade in different ways. CPI(M)’s Manoranjan Talukdar claimed that the bill will affect people's right to choose what they eat, especially in areas where beef-eating communities are in minority. The new legislation states that it aims to check transport of bovines within the state or outside, if valid documents are not made available to the authorities, though there will be no restriction on ferrying cattle for agricultural purposes within a district. Anybody found guilty of violating the rules shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three years or fine that may vary between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 5 lakh or both. If someone convicted under the new law is found guilty of the same or a related offence the second time, the punishment will be doubled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
13-08-2021||North East||Assam govt to name road, sports complex after Lovlina Borgohain ||The Assam government on Thursday decided to name a road and a sports complex after boxer Lovlina Borgohain, the state’s first Olympic medallist. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced the decisions at a brief and well-attended function at the Srimanta Sankaradeva Kalakshetra here to celebrate the 23-year-old Olympic feat. The road to be named after her will be in Guwahati and the sports complex will be set up in Sarpathar Assembly constituency in Upper Assam’s Golaghat district. Lovlina hails from Baramukhia village under Sarupathar constituency. Lovlina, who had won a bronze medal in the recently-concluded Tokyo Games in the 69kg welter-weight category, was earlier in the morning given a rousing reception at the Borjhar airport by the chief minister, two of his cabinet colleagues and a host of student leaders. Sarma also announced a cash award of Rs 1 crore for her bronze medal feat, the post of DSP in the Assam Police, Rs 1 lakh a month to help her prepare for the 2024 Paris Olympics and  Rs 10 lakh each to five coaches who honed her skills since her formative years. Sarma said Lovlina’s success at the Tokyo Olympics would remain etched as a milestone in the sporting history of Assam and India. “A sports complex worth Rs 25 crore will be built at her native Sarupathar to help local youth excel in sports. A road in Guwahati will also be named after our star player Lovlina,” he said while hailing the efforts of her parents — Tiken and Mamoni Borgohain — in backing Lovlina to chase her dreams despite heavy odds. Lovlina, who spoke before Sarma, was overwhelmed by the love and blessings showered by the people of Assam, regretting having missed the gold but promised to win it in Paris. Sarma, however, made it clear that Lovlina has already given enough to Assam. “We are happy and proud of what she has achieved. She has given us enough, becoming the first to win a medal after a 125-year wait by the people of the state. ” Remembering all the Olympians and other champion sportspersons, Sarma said Lovlina’s parents and Sarupathar MLA Biswajit Phukan will decide where the Rs 25-crore sports complex, which will also have a boxing academy, will be set up in Lovlina's name. It will inspire more Lovlinas to overcome hurdles and achieve their dreams, Sarma said. The state government had organised both her reception and the felicitation functionss. Posters, banners, hoardings went up across Guwahati to welcome her while the Assam State Transport Corporation kept  ready a new bus with her photograph quote (You are the Pride of India) prominently displayed on it to take her to her native Baramukhia village in Sarupathar constituency in Upper Assam’s Golaghat District. The Opposition Congress too handed over a cheque of Rs three lakh to Lovlina who will return to Delhi on Friday to be part of the Independence Day celebrations. Subodh Malla Barua, Guwahati-based senior sports journalist, said the reception and honour accorded to Lovlina was unprecedented and would go a long way in not only motivating Lovlina but also the future generation of sportspersons. Baruah had covered the Tokyo Games and had a ringside view of Lovlina’s bronze feat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
13-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Science, please||The Age of Reason is also, arguably, the Age of Irony. Consider the erosion of public trust in science. This alarming, global phenomenon should have been an anachronism in an epoch synonymous with unprecedented scientific progress. That, evidently, is not the case. The State of Science Index, developed by a corporate scientist on the basis of a global survey, has been indicative of a growing deficit between public trust and science in recent years. ‘Science scepticism’ was estimated to be 32 per cent in 2019, spiking to 35 per cent in 2020. It has taken a pandemic — yet another irony — to restore some of the confidence in science. Science scepticism is, apparently, at an all-time low of 27 per cent, with the majority of respondents saying that the wonders of science are integral to everyday living. The quick development of the vaccines against Covid-19 may have been fundamental to plugging the breach. Yet, the battle is not won yet. Be it vaccine hesitancy, the nurturing of a decidedly anti-scientific agenda by elected dispensations through the dissemination of information discrediting science — Narendra Modi’s India is an example — or, even more worryingly, the collective indifference to the imminence of climate change, the conflict between scientific ethos and public and political sentiment has had numerous manifestations in recent times. The challenge, therefore, is to rekindle the scientific spirit. One way of achieving this goal would be to turn the scientific enterprise democratic. This would entail liberating science from the proverbial ivory tower and widening public engagement with the daily applications of scientific research and technology. Greater incentives for the pursuit of science education would be one aspect of deepening society’s links with reason. Institutions that shape opinion — the media, for instance — must also play a role in fostering this collaboration. There is also the case for making science more representative: governments should encourage more women and members of socially disadvantaged groups to take up science by expanding scholarship programmes. These affirmative interventions must be accompanied by a determined public campaign that strikes at the roots of the founts — political or otherwise — of irrationality. Humanity’s future is riddled with challenges, some of which are the result of its own follies. Science can yet save the day if it is allowed to transition from being a discipline to a humane survival kit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
13-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Global climate change crisis||Signs of danger Sir — The latest report released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has now revealed a grave threat for mankind. It says that global temperature may increase by 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2030 (“Climate ‘code red’”, Aug 10). This would lead to scorching heat waves, droughts, heavy rainfall, melting of glaciers and landslides. This could be devastating for India as well. All of this is happening in the name of development — carbon emission from industries is one of the major reasons for this situation. For long, mankind has been exploiting nature; now nature is paying it back. The lesson that we must learn from this is that we have to think about nature and adopt more climate-friendly ways of development. Otherwise, we will have to reap what we sow. Sandeep Rawat,Chandigarh Sir — The IPCC report has once again confronted us with the stark reality of climate change. It should galvanize us into taking remedial action. Extreme rainfall, floods, blistering heat waves and massive wildfires that currently devastate parts of the world are visible signs of climate change. We cannot afford to be indifferent at a time when this menace is upending our lives, livelihoods and habitats irreversibly. Humankind must realize that it would be impossible to adapt to temperatures beyond a certain degree and survive. The Earth is heating up rapidly; a further increase spells catastrophe, and beyond it an apocalypse. Scientific evidence shows that climate change is largely caused by human activities such as the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation. It is a mercy that climate change is a soluble problem. Humankind still has a small window of hope; it must take collective global action to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial levels, a critical threshold set by the Paris conference on climate change in 2015 and pull the planet back from the brink of destruction. The climate crisis requires that countries go beyond ‘net-zero emissions’ of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by drastically cutting fossil fuel emissions. Affluent countries are the major emitters of greenhouse gases and are largely responsible for compounding the crisis to the tipping point. Climate justice demands that they do more, in proportion to their per capita emissions, to mitigate climate change and keep the planet fit to live. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The first part of the sixth IPCC assessment report has come out. It has concluded that much of the damage caused by humans to the environment is now irreversible. Even so, what actions are we taking? A conference on climate is called from time to time — for example, on October 31, a conference is scheduled to be held at Glasgow. This recent report will surely be debated, with countries across the world busy at the moment scripting their best arguments. At the same time, huge fires have been engulfing the United States of America, Greece, and Turkey. More recently, a huge fire has broken out in Algeria too, where dozens of people have died. Calamities like floods, landslides, lightning, drought have become regular. Regrettably, many countries are still in the process of setting a date when they will start reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The United Nations’ report on climate change warns that limiting global warming close to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels will be “beyond reach” in the next two decades without immediate, rapid and large-scale reductions in greenhouse gas emission. Climate change is one of the most complex issues facing the world today. Carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping greenhouse gas that has driven global warming in recent times, lingers in the atmosphere for hundreds of years, and the planet takes a while to respond to warming. So, even if we stop emitting all greenhouse gases today, global warming and climate change will continue to affect future generations. In the absence of adequate national or international climate protection policies, communities around the world have been focusing on solving climate problems on their own, like working to build flood defences, instal water-permeable pavements to better deal with floods and storm water, and improve water storage and use. But it is important to think globally and act locally in the fight against climate change. A failure to act now will mean a reversal of all developmental activities till date; this could spell doom for the poorer and more vulnerable sections of society as well as lead to an erosion of biodiversity. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai  Lend a hand Sir — These days, there are several reports in newspapers about how many private schools are coming up with novel ways of providing support to its students — some are taking steps to protect the young minds from cyber crime, some others are encouraging fitness regimes for children leading sedentary lives. All of this is heartening. Yet, one cannot help but feel sad thinking about the vast majority of Indian students who are getting further marginalized, unable to access even regular classes, just because they are underprivileged. Can all schools not extend a helping hand to those who are most in need of support? Sarmistha Chaki,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
13-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Cast in unity||The times are such that the participation of the Opposition in passing one bill in the Lok Sabha is news. The Constitution (127th amendment) bill, 2021 that restores to the states the right to make their own lists of other backward classes was passed unanimously, even though the Opposition’s protests against the Narendra Modi-led government’s refusal to allow discussion on snooping held up business at other times. Reservation for OBCs became an indispensable part of policy after the Mandal Commission, while caste vote banks came to be as indispensable in the electoral contest. No political party can appear to be unresponsive to this issue. The political consensus — in both Houses — was most pronounced, however, in the demand to remove the Supreme Court-mandated 50 per cent cap on reservations. This demand has grown ever since the Supreme Court laid down in 1992 that quotas should not exceed 50 per cent, reportedly because of the constitutional principle of equality. In May, the Supreme Court put aside Maharashtra’s reservations for the Marathas as a socially and educationally backward class on this basis, as it had done in similar cases brought by Rajasthan and Odisha. Tamil Nadu’s 69 per cent quotas acquired immunity under the Ninth Schedule, but it is awaiting the Supreme Court’s scrutiny. In the Maharashtra case, the court had reportedly spoken of a single list of OBCs — to be decided by the president on the advice of the National Commission for Backward Classes according to the 102nd amendment to the Constitution made in 2018. This had effectively ended the states’ powers to compile OBC lists, which were being returned by the new bill. The members of parliament claimed that making OBC lists is useless without lifting the quota cap. But social justice would be best served if reservations are tested against constitutional and legal requirements, and intra-institutional decisions made on the basis of merit. A related demand is for a caste census. The government’s ambivalence with regard to caste becomes obvious here: it has dismissed the caste enumeration of the 2011 census as flawed and outdated, although it formed a committee in 2015 for the classification of caste names. Perhaps it is worried about offending the upper castes. It is not easy to appear virtuous to all sides of the caste table.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
13-08-2021||Opinion||Think anew||The post-pandemic world would be different. The architecture of economic and social institutions should be commensurate with this new world. The hardest hit in the pandemic has been the poor. To understand their challenges, coping strategies and alternative business and institutional models, we conducted in-depth interviews with several self-employed individuals in Calcutta, including auto-drivers, caterers, electricians, tea-stall owners and so on. The findings are instructive. Informal networks have become critical in coping with the economic shock and in conducting business. These networks can be horizontal or vertical. At the horizontal level, networks can comprise neighbours, rentiers, suppliers of raw material and customers. The urban poor have often missed paying rent or education fee. Yet, they could get by as their pledges of delayed payment were credible to those who are part of their socio-economic constituency. The networks at the vertical level could be connections with the higher administrative staff. The much-touted strategy of taking up alternative professions appeared to have elicited a poor response. Only a few have attempted to look for alternative avenues of earnings. Some of these attempts did not last long. Those who went back to their native villages during the lockdown of 2020 did not do so during 2021. Significantly, people innovated strategies and business models in their professions with the help of the experience they gained in the last one year. Businessmen are managing stocks according to their immediate business needs. Some have maintained raw material stocks that would be sufficient in the long run. The stocks are thinner in the case of perishable raw material. Caterers are conducting their business differently when they sense that the number of attendees to an event is likely to be higher than the stipulated limit. In such cases, they are providing cooks, plate-pickers and dish-washers separately but not cooked food. Non-availability of work has been the principal challenge. Additionally, the diseconomies of scale have caused hardship to the self-employed. The loss due to the diseconomies of scale becomes evident while purchasing raw material and delivering services. For example, caterers are serving groups that get invited on different days by the same individual for the same occasion. Although the total work remains the same, the average cost goes up, impacting profit adversely. The respondents made us rethink the role of institutions in economic policymaking. An important fallacy of economic policy is the absence of formal recognition of informal networks. Robert Putnam, an American political scientist, had termed this ‘social capital’. In the absence of financial capital, social capital can provide succour to businesses in the informal sector in the post-pandemic world. These networks can even be institutionalized on an alternative, low-cost, transparent platform. These platforms can help find potential customers, increase work and lessen the diseconomies of scale by aggregating orders. The policy response of the government needs to be revisited as well. The public distribution system has helped the urban poor but some of the regulations of normal periods need to be relaxed during the pandemic. Route permits given to auto-drivers designed to maintain order in the transport system have become unnecessary during the pandemic. Yet, auto-drivers had to spend money to get their permits renewed. Development economics is critical about employing unpaid family labour, especially women, in business. Yet the experience of the pandemic reveals that this is necessary and can enhance welfare. Now is the time to think differently about and restructure our world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
13-08-2021||Opinion||Slipping away||The brutal killing of the journalist, Danish Siddiqui, in Kandahar brought home to India the escalated nature of the conflict in Afghanistan. The expedited withdrawal of troops by the United States of America has coincided with, and perhaps even catalyzed, a new intensity in the intra-Afghan conflict amidst a steady expansion of territory where, effectively, the writ of the Taliban runs. The situation on the ground changes from day to day but these tactical shifts cannot disguise the larger picture — the situation in Afghanistan is perilous for its government and the balance has shifted in favour of the Taliban. Whatever the future may hold — a negotiated settlement or a further descent into civil war — this changed balance will leave its imprint. Inevitably, an analysis of the present conjuncture must begin with the US’s policy, for that has been the single-most important factor in Afghanistan in the past two decades. Was the tipping point the Doha agreement between the Taliban and the US that was reached on February 29, 2020? In retrospect, there is now greater unanimity that too much was conceded to the Taliban — an unconditional withdrawal in return for a safe exit for US troops. The Taliban were not required to declare a ceasefire or temper their fundamental opposition to the Afghan government or, indeed, to the idea of an ‘Islamic Republic’ as opposed to an ‘Islamic Emirate’.  What the Doha agreement also meant was a new legitimacy for the Taliban. This was much more than an external legitimacy, although that was important too. What the Doha agreement conferred was an internal status on the Taliban as almost a kind of a putative government-in-waiting. Clearly the Taliban and its negotiators had read the US with greater clarity than the other way around; all that the US really wanted was a way out of a forever war. So, as expected in most analyses, this role of the US occupies a great deal of space. For some narrators, this is another illustration of the wider US retreat and of the systemic shift in its mindset that now makes it increasingly self-absorbed. For others, it is yet another example of imperial hubris — how the greatest storehouse of knowledge and analysis that the world has ever seen can get its policy toolkit catastrophically wrong. And, yet, these are almost futile points since, for at least a decade, the US had made clear its intentions of ending its military intervention in Afghanistan. The absence of a visible political process internally in Afghanistan to accompany such disengagement has been equally evident. The poor state of the US’s relations with Russia, Iran, not to speak of China, also meant that a regional supportive ecosystem would remain a weak impulse. In the end, the US ended up seeking a solution through, what it had always seen as being, part of the problem — Pakistan. All this further weighted the dice in favour of the Taliban. Taken together, it is difficult to envisage how the aftermath of the US withdrawal could have been less bloody. Post-Doha, such diplomacy, such as there was, has been aptly described as throwing spaghetti on the Afghan wall in the hope that something will stick. So far none has. For something new to emerge now on the diplomatic front, a military set-back for the Taliban to reverse their recent gains is a necessary condition. Afghanistan’s internal fault lines acquire a new prominence in this mixed-up and fraught external context. The great historian, Jadunath Sarkar, describing the Mughal forces campaigning west of the Indus in the 17th century in what is today Afghanistan and the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region, had referred to a twin curse-cum-boon pronounced on the Afghans by one of their own seers: “You will always be free; you will never be united.” The absence of a coherent domestic political process in the past two decades has amplified the role of external influences, which have equally been exacerbated by the former. The 2014 and 2019 presidential elections were not just bitterly contested but their results were also disputed. At one stage in 2020, there were two parallel swearing-in ceremonies of presidential hopefuls — this when the Doha agreement was being negotiated by the Americans with the Taliban. It required the former to directly pressurize the feuding candidates claiming the presidency to back off. Order of a kind may have been temporarily restored by such patch-ups, but the process eroded the legitimacy of the political system domestically. In this fragmented situation, all internal and external players are hedging and positioning themselves depending on their particular interest. Pakistan sees itself as the major beneficiary of a Taliban comeback. At the very least, a change in the present order in Kabul means a substantial reduction in India’s profile in Afghanistan which has been a principal priority of Pakistan’s policy from the beginning. Yet, even Pakistan would rather have a political settlement — on the Taliban’s terms — rather than one emerging as a military outcome or a long-drawn-out and festering conflict. The latter options risk Western opprobrium for bringing an unrestrained Taliban to the centre stage, once again. There is also the risk of blowback in Pakistan from Taliban-induced violence. Pakistan sees the potential gains from a new architecture in Afghanistan as valuable enough to take these risks but, if possible, it would still prefer change to be the outcome of a political settlement rather than from a force of arms. The bottom line, however, is that an Afghanistan free of Indian influences is worth every and all risks. The other regional players — Iran, Russia, the Central Asian states, China — have all reconciled themselves to what they see as the inevitable, but with varying degrees of enthusiasm. For Russia, Iran and China, the change comes at the expense of US influence and an erosion of its prestige and that of the West as a whole. This means that the immediate advantages are considerable. These positions may change over time, but for now the outcome is one they can happily live with. In these circumstances, there is an intense debate in India about its options. The debate, to many, also centres around India engaging with the Taliban to protect its interests and its presence in Afghanistan established in the past two decades. The intensity of this discussion obscures the more fundamental change on the ground that is underway: all the beneficiaries of the past twenty years in Afghanistan, India included, are losing out and the new architecture that may emerge will be markedly different. No amount of diplomacy or engagement with the Taliban can reverse that process. An excessive eagerness to break bread with them, in fact, overlooks the combination of forces that has sustained their fight-back and revival. The biggest loser in the process is the prospect, which was in any case always dim, of Afghan neutrality in regional contestations. With this, the chances of any respite in which Afghanistan can attend to itself or tend to its wounds appear remote. T.C.A. Raghavan is a retired diplomat and a former high commissioner to Pakistan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-52
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain threat ruled out on Independence Day in state ||The IMD Ranchi Meteorological Centre has forecast a fair weather with one or two spells of rain in the afternoon on Independence Day on August 15. In 2020, several places across the state including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh had witnessed heavy showers on Independence Day due to the impact of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal. The Ranchi Meteorological Centre till Sunday issued an alert of light to moderate lightning and thunder. It also predicted cloud cover in several districts with possibility of light rain in next 48 hours till Sunday. However, from Monday onwards the state is expected to witness widespread rain till mid-week. An alert of heavy rain was also issued for Monday at a few isolated places in northern Jharkhand. Ruling out the possibility of heavy rain on the Independence Day on August 15 head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, Abhishek Anand said, "We don't see possibility of heavy showers in the next two days in today's chart analysis and satellite images. However, the intensity of rain would increase from Monday and stay for a few days particularly in northern Jharkhand due to the presence of the monsoon trough in the foothills of Himalayas." The western part of monsoon trough was running close to the foothills of Himalayas and the eastern part of it was passing through Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur, Shantiniketan,  Haldia and north east Bay of Bengal. A cyclonic circulation over north Bihar and Uttar Pradesh was also hovering 3.1 Km above the mean sea level. Anand said the cyclonic circulation would assist in rainfall activity from August 16. Meteorological data suggest that southwest monsoon activity was normal over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall of 25 mm was recorded at Maheshpur in Pakur district while Nandadih in  Koderma district recorded 20 mm of rain. Several other places including Jamtara, Daltonganj and Kolhan region witnessed light rain in the past 24 hours. Weathermen at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta also ruled outv heavy showers in Jharkhand on August 15. "We find no weather system over the Bay of Bengal or over the plains which may trigger heavy showers on August 15 ," said a duty officer at the Calcutta weather office. So far, Jharkhand has received 586 mm rain against a normal of 655 mm, leading to a five per cent excess rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur tops BSNL fibre Net connections in Jharkhand||Central government owned telecommunications service provider BSNL has recognised Jamshedpur as its largest business area in the fibre to the home (FTTH) internet sector in Jharkhand circle. According to Sanjeev Verma, general manager, BSNL’s Jamshedpur secondary switching area (SSA), there are around 36,925 FTTH connections in the state and the bulk of these are in Jamshedpur (16,367), which is nearly 44 per cent, followed by Ranchi (8,598) which is nearly 23 per cent. “It is a proud moment for all of us to state that because of the huge response received from the citizens of Jamshedpur, around 45 per cent of the total growth of FTTH in Jharkhand circle is because of Jamshedpur. As a result , recently Jamshedpur has been officially designated as the largest business area in Jharkhand circle in FTTH,” said Verma. According to data shared by BSNL, there are 1.6 million FTTH customers in India and every month around 1 lakh connections are being added. “BSNL’s Bharat Fibre service is a true enabler in synergisng the work from home culture along with seamlessly providing e-education or ability to connect with each other. It has received good response across country,” said a senior BSNL official. There has been an 80 per cent increase in the new FTTH provisioning in the current financial year. From a monthly average connection figure of 724 in financial year 2020-21, the monthly FTTH connection has increased to 1,336 in financial year 2021-22. It is targeted to increase to 2000 per month as per the revised target given to Jamshedpur by BSNL headquarters. To boost FTTH services across three districts of East Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum (which falls under Jamshedpur business area)  FTTH services are provided in Jamshedpur city, Adityapur, Mango, Parsudih, in addition to rural areas and in Chandil, Ghatshila, Mosaboni, Dhalbhumgarh, Bahragora, Seraikela, Chaibasa, Noamundi, Meghatuburu. There are plans to provide the service at Chowka, Sini, Gua, Manoharpur, Chakradharpur along with augmentation in city infrastructure. BSNL has tied up with multiple telecom infrastructure provider for different areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||All set for I-Day bash at Morabadi in Ranchi, but children and elderly told to watch on TV||Jharkhand will mark the nation's 75th Independence Day on Sunday at Ranchi’s iconic Morabadi ground, hosting a gathering of an estimated 3,000 people, but the celebrations will be sans cultural events for the second consecutive year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Hemant Soren will unfurl the Ttricolor in Ranchi while newly-appointed governor Ramesh Bais will do the honours in Dumka, the state’s second capital, as is custiomary. On Friday, as many as 11 platoons of various security forces performed a full dress rehearsal at the venue under the supervision of deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan and senior SP S. K. Jha. Considering the present state of the pandemic, Ranjan asked children (up to 10) and the elderly (above 60) to enjoy the Independence Day programme from home. “The state sponsored I-Day programme will be telecast live on the government’s web television (jhargov.in). The district administration is appealing to children and senior citizens not to come to the venue," he said. He said adequate arrangements would be made to ensure Covid-appropriate behavior. “The turnout will be a maximum of 3,000 people. All those who attend the programme at Morabadi on I-Day must wear masks, maintain proper social distancing at the venue and follow all prescribed Covid norms," he said. About half a dozen gates are being set up at the venue to regulate entry. As many as 12 giant LED screens installed at the ground permanently will also relay the live proceedings. As many as 11 platoons of CRPF, CISF, ITBP, JAP-1, JAP-2, Jharkhand Jaguar, JAP-10, Ranchi Police (women), Ranchi Police (men), SSB, and Jharkhand Home Guard (JHG), band parties of JAP-1, JAP-10 and JHG will take part in the I-Day parade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||PUBG crazed neighbour arrested for officer parents murder in Daltonganj||Police have arrested the neighbour of a state officer’s elderly parents found murdered in their house in Fauji Gali in Daltonganj on Thursday morning. SP Palamau Chandan Kumar Sinha at a media conference held on Friday evening said, “We have cracked this case in 12 hours.” He said the neighbour of the deceased couple identified as Shivam Pandey has been arrested. Pandey has confessed to have knifed the couple to death. However, the SP said the youth has given an odd reason for the twin murder. SP said the arrested youth is a player of PUB G. The youth told the police that Rajeshwar Ram, an ex army officer, used to snub and deride him and his family. The youth has also told the police that Rajeshwar was in the habit of browbeating him and his family. “The youth told us that this ex army man had made him feel he was a luckless fellow and could do nothing in life,” said Sinha. SP said such a long and incessant rapping of this youth had made him repulsive towards Rajeshwar. On Wednesday evening, Pandey was invited by Rajeshwar to his house for tea. SP said the youth told police that on that evening too Rajeshwar was at his jeer best for him and that enraged him and he took out his knife and killed the couple. Police have arrested the youth but have not found the weapon used in the twin murders. SP said, “We tried to find out the weapon of offence on the clues given by the youth but in vain.” SP said police have sent the arrested youth in judicial remand but will request the court for his police remand. Pandey had stolen Rs 40,000 from the almirah of the deceased couple which police have recovered. Sources said police will investigate all angles of the murder including caste anymosity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia social worker on mission to celebrate plastic-free Independence Day||A group of environmentalists of Jharia, one of the most polluted towns of the country, on Friday carried out an awareness drive on the ill-effects of plastic use by distributing cloth tricolour flags in the run-up to Independence Day. The drive was carried out under the leadership of Akhlaque Ahmad, founder of Youth Concept, a Jharia based social organisation. It began at around 11.30am at Gulgulia Basti, a slum situated near Katras locality, inhabited by street dwellers and daily wage earners and later in the afternoon to Durgapur Kusth Colony, a slum of leprosy affected persons, near the Jharia Railway station. The activists encouraged residents of these localities to avoid the use of plastic made tricolour flags and also handed over saplings of fruit bearing plants including mango and guava. Talking to Telegraph Online on Friday, Ahmad, who is also a special educator and speech therapist said,“We felt quite peeved over the scene of children waving plastic made tricolour flags on or before Independence Day since the last couple of years and thus decided to spread awareness on the use of cloth made tricolour by distributing them.” “I have purchased around 60 meters of cotton cloth from the wholesale market of Kendua yesterday for the drive and the tricolours were made at my home by the women of the family including by sister’s daughter, Sanya Parveen (18), a plus two student of RSP College of Jharia and others,” said Ahmad and added as Jharia is worst affected due to coal dust pollution the awareness drive was quite pertinent. Raman Gulgulia, a resident of Gulgulia Patti locality, who ekes out his living by carrying out sharpening of kitchenware, knife, scissors etc said, “We rarely get the opportunity to participate in the independence day functions as we  keep on wandering from one place to other on all 365 days for livelihood but since the awareness programme was held this morning we were present and promised to Akhalque Sir and his team members that we will never use the plastic made tricolour and instead use the cloth made tricolour.” Raju Gugulia, another daily wage earner of Gulgulia Patti said,“My son who is class V student in nearby private school, Indian School of Learning,  also advised me and his friends in the locality two years ago as told by his school teachers not to use the plastic made tricolour and when the group of visitors also provided us the cloth made tricolour and convinced us to use cloth made tricolour I felt quite happy that my son’s education is in right track.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||6 Tata foundation climbers in national squad for world youth meet||As many as six climbers from the Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) have found berths in the seven-member national sport climbing squad for the World Youth Championship scheduled in Voronezh, Russia from August 21 to 31. The climbers from the premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit are Anisha Verma, Aman Verma, Suraj Singh Sardar, Vidula Abhale, Ronit Banra and J Purty. Manuji of New Delhi is the other member in the Russia-bound side. Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF, and Bibhas Roy, route setter at the sport climbing cradle at JRD Tata Sports Complex, will accompany the team as manager and coach, respectively. The team will leave Jamshedpur on August 17 before flying to Russia the following day. The squad was selected on the basis of performance of climbers at the national qualifying trials organised by TSAF) in association with Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) East at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur last month. A total of 24 aspirants (boys and girls), including 9 from TSAF, from across the country participated at the trials . Anisha Verma is the current national record holder in speed climbing in the girl's category while her brother Aman Verma is the first climber from India to reach the semi-final stage of World Youth Championship a couple of years back. TSAF cadets have won 20 medals at national level while more than 50 at zonal and state level. TSAF has invested heavily, to the tune of crores, to develop infrastructure and training center for sport climbing in Jamshedpur. Besides JRD Tata Sports Complex, it has also installed 5 modular climbing walls at rural schools around the steel city to increase the reach and awareness of the sport. The country’s first residential academy for sport climbing was set up in Jamshedpur last month. TSAF is training climbers with the Olympic Games in mind. Sport climbing made its maiden entry in the recently concluded Olympics in Tokyo, Japan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC retain captain Peter Hartley for another ISL season ||Jamshedpur FC has retained defender and club captain Peter Hartley for one more season. The Englishman has delivered consistently on the field and secured two Hero of the Match in 19 matches for the club. The strong defender quickly became a fan favourite and was influential in leading Jamshedpur to a club record number of clean sheets (9) and ended the season with impressive stats -- 52 tackles, 22 interceptions, 72 clearances and 23 blocks. He also scored two goals during the campaign. On signing the dotted line, Hartley exclaimed his joy at continuing in the red colours of Jamshedpur. He said, "I had an amazing season with Jamshedpur. We made a club record for the number of clean sheets in a season, and I hope we can better that record in the coming season and bring the ISL trophy home." He also underlined the importance of head coach Owen Coyle's presence. "We have a fantastic gaffer on Owen Coyle. I am thrilled to continue playing under his guidance and do well for him as for the fantastic supporters of Jamshedpur." Coyle himself was ecstatic to have the skipper continue. He explained the importance of having Hartley in the squad."We were mean in defence previous season and a lot of it was down to how the skipper organised things at the back of us. Like I said when we signed Hartley, he is a big player for us who hates conceding goals. He brings with him so much experience from the English and Scottish leagues, something that evidently rubbed on to everyone around him. It was essential for Jamshedpur to have him again." Hartley is a Sunderland AFC Academy product. The left-footed centre-back was scouted into the Sunderland AFC youth system as a 12-year-old in 2000 and rose up the ranks with his impressive performances. He played and trained with Sunderland's senior team too and made his debut in 2007 versus Leicester City under Roy Keane. He went on a loan spell to Chesterfield FC and then switched to Hartpool United in 2009, being the most capped player for Hartpool during his four-year stint as well as captain for two seasons. Later, the Englishman had stints with Stevenage, Plymouth, Argyle, Bristol Rovers and Blackpool before joining Motherwell FC. The defender has played in prestigious tournaments in England such as the FA Cup and the League Cup where he represented his clubs against the likes of Chelsea, Everton, Sheffield United, Wartford and Wigan Athletic. He also played versus Burnley in 2009, which was then under the management of Owen Coyle and also scored against Antonio Conte's Chelsea in the 2016-17 League Cup tie. Hartley will continue wearing number 29 in the coming season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Nearly 1 lakh residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand  ||Jharkhand on Thursday vaccinated nearly 1 lakh residents against Covid-19 as at least 1,032 session sites remained operation across the state for inoculation of eligible beneficiaries, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 69,147 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 28,470 beneficiaries. As many as 54,276 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years received their first jab on the day, while 17,848 beneficiaries from the same age group received their second jab. According to data available on Co-Win portal, at least 47 session sites were operational in Ranchi on the day and more than 7,000 residents got vaccinated here. As many as 35 session sites inoculated more than 6700 residents in East Singhbhum on the day, while almost 12000 beneficiaries got their jabs across 62 vaccination centres open in Dhanbad. As per government data, the state has so far received over 1 crore Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Centre. Data shared by the health department on Thursday evening indicated that the state had about 4 lakh vaccine doses in stock, enough to last about four days if the immunisation campaign runs at a decent pace. Fresh Covid cases outnumbered recoveries on Thursday, causing a spike in the active caseload in Jharkhand. The state, as per a bulletin from NHM, reported 44 cases against 29 recoveries, which took the active caseload in the state to 211. Ranchi alone reported 28 cases against only three recoveries and the active caseload here jumped to 87, the highest in the state. While none of the remaining 23 districts reported a double-digit-spike, East Singhbhum reported five cases against four recoveries and Dhanbad reported seven cases against one recovery. Another suspected case of Covid-induced mucormycosis also occurred in Ranchi on Thursday, taking the total count of suspected cases of black fungus in the district to 24 and that in Jharkhand to 61, figures compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. The state has so far reported 106 confirmed cases of mucormycosis and 31 people have died of the fungal infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals pledge not to give up 'ancestral' land for coal mining||Over 200 tribals in Dumka district of Jharkhand have taken a pledge not to give up an inch of their “ancestral” land for coal mining. Over 1,703 hectares of land of 84 revenue villages in Shikaripara and Kathitund blocks of Dumka district were allotted to the Eastern Coalfields Limited (a subsidiary of Coal India Limited) in 2020 as part of the coal block auction by the central government. The villagers gathered at Pakulpada and Simanijod villages in Shikaripara block and took the pledge at a function to mark International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples on Monday. “The villagers have taken a pledge against giving up their ancestral lands for coal mining. We can go to any extent to stop land acquisition in our villages. We can sacrifice our life and also take life if the need arose but would not give up our land,” said Marsila Murmu, a youth of Hulasdangal village in Shikaripara. The villagers’ demand has also received support from local zilla parishad chairperson Joyce Besra. “We support the demands of the villagers. The Union government should have taken the local villagers into confidence through gram sabhas before putting up the coal blocks for auction. Even those who have bagged the bid should pay compensation and arrange for rehabilitation of the villagers before acquiring the land,” said Besra. The villagers have also met Shikaripara MLA and senior JMM leader Nalin Soren and received his support. “We stand with over 1 lakh villagers who will be displaced after their lands are taken away. The villagers claimed that a notice has been issued to residents of 84 villages about the coal mining. The central government should have taken into confidence the local gram sabhas before putting the coal blocks up for auction. The government cannot force people to give up their agricultural land. If the need arises I will speak to the chief minister too on this issue,” said Nalin. The Dumka district administration has also supported the villagers’ cause. “We will be reviewing the coal blocks auctioned to bidders. Under no circumstances would the land of tribal villagers be acquired without their permission,” said Dumka additional collector Rajesh Kumar Rai. Over 25 coal blocks in Jharkhand are in various stages of auction initiated by the Centre in 2020. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had last year also criticised the Centre for starting the auction of coal blocks without taking the state government into confidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||XAT 2022 for admission to MBA and post-graduate management courses to be held online on January 2||The XLRI-Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, on Thursday announced that the Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT) 2022 for admission to MBA and post-graduate management courses will be held on January 2 in the online mode. In a communiqué issued on Thursday, the XLRI, which has been conducting the XAT on behalf of the Xavier Association of Management Institutes for seven decades, said that the registration for the exam will close on November 30, 2021. The registration process began on August 10. “The test will be of three hours duration between 9.30am and 12.30pm. XAT 2022 will accept applications for XLRI Jamshedpur and XLRI Delhi-NCR campus and a candidate can choose two preferred test cities for the test. More than 100 institutes (mostly Jesuits) are using the XAT score for their respective admission process,” the communiqué said. “The XLRI has been conducting XAT on behalf of XAMI to select the most suitable students for management education. Though one of the oldest competitive examinations in the country, XAT has always kept pace with the cutting-edge testing methodology. The test’s multidimensional testing framework strives to assess the aptitude of candidates for business management education meaningfully. The XAT has a multi-pronged examination structure and in-built fairness to evaluate candidates aspiring to be future business leaders,” said XLRI director Father Paul Fernandes. Candidates who have a recognised bachelor’s degree of minimum three years duration or equivalent in any discipline and those completing their final examination by June 10, 2022, may also apply. All Indian candidates can appear for XAT 2022. However, NRI and foreign candidates may apply through their GMAT scores. The XAT 2022 will be conducted in 185 centres across India. The cities in eastern India where the test would be held include Berhampur, Bhubaneswar, Bokaro, Cuttack, Calcutta, Guwahati, Hooghly, Jamshedpur, Patna, Ranchi, Rourkela, Sambalpur and Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
13-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad painting competition on patriotic theme ||Dhanbad: A card-making workshop was organised under the leadership of private tutor Pinaki Roy, founder of Jharia based NGO Institution for National Amity that was aimed at inculcating a sense of patriotism among 40 students of 12 to 19 year age group ahead of Independence Day. The participants belonging to different schools of the district including Carmel School, Digwadih; De Nobili School, Digwadih and Kids Garden, Jharia besides some other government schools of the district made paintings of Bharat Mata, Indian soldiers, the tricolour etc as part of the workshop. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Roy said, “At the time of the pandemic when several restrictions have been imposed by the union home ministry to avoid overcrowding during Independence Day celebration, we decided to propagate patriotic fervour among students by organising the workshop and the response was quite encouraging today.” (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: A 54-year-old police jawan died under mysterious circumstances at Hazaribagh police line with police claiming that accidental firing from his own Insas rifle claimed his life. Rajkumar Mahto was a resident of Jori village of Huntergunj block in neighbouring Chatra district. He joined the service in 2018 and is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter. Policemen on condition of anonymity said he died by suicide as he was suffering from depression for long. But those close to him as well as relatives opposed the suicide theory and said he was of jovial nature. They said he was diabetic and undergoing treatment in Ranchi. Inspector of Sadar Circle Lalit Kumar Singh said investigation has started keeping in mind all the possible angles. His body was handed over to relatives after post mortem at Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-75
