14-08-2021||Calcutta||Muchipara cops ‘break into’ BJP leader home||Officers of Muchipara police station allegedly broke open the main door of the house of BJP leader Sajal Ghosh to take him into custody on Friday afternoon, following allegations of assault on a Trinamul leader’s wife and an attack on a shop. People in the neighbourhood said trouble started on Thursday night after the wife of a local Trinamul leader accused two BJP supporters of molesting her. The accused were arrested soon after. Ghosh allegedly led an attack on a shop off Raja Rammohan Sarani on Friday morning, possibly to protest his supporters’ arrests. After receiving a complaint from the shop’s owner, a team from Muchipara police station went to Ghosh’s house, near Santosh Mitra Square. “As the family was not opening the door, an officer told them through an open window that an FIR had been registered against Ghosh and he was expected to go to the police station,” said a source. The officer warned the family that if Ghosh refused to cooperate with the police, they would be forced to break open the door. Minutes later, three officers allegedly took turns kicking the door until it gave away. Ghosh was taken out and escorted to Muchipara police station, a few hundred metres from his home. Officers not handling the case said it was unusual for the police to break into the home of an accused unless he or she was a criminal with flight risk. Dilip Ghosh condemned the cop action: “Is he a criminal? Was he absconding?” Ghosh said. Trinamul state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said: “The incident with the door was undesirable. But equally unacceptable are the inflammatory threats being issued by the BJP over the incident.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid fear: Passengers express wish to fly on bigger aircraft to minimise chances of infection||Covid has changed the concerns of air passengers and their queries, said officials of airlines and the Calcutta airport. Many passengers, while booking tickets, are expressing the wish to fly on a bigger aircraft to minimise chances of infection, even if travelling on such a flight costs more. Calcutta businessman Kishore Mandani goes to Dubai frequently. “Earlier, I would prefer an airline with better service. Now I make it a point to my travel agent while booking a seat that it has to be a bigger aircraft. This gives a sense of safety,” said Mandani. Tour operators said for the domestic sector, too, many passengers are insisting on a bigger aircraft. “In sectors like Mumbai and Delhi where many options are available, passengers are insisting on booking on Air India or Vistara flights which operate bigger aircraft. They are ready to pay more but want a spacious plane,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. An official of Air India, which operates wide-body Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft in some of the omestic sectors like Delhi, said they were observing high demand for business class seats recently. “Maybe because it's more specious,” said the official. Most low-cost airlines operate narrow-body aircraft with 180 seats. An official of the Airline Operators Committee at the Calcutta airport said most of the queries from passengers after the second wave of Covid infections were not about luggage but about whether the flight was fully booked or not. “We cannot divulge the load factor to individual passengers but we tell them whether the flight is full or not,” said the AOC official. Airport officials are also getting queries about RT-PCR tests. “We are getting 100 to 150 calls every day from passengers who want to know whether they need to get an RT-PCR test done. Many passengers from London coming via Delhi or Dubai are calling to find out whether they have to spend hours at the airport after arrival to get a rapid PCR test done,” said an airport official. Earlier, he said, most queries would be about departure and arrival timings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||New US consul general Melinda Pavek in Calcutta||Melinda Pavek took over as US consul general in Calcutta on Thursday. She replaced Patti Hoffman. Pavek was the counsellor for science, innovation, and development at the US embassy in Tokyo before her current assignment. “I am honored to be representing the United States of America here in east and Northeast India,” said Pavek. “I look forward to meeting people across my consular district and continuing the work of the US consulate in advancing the US-India partnership in the region.” Pavek, who traces her roots to Minnesota, has served in Pakistan, Brunei, Nepal and Iraq, among other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid @ Calcutta: Days split for 1st & 2nd shots||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s Covid vaccination centres will administer only second doses on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and first doses on other days from next week, Atin Ghosh, who heads the civic body’s health department, said on Friday. Vaccines are not administered on Sundays. Senior officials of the civic body said the decision to reserve separate days for the first and second doses was taken to ensure that those whose second doses have become due do not miss out on the shot. CMC officials in charge of vaccination said they had noticed that nearly 80 per cent of those who had been vaccinated at their centres over the past 10 days were first dose recipients. “If the trend continues, very soon people whose second dose has become due may complain that they are not getting their shots. We want to prevent that. The decision will ensure equal opportunities to both sets of recipients,” an official said. What also prompted the civic body to take the decision, the official said, was the fact that the CMC has been getting fewer doses than what it used to in May. Some of the centres that used to administer 300 or 350 doses each day in May are now administering only 150 a day because of inadequate supply. Those who took Covishield first dose in May are now eligible for the second dose. “If most of the 150 doses being administered daily go to first dose recipients, the backlog of second dose recipients will keep increasing,” an official said. “From Monday, our centres will administer only second doses on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. First doses will be administered on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the health department. A senior CMC official said about 23 lakh second doses of Covishield are yet to be administered in Calcutta. “The majority of vaccine doses in Calcutta are being administered from CMC centres. The teaching hospitals and some private hospitals and clinics are also administering the doses. It is unlikely that most of those who have taken their first dose at CMC centres will prefer to take the second dose from other places. So we have to create a situation where these people do not have any difficulty in getting the second dose,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Pre-primary teachers face hard time trying to retain attention of children in online classes||Pre-primary teachers are having a hard time trying to retain the attention of children in online classes for the second year in a row, with monotony and boredom setting in, several of them said. Some of them said the children were increasingly becoming restless and fidgety. They do not respond in class and at times, disappear from the screen. Children are used to cartoons or games on screen and teachers have to compete with that kind of attention-seeking gimmick. The challenge is that the content is not always entertainment, said a teacher for toddlers. Schools are also noticing a learning gap among students. “Earlier, school was a level playing field regardless of the situation at home. Some parents have limitations and the home atmosphere is not always conducive, which is creating a divide in the level of learning,” said Nupur Ghosh, vice principal,  Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Schools are having to rely heavily on parents and while some are able to guide their children, others are unable to do so. “In school, the teacher would be hand-holding the child. For example, teaching the child how to hold a pencil. Now, teachers are unable to do more than give verbal instructions. That is where the gap is,” said Dalbir Kaur Chadda, principal, South Point School. In physical school, by the end of nursery, children are able to comprehend English, said several teachers. For many, this is no longer the case. “In school, we reach a certain level, which we are unable to do now in some cases and we cannot blame anyone for this,” said Chadda. Several schools send videos to parents, which they are expected to show their children but many of them are unable to find the time to sit with the kids. Many are also unable to communicate with the child like a teacher would. Children have also become more restless because they cannot interact with other children, said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally. “Boredom is setting in among children. It is manifested in the way they are becoming fidgety, putting their heads down and at times, not showing eagerness to get up and perform the actions the teacher instructs,” said Gomes Surana. Teachers are sometimes making the class gimmicky to arrest the children's attention but the concern is whether the learning outcome is the same. Teachers are having meetings in schools to discuss ideas to make classes more engaging. “Earlier, in school, we would do one activity per week. But now, we have to come up with a new activity for every class. In school, we had space but now, we have to keep limitations of space and availability of material for any activity in mind,” said Neelakshi Shukla, proprietor and principal, Beginners Montessori House. Amita Prasad, director, Indus Valley World School, said for teachers to devise activities was much easier in school because the classroom is designed that way. “The child can move from one activity to another and no child is expected to be seated in one place for long.” Parents are also finding it difficult. The worksheets that were done in school before now have to be completed at home with the parents. “At times, children’s work is getting delayed because they are dependent on their parents to finish it. Parents have their own work to attend to and it might not be possible for all of them to be prompt,” said Gomes Surana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||President of furore-hit HS council replaced||The Bengal education department on Friday appointed Jadavpur University pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjib Bhattacharjee as president of the state higher secondary council. Bhattacharjee replaces Mahua Das. The decision comes three weeks after students’ grievances against higher secondary results triggered a backlash across the state. Bhattacharjee said he would assume charge on Monday and continue as JU’s pro-VC as well. An official of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education said that over the past week, all notices of the council were being issued by Tapas Mukherjee, the secretary-in-charge. Earlier, Das used to issue notices. Sources in the education department said Bhattacharjee was sounded out by education minister Bratya Basu about the new responsibilities in late July. Around 20,000 of the 8,19,202 examinees did not pass HS. The results were announced on July 22. Violent protests by unsuccessful students had been reported since July 23, following which, on the evening of July 24, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi called Das to Nabanna to explain what triggered the grievances. On August 2, the council announced that “almost 100 per cent” candidates had passed after a review of marks of 18,000 students who had initially failed. Apart from being aggrieved over detention, a section of students are upset because the number of top graders declined drastically compared to last year even as the pass percentage witnessed a jump, said an official of the department. The headmaster of a school in central Calcutta said since the CBSE and ISC results have seen a surge in highest grade scorers, those who have passed HS are fearing they might lag behind their counterparts from other boards while securing admission to undergraduate courses. According to statistics that Das had released on July 22, the number of candidates who got ‘O’ grade — between 90 and 10 marks — came down to 9,013 this year from 30,220 in 2020. The number of A+ grade (between 80 and 89) recipients dropped to 49,370 from 84,746 last year. The number of A grade (70-79) recipients stands at 95,758 against last year’s 96,825. The number of B+ grade (60-69) recipients, however, increased to 1,65,186 from 1,10,265 in 2020. “Since the state government has barred the state-aided colleges and universities from carrying out any admission tests while screening candidates for undergraduate courses and mandated marks based admission, the students of the state board are fearing an unequal competition. Thousands of students have applied for review of marks even as the undergraduate application submission process is on. The council is publishing the review results in several phases,” said a headmaster. Repeated calls to Das went unanswered. Bhattacharjee said: “I will try my level best to further streamline the evaluation process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta community kitchen to shut as funds dry up  ||The long economic slump because of the Covid pandemic is eating into donations to charitable platforms that have been providing free food to the poor in and around the city and in districts. Jadavpur Commune, run by current and former students of the university, relaunched the community kitchen in May after Covid-induced curbs were announced. It would feed the underprivileged in and around Jadavpur station. But it has decided to discontinue the kitchen after August 15 owing to funds crunch. They had started the service during the lockdown in May last year. As funds dwindled, Jatiyo Bangla Sammelan, another volunteer platform that had been running six community kitchens since May this year, was forced to shut down its drive last month. Jhelum Roy, a member of the Jadavpur Commune, said since the suburban train service was yet to resume, those who depended on it to earn their living were finding it difficult to survive. “Many of them would earn a living by selling various items to passengers on the train. Rickshaw-pullers had a steady flow of passengers. They are all struggling,” she said. While Jatioyo Bangla Sammelan’s community kitchens in districts started shutting down in late June, the one in Gariahat — which was being run from Dover Lane and was their largest — wound up its operations in late July. A member of Jadavpur Commune said it was not possible to sustain a platform like theirs in the absence of donations. “Those who initially contributed are now themselves reeling under financial constraints. We want the government to start a kitchen in the area.” The commune has been feeding 300 people on average every day. For Jatiyo Bangla Sammelan, a guesthouse next to Gariahat police station had been turned into a kitchen and was being helmed by youth and social activists since May 17. From Gariahat, it was later extended to Bhowanipore, Howrah station, Egra in East Midnapore, Mousuni Island in South 24-Parganas and Chanditala in Hooghly. A drastic drop in funds between May and July led to the kitchens closing in a phased manner, said Siddhabrata Das, a spokesperson for the platform. “We started with Rs 1.20 lakh in May. In June, the collection dropped to Rs 70,000 and to Rs 25,000 in July. We could not sustain it any longer,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Footfall poor now but cinema owners happy ||Twenty out of 400 seats were occupied during the matinee show at a cinema in south Calcutta on Friday. But the hall owner and employees were upbeat because a start after months of shutdown was like a breath of fresh air. A string of single-screen halls in the city reopened on Friday with a Hollywood horror flick. Footfall did not reach double digits in many shows. Hall operators were banking on a big-ticket Hindi release, slated next weekend, to boost the footfall. Menoka, Navina, Ashoka, Ajanta and Bijoli were some of the halls that reopened on Friday. Most of them showed The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It. A handful of other halls had opened last week, following the state government’s nod for theatres to reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity, a precaution against Covid. In the matinee show at Menoka, on Southern Avenue, barely 20 people bought tickets. Fifty per cent capacity at the theatre means 400 people. The audience mostly comprised young people. Two friends from Garia were among the first day’s visitors at Menoka. “Watching a film at a hall felt like revisiting the past,” said one of them, a 20-year-old. “Things are very bleak. But at least the halls reopened after such a long time,” said Pranab Roy, the owner of Menoka and Ashoka in Behala. “People are back in malls, on roads and at restaurants. We are keeping our fingers crossed and hoping for a rise in ticket sales from next week,” said Satadeep Saha, the owner of Ajanta in Behala and a film distributor. Bell Bottom, starring Akshay Kumar, is slated to release next weekend. It is the first big Bollywood film to be released outside OTT platforms since the Hrithik Roshan-starrer War, which was released in October 2019, said hall owners. Saha is distributing the film across over 100 halls in Bengal. INOX at South City Mall is set to open on Saturday. The chain had already opened some other properties, including the one at Quest, earlier this month. “The footfall has been better than what we saw after reopening in October last year. The vaccine has increased the confidence of the people. We are hoping for a boost in footfall from next week,” said Amitava Guha Thakurta, regional director-east, INOX Leisure Limited. The halls were shut from the end of April till the end of July this year and from March-end to the middle of October last year because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Order of Merit of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Award for service||Rajat Dalmia, the honorary consul of Luxembourg in Calcutta, has been awarded the Order of Merit of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The award was bestowed “in recognition of his continuing honourable services to and for the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and its citizens,” said an official statement issued by the consulate. The ambassador of Luxembourg, Jean Claude Kugener, conferred the honour on Dalmia in New Delhi on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||20-odd invitees to Red Road Independence-Day programme||Around 20 invitees — including officers from the army, navy and air force, and consular representatives and judges — have been invited to the Independence Day programme on Red Road. The event, to last a little over 30 minutes, will be an abridged affair in keeping with Covid protocols, officials at Nabanna said on Friday. There will be no seating arrangements for anyone apart from the guests. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to arrive at the venue at 10.30am, sources in Calcutta police said. “Red Road-bound traffic will be diverted for over an hour on Sunday till the function is over,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. “Police officers in close proximity to the chief minister will have to carry an e-certificate of their double dose vaccination.” Tableaus depicting some of the initiatives of the Bengal government such as Khela Hobe Divas, students' credit card and Duare Sarkar will be on display. There will also be tableaus on Subhas Chandra Bose and unity in diversity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-18
14-08-2021||Calcutta||Man arrested for duping people by creating fake websites of popular finance companies||A 32-year-old man was arrested on Thursday night from his rented accommodation in Thakurpukur for allegedly duping at least five persons by creating fake websites of popular finance companies. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said five complaints had been lodged with the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake, based on which Shekhar Singh Azad was arrested. The officer said Azad, a BTech in computer engineering, had opened at least 25 fake websites of non-banking finance institutions. He allegedly offered through the websites various types of loans —   including personal, vehicle and appliance loans — at interest rates lower than those offered by the companies. “Azad had used logos and fonts of the non-banking financial institutions in the fake websites. It was hard for the victims to tell that the sites were fake. These websites had no link to the original websites run by the companies whose logos he was using,” the officer said. Once a person logged into any of the websites allegedly created by Azad, he or she was asked to enter personal details like name, phone number and address. The website would then ask them to upload photographs of their identity cards such as PAN and Aadhaar cards. “Once this was done, the victims were redirected to a page where they had to pay a processing fee. However, no loan amount was sanctioned after making the payment,” the officer said. Azad, from Buxar in Bihar, has been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating), 419 (cheating by personation), 465 (forgery) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record). He was produced in a court in Salt Lake on Friday and remanded in police custody till August 17. Vikek Sharma, Azad’s lawyer, said his client ran a website designing business and had created the websites for which he had been arrested for a client.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-19
14-08-2021||Business||Piyush Goyal under fire on social media for criticising Tata||India's commerce minister faced heat on social media on Saturday for his remarks that many big domestic businesses had overlooked national interests and that $106 billion Tata Group's objections to proposed policy changes for e-commerce had upset him. At an event organized by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Thursday, Minister Piyush Goyal criticised Tata and more broadly said local businesses should not just focus on profits or think of bypassing local laws, according to media reports and a source who attended the event. The comments caught public attention and stoked a debate on social media after The Hindu newspaper reported on Saturday the government had asked the CII to block videos with Goyal's comments. Two links to those videos on Goyal's speech shared with journalists were now marked private and blocked. The CII and Goyal's office did not respond to a request for comment. "The kind of language used against industry captains & calling their work against nation's interest is shameful ... CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video," said Priyanka Chaturvedi, a lawmaker and opposition leader. A spokeswoman of India's main opposition Congress Party, Supriya Shrinate, said on Twitter Goyal's remarks were "undignified". Goyal's comments on Tata came after Reuters last month reported the conglomerate was among most vociferous in telling the government in a July meeting that proposed e-commerce rules will have a major impact on its business and bar its joint venture partners like Starbucks (SBUX.O) from selling goods on Tata's shopping websites. At the CII event, Goyal said Tata's objection to the rules had hurt him, saying he had conveyed that position to Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran, the source who attended said. Tata declined to comment on Saturday. Goyal has also repeatedly criticized Amazon (AMZN.O) and Walmart's (WMT.N) Flipkart for allegedly bypassing foreign investment rules for e-commerce. This week, he also invoked the "Quit India" movement in parliament as he welcomed a court order that allowed an antitrust probe of the two companies to continue. The Confederation of All India Traders, however, welcomed Goyal's stand on Saturday, saying it was "highly unfortunate" that Tata was opposing government's e-commerce rules. The 153-year-old Tata Group has big e-commerce plans and is planning launch of an app that will integrate several of its top brands, but the proposed policy changes have spooked it, Reuters has reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
14-08-2021||Business||Air travel becomes costlier, govt raises caps on domestic airfares by 9.83-12.82 per cent||Domestic air travel is set to become costlier as the civil aviation ministry has raised the lower as well as the upper caps on fares by 9.83 to 12.82 per cent, according to an official order. India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services resumed on May 25, 2020, after a two-month lockdown due to coronavirus. In an order dated August 12, 2021, the ministry increased the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration from Rs 2,600 to Rs 2,900 — an increase of 11.53 percent. The upper cap for such flights has been increased by 12.82 per cent to Rs 8,800. Flights with duration of 40-60 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 3,700 instead of Rs 3,300. The upper cap on these flights was increased by 12.24 per cent to Rs 11,000 on Thursday. The flights with duration of 60-90 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 4,500 — a rise of 12.5 per cent. The upper cap on these flights was raised by 12.82 per cent to Rs 13,200. The caps mentioned in the order do not include the passenger security fee, user development fee for the airports and the GST.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
14-08-2021||Business||SpiceJet Q1 net loss widens to Rs 729 crore||Budget carrier SpiceJet’s net loss rose to Rs 729 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal despite a substantial rise in revenue during the quarter as the airline said its business continued to face headwinds because of the Covid-19 restrictions. The no-frills carrier had reported a net loss of Rs 593.4 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, said: “The quarter was severely impacted by the second wave as passenger traffic almost disappeared. While no one can predict the future, with vaccination numbers picking up and demand for air travel increasing steadily, we hope the trend reverses soon. Our logistics arm continued with its strong growth story reporting yet another profitable quarter.” Total income for the quarter under review increased 80 per cent to Rs 1,265.85 crore against Rs 704.56 crore in the same quarter of the previous year. Total revenue from operations grew 112 per cent to Rs 1,089.73 crore from Rs 514.69 crore in the year-ago period. Operating expenses grew to Rs 1,995 crore during the quarter against Rs 1,298 crore in the year-ago period. The passenger segment saw a revenue of Rs 621 crore in the first quarter of 2021-22 against Rs 349 crore in the same quarter last year. SpiceXpress, the cargo service arm of SpiceJet, reported a rise of 285 per cent in revenue at Rs 472.79 crore during the reported quarter against Rs 165.86 crore in the same quarter last year. Grasim profit up four-fold Aditya Birla Group firm Grasim Industries Ltd on Monday reported an around four-fold jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 2,447.97 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 616.99 crore during the April-June quarter of the previous fiscal. Its revenue from operations was up 52.72 per cent at Rs 19,919.40 crore during the quarter under review against Rs 13,043.51 crore a year ago. Akzo Nobel recovers Paints major Akzo Nobel India on Friday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 75.91 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021 amid disruptions due to the second wave of the pandemic. The company had posted a net loss of Rs 20.26 crore in the corresponding quarter year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||No decision on stake sale in Petronet, IGL yet: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd ||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) on Friday said no decision has yet been taken to sell its stake in Petronet LNG and Indraprastha Gas to help the company’s prospective owner avoid making an open offer for the two gas companies. V.R.K. Gupta, chief financial officer, BPCL, said market regulator Sebi has not yet responded to an application made to exempt the new owner of BPCL from making an open offer to the shareholders of Petronet and IGL. BPCL holds 12.5 per cent of the shareholding in liquefied natural gas importer Petronet and a 22.5 per cent stake in city gas retailer Indraprashta Gas Ltd (IGL). It is a promoter of both the listed companies and holds board positions. According to the legal position evaluated by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), the acquirer of BPCL will have to make open offers to the minority shareholders of Petronet and IGL for the acquisition of a 26 per cent stake. The thinking in the government is that the open offers for Petronet and IGL may deter bidders who are mostly eyeing BPCL’s oil refining assets and 22 per cent share of the fuel marketing business it commands, sources said. In an attempt to bail out the new owner of BPCL from spending an additional Rs 19,100 crore in open offers for firms where it will have no operational control, it was suggested that BPCL sells a part of its shareholding in the two firms and shed promoter status. “There is no decision taken as on date but we are working with the government to protect the interests of BPCL,” Gupta said at an investor call. BPCL does not want to pare its stake in either IGL or Petronet as it sees it as a value destruction proposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches National Automobile Scrappage Policy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday formally launched the vehicle scrappage policy that makes commercial vehicles which are more than 15-years-old and personal vehicles over 20-years-old eligible for scrapping. The tentative date for the policy to take effect is October 1 for private and commercial vehicles. The scrapping of government and PSU vehicles above 15 years will be undertaken from April 1, 2022. Modi said the vehicle scrappage policy would bring investments of Rs 10,000 crore. He said Alang in Gujarat could become the hub for scrapping. Under this policy, people who want to turn their old vehicle into scrap will get a certificate from the government. The certificate entitles them to free registration of their new vehicles. The owners of the certificate will be eligible to 4-6 per cent rebate on a new vehicle. Besides, they will get a road tax rebate. Much of the success of the scheme will depend on auto makers offering discounts and the state governments waiving off registration fee and offering rebate on road taxes. The state governments have been advised to offer a road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent for a personal vehicle and 15 percent for commercial vehicles. “Alang (in Gujarat's Bhavnagar district) has already established itself as a ship recycling hub. It also has skilled manpower. I strongly feel that it can also become a hub for turning vehicles into scrap,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea CEO offers assurance, says telco committed to providing superior services, propositions||Vodafone Idea CEO Ravinder Takkar has reached out to consumers reaffirming the telcos’ commitment to continue providing “superior services and best-in-class propositions”. Thanking users for their continued support as the company approaches the first anniversary of the Vi branding, Takkar noted that Vi came with a promise of a better tomorrow, bringing the best in technology, services and solutions for the Digital Indian and Digital Bharat. The company will continue to deliver on this promise to keep users ahead, Takkar said in the mailer to consumers. “Looking ahead, we reinforce our commitment to continue providing you with superior services and best-in-class propositions,” he said. Takkar, however, did not make any mention of the issues being faced by VIL. He said that the past year saw the effects of an unprecedented global pandemic and tested the resilience of the human spirit. “The year also saw the birth of the youngest telecom brand in the country — Vi — which in a short span of less than a year has become a brand you love,” he said. The CEO’s note assumes significance in the backdrop of Vodafone Idea’s desperate struggle to stay afloat. Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla recently stepped down as chairman of VIL, within weeks of offering to hand over Aditya Birla Group’s stake in the debt-laden telco to the government, in a bid to avert a crisis for the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio conclude spectrum trading agreement||Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio on Friday concluded a Rs 1,004.8-crore spectrum trading deal under which Jio will get the right to use Airtel’s 800 Mhz spectrum in the Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, and Mumbai circles. “Airtel has received Rs 1,004.8 crore (net of tax) from Jio for the proposed transfer. In addition, Jio will assume future liabilities of Rs 469.3 crore relating to the spectrum,” the telecom operator said in a statement. Bharti Airtel’s deal with Reliance Jio involves the transfer of the “right to use” of Airtel’s 800 Mhz spectrum in Andhra Pradesh (3.75 Mhz), Delhi (1.25 Mhz) and Mumbai (2.50 Mhz) circles to Jio, the companies had said earlier this year. “The sale of the 800 Mhz blocks in these three circles has enabled us to unlock value from spectrum that was unutilised. This is aligned to our overall network strategy,” said Gopal Vittal, managing director and chief executive officer (India and South Asia), Airtel. According to analysts, the trading of unutilised spectrum can help the companies earn revenue, and in return provide better network reach to customers across the country. After the two firms had agreed on the spectrum sale, market analysts had termed the deal “mutually beneficial” and a “win-win for both”. UBS in a note cited Jio’s spectrum buys in the 800 Mhz band in the recently-concluded auctions. Going by the total purchase cost of Rs 13,500 crore and given the 20-year validity, it works out to a cost/MHz/annum of Rs 30 crore. India's largest telecom operator Reliance Jio through the deal with Bharti has now topped up its holding in these circles to 10MHz, 10MHz and 15MHz, respectively, for a total consideration of Rs 1,497 crore. “With remaining validity of 14 years, the implied cost/MHz/annum comes to Rs 140 million...50 per cent discount to the auction price. Jio has therefore not only built up 10-15 MHz blocks in these key circles but has potentially saved USD 400 million," UBS said. The deal makes sense for Bharti as this spectrum was acquired by Airtel from Tata for little consideration, and has remained unutilised. Bharti is, therefore, able to unlock value from the unutilised spectrum, UBS note explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Adi Godrej to step down as Godrej Industries' chairman, Nadir Godrej to take over||Veteran industrialist Adi Godrej will step down as chairman as well as from the board of directors of Godrej Industries Ltd (GIL), passing on the baton to his younger brother Nadir Godrej, effective October 1. The 79-year-old industrialist will continue to serve as the chairman of the Godrej group and chairman emeritus of GIL, said the statement. “Nadir Godrej, who is at present the managing director of GIL, will take over as chairman and managing director of the company,” it added. GIL is a holding company of the Godrej group. Adi Godrej has served GIL for almost four decades. “It has been a privilege to serve Godrej Industries for over four decades, during which we have delivered strong results and transformed our company,” said Adi Godrej. “I am very confident that our best years are ahead of us, and I look forward to Nadir and our team achieving our exciting aspirations,” he added. In the statement, Nadir Godrej thanked his brother for his vision and leadership, which shaped the company. “On behalf of our team at Godrej Industries and our board, I want to thank our chairman for his vision, values and exceptional leadership that has guided and shaped our company. On August 4, Adi Godrej announced his decision to step down from the board of the group’s FMCG arm, Godrej Consumer Products Ltd (GCPL), effective next month. In GCPL, he had already passed on the baton to his younger daughter Nisaba Godrej in 2017 as chairman. But he will remain as chairman emeritus of the FMCG firm. Adi Godrej was born in 1942 and Nadir in 1951. Their father Burjorji Godrej was the nephew of Ardeshir Godrej, founder of the group. As Ardeshir was childless, the vast industrial estate created by Ardeshir was inherited by his three nephews. Adi and Nadir’s first cousin Jamshyd Godrej is the chairman and managing director of Godrej & Boyce. Nadir Godrej is also the chairman of Godrej Agrovat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||Business||Sensex scales 55000 as record run continues||The BSE Sensex on Friday vaulted above the 55000-mark for the first time —  climbing 1000 points in just eight trading sessions since it crossed the 54000 mark on August 4 — as investors remained in risk-on mode amid favourable macroeconomic data and growth optimism. Index heavyweights TCS, RIL, Infosys and the HDFC twins saw robust buying, while pharma stocks slipped. Rallying for the second straight session, the 30-share Sensex jumped 593.31 points, or 1.08 per cent, to its new all-time closing high of 55437.29. It touched an intra-day record of 55487.79 during the day. Similarly, the NSE Nifty breached the 16500 level, advancing 164.70 points, or 1.01 per cent, to its fresh closing peak of 16529.10. It surged to a intra-day record of 16543.60. TCS was the top performer among the Sensex components, spurting 3.22 per cent, followed by L&T, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech, Tata Steel and Bajaj Auto. PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy’s, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, NTPC and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards, skidding up to 1.28 per cent. During the week, the Sensex rallied 1159.57 points, or 2.13 per cent, while the Nifty soared 290.90 points or 1.79 per cent. “A sustained rebound in IT followed by recovery in financials and consumers aided benchmark indices to defy weak cues from Asian markets and scale fresh records,” said Binod Modi, head — strategy at Reliance Securities. IT stocks remained in focus throughout the week and investors lapped up quality IT names because of sustained double-digit revenue growth visibility backed by strong deal wins, he added. “Domestic main indices raised the bar, registering new highs, bolstered by favourable economic data and a strong performance by large caps such as IT, FMCG and telecom. “Investor sentiment was boosted as retail inflation eased to 5.59 per cent in July from 6.26 per cent in June owing to softening food prices. Moreover, industrial production rose 13.6 per cent YoY in June on account of good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Sectorally, BSE telecom, tech, capital goods, IT, energy and consumer durables indices rose up to 1.80 per cent, while realty, healthcare and utilities ended in the red.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
14-08-2021||India||Be prepared for any challenge, says Rajnath to Indian armed forces||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said efforts are being made to resolve the differences on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh through dialogue with China and that the process of disengagement has been completed at some places. In an address to the armed forces on the eve of the 75th Independence Day, Singh said the dimensions of security are constantly changing in the evolving environment and called upon the three services to be prepared for any challenge that may come their way. "I call upon you to be prepared for any challenge that may come your way. I assure you that the government is ready and will continue to always meet your and your loved ones' needs," he said, in comments that came in the backdrop of the deteriorating security scenario in Afghanistan. Singh said the Indian civilisation has always been peaceful since ancient times, but peace is not possible without power. "If non-violence is our ultimate duty, protecting the integrity of the nation is equally important. Therefore, we are ready to sacrifice anything for unity and integrity of the nation," he said. "In order to maintain peace and prosperity in the country, it is necessary that you should be alert and aware in protecting the nation wherever you are in water, land or sky," he said. The defence minister also said that the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir remained in check over the last year due to vigilance and indomitable valour of the Indian armed forces. "Ceasefire violations have also come down since February 2021. The infiltration from across the border has stopped due to vigilance of the armed forces and para-military forces," he said in the address aired on All India Radio. "In eastern Ladakh, efforts are being made to resolve the differences on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) through dialogue with China. The process of disengagement has been completed at some places," he said referring to the border row with China. Both sides have already disengaged from areas around the North and South banks of Pangong lake as well as from Gogra. Referring to Army Subedar Neeraj Chopra's feat, Singh said he has made this year's Independence Day even sweeter by winning the gold medal in the Javelin throw event at the Tokyo Olympics. "Subedar Neeraj as well as other Olympic medalists have been specially invited to the Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort tomorrow. I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji for this," Singh said. The minister greeted the armed forces on the occasion of Independence Day. "The nation is ushering in an important phase of Independence from midnight today, the 75th year of it. There is an atmosphere of celebration all around the country on this momentous occasion," he said. The defence minister said the government has always been aware of the operational requirements of the armed force, adding the capital outlay has been increased from Rs 1.13 lakh crore to Rs 1.35 lakh crore in the Union Budget for 2021-22. He assured the armed forces that the government will take every step to protect the country. Referring to the acquisition of Rafale fighter jets to maintain the "operational edge" of the Indian Air Force, Singh said 26 aircraft out of 36 have already arrived in India and the remaining ones too will reach soon, adding the fleet will bring qualitative enhancement in the defence capability of the force. The defence minister said Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant completed its four-day maiden sea voyage on August 8 and that the construction of the warship is a major achievement of the 'Make in India' initiatives. "In another important initiative of 'Make in India', Ministry of Defence has launched a project worth over Rs 40,000 crore for construction of six conventional submarines named Project 75 (India) for Indian Navy on July 20," he said. He said the Request for Proposal (RFP) under the strategic partnership model has been issued for the programme to the partners selected for it, adding that these submarines will be very effective in protecting India's strategic interests. Singh also mentioned the Defence Research and Development Organisation's (DRDO) recent successful demonstration of the hypersonic scramjet technology with the testing of Hypersonic Technology Demonstration Vehicle (HSTDV). He also talked about the successful test-fired Agni P and some other missiles. The defence minister said that the government constituted the Special Number 5 Selection Board in September 2020 for the permanent commission of women officers following a judgement on the matter by the Supreme Court. He said on the recommendation of the board, permanent commission was awarded to some officers in November last year. "The Supreme Court in March 2021 had passed another order for permanent commission to women officers... "Thereafter, on the recommendation of the Board, 147 more women officers were awarded permanent commission last month," he said. So far, 424 women officers out of 615 have availed this benefit, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
14-08-2021||India||India at 75: More than 1.5 crore Indians record and upload national anthem on rashtragaan.in||More than 1.5 crore Indians have recorded and uploaded the national anthem on the government's portal rashtragaan.in to mark India's 75th Independence Day, the Ministry of Culture said on Saturday. On July 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a clarion call to the people of the country to sing the national anthem together in his Mann Ki Baat' radio programme. "More than 1.5 crore Indians from India and across the world have recorded and uploaded their videos to achieve a never done before record on this very special occasion. This is evidence of the inherent unity, strength and harmony of India, the culture ministry said in a statement. The ministry had created a programme to enable people to sing the national anthem Jana Gana Mana' by August 15 and upload it on the website. The government had also made it mandatory for all school children to record and upload the same. "As is evident from the record-breaking numbers, people from all parts of the country, from all sections have enthusiastically participated in this unique initiative. Children, senior citizens, youth, women, no one wanted to be left behind from this feeling of community and shared pride. "Eminent artists, well-known scholars, top leaders, senior officers, brave soldiers, famous sportsmen to farmers, labourers, people with special needs, everyone came together and sang the National Anthem in one voice," the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Covid: Third wave unpredictable, says AIIMS director||AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said here on Saturday that the country might not see a third wave of coronavirus disease but it largely depended on people following Covid Appropriate Behaviour. Talking to reporters at the Gitam Institute, where he received the Foundation Day Award in recognition of his services, Guleria noted that the only unpredictable part was how the virus behaved. "But I don't think that we will see a third wave which will be as bad as the second wave," he observed. Referring to apprehensions that the possible third wave could infect children more, the AIIMS chief pointed out that children would be "more susceptible" because they were not being vaccinated. "The general feeling is that adults are getting vaccinated, children are not being vaccinated and therefore if there is a new wave it will affect those who are more susceptible. Children will be more susceptible," he noted. More than 50 per cent of children have already been infected as per the sero survey and have antibodies, Guleria pointed out. But, he added, hopefully there would be a (anti-Covid) vaccine for children also coming up in another month or two. Then, children would also start getting vaccinated. He said the vaccines were still effective as far as severe disease was concerned. "Vaccines are helping in preventing severe disease and death from Covid-19. Infections are still happening but those infected are predominantly those who have not been vaccinated. That's why we are saying more and more people need to get vaccinated," he added. "Those getting infected even after vaccination, what we call breakthrough infection, are predominantly getting milder infection. So vaccines are effective in giving protection from severe disease," he noted. Guleria, a renowned pulmonologist, was presented the Gitam Foundation Day Award that carried Rs 10 lakh and a citation. Gitam Institutions chairman M Sri Bharat presented the award and felicitated Guleria on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Traffickers using social media to prey on schoolgirls, says child protection activists||With her school closed for over a year and little to do at home, 15-year-old Shahida (name changed) started spending more time on social media. Soon, the teenager was in a relationship with a 24-year-old man, Aadil, who contacted her on a social media site. He told her that he would send her to a good school and look after her well if she married him. Eventually, he managed to persuade the girl to elope with him. With her family struggling financially since her father lost his job during lockdown, Shahida was excited about the good life that Aadil promised to give her. At the end of May, when Aadil came to take Shahida with him, child representatives of the Village Child Protection Committee alerted a social worker who stopped the wedding in time. "Aadil made me believe that I could go to a good school if I married him. He said that would also make my school admission easier," said Shahida, who lives with her family in West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district. "I agreed to his proposal as I hoped to have one square meal a day. I never thought that there might be danger lurking for me," she said. Rita Paramick, a frontline child protection worker with Save the Children, who stopped Shahida's wedding, said Shahida's is one of the many cases of traffickers using social media to target children, who are spending a lot more time online as schools are closed and they can't even go out to play. "These days, traffickers have changed their modus operandi. Social media is one platform through which they trap young children like Shahida," she said. "Children have been out of school for more than a year now and girls like Shahida, who are living in extreme poverty, are always soft targets for predators," she added. Mamata Sardar, a youth advocate for Save the Children in West Bengal, said girls are increasingly being lured into marriage on social media. "As most children are now at home and attending classes online, they're glued to social media," she said. Sardar said she has stepped up vigilance as parents of many children have lost their jobs during the pandemic, leading to an increased possibility of child trafficking. She said she has counselled at least three girls who were almost ready to marry men who contacted them on social media. "Since the second wave of the pandemic, I have intervened to stop five child marriages and convinced the girls' parents to let them finish their education before they marry them off," she added. In one such case, the unemployed father of a 15-year-old girl fixed her marriage so that he would have one less mouth to feed. He didn't even consult his wife. When the girl's mother found out, she informed a frontline child protection worker of their village in South 24 Parganas. The frontline child protection worker made the girl's father understand that marrying her before the age of 18 was illegal and that he should let her continue her studies. Anindit Roy Chowdhury, director - Programmes and Policy, Save the Children, said child marriages have risen sharply during the pandemic and are even being held in villages that have not seen any in years. "Child marriage is extremely harmful to girls. Not only does it mean that they are unable to continue their education but also poses danger to their physical and mental health," he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Opposition slams Centre after Piyush Goyal's remarks on business practices in country||Opposition leaders on Saturday latched on to a media report on Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal's criticism of business practices of Indian industry to attack the government with some also taking a swipe at India Inc for backing the ruling dispensation, saying "you reap what you sow". Speaking at a CII plenary session, Goyal reportedly asserted that the business practices of Indian industry went against national interests. According to a report in the The Hindu, Goyal repeatedly singled out the Tata Group in his comments and said, "Kya aapke jaisi company, ek do aapne shaayad koi videshi company kharid li Uska importance zyaada ho gaya, desh hith kam ho gaya? (A company like yours, maybe you bought one or two foreign companies, now their importance is greater than national interest)? However, sources close to the minister said his comments were represented out of context. "The thrust of his interaction was on national interest. The minister's heart-felt appeal must be viewed in its entirety and not singled out for slander," a source close to him said. Several Opposition leaders tagged the media report and attacked the government for the criticism of India Inc. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he was flabbergasted at Goyal's "unprovoked attacks" on Indian industry. "First, he ensured Rajya Sabha did not function at all, and now this bizarre tirade! He couldn't be speaking without official sanction, could he?" Ramesh said in a tweet. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the new "Modi mantra" is to abuse those who "Make in India". "The New Modi Mantra: Abuse those who 'Make in India'. Publicly insulting India's 'Industry and its icons' is now the modus operandi of 'Hum Do, Hamare do' Modi Government. Ease the doyens for 'ease of business'," tweeted Surjewala. "This is the new India. When industry requests for handholding, Government hands over a certificate of anti-nationalism ! 'Hum Do, Hamare Do Sarkar'," he also said. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill claimed that by making this statement, Goyal has mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi's slogan Ease of doing business in India . "BJP Ministers confusing 'Govt andhbhakti' with 'deshbhakti' while pretending to be franchise holders of Nationalism!" Shergill tweeted. On one hand the BJP government has given a contract to build the new Parliament of India to the Tatas and on the other hand BJP minister Goyal, according to media reports, is calling them anti-national, he said, adding that "BJP doublespeak knows no limits". Some leaders also took a swipe at India Inc for backing the BJP government in recent years. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari said, "You reap what you sow INDIA INC." "Bombay Club 1.0 created NDA/BJP Govt between 2012-2014. Threw collective weight behind one individual and not even one party. And now @PiyushGoyal terms them anti-national," the former Union minister tweeted. Taking to Twitter, Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha said, "Dear Corporate India, Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Best wishes." Slamming the remarks, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said the kind of language used against industry captains and calling their work against the nation's interest is shameful to the core. "CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video. Stand up to bullying!" she said. All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi also took a dig at the government over Goyal's comments, saying Prime Minister Modi wants to take them into confidence but the minister wants to hold them accountable. How will this work, he asked. Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra took a dig at Goyal over what she said was an "unhinged rant" at the CII meeting, saying the "pressure of working in an underperforming one man show must really be getting to them". Anil Swarup, a former Secretary of the government of India, said he had doubted it but Goyal did make the comments and asserted that what is appalling is that no one from the industry protested. "The industry acted worse than civil servants (at least some protested) when they were pilloried & called 'Babu' in Parliament," he said. Reacting to the comments, former IPS officer M Nageswara Rao said he was happy that Piyush Goyal spoke from his heart. "In less than a decade India's Rich became Super-Rich, while Non-Rich struggle to make both ends meet. All because of Central Govt's extraordinary focus on EASE OF DOING BUSINESS, rather than on EASE OF LIVING," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||India yet to come out of Covid-19’s devastating effects, says President ||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said Parliament is the ‘temple of the country's democracy’ which provides the highest forum to discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of people, remarks that came against the backdrop of the recent ruckus and continuous disruptions that led to the abrupt adjournment of the two Houses. In a televised address to the nation on the eve of the 75th Independence Day, the President also referred to the second Covid-19 wave, and said the country is yet to come out of its devastating effects. He asserted this is the time for extra care and caution, and people should not let their guard down. President Kovind also sought to address the concerns raised by protesting farmers' unions against the three contentious farm laws, saying the series of agricultural marketing reforms will empower our annadata' farmers and help them get better price for their produce. Referring to the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, he lauded the "stellar" performance by the country's sportspersons. President Kovind said when India won independence, many sceptics thought democracy would not survive in India. Little did they know that roots of democracy were nurtured in this soil in ancient times, and even in modern times India was ahead of many western nations in offering franchise to all adults, regardless of any distinctions." The founding fathers had reposed their faith in the wisdom of the people, and we, the people of India' have made India a strong democracy, he added. We have adopted the system of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, our Parliament is the temple of our democracy which provides us highest forum where we discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people, the President said. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were adjourned sine die on August 11, two days ahead of the scheduled date of August 13, after a tumultuous Monsoon session that witnessed unruly scenes in the Upper House on Wednesday when the Insurance bill was being passed. The Government and the opposition parties had traded charges over the abrupt end of the Monsoon session which was marred by continuous disruptions since it commenced on July 19. The opposition parties accused the government of crushing their voice in Parliament, "murdering" democracy and bringing "outsiders" as marshals to beat up MPs, a charge denied by the government. The government on its part had alleged that it was pre-planned by the opposition to not allow Parliament to function. Kovind also said it is a matter of great pride for all Indians that our Parliament will soon be housed in a new building. "It will be a fitting statement of our outlook. It will honour our legacy while also walking in step with the contemporary world, he said, adding that it is more than symbolic that the new building will be inaugurated in the year of the 75th anniversary of Independence."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Let's work together to achieve constitutional ideals: VP Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday extended his greetings to the people on the eve of Independence Day, saying they have to work together to achieve the noble constitutional ideals of securing justice, liberty, equality and fraternity for all citizens. "As we enter the 75th year of independence, we should recall the countless, valiant sacrifices of our founding leaders who won India freedom and resolve to strive towards building the nation of their dreams," he said. "On this momentous occasion, let us also remember that the progress and well-being of our nation impinge on delivering the benefits of development and ensuring dignity of life to each and every individual in our country. This is the foundational belief behind our civilizational value of 'share and care'," the Vice President said. Naidu said "we must work together to achieve the noble constitutional ideals of securing for all our citizens - justice, liberty, equality and fraternity". "On this joyous occasion of Independence Day, let us once again solemnly resolve to dedicate ourselves to rediscovering our inner strengths, to realising the enormous potential of our people, and to give India its rightful place in the comity of nations," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Partition Horror Remembrance Day: Congress accuses Modi of  playing divisive politics||The Congress on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of playing "divisive and diversionary politics" after he called for observing August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people. The government has said the decision will be a fitting tribute to all those who lost their lives due to the partition of the nation and were displaced from their roots. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, however, said that while on one side the prime minister congratulates Pakistan on their Independence Day, on the other side he indulges in Pakistan-bashing the moment elections are near. "The divisive duplicity of the prime minister stands exposed," he said in a statement. "When there are no elections, the prime minister exhibits his love for Pakistan and congratulates the neighbouring country on March 22, the day Muslim League passed the 'Partition Resolution' in 1940, and congratulates it on every August 14. But when elections near, he starts diversionary politics at home," Surjewala said. The Congress leader also shared the prime minister's congratulatory letters to Pakistan on August 14 and tweets on March 22. Prime Minister Modi on Saturday announced August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, saying the pain of Partition can never be forgotten. He said the day will keep reminding the country of the need to remove the poison of social divisions and disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness. Pakistan's independence day falls on August 14. India will celebrate its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Code of Ethics under new IT Rules violation of Article 19, says Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Saturday granted an interim stay to the operation of parts of the recently notified Information Technology Rules, 2021 which require that all online publishers follow a "code of ethics" and norms of conduct. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni stayed sub-clauses 1 and 3 of clause 9 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. It found "prima facie" (on the face of it) that these sub-clauses violated the petitioners' constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19, the high court said. Provisions of clause 9 also went beyond the scope of the substantive law (the Information Technology Act of 2000), it said. The order came on petitions filed by legal news portal The Leaflet and journalist Nikhil Wagle which challenged several provisions of the new IT Rules claiming that they were vague and likely to have a "chilling effect" on a citizen's right to free speech guaranteed by the Constitution. The Rules went beyond the scope of the main IT Act and also the `reasonable restrictions' on freedom of speech and expression allowed by Article 19 (2) of the Constitution, the petitioners said. The HC, however, refused to stay clause 14 that pertains to the setting up of an inter-ministerial committee with powers to regulate online content and deal with grievances and breach of rules, and clause 16 which is about blocking of online content in case of an emergency. As such a committee was yet to be formed, it did not see any reason to stay clauses 14 and 16 at present, the court said. The HC also did not stay sub-clause (2) of clause 9 which provides for action in case of the contravention of any law in force for the time being. The petitioners had sought an interim stay on the implementation of the new IT Rules till the court gives its final decision in the matter. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, lawyer for The Leaflet, had argued that the new IT Rules were beyond the rule-making power of the Union government as the "parent Act", that is the Information Technology Act, did not provide for anything seeking to regulate ethics and content of online publishers. On Friday, the HC had asked the Union government what was the need to introduce the new IT Rules, 2021 without superseding the existing IT Rules of 2009. The Union government's lawyer Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh had defended making code of ethics mandatory, saying the Press Council of India (PCI) also prescribes a code of ethics for journalists. The norms prescribed by the PCI along with the Cable TV code would be mandatory for digital media under the new rules, he had said. But the judges had pointed out that the PCI's guidelines were in the nature of advisory norms of behaviour, and did not carry any drastic punishment for a breach. ASG Singh had contended that the need to bring in new rules was felt for checking the spread of fake news and illegal content in the digital space. "We may observe that as far as (clause) 14 is concerned, (there is) no immediate urgency as Committee is not set up. In these circumstances, oversight committee itself has not taken effect. We urge petitioners to come as and when it is set up," the court order said. "We find no case is made out for stay on (clause) 16. Hence that is not stayed. (Clause) 9 prima facie seems to be against the freedom of speech. We have stayed 9 (1) and (3) and not (2)," the court said. The bench refused the Centre's request to stay the order for a few weeks. It also directed the Union government to file a detailed affidavit replying to the issues raised by the petitioners within three weeks. The high court will hear the petitions further on September 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh bans Muharram processions amid pandemic and security concerns||The Uttar Pradesh government has asked district authorities to not allow any religious processions to be taken out on the occasion of Muharram in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and security concerns. 'Tazias' will not be installed publicly. However, they can be set up at homes, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said in directions issued to district magistrates, senior superintendents of police and other senior officials. "Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, no permission should be granted to take out any processions/'Tazias'," the order said. It also directed officials to talk to religious leaders to ensure strict compliance of the order. Adequate police force will be deployed in sensitive areas and containment zones, it added. The order also asked officials to remain vigilant about anti-social elements who may try to disturb communal amity and the possibility of terrorists targeting common citizens. "Special attention should be paid to anti-social elements and those spreading rumours. Checking should be conducted at public places like railway stations, bus stations and religious places. "Social media should be routinely monitored and appropriate action should be taken in case an objectionable post is found. The post must be blocked. Special alertness must be maintained as the possibility of increased sensitivity due to Muharram occurring in the month of Shravan cannot be ruled out," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||CPI MP urges detailed probe into August 11 ruckus at Rajya Sabha||CPI MP Binoy Viswam has written to the secretary-general of Rajya Sabha requesting him to conduct a detailed probe into the events of August 11 and alleged that "selective leaking" of CCTV footage of the House was done to put the blame on the Opposition and "mislead" the country. The Opposition and the government have been blaming each other for the ruckus in the Uppper House on Wednesday. In the letter, Viswam alleged that he, along with other Opposition members, was "physically manhandled and targeted by unknown personnel in Parliament". The MP demanded that the complete footage of the House on August 11 be provided to the Opposition members, against whom such allegations were being made, along with all complaints and documents about them. He alleged that the government tried to "bulldoze the passing of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021" despite "requests from the Opposition and even their own allies to send the bill to a Select Committee". "Upon the devious attempts by the government to pass this anti-people bill, we exercised our right as Parliamentarians to protest the same and it is only the bringing in of over 40 personnel, whose identity is unknown and suspect, that lead to the chaos in the well of the house," he claimed. He also alleged that there was a "deliberate move" to create multiple cordons of security, which resulted in members of the Opposition, including female MPs being manhandled. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had alleged that Opposition members had manhandled marshals and cited the CCTV footage from Rajya Sabha. He had demanded that the Rajya Sabha chairman constitute a special committee to probe the misbehaviour and indiscipline by opposition members and strict action taken against them. In his letter, Viswam alleged, "I was personally targeted by 4-5 of these outsiders who grabbed hold of me and physically assaulted me. " He accused the government of portraying a "biased and concocted narrative against members of the Opposition". He condemned, what he called, the "selective leaking of privileged property" of the Rajya Sabha in the form of CCTV footage and internal documents and filing of false allegations by the marshals alleging assault by the Opposition MPs. It shows that the government is "actively trying to mislead the country and whitewash its draconian actions during this session," he alleged. For a fair and just probe into the incident, it is imperative that the Rajya Sabha not be "turned into a political tool for the Government and selective leaks related to the events of 11th August must be stopped immediately," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||'Break monsoon' phase likely to continue till August 18 in Delhi||The "break monsoon" phase in Delhi and adjoining areas in northwest India is likely to continue till August 18 and good rainfall in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the capital, weather forecasters said on Saturday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the capital, has recorded a meagre 63.2mm rainfall in August so far against the normal of 123.1 mm -- a shortfall of 49 per cent -- according to the India Meteorological Department. Normally, the capital gauges 247.7mm rainfall in August. The IMD had earlier predicted normal rainfall for Delhi this month. The break monsoon phase, the second this season, started on August 10 and is likely to continue till August 18, said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather. The 'break monsoon' phase got extended in the absence of any favourable weather system which would have pulled the monsoon trough from the foothills of the Himalayas towards the plains. "However, a low-pressure system is developing in the Bay of Bengal. It will travel in the west direction to south Madhya Pradesh and pull the monsoon trough, leading to rains in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh from August 19, Palawat said. He said good rainfall in the last 10 days of August is expected to cover the deficit, but the monthly precipitation may not surpass the long-period average of 247.7mm. During the monsoon season, there are spells when the monsoon trough shifts closer to the Himalayan foothills, leading to a sharp decline in rainfall over most parts of the country. However, rainfall increases along the foothills of Himalayas, Northeast India and parts of the southern peninsula. In July, the monsoon had entered the first break phase even before reaching most parts of northwest India, including Delhi. The capital had gauged an unusual 507.1 mm rainfall this July, which was nearly 141 per cent above normal. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second highest ever. Owing to the intense bursts of rains in July, the capital has gauged 605.1mm rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, against the normal of 399.2 mm -- an excess of 52 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||DMK government in Tamil Nadu presents state's first exclusive farm budget||In sync with its poll promise, the DMK government on Saturday presented a budget in the Tamil Nadu Assembly exclusively for agriculture featuring schemes for the overall development of the farm sector, including one for self-sufficiency and farm growth in villages. Presenting the budget, Minister for agriculture and farmer's welfare, M R K Panneerselvam said the views of farmers and experts were sought and the budget was prepared based on their views. "The agriculture budget is the aspiration of farmers. It is a dream of nature lovers." This is the first time a separate budget for agriculture is presented in Tamil Nadu. During 2021-2022, Rs.34,220.65 crore is provided for agriculture and related departments like animal husbandry, fisheries, dairy development, irrigation, rural development, sericulture and forest, he said. A sum of Rs 4,508.23 crore has been allocated to the state-run electricity entity, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation for providing free of cost electricity to farm pump sets, he said. To bring prosperity to farmers and farm labourers in the Cauvery delta region, "it is proposed to declare this area as agro industrial corridor," to promote agro based industries, he said. The previous AIADMK government had declared the Cauvery delta region, a protected agricultural zone. The Minister said in regions such as Thanjavur, rice, pulses, banana, coconut are produced throughout the year. If rice and oil mills, coir units and pulse processing units (that use agricultural products of this region to produce value added products) are promoted, it would greatly contribute to the welfare of farmers and farm workers of delta region, he said. Panneerselvam said a scheme with a total outlay of Rs 1,245.45 crore to ensure overall agricultural development and self sufficiency in all villages of Tamil Nadu would be implemented. This plan, named after former Chief Minister M Karunanidhi (Kalaignarin Anaithu Grama Orunginaintha Velaan Valarchi Thittam) would be implemented in 2,500 village panchayats in the current year (2021-22), he said. Out of the 12,524 village panchayats in Tamil Nadu, each year, one-fifth of them would be be identified and the scheme shall be implemented in all of the panchayats areas in five years. Bringing fallow lands into cultivation, augmenting water resources, installation of solar powered pump sets, marketing of value-added farm produce, adoption of micro-irrigation and increasing milk production are among the objectives of the scheme. Aimed at increasing the income of farmers (depending on rainfed farming), the Chief Minister's Dry land Development Mission would be implemented in three lakh hectares, he said. To promote organic farming, "Organic farming development scheme" would be implemented at a cost of Rs 33.03 crore. Inputs for organic farming would be made available in Agricultural Extension Centres and among the several measures proposed under the scheme, farms would be certified as organic, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Bommai holds discussion with Yediyurappa amid discontent over Cabinet exercise||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Saturday called on his predecessor B S Yediyurappa and had a discussion amid disgruntlement among a section of BJP ministers and legislators over the Cabinet expansion and allocation of portfolios. In addition to the brewing discontent, the two leaders also discussed the prevailing political situation in the half-an-hour meeting held Yediyurappa's residence, sources close to the CM said. Tourism Minister Anand Singh and Municipal Administration and Small Scale Industries' Minister N Nagaraj (MTB) have openly expressed displeasure over their portfolio, and have sought "weighty" ones. BJP MLA S A Ramadas and MLC C P Yogeeshwara were among those who are reportedly unhappy over not securing Cabinet berth. A sulking Singh had shut down his office in Hospet in Ballari district earlier this week and called on Yediyurappa before meeting Bommai. Later, the Chief Minister along with Revenue Minister R Ashoka tried to pacify Singh. After the meeting, Bommai said there were no differences of opinion between him and Singh and that both were "united". He had, however, conceded that Singh wanted a "better" portfolio. Nagaraj had also expressed his desire to have portfolios like public works department and transport. Meanwhile, BJP MLA from Krishnaraja in Mysuru district and former Minister Ramadas and MLC Yogeeshwara called on Bommai on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Ramadas said he gave a letter in a sealed envelope to the Chief Minister. "Today I handed over a letter in the sealed cover. I told him (the Chief Minister) to read when he is free. I have explained certain things in the interest of the State and the government," Ramadas said. He added that he has explained in his letter why he did not meet the Chief Minister during his visit to Mysuru on Monday. Addressing the media outside Bommai's residence, Yogeeshwara, who was a Minister in the Yediyurappa government, however, said, "Earlier also I had met the chief minister and now also I met him. There are no reasons behind meeting him. I have no discontentment. I am a party worker and work accordingly." Bommai took over as the Chief Minister on July 28 two days after Yediyurappa resigned from the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Navy cancels I-Day flag hoisting on Goa island as locals object||The Navy said it has cancelled its plan to hoist the national flag at Sao Jacinto island in South Goa on the Independence Day after local residents objected to it, following which state Chief Minister Pramod Sawant requested the naval authorities to go ahead with the scheduled programme of unfurling the tricolour there, and also warned the islanders that "anti-India activities" would be dealt with an "iron fist". The residents of Sao Jacinto, however, made it clear that they were not opposed to unfurling of the flag, but were afraid that the Navy's function scheduled on Sunday could be the beginning of the central government taking over the island under the Major Ports Authorities Bill, 2020 in future. Sawant said the flag hoisting will happen at the island "at any cost" and assured full cooperation to the Navy from the Goa police for the event. Officials have said that the Ministry of Defence planned unfurling of the national flag on islands across the nation between August 13 and 15 as part of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' to commemorate 75 years of Independence. A spokesperson of the Navy's INS Hansa base near Dabolim in the state said on Friday that a team from the Goa Naval Area visited the islands of the state, including Sao Jacinto, as part of this pan-India initiative. "However, the plan at Jacinto island had to be cancelled due to the objection by local residents," he said. The Navy official said the nationwide 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' initiative has been undertaken to instill a sense of patriotism and celebrate the run up to the 75th year of independence. Sao Jacinto island is located around four kms away from INS Hansa base and approximately 100 families reside there. Anthony Rodrigues, who owns the land where the Navy had planned to carry out the flag hoisting event, said that he had already given his go ahead to the naval officials for the programme, but some local residents expressed apprehensions. "Several local residents came to my residence, asking me why I allowed the place for flag hoisting. Their apprehension is that the Navy might take over the island in future. So I told the Navy about the reservations expressed by the locals," he said. Another resident, Custodio D'Souza, said that the issue is not about the hoisting of the national flag. "We don't mind Indian Navy joining us for the event on the Independence Day, he said, adding that the islanders are concerned that the central government might take over the island under the Major Ports Authorities Bill, 2020 in future. D'Souza said that the residents were worried that Mormugao Port Trust may take over the island under this law. He recalled that the residents of the island had taken a vow some years back not to sell their land to anyone. Another resident said, "We want to protect our island under any circumstances. We are facing threats from different quarters, including the Coastal Zone Management Plan." Reacting to the Navy's announcement of cancelling the flag hoisting programme, CM Sawant said on Twitter late on Friday, "It is unfortunate and shameful that some individuals at St. Jacinto Island have objected to Hoisting of the National Flag by the Indian Navy on the occasion of India's Independence Day. I condemn this and want to state on record that my Government will not tolerate any such acts." "I have requested the Indian Navy to go ahead with their original plan and have assured full cooperation from Goa Police. These attempts of Anti-India activities shall be dealt with an iron fist. It will always be Nation First," he added. Speaking at Saligao on the sidelines of a rally on Saturday, the chief minister said, "The flag hoisting will happen on the island at any cost and I have asked the authorities to ensure that the tricolour is unfurled there."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Jaish-e-Mohammed module tasked to cause blast in Jammu busted||In a major success, security forces have busted a module of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) tasked to trigger violence by planting a vehicle-based IED on the eve of Independence Day here by arresting four terrorists and their associates, officials said on Saturday. Giving details, a police spokesman said that four Jaish terrorists, including an Uttar Pradesh resident, and their associates were arrested by the Jammu Police in a drive to root out the militant presence in the district. "They were planning collection of arms dropped by drones and supply to active terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammed in Kashmir valley; planting a vehicle-based IED in Jammu before 15th August and reconnaissance of important targets in other parts of the country," he said. Muntazir Manzoor alias Saifulla of Prichoo Pulwama, a member of JeM, was the first to be arrested in this chain and from him one pistol, one magazine, eight live rounds and two Chinese hand grenades were seized, the spokesman said. His truck used for transporting weapons to Kashmir was also seized, he added. Subsequently, three more Jaish terrorists, including Ijahar Khan alias Sonu Khan of Mirdan Mohalla in Kandala of Shamli district, Uttar Pradesh, were arrested, the spokesman said. Khan disclosed that a JeM commander in Pakistan by the name of Munazir alias Shahid had asked him to collect weapons from near Amritsar which would be dropped by a drone, he said. Khan was also asked by Jaish to do reconnaissance of Panipat oil refinery which he did and sent videos to Pakistan. He was then tasked to do the reconnaissance of Ayodhya Ram janmabhoomi but was arrested before he could accomplish the task, the spokesman added. Other terrorists, Touseef Ahmed Shah alias Showket of the Jeff area of Shopian district was tasked by JeM commander Shahid and another Jaish terrorist by the name Abrar in Pakistan to take up accommodation in Jammu which he did, the spokesman said. He was then asked to procure a second-hand motorcycle for causing an IED blast at Jammu. The IED for this purpose would be dropped by a drone, the spokesman said. Shah was arrested before he could complete this task, he added. Jahangir Ahmed Bhat of the Bandzoo area of Pulwama district has been arrested in the case and he is a fruit merchant from Kashmir who was constantly in touch with Shahid in Pakistan and had introduced Ijahgar Khan to him, the police official said. Bhat was further doing recruitment for JeM in Kashmir and in the rest of the country, he said. Further investigation on the work of the remaining module is in progress, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Abdullah condemns grenade attack that killed a 3-year-old child in JK's Rajouri||National Conference president and Member of Parliament Farooq Abdullah on Saturday condemned the killing of a three-year-old child in a grenade attack by militants on a BJP leader's house in Rajouri on Thursday. He expressed sympathies with the bereaved family. "Violence in all its forms and manifestations brings countless miseries to people. I express my unison within the bereaved family; pray for strength to bear this inconsolable loss and fast recovery to all the others who have sustained injuries in this despicable act of violence," he said. Party's vice president Omar Abdullah while denouncing the attack said the vicious circle of violence must stop now. "I condemn the heinous and despicable act that shows contempt for innocent lives. The vicious circle of violence must stop now. The perpetrators of the attack must be held accountable and be brought to justice," Omar said. Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference (JKPC) led by Sajad Lone also condemned the attack. "We unequivocally condemn the dastardly killing of a 4-year-old in a senseless attack on the family of Jasbir Singh. The attack on mainstream workers for their political affiliations is the worst violation of human rights. Such killings only add to our collective suffering," the JKPC said on Twitter. A three-year-old child was killed and six members of BJP leader Jasbir Singh's family were injured in the grenade attack on his house in Khandli area of the district on Thursday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Six more bodies recovered from landslide site in Kinnaur, toll rises to 23||Six more bodies were recovered from the site of the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, taking the death toll to 23 on the fourth day of rescue and search operations on Saturday, a senior official said. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said six bodies had been retrieved from the rubble at Chaura village on National Highway 5 in Nichar tehsil. The search and rescue operation for the rest of the nine missing persons is underway, he added. Meanwhile keeping in view the continuous falling of shooting stones at the sliding point, Nichar Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Manmohan Singh ordered to restrict all type of vehicles at this point for the safety of public from 9 pm to 9 am. In his order issued on Thursday, he stated that the station house officer of Bhawanagar police station would ensure deputing of police force at both ends of the site. On Friday evening, two people were injured after stones falling down a mountainside hit their bus near the area. In the meantime, Mokhta said search and rescue operations, which had been suspended on Friday night, resumed again on Saturday around 6 am. An SUV and its passengers feared buried under the rubble could not be traced so far, he said, adding that it might be possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris. The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and members of local police and home guards. On the day of the incident, 10 bodies were recovered and 13 people rescued. Earlier on Wednesday, eight bodies were found trapped in a Tata Sumo taxi during the search and rescue operation. Two cars had also been recovered in damaged condition on Wednesday, but no one was found in them. Earlier on Thursday, four bodies were found from the landslide site, while three were taken out on Friday. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had informed the state assembly after visiting the spot on Thursday that 16 people were still missing. After that, six bodies have been recovered so far. At least nine people are still missing, officials said. An HRTC bus, which along with other vehicles, was buried under the debris, was found in a badly damaged condition on Thursday. A truck was also found, which had rolled down towards a riverside due to stones falling down a mountainside, and the driver's body was recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Punjab makes negative RT-PCR report or full vaccination mandatory to enter state||The Punjab government Saturday announced that from Monday the state will allow entry to only those who are either fully vaccinated against coronavirus or have a negative RT-PCR report. The directions, issued after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh held a Covid review meeting here, also said there will be strict monitoring of people coming from Himachal Pradesh and Jammu. According to an official statement, Singh expressed concern about the positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country, which probably also pushed Punjab's positivity rate marginally up to 0.2 per cent in the last week. The new restrictions will apply to all those entering Punjab by road, rail or air, the chief minister said, adding if a person does not fulfil either of the criteria, he/she will have to undergo RAT (rapid antigen test) unless they recently recovered from Covid. Amid reports of Covid cases from schools, the CM also directed that only fully vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff, or those recently recovered from Covid, physically teach in schools and colleges. Online learning option will remain available to all children, he said. Several school students have tested positive for coronavirus over the past few days. Punjab has so far reported 5,99,846 coronavirus cases and 16,334 fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||NCPCR summons Facebook over Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post||India's apex child rights organisation NCPCR has summoned Facebook officials Tuesday for not responding to its notice flagging Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post allegedly revealing the identity of a nine-year-old rape and murder victim. The latest NCPCR communication to Facebook, which owns the photo and video-sharing social networking platform Instagram, follows its notice seeking action against Gandhi's profile for posting a video of the affected family. "However, no reply/action taken report has been received by you," the commission said in its follow-up letter. The commission has now asked Facebook officials to appear at 5 pm Tuesday in-person at the NCPCR Office in Janpath or through video conferencing along with the details of the action taken. Earlier, the NCPCR had asked Facebook to take appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Gandhi over the alleged violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of the identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. On August 4, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to Twitter, asking it to take action against the handle of Gandhi for posting the photo of the family. The microblogging site blocked the account of Gandhi following the complaint. Twitter on its part has said that it has followed the due process as Gandhi's tweet on the family of the victim was against its rules and the law. A Congress leader Saturday the account has now been restored. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Twitter and wrote in Hindi, "Parents' tears are saying only one thing their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice". The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Sneak peek into INS Vikrant after maiden sea trial||As India celebrates its 75th Independence Day Sunday, the Southern Naval Command (SNC) offered a sneak peek into the engineering marvel that is INS Vikrant, the country's first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC). The largest and most complex warship built in the country, opened its 'doors' to mediapersons Friday in Kochi after its maiden sea trial successfully concluded on August 8. Speaking on board the 40,000-tonne warship, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command Vice Admiral A K Chawla said the five-day trial was a "glowing testimonial" to the country's vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat. "It demonstrates the Indian Navy's capability to design and oversee the construction of the most complex of warships, as also the capability of our ship-builders and industries to successfully execute such a large and complex ship-building project," he said. The IAC, built at a cost of around Rs 23,000 crore, has been described by the Navy as "historic" as it propelled India into a select group of countries having capabilities to build state-of-the-art aircraft carriers. Commander Sreejith, a senior electrical overseer officer, told PTI that "the power used in the ship can light up half of the Kochi city". However, the officer said the exact power generated in the ship cannot be disclosed as it was "classified information". "All the major electrical industries including BHEL have contributed to the construction of this ship. We have used approximately 2,600 km-long cable in this," he said. Major Manoj Kumar, the Designer architect of the IAC, who shared factual details about the aircraft carrier and said "with the steel used in this, we can build three Eiffel towers". "There is a fully functional medical complex inside the ship with two operation theaters. There is a kitchen to cater to the needs of at least 2,000 staff on the ship. We have automated machines in the kitchen. We can park 20 aircraft in the hangar," he said. Anoop Hameed, part of the warship overseeing team which assesses the day to day progress of the ship said it was a "floating island". "The aircraft needs to generate enough power to take off due to the short runway and we also need a proper mechanism to arrest a landing one. We need to have that much power and coordination. This ship has everything inside it. This is a floating island," he said. The power generated in the ship is used for electrical systems including the radar system, communications, navigation, propulsion power generation, steering, air conditioning, food storage, safety related systems, medical systems among others, he added. The media team also met women officers who are part of the group which undertook the maiden sea trial. "At least 25 women officers from both the Navy and the Shipyard are associated with the IAC. Six of them have taken part in the sea trial. Two are from the Navy and four women officers were from the CSL," Lt Commander Janet Maria told PTI. Suresh Babu, Advisor to Chairman and Managing Director, Cochin Shipyard, told the media the sea trial was able to prove the workmanship of the CSL. "We have received two more orders, an anti-submarine warship and next generation missile vessels from the Navy and these are the two new orders worth Rs 16,000 crore," Babu said. He said the construction of the IAC was a major challenge to the design team of the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL). "The design process and construction happened concurrently. It was very challenging for the designing team," he said. He said currently, the CSL is the only shipyard in the country that could undertake repairs of major aircraft carriers. "INS Viraat was repaired around 13 times here. We have the largest dry dock. We have a 300-member strong designer team and the productivity of the CSL helped us in bagging the order," Babu said. The Naval officers escorted the media contingent through the hangar and the flight deck. Chawla said the country can be justifiably proud of this achievement as India joins an elite club of nations that can design and build aircraft carriers. The Indian Navy is confident that the new Vikrant will carry forward the illustrious legacy of its predecessor and write a new and glorious chapter in our maritime history," he said. The first INS Vikrant played an important role in India's victory in the Eastern theatre during the 1971 war. The warship, which will host MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multirole helicopters, has over 2,300 compartments, designed for a crew of around 1,700 people, including specialised cabins to accommodate women officers. The aircraft carrier, with more than 76 per cent indigenous components, is expected to be commissioned into the Indian Navy by August next year after it completes the aviation trials. Vikrant has a top speed of around 28 knots and cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles. The ship can accommodate an assortment of fixed-wing and rotary aircraft," the Navy had said in a statement. The IAC is 262-metre long, 62-metre wide and it has a height of 59 metres. Its construction began in 2009. Around 550 Indian firms including about 100 MSMEs are registered with the Cochin Shipyard Limited(CSL) and they provide various services in the construction of the IAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||August 14 to be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, announces PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people, saying the pain of partition can never be forgotten. Modi noted that millions of people were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence caused by the partition. May the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, the prime minister said, keep "reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment". Pakistan was carved out as a Muslim country after the division of India by the British colonial rule in 1947, and millions of people were displaced and many lakhs of them lost their lives as large scale rioting broke out. India will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Twitter unlocks accounts of Congress, Rahul Gandhi||Twitter Saturday restored the account of Rahul Gandhi, alongside those of the Congress and its other leaders, amid ongoing friction between the social media platform and the party over its members sharing pictures of the family of an alleged rape victim. "Satyameva Jayate (truth alone triumphs)", the Congress tweeted in its first reaction after its official handle was unlocked. Gandhi's and Congress' accounts were temporarily suspended last week after he tweeted pictures of the family of the nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Northwest Delhi. Twitter deemed it violation of its rules. Sources said the Twitter accounts of some of the party leaders who had shared the same pictures have also been restored. "Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account has been unlocked," a party functionary said. After the restoration of its account, the Congress party and some party leaders ran the hashtag "Speak Up against Twitter's hypocrisy". "The people of India demand accountability from Twitter. We demand that your restore the locked accounts that were simply demanding justice for a rape victim and stop interfering in our politics because of your fear of the Modi government," a Congress leader said, a statement shared by his colleagues on Twitter. "Our demands from Twitter: Stop suppressing the voice of Indians under the pressure of Modi government. Don't be afraid of BJP and restore all accounts that demanded justice," said a statement tweeted by many Congress leaders. The former Congress chief had made a strong outburst Friday accusing Twitter of "interfering in the national political process" and said shutting down of his handle amounted to an "attack on the country's democratic structure". Gandhi, in a YouTube video statement titled "Twitter's dangerous game", alleged that it was not a neutral and objective platform and was "beholden to the government . Questioning Twitter's action, Gandhi had said the company was denying millions of his followers the right to an opinion, which was unfair. "It's obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It is a biased platform. It's something that listens to what the government of the day says," Gandhi had alleged. In the wake of the friction with the Congress, Twitter has transferred its India head Manish Maheshwari, against whom an FIR was registered in Uttar Pradesh in connection with a probe related to a video of an alleged hate crime, to the US. While the company did not specify any reason for the change, it said Maheshwari will move to the US as Senior Director (Revenue Strategy and Operations) and focus on new markets in his new role.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||India reports over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 478 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 38,667 coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of cases to 3,21,56,493, while the death toll rose to 4,30,732 with 478 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated Saturday. The ministry said the country has now reported less than 50,000 daily new cases for 48 consecutive days. The active cases have increased to 3,87,673 (1.21 per cent of the total infections), while the recovery rate was recorded at 97.45 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,446 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it showed. Also, 22,29,798 COVID-19 tests were conducted Friday, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted so far for the detection of coronavirus in the country to 49,17,00,577, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.73 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 19 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.05 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease rose to 3,13,38,088, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 53.61 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Saturday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 478 fatalities reported Saturday include 158 from Maharashtra and 114 from Kerala. Overall, a total of 4,30,732 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,730 from Maharashtra, 36,933 from Karnataka, 34,462 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,782 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,394 from Kerala and 18,276 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that thste ate-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi questions Twitter’s 'discriminatory' action on Congress||Rahul Gandhi on Friday broadened the questions swirling around Twitter’s perceived discriminatory action on Congress handles, triggering a debate on multinational companies’ power to control and manipulate public discourse. “As Indians, we have to ask the question: are we going to allow companies just because they are beholden to the Government of India to define our politics for us? Is that what this is going to come to, or are we going to define our politics on our own? That's the real question here,” the Congress MP said in a video posted on Instagram. Efforts are already under way to nudge Instagram, owned by Facebook, to take action against Rahul for a post on a child was murdered after she was allegedly raped. Rahul said in the Instagram video: "By shutting down my Twitter (account), they are interfering in our political process. A company is making its business to define our politics. And as a politician, I don't like that." He added: “This is an attack on the democratic structure of the country; this is not an attack on Rahul Gandhi. This is not, you know, simply shutting Rahul Gandhi down. I have 19-20 million followers. You are denying them the right to an opinion. That's what you are doing." Rahul's Twitter account was locked a week ago after he posted a photograph of himself with the parents of the  nine-year-old Dalit girl, his act drawing accusations of revealing the victim's identity. This was followed by a crackdown on Congress handles by Twitter. According to the Congress, Rahul had not violated any laws or rules as the identity of the girl's mother had already been made public and several eminent people – and at least one commission -- had posted her photograph before Rahul did. Rahul has focused on the larger implications that Twitter's action might have on the future of democracy. "So this is not only patently unfair, this is their breaching the idea that Twitter is a neutral platform. And for the investors, this is a very dangerous thing because taking sides in the political contest has repercussions for Twitter," Rahul said. "Our democracy is under attack. We are not allowed to speak in Parliament. The media is controlled. And I thought there was a ray of light, where we could put what we thought on Twitter. But obviously, that's not the case. "It's obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It's a biased platform. It's something that listens to what the government of the day says.” Many Congress leaders too wondered whether the right to free speech should be at the mercy of a company. Others asked whether the unbridled power available to social media platforms to control and manipulate public discourse should be left unchallenged. Even the younger politicians, who normally feel empowered by modern communication tools, have found it hard to digest that an American company should have the power to lock the accounts of India's main Opposition party. Some of the questions being asked are: ⚫ Twitter can flag or delete a tweet it finds objectionable but can it terminate the account holder's right to communicate at its whim? ⚫What if private telecom companies start monitoring calls and disconnecting people who criticise the government or violate a rule framed by them? ⚫What should be the basis of any such purge - the company's business interest or the country's constitutional scheme? Can Twitter or Facebook control public discourse through their algorithms? Asked whether any legal recourse was available, senior lawyer and Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi told The Telegraph: "Twitter is entitled to have its own rules in individual countries (most rules are/ should be uniform, only very few vary) but they are always subject to the laws of the country within which (the company) operates." Singhvi added: "Twitter's rules cannot violate or override the laws of a particular country unless Twitter can get those laws struck down by a competent court of that country. As far as a user is concerned, he has full rights to challenge any of Twitter's rules in his own country's courts and get it struck down provided he is able to show that that Twitter rule violates any law of his country." Otherwise, "the user would be contractually bound to follow Twitter's rules since they constitute an agreement between him and Twitter when he joins Twitter".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||SCBA recommends 48 Supreme Court advocates as HC judges||The Supreme Court Bar Association has recommended 48 apex court advocates for appointment as high court judges, a plea likely to be resented by the associations of high court advocates. Under current law and practice, only advocates with 10 years’ experience of practising in the high courts are considered for appointment as high court judges. But Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had in June agreed to explore a request from the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to elevate Supreme Court lawyers as high court judges, without giving any assurances. This had triggered a letter to him from the All India Lawyers Union (AILU), a representative body of lawyers from across the country, urging him to reject the plea. Recently, the SCBA formed a “search committee” that considered 70-odd candidates, picked 48 of them and forwarded the names to Justice Ramana so they can be placed before the five-judge apex court collegium he heads. The move comes at a time the country’s 25 high courts are groaning under a backlog of 57 lakh cases while facing 40 to 50 per cent judges’ vacancies. However, if the apex court collegium endorses any of the SCBA candidates, it would amount to bypassing the high court collegiums that make the initial recommendation in the appointment of high court judges. Besides, high court lawyers are opposed to their Supreme Court counterparts being “para-dropped” into the high courts, thus depriving local lawyers of the opportunity to be elevated. A recommendation in 2019 by the Orissa High Court collegium to elevate (now Justice) Sanjeeb Panigrahi to the high court had triggered months of intermittent boycott of the high court and the state’s lower courts by lawyers on a call from the Orissa High Court Bar Association. This despite the candidate being a native of Orissa and having practised in Orissa High Court, although he also practised in the Supreme Court and in other high courts including the one in Delhi. The reason cited by the Bar association was that the candidate did not practise regularly in Orissa High Court but mostly in the Supreme Court. An intervention by some well-meaning lawyers led to the protests being withdrawn and Justice Panigrahi was eventually appointed a judge in February last year. Supreme Court advocates are often appointed directly as apex court judges but the SCBA feels that the best and most experienced of them should also be eligible for elevation as high court judges. While urging Justice Ramana to consider Supreme Court advocates for elevation as high court judges a few months earlier, SCBA president Vikas Singh had said: “In spite of having vast experience and exposure in dealing with all kinds of issues relating to civil, criminal, constitutional, commercial law, etc, the lawyers practising in the Supreme Court are rarely considered for elevation by the high court collegiums as they do not regularly practise before the high court.” He had added that apex court advocates were “professionally more meritorious than their colleagues at the high court”. Singh was part of the “search committee” along with SCBA vice-president Mahalakshmi Pavani and eminent senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi, Shekhar Naphade, Vijay Hansaria and V. Giri. Justice Ramana had at a recent conference of chief justices of high courts referred to the SCBA plea but given no final assurances. The AILU, however, wrote to Justice Ramana saying: “We are afraid that such (a) move, if true, would cause far-reaching negative consequences impacting independence of judiciary and its transparency, and would lead to substitution of the opinion of the high court collegium by that of the Supreme Court collegium.” It added that acceptance of the SCBA plea would violate “Article 217 of the Constitution and constitution benches’ decisions” that had upheld the present collegium system. “It militates against the federal principles, the autonomy of the high courts and the constitutional norms,” said the letter from AILU president Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, a senior advocate and CPM Rajya Sabha member, and general secretary P.V. Surendranath. Under Article 217, a person can be appointed a high court judge only if they have been a judge in the lower courts for at least 10 years or a lawyer in one or more high courts for at least 10 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Chennai based group to honour Stan Swamy on Independence day||A Chennai-based group is hosting a series of discussions and cultural events that will culminate in music and satire webcast on Independence Day in honour of Father Stan Swamy. The event, titled “Kelvi Koothu” in Tamil and “Dirge for Democracy” in English, has been organised by the Vettiver Collective, a group that agitates on social and environment issues by conducting unsponsored cultural events. Environmentalist Nityanand Jayaraman, a member of the Collective, told The Telegraph the death of the 84-year-old Jesuit in judicial custody in Mumbai had triggered the event. “Stan’s death is not isolated,” he said. “It is indicative of a culture that is choking democracy and constitutional values and (is behind) deaths from lack of oxygen, migrant workers walking back to their hometowns, violence by the State or by vigilantes. The event is a reminder of the multiple lives lost because of the State.” On Sunday, short plays based on poems written by two Tamil poets — Kavin Malar and Manushya Puthran — will be performed by a team of six artistes from a group called Kattiyakkari. Isaivani, a prominent Tamil gaana-style folk singer, will sing Haanji, a satirical song on an autocratic ruler by lyricist Veronica. Another singer, Gaana Muthu, will perform Karuvadu (dried fish), a song about caste and politics. Carnatic musicians Rithvik Raja and Praveen Sparsh will do a rendition based on an Ashokan edict on dharma. All this will be webcast free on the Vettiver Collective channel on YouTube. The events will feature the oppari (lament) and gaana forms of music as well as theatre, mostly in Tamil, Jayaraman said. “It is not merely a lament but we are celebrating the fact that we can fight back,” he said. “Independence Day is a renewal of our commitment to the sacrifices of our ancestors who fought for freedom, (and a commitment) to keep democracy alive and ourselves free.” The programme for Friday and Saturday features conversations between Sunday’s performers and musician T.M. Krishna, filmmaker Malini Jeevarathnam and others, which are being streamed on their Instagram and Facebook accounts with updates on the Collective’s Facebook page. The event is part of the Justice Rocks series, which featured similar online performances last September, titled “Armed and Dangerous”, on the police killing of George Floyd in the US and the custody deaths of 59-year-old P. Jayaraj and his son J. Bennicks in Tamil Nadu. Besides Father Stan, 15 other academics, writers, lawyers and activists were arrested in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. After the Jesuit died on July 5 while waiting for bail, Tamil Nadu had witnessed large condolence gatherings in places where his ashes were laid in state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Kashmir: Mainstream parties hesitate to revive politics ||The Valley’s mainstream parties are anxious to revive politics as they’ve known it; they are the most clueless on how to go about it. Politics has become a fraught and baffling thing in Kashmir. Kashmiri politicians are the most fraught and baffled lot. As one former minister, currently cooling his heels at home after a long spell of incarceration, said: “Delhi has declared us anti-nationals after all these years of holding up the Indian flag. The people blame us for being traitors and collaborators and Delhi’s agents. Where do we start?” But there is a greater concern that vexes them: will they even be allowed to start? And if they are, what sort of start will that be? Politics as it used to be was delicensed by the summary diminutions of August 5, 2019. Its renewal has become a thing of charity at New Delhi’s disposal; nobody here seems sure what the scope and shape of the new rules of play will be. I put it to a senior National Conference (NC) leader if they were any wiser after turning up for the meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month. He first shook his head in resignation, and then said: “No.” I asked him what the Kashmiri parties had gone there hoping for, and he said: “Well, we believed we will get some sense of what the thinking was in New Delhi, what they make of our demands, what is the road ahead. We got nothing, no insights at all.” He then added with a sardonic grunt: “What we did get was a demonstration of how divided Kashmiri leaders and parties are. Delhi ensured that those differences were articulated to the degree that they got one of us (former PDP deputy chief minister Muzaffar Hussein Baig) to say that Article 370 should not be discussed because it is sub judice. This is the same man who came to the preparatory meeting of the Gupkar Declaration with piles of judicial paperwork on how we should fight for the restoration of all that was taken away two Augusts away.” A PDP leader, also familiar with what transpired at that meeting, picked out another symptom of how they had been collectively reduced. “Look at the range of demands previously made by some of those present at the Prime Minister’s table, everything from outright independence and separate nationhood to self-rule to autonomy. And what have been left to demand now? A beholden statehood for a moth-eaten province? And who says we are even getting that?” Politicians across the board in the Valley are lost on what they will get from New Delhi; they are lost equally, perhaps more, on what they would give the people. Between the looming puzzlement over the getting and the giving, Kashmiri politics lies verily immobilised. They seem like a set that’s been abandoned on an unfamiliar crossroads and doesn’t know how to pick its way back. It cannot be of any comfort to the NC and the PDP, established monopolists of power in the past, that they have for company two up and rising competitors in Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference and Altaf Bukhari’s Apni Party. Both parties have grown exponentially in profile and purchase recently, they’ve snagged prominent players from both the NC and the PDP, they’ve been afforded greater access by the powers, they have come to enjoy the overt and covert privileges of what you might call the King’s party, groups patronised tacitly by New Delhi. “It is lost on nobody that the Modi establishment has a deep dislike for both the NC and the PDP. Modi himself has made it plain he wants to uproot their monopoly,” says a senior Srinagar-based journalist. “It cannot be unfair to conclude that both Sajad and Altaf are being propped up and aided by New Delhi as part of a design to reshape the politics of Jammu and Kashmir.” The final contours of such reshaping are Kashmir’s worst-kept secret, and most likely its worst fear as well: a government with a BJP man as elected head. That, to many observers here, is the first major milestone New Delhi is manoeuvring to achieve on the track it put Kashmir on two Augusts ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Supreme Court glare on tribunal order watermarks||The Supreme Court on Friday observed that large watermarks on orders of tribunals made them unreadable and its e-committee would be contacting the tribunals to ensure that such logos were not used. The top court said in today’s era, tribunals didn’t need watermarks to show authenticity as all the orders and judgments could be digitally signed. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah made the observation while hearing a batch of appeals arising out of an order of the National Green Tribunal. Justice Chandrachud, after perusing the orders of the tribunal that uses watermarks, said: “These watermarks make the orders unreadable especially for the visually challenged because it is not machine-readable. It impacts the access to justice to the disabled.” Recounting his experience, Justice Chandrachud said he had a law clerk last year who was a Rhodes scholar and blind and he used to face difficulty in reading these orders. “Earlier, we had taken up the issue of watermarks with the high courts. Now we will take up the issue with the tribunals, including NGT. Due to the watermarks, I am not able to read these orders comfortably. Navigating through these watermarks is a nightmare,” Justice Chandrachud said. He said tribunals did not come under the Supreme Court and an e-committee headed by him would take up the issue with the tribunals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Class XII student seeks resumption of physical classes from SC||A Class XII student moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking a directive to the states and Union Territories to resume physical classes, contending that the mode of virtual teaching was creating severe psychological and medical issues for children. The petition by Amar Prem Prakash from Delhi said several children had been pushed into “depression, social reclusiveness” because of the continued closure of schools. It said that children from the economically backward sections were now forced to carry out odd jobs or manual labour to contribute to their family income. According to the petition, after remaining closed from April 2020 to February 2021 and reopening for a brief period, schools across the country had stayed closed since the end of March or early April this year. Some states have now decided to resume physical classes, it said. “However, a large number of states and Union Territories, including central schools, are yet to take a decision,” the petition, filed through advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra, said. “The student community at large is in a dilemma and a state of confusion, apart from having severe psychological and medical issues with sustained and protracted online school teaching, as also a severe sense of deprivation and discrimination as most public places have been reopened and gatherings permitted in different states in the country since July. “Thus considered, and in this perspective and context, the petitioner before your Lordships, with profound respect, by way of the instant writ petition, is seeking enforcement of his fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (life and personal liberty), besides Article 21A which mandates free and compulsory education for all children in the country.” The plea has cited a Unesco declaration that says: “Schooling provides essential learning, and when schools close, children and youth are deprived of opportunities for growth and development. The disadvantages are disproportionate for underprivileged learners who tend to have fewer educational opportunities beyond school.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Centre notifies new plastic waste management rules ||The Union environment ministry has notified new plastic waste management rules that will prohibit the use of plastic sticks on balloons, candy, ear buds, flags and ice-cream from July 1, 2022. The rules, reflecting India’s efforts to phase out single-use plastic by 2022, will also increase the minimum thickness of plastic bags from the current 50 microns to 75 microns by September 30 this year and to 120 microns by December 31, 2022. The thicker plastic carry bags are intended to eliminate the use of lightweight single-use plastic bags. The ministry’s notification, released on Thursday, prohibits from July 1 next year plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, knives, spoons, stirrers, straws, trays, wrapping or packaging films around boxes of sweets, invitation cards, cigarette packets, and banners made from plastic less than 100 microns in thickness. The rules prohibit from July 1, 2022, the manufacture, distribution, sale and use of single-use plastic, including polystyrene and expanded polystyrene, for ear buds, balloons, flags, candy and ice-cream. The ministry said any plastic packaging waste that is not covered under the phase-out of identified single-use plastic items shall be collected and managed in an “environmentally-sustainable way” through the Extended Producer Responsibility rules introduced in 2016. The Central Pollution Control Board had estimated three years ago that India generates around 9,200 metric tonnes of plastic waste — carry bags, packing films, snack packets, among other items — daily, or over 3.3 million metric tonnes a year. Waste management experts say the notification is in line with the goal of phasing out single-use plastics by 2022, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2019, but remain concerned about the fate of plastic waste in the country amid lack of reliable data on recycling. “We welcome the new rules, but there is lack of clarity on how much plastic waste India is recycling,” Atin Biswas, programme director for municipal solid waste at the New Delhi-based non-government Centre for Science and Environment, told The Telegraph. Sections of industry in India have claimed nearly 70 per cent of recyclable plastic waste is recycled but Biswas said that “we do not have verifiable figures for how much plastic waste is actually recycled and where”. The CSE in a report flagging India’s plastic waste problem released last October had urged the government to ban plastic products that cannot be recycled, such as multi-layered plastic packets used to package snacks, ban carry bags, incentivise recycling, and enforce rules. “We remain concerned about non-compliance and the absence of a robust monitoring system to ensure compliance with rules,” Biswas said. The environment ministry has said waste management infrastructure “is being strengthened” across the country and states have been asked to develop action plans for the elimination of single-use plastics and effective implementation of the waste management rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||NCPCR seeks actions against Rahul's Instagram account||After Twitter, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Friday asked Facebook to take action against the Instagram profile of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for posting a photo of the family of the nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi. In a letter to Facebook, the commission said it has come across a video posted on Rahul’s Instagram account where the faces of the victim’s parents can be clearly seen, which is in violation of the law. Instagram is owned by Facebook. The NCPCR asked Facebook to remove the video and take appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Rahul over violation of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code that bar the disclosure of the identity of a child victim. Rahul had last week met the victim’s family and assured them of support in securing justice. Later, he shared a picture of the meeting calling for justice for the child. Hundreds of locals, including the victim’s parents, are on protest to demand capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India|| Elamaram Kareem demands probe into Rajya Sabha manhandling ||CPM parliamentarian Elamaram Kareem on Friday wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretary-general demanding a probe and action against the security personnel who had allegedly manhandled him and some other MPs, a couple of them women, on Wednesday. Wire agency ANI had on Thursday cited marshals as alleging that Kareem had grabbed one of them by the neck during the commotion on Wednesday as the Opposition sought to stop the passage of a bill that reduces the government’s stake in insurance companies. The Opposition sees the “so-called internal security report” of the Rajya Sabha secretariat as an effort by the government to divert attention from the manner in which the insurance bill was “bulldozed” through Parliament. Kareem has explained why the Opposition members were protesting in the Well of the House and accused the government of orchestrating what transpired. “The proceedings of the House were disrupted as the government outrightly (sic) rejected this demand (to refer the bill to a select committee) and proceeded with passage of the bill,” Kareem said. The MP said: “This led to the protest by Opposition members and sloganeering. It was never a violent struggle to physically harm any person present inside the chamber. The heavy deployment of marshals and security personnel during that time only to manhandle the Opposition MPs created the chaos. “This advance deployment of marshals in huge number makes it clear that it was a well-planned action intended to harm the protesting MPs.” Kareem alleged that the marshals had physically blocked the movement of Opposition members. “When I tried to approach the Chairman’s chamber to personally convince him, one among them, whom I can identify by face, grabbed and pushed me away,” he said. “I got a forceful hit on the chest. I am still suffering from physical (unease) and suffocation due to it.” Kareem said that Wednesday’s events were unprecedented and that instead of trying to find a way out, the government used force. “Many of us feel that those who were there in the chamber wearing security marshal uniforms were specially brought in from outside for manhandling the Opposition MPs,” he said. “I am saying this because the security personnel present in the chamber at that time were not the officers who are seen inside the Rajya Sabha chamber or Parliament House usually.” Kareem has sought access to camera footage of the day’s proceedings. He has accused the government of selectively leaking visuals from inside the House to make out a case against the Opposition amid demands from the BJP for an inquiry into Wednesday’s fracas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India||Kerala: Doctors on warpath over continued attacks & state inaction||Doctors are on the warpath in Kerala over continuing attacks and alleged inaction from the state government that at one stage had even refused to acknowledge the incidents. Health minister Veena George, who has been under fire over the rising Covid cases in the state that had managed the first wave remarkably well, courted controversy on Thursday by informing the Assembly that the government was not aware of any attacks on doctors. Her response came in reply to a question raised by Congress lawmaker Mathew Kuzhalnadan. The ensuing uproar over the reply forced George to rectify her statement before the Assembly was adjourned on Friday by informing Kuzhalnadan that the government was indeed aware of the incidents. But doctors’ bodies have slammed the minister for the inaccurate response in the first place. Dr Joseph Chacko of the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association said the minister shouldn’t have given such a callous reply. “The person who reads such an answer should have some common sense and not give such a callous reply,” he told The Telegraph on Friday. The Indian Medical Association that represents the interests of doctors in the private sector has also come out against the minister’s response. “She shouldn’t have given such a reply in the Assembly in the first place. She may say it was a technical error or blame the department for drafting the answers. But it was she who read it out in the Assembly,” former president of the IMA’s state chapter, Dr Abraham Verghese, told this newspaper. The KGMOA has meanwhile threatened to shut down hospitals if any more doctors are assaulted. “We have decided to boycott all work at government hospitals if even a single doctor is assaulted again,” said Chacko. The doctors’ body had already written to the state government seeking strong intervention in such cases that end up demoralising doctors and all the medical professionals. “To our estimate, more than 30 doctors have been subjected to physical attacks or harassment and more than 700 health workers have been subjected to abuse and harassment in the last few months,” he claimed, adding that most of the cases are either settled locally or not reported to authorities. Two inebriated men had manhandled a lady doctor at a government hospital on August 7 in Thiruvananthapuram. A video clip circulating after the incident shows one of the men holding her against a wall and threatening that they would have plastered her to the wall had she not been a woman. They have since been arrested. A few CPM leaders had assaulted a government doctor in Alappuzha district on July 24 while another doctor was manhandled by a group of men the following day in another government hospital in the same district. The IMA functionary blamed the shortage of vaccines as one of the triggers for such incidents in the state that has been consistently reporting about 20,000 daily Covid cases for a few weeks. “The demand for vaccine is far greater than the supply. This shortage of vaccine supply has contributed to a lot of issues at vaccination centres where doctors and nurses bear the brunt of people who don’t get their jabs,” said Verghese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India||Bihar: Primary teachers protest by hawking jute sacks||Thousands of teachers from primary and middle schools across Bihar carried empty jute bags on their heads to hawk them at their block headquarters on Friday despite the state government’s efforts to cow them into silence. The teachers were protesting the state government’s July 22 order asking schools to sell the sacks in which food grains had been sent to them under the midday meal scheme, and the suspension of a school principal for openly hawking the sacks at a market. At several places, the teachers marched to the block headquarters with banners and placards, shouted anti-government slogans and demanded the revocation of the July 22 order and the suspension of Muhammad Tamizuddin, principal of a primary school in Kadwa block of Katihar district. They converged at block offices or marketplaces and hawked the empty jute bags for a couple of hours, sometimes succeeding in selling a few. “See where the government has brought us,” a primary school teacher in Fatuha block, Patna, said. “We already have to help conduct censuses and elections, form human chains to please the chief minister, buy kitchen items to run the midday meal scheme, see that everything is cooked and distributed properly. Now we have to sell sacks too.” The Bihar Rajya Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh, one of the largest associations of primary teachers in the state, said the protest was successful and vowed to intensify the agitation if the demands were not met. “We will sell the sacks at all the district headquarters on August 16 if the July 22 order and Tamizuddin’s suspension are not revoked,” the association’s president, Pradeep Kumar Pappu, told The Telegraph. “The government tried to frighten and deter the teachers from participating in the agitation but failed. Chief minister Nitish Kumar should intervene immediately and act against the officials who issued the shameful order to sell sacks.” Bihar police headquarters had sent a letter to all the district magistrates and superintendents of police on Thursday, informing them about the teachers’ agitation programme and saying: “We expect administrative vigilance and precautionary safety measures.” Sources said several district magistrates had verbally warned local teachers of strict action and suspension if they went ahead with Friday’s protest. A few district magistrates had invoked Covid-19 protocols to dissuade the teachers from participating in the agitation. State education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary claimed ignorance of the action against Tamizuddin or the agitation. “I have no personal knowledge of this,” he told reporters. Choudhary added that any embarrassing act by any teacher (selling sacks) would tarnish his or her own image rather than that of the government. However, Tamizuddin was suspended on Sunday for “tarnishing the image of the state government” by carrying a stack of sacks on his head and hawking them at the local market, a video of which was widely circulated on the social media. Government officials have since suggested the schools should have invited traders and sold the sacks in bulk, but the teachers say that traders were unwilling to come and buy old sacks. The July 22 order was issued after the office of the comptroller and auditor general raised the spectre of revenue loss in its reports relating to the financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. The government order asked the primary and middle schools — where the midday meal scheme is implemented — to sell at Rs 10 apiece the sacks they had received in 2014-15 and 2015-16, and deposit the money with the treasury. The teachers say that many of the bags had been distributed among students to sit on in the absence of benches and desks in classrooms. Many of the remaining sacks had been damaged by rats, floods and the passage of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India||Odisha polls to see 27% OBC names from Biju Janata Dal||The ruling Biju Janata Dal, which has been in power in Odisha for 21 years, on Friday announced a 27 per cent reservation for candidates belonging to the Other Backward Classes in the upcoming panchayat polls and other elections in the state. Though some feel that chief minister Naveen Patnaik has set a bad precedent by resorting to caste politics, political observers think it’s a masterstroke ahead of the three-tier panchayat elections that are likely to be held in February 2022. At present, the BJD reserves 50 per cent of seats for women candidates in panchayat elections and 33 per cent in the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. The decision was announced by two ministers — Ranendra Pratap Swain and Arun Sahoo. “It is a historic day for the people of Odisha, especially those who have been neglected. The party has decided to reserve 27 per cent of its seats for OBC candidates in panchayat and any other elections in the state,” Swain said. Swain said: “ Other political parties should learn from the BJD about its commitment to uplift the OBC. The BJD will be the first party in the country to give reservation to OBC candidates. Our move will help ensure social justice.” The BJD has often been criticised for not implementing 27 per cent quota for OBCs in employment and education. Sahoo said: “The Supreme Court has put a cap on reservations and made it clear that it should not cross 50 per cent. As there is no specific central law on determining reservations, our party has taken a political decision to extend 27 per cent reservation of seats for OBC candidates in the panchayat and other elections of the state. Other parties should follow us.” Earlier this week, the BJD MPs had met the Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi and stressed the need for a central law that removed the 50 per cent cap on reservation as fixed by the Supreme Court. They had also demanded caste-based census for the socially and educationally backward classes. Terming it a political gimmick, BJP spokesperson Prithviraj Harichandan said: “If the BJD is concerned about the OBC, it should take steps to implement the 27 per cent reservation for OBCs in education and employment. Many states are giving 27 per cent reservations to SEBC (Social and Educationally Backward Classes) in jobs, but in Odisha only 11. 25 per cent of these categories are availing the benefit in government jobs at present,” he said. However, the BJD continued to argue that the apex court and various high courts had struck down quotas for OBCs on the ground that they were made without any scientific database on their population. At present, people belonging to the SC and ST categories avail 39 per cent reservations and the OBCs 11.23 per cent. “Though the state in 2008 had made provisions for 27 per cent reservations for the SEBC, it could not be implemented due to various court orders,” the BJD said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India||Odisha government announces special package for weavers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a special package for the weavers of the state following reports that the Covid-19 had badly hit their livelihood. Stating that handlooms are the main source of employment for the rural population after agriculture, Naveen announced interest-free loans of up to Rs 50,000 to weavers. As per the announcement, 15,000 pit looms that are not concrete will be concreted in the next three years. Besides, Rs 7,000 will be spent for concreting of each pit loom. “So far 15,071 pit looms have been concreted out of 31,342 pit looms in the state,” officials said. Besides, 3,000 weaver families will be provided with house-cum-work shed on a priority basis. The weavers will be provided with electricity and electrical fans so that they can do weaving and designing comfortably. “It has also been decided to provide housing facilities to all eligible weaver families on a priority basis. The beneficiaries will be selected as per the guidelines of the panchayati raj department,” said a press release issued by the chief minister’s office Infrastructure such as customer fulfilment centres (CFCs), warehouse and sales centres will be installed through the panchayati raj department to store the products of the weavers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC MLA threatens BJP candidates aspiring for panchayat polls in Bengal||Trinamul Congress MLA Jagadish Chandra Barma Basunia on Saturday courted controversy by saying that there will be no central forces in the 2023 panchayat elections in Bengal and members of the ruling party will "take care" of those aspiring to contest the rural polls as the BJP candidates. The party's top leadership, however, did not approve such comments and said it is confident of winning the panchayat polls in a free and fair manner. At a meeting with local TMC activists, the Sitai legislator from Jalpaiguri district said, "Keep it in mind. Unlike the last Lok Sabha and Assembly polls, central forces will not be deployed in the 2023 panchayat elections. Those going to file nominations as candidates of the saffron party in the next rural elections here be careful. Our men will take care of you." He also said, "If you seek votes in the name of a murderous and communal party like the BJP, you will face consequences." Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy told PTI that the party did not approve such comments. "Panchayat elections are still far away. We will democratically fight the polls and win. People of Bengal have voted overwhelmingly for the Trinamool Congress led by Mamata Banerjee and defeated the conspiracy and intimidation of the BJP in the last assembly elections. They continue to support us," he said. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh alleged that several leaders of the saffron camp had made provocative statements against the ruling party during the assembly poll campaign but they were rejected by the voters. Condemning the Sitai MLA's comments, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, "I challenge him to execute what he has said. Such words cannot instil fear among our workers. We will fight against the Trinamool Congress' terror tactics." He claimed that Basunia had left the constituency after the assembly polls held in March and April as he was afraid of people's anger. There were reports of booth capturing and violence against political opponents of the TMC in the 2018 panchayat polls in the state but the ruling party had denied charges in most of the cases. "Time has changed since the 2018 polls and the BJP won 77 seats in the last assembly polls. We will make sure that the TMC would not be able to execute its strategy adopted three years ago," Ghosh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader shot dead in Bengal, 5 arrested||A TMC youth leader was shot dead by unidentified persons in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district, following which five people were arrested, police said on Saturday. TMC alleged that the BJP was behind the killing, while the saffron party claimed that the murder was a fallout of infighting within the ruling party in the state. Ranajoy Kumar Shrivastava (33), a close aide of winner from Khardah assembly seat Kajal Sinha who succumbed to COVID-19, was shot dead near Sandhya Cinema on B T Road in Titagarh in Khardah police station area early on Saturday when he was returning home in his car, an officer said. Unidentified persons stopped the vehicle of Shrivastava, who was the chief of the Hindi cell of TMC's youth wing, and hurled bombs and fired a few rounds at him, he said. Shrivastava was first taken to a hospital in the locality, and died on the way while being shifted to another medical establishment in Kolkata, the officer said. TMC North 24 Parganas chief Jyotipriyo Mullick alleged that the BJP had masterminded the attack to "instil fear among ruling party workers in the area". TMC chief whip in assembly and Panihati MLA Nirmal Ghosh alleged that the saffron party workers killed Shrivastava as he had joined the ruling party in the state from the BJP before this year's elections. Dismissing the allegations, Barrackpore's BJP MP Arjun Singh claimed that Shrivastava was never a member of the BJP and the killing was a fallout of "infighting over extortion". He claimed that the five arrested people are TMC members close to Ghosh. Shrivastava had worked hard for Sinha, who succumbed to COVID-19 after the polling and before the counting, leading to countermanding of elections in the Khardah constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Security beefed up across Bengal ahead of Independence Day celebrations||Security arrangements have been beefed up across Bengal to prevent any untoward incident during the 75th Independence Day celebrations, police said on Saturday. Vigil has been upped across Calcutta, especially in the Red Road area where the state programme will be held in the presence of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and other important dignitaries, a senior officer said. Vigilance has also been heightened in the districts sharing international borders and inter-state boundaries. Watchtowers have been erected and at least 500 additional CCTV cameras installed in and around Red Road where the 40-minute event will be organised on Sunday morning, the officer of Calcutta Police said. Around 2,000 police personnel will be deployed at the venue and Quick Response Team, Heavy Radio Flying Squad vans, and members of combat forces of Calcutta Police will be present, he said. Seating arrangements ensuring physical distancing have been made at Red Road, and strict adherence to other Covid safety measures including wearing of masks and sanitisation will be enforced, the officer said. "There will be a nominal number of spectators at the venue to ensure adherence to restrictions on congregation in view of the pandemic," he said. Naka checking at 20 entry points to the city are being organised at night and preventive arrests have been made, the officer said. Police have stepped up monitoring at hotels and guest houses in and around the metropolis as a precautionary measure, he said. "We are keeping an eye on hotels and lodges even though not many people are visiting the metropolis due to the pandemic. We have sought details of every traveller from the accommodation facilities. All vehicles coming in and going out of the city are being checked. Sandbag bunkers have been set up at key locations," another senior officer of the Calcutta Police said. "Fool-proof security arrangements have been made for Independence Day celebrations in the districts to thwart any attempt to disturb peace and harmony in the state," an officer of Bengal Police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||100ft-long embankment crashes, Ganga enters Bhutni island||A 100ft-long embankment protecting Bhutni island in Manichak block of Malda district collapsed on Friday, endangering nearly 20,000 people. The Ganga which surrounds the island was flowing 0.15 meters above the extreme danger level on Friday evening. The extreme danger lever of the Ganga in the district is 25.3 meters. Sabina Yeasmin, minister of state, irrigation and waterways department, said: “A long stretch of the main embankment at Manichak block has collapsed. We are keeping a close vigil on the situation.” Irrigation officials are trying to reinforce the ring embankment — the second line of defence after the main embankment — in the Koshi Ghat area of Bhutni. But local people doubt if the gushing waters can be stopped. Bhutni island is about 15km from the block headquarter of Manichak, which is among blocks affected worst by the raging river. Malda has 15 blocks. In Bhutni, villages like Kesharpur, Binpara, Kesharpur Colony are largely inundated as of now. Pranab Kumar Samanta, executive engineer of the irrigation department, said despite all measures, the main embankment could not be saved. “Our target is to fortify the ring embankment at any cost to avoid further damage,” he said. It is being anticipated that if the ring embankment collapses, the majority of the localities in Uttar Chandipur and Hiranandapur gram panchayts of Bhutni and the most-densely populated area of the island would be completely inundated. The third gram panchayat on the island is Dakshin Chandipur. The population of Bhutni is around 1 lakh. Residents of villages like Gadai Char of Bhutni, which are completely inundated, have started take refugee in higher areas abandoning their houses. The water levels of two other rivers in the district, Mahananda and Fulhar, are also increasing. The Mahananda was flowing at 19.75 meters, a little below the danger level, while the Fulhar is flowing in the danger zone at 27.35 meter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 739 active cases, 749 recoveries, 8 deaths||Bengal on Friday recorded 54 consecutive days of a fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases as the state reported 739 infections, 749 recoveries and eight deaths. The total of active cases fell by 18 to 10,109. Bengal currently has 2.67 per cent of the national total of active cases. Calcutta logged 88 infections and North 24-Parganas 89. Friday was the eighth consecutive day of not a single Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases. Eighteen districts reported two-digit figures of new infections. North Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.15 per cent — the highest ever — and is still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.43. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.63 per cent on Friday. Twenty Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while Jalpaiguri reported one. Calcutta reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.37 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.09 lakh recoveries and 18,276 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Mayor of TMC-run Durgapur Municipal Corporation faces parking lot harassment||The mayor of Trinamul Congress-run Durgapur Municipal Corporation has not been spared by youths involved in running several unauthorised car parking lots in the town. A group of youths, who operate an unauthorised parking lot of four-wheelers and two-wheelers in front of a hospital in the town’s City Centre, stopped mayor Dilip Agasty’s car after he refused to pay “parking fee” a month ago. The harassment was revealed by Agasty at the meeting of the mayoral council on Thursday. Sources said the mayor expressed his anger and dissatisfaction over mushrooming illegal car parking lots. “Some youths stopped my car and asked me to pay the parking fee. I told them that ‘I am the mayor of this town’. Even then, they dared to harass me. I told them that this parking lot was illegal and I will not pay them,” said Agasty, who was returning home after recovering from Covid-19. The incident took place outside the Health World hospital. Agasty’s son was in the driving seat and he was trying to pacify the youths but they started thumping on the car’s bonnet. “The youths gave us a slip without any official seal and continued demanding money,” the mayor told the reporters on Friday. The mayor’s personal secretary was informed and he, along with some local Trinamul workers, had to rush to the spot to free Agasty from the clutches of the youths. The sources said Agasty rebuked deputy mayor Anindita Mukherjee for the mushrooming of illegal parking lots in her municipal ward area. “The parking lot in front of the hospital is illegal. I did not allow anyone to run any unauthorised parking lot in my ward,” said Mukherjee, who represents ward 22 at the City Centre. The sources said most of the illegal parking lots had come up at City Centre and Bidhannagar as those areas house government offices, including court and the sub-divisional headquarters of Durgapur. “Both the areas have several banks, hospitals, restaurants and shopping malls where a large number of people come for work. Local unemployed youths backed by the ruling party have set up several car parking lots illegally as a source of income,” said a Trinamul leader in the town. The relative of a patient at Health World hospital said he went to the healthcare facility at least thrice a day and each time ended up coughing up around Rs 20 depending on the duration of the stay. The parking lot operators charge two-wheeler owners Rs 10 for each hour of stay, while those who park their cars are arbitrarily charged between Rs 20 and Rs 30 for one hour. CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member Pankaj Roy Sarkar said: “The situation in Durgapur is so bad that a mayor is not spared by Trinamul-backed hooligans who run unauthorised parking lots in the city.” Agasti said the illegal parking lots had come up on the land of the Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority (ADDA). “I have urged the chairman of the ADDA to remove all illegal parking lots from its land. Those operating the illegal parking lots are extorting and harassing people,” said Agasti. The ADDA chairman, Tapas Banerjee, said they had only four authorised parking lots – three at City Centre and one at Bidhannagar in Durgapur town. “We take action against illegal parking lots whenever we get complaints. We will do it again,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Wild elephant raids hut in Jhargram, woman dead||A wild elephant, which had got separated from its herd, broke into the mud house of an elderly woman killing her on the spot at a village in Jhargram early on Friday morning. Sources said a mud wall fell on Fulmani Mandi, 65, a resident of Kapatkata village in Jhargram’s Belpahari, while she was asleep after the tusker broke into her hutment. “The family members of the victim will be compensated as soon as we get the required documents within a day or two. We have deployed our staff and trained workers to guide the elephants and keep them away from human habitat,” said Sheik Fareed J, the divisional forest officer of Jhargram. “We are sending bulk SMS to local people every morning informing them about presence of elephants in their vicinity and are also sharing the location of the animals. Our staff make announcements using the public address system to aware about the elephants movement,” Fareed added. Kids drown Two children drowned in a pond near Mohana village in Bankura on Friday afternoon. Police sources said Anmol Hazam, 6, and Anshika Sharma, 8, residents of Bankura’s Mejia, had come to the spot with their uncle Jagdeep Hazam. The sources said Jagdeep, who was washing his motorbike, tried to save the children but failed. The bodies have been sent to Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt extends evening business hours for shops and bars||The Bengal government has allowed all shops, bars and restaurants to remain open till 10.30pm from Monday when the night curbs get reduced by two hours. A notification issued by chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi announced the relaxation of the pandemic-induced restrictions. The order, however, makes it clear that adherence to all Covid protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distance is mandatory. “Bars and restaurants were closed for more than a month since mid-May. In late June, the state government allowed them to operate till 8pm. Now, after about three months, the bars and restaurants will be allowed to operate till 10.30pm,” a source said. “These establishments have to wind up everything before 11pm. So, they can do their business till 10.30pm,” an official said. The night-time restrictions barring non-essential outdoor activity will be in force between 11pm and 5am from August 16. The state has also allowed all types of government outdoor programmes from August 16. But the organising departments have to ensure physical distancing and adherence to all Covid protocols at the programme venues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress gram panchayat member murdered in Murshidabad||A Trinamul Congress member of Kurunnurun gram panchayat in Murshidabad district was murdered on Friday morning when he was on his way home from a market. Mostafa Sheikh, 46, was reportedly attacked with crude bombs and then bullets by the side of a paddy field around 9am after being stopped by four unidentified persons at Hastinapur . Trinamul workers have termed the murder an act of political vendetta, while the BJP blamed rivalry within Trinamul for the crime. Sources said Mostafa was an ardent Trinamul worker  and “galvanised” local youth, which may have made him a target if the act was political in nature. However, local sources denied knowledge of any such rifts. Eyewitnesses rushed him to the Burwan block hospital, 10km away, but doctors pronounced him dead. Sources said his assailants walked off on foot after committing the crime. “We were at some distance, so we couldn’t hear what was going on, but we saw clearly that he was killed in cold blood,” said a resident of Hastinapur. “Mostafa was a great organiser, so the BJP has decided to silence him. This is another sign of their reign of terror in our district which commenced after they lost their assembly seat here,” said Trinamul Burwan MLA Jiban Krishna Saha. BJP district president Gourishankar Ghosh said: “The BJP is not involved. This is Trinamul’s internal strife.” District superintendent of police, K. Sabari Rajkumar, said a murder case and an investigation had been started in this connection. "We have already arrested two persons and are looking for the other two," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Assistant director of factories issues fire safety notices to 31 industrial units in Haldia||The assistant director of factories in East Midnapore has this week issued notices to 31 industrial units in Haldia with directives to upgrade their fire-safety systems, the move attributed to the fire in the Haldia Petrochemicals naphtha cracker unit on August 3. The assistant director of factories has also asked the companies to inform authorities about measures undertaken to upgrade the fire-safety systems. Referring to state fire safety regulations as well as the Factories Act, the letter directs the companies to conduct fire drills every two months, alongside system upgrades. A timeframe of 15 days has been given for response and compliance. "Haldia is an industrial town, and entails the operation of several factories, a few of whom deal in extremely hazardous material. It is important that they know how to respond to crises, and that we are kept informed about the same," said assistant director (factories), Debayan Dey, who had visited the HPCL plant following the August 3 fire and went on record saying he was "surprised" at the amount of hydrocarbon effluent he saw accumulated in the naphtha unit's drainage system. The memo dated August 9 references directs units to emphasise drills, drafting of a list of emergency personnel to be shared with the government, also various up-to-date industrial regulations pertaining to fire safety. "Air pollution is not the only thing that needs to be attended to. All other systems of effluence also need to be monitored stringently to avoid such incidents in the future. Seeing the HPCL incident spurred us to take preventative steps at all other such units immediately," he added on Friday. No one was injured in the HPCL fire on August 3. District authorities said the units would have to prove that they had four hours of water supply to fight fires in order for future permissions. "Outstation tenders which have up-to-date firefighting material often take a bit of time. So, this requirement has been emphasized to units," said a source. Thirty-one units received the letter, including the Indian Oil Corporation, Mitsubishi, Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum, Tata Power and Tata Steel. Sources said IOC had already responded, agreeing to a meeting with district officials next week regarding upgrading safety systems in their Haldia plant. Other units are expected to respond early next week. "We appreciate the authorities' initiative for safety and we will cooperate accordingly," said an official from HPCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Bison runs amok, kills 52-year-old woman in Jalpaiguri district||A woman died after a bison running amok in the Malbazar civic area of Jalpaiguri district attacked her on Friday morning. Police said the animal attacked Sitadevi Prasad, 52, a resident of Khudirampally under ward-12 of the Malbazar municipality, while was returning home after a morning walk around 6am. Local people rushed her to Malbazar Super Specialty Hospital where she succumbed to her injuries later in the day. Foresters Malbazar wildlife squad under Gorumara forest division suspect that the animal might have strayed from Lataguri forest, about 22km from Malbazar. “We managed to tranquillise the bison around 8am. It was hauled by an excavator and taken to the nearby Gorumara forest. After primary treatment, the bison was released in the forest in the evening,” said Dipen Subba, ranger officer, Malbazar wildlife squad. Jumbo carcass The carcass of an adult tusker was recovered from a drain in Alipurduar district on Friday. Foresters of the Buxa Tiger Reserve said the corpse had been sent for post-mortem. “The cause of death can be ascertained only after we get the autopsy report,” said Pravin Kaswan, deputy field director of the BTR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Ballot box cleaning sets off panchayat election buzz in hills||The Darjeeling district administration has cleaned ballot boxes that were lying unused in a store room for decades, a move which has created excitement among political parties because panchayat elections were last held in the hills in 2000. Although electronic voting machines are used for Assembly and Lok Sabha polls, the panchayat elections are held using paper ballots that voters drop in ballot boxes. “We heard that ballot boxes lying with the district administration had been cleaned recently and we cannot rule out the possibility of the state government holding panchayat elections soon,” said a hill leader. Sources in the district administration did confirm to this newspaper that the ballot boxes had been cleaned about “10-12 days” back. “Honestly, whether panchayat elections will be conducted or not is a decision that the state government will take and we are not privy to this information,” said an official. In 1993, the Indian Constitution was amended paving the way for a two-tier panchayat system in the Darjeeling hills unlike the rest of the state where a three-tier panchayat system is in place. The two-tier panchayat system was introduced following the formation of the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC). The Gorkha National Liberation Front which was in power at the DGHC didn’t want the top tier of the panchayat system as the party feared powers of both the bodies would be overlapping. However, in 2000, elections to only gram panchayats were held in the hills. Many observers say the late GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh was against holding elections to the second-tier panchayat samitis as he believed that tier would interfere in the working of the DGHC. After the 1993 amendment, the Siliguri Mahukama Parishad was formed for the rural areas of the Siliguri subdivision which ensured a panchayat system akin to the zilla parishad in the plains of Darjeeling district. Areas which were not under the DGHC and also the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) which replaced the council in 2012 were included in the SMP. However, the Centre, the state and the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, while signing the memorandum of agreement for the GTA on July 18, 2012, had agreed to implement the three-tier panchayat system in the hills. “It is clear that the Constitution has to be amended before elections can be held to a three-tier panchayat system in the GTA area but nothing stops the government from holding elections to two tiers in the hills,” pointed out a hill leader. The decision to clean the ballot boxes also comes at a time when the political landscape is rapidly changing in the hills. Gorkha leaders Bimal Gurung and his rival Binay Tamang have come closer to each other while another hill leader Anit Thapa is set to float a new political party. “The state government might just hold the panchayat elections to test the waters,” observed a hill leader. In the hills, elections to the GTA have also not been held after the term ended in 2017. The Darjeeling municipality is also being run by an administrator since 2019. “At a time when there are no elected bodies running local bodies, there is every possibility of the state holding elections to local bodies,” the hill leader said. The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (Elections), Rules, 2012, has provisions to hold elections to the hill body either through ballot boxes or EVMs. However, the 2012 GTA elections were conducted through EVMs. Municipality polls are also conducted with EVMs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
14-08-2021||North East||Bomb blast damages school near Assam-Mizoram border||After a brief lull, tension along the Assam-Mizoram border escalated again on Saturday after unidentified miscreants bombed a government educational institute in Hailakandi district, triggering fear among locals, a senior police officer said. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stated that a probe will be carried out into the incident. The blast that took place at Sahebmarra around midnight damaged a major portion of a primary school, close to the interstate border, though no casualty has been reported so far, Hailakandi Superintendent of Police Gaurav Upadhyaya told reporters. Official sources here said that locals in the area suspect that miscreants from the other side of the border bombed the school. A police officer in Mizoram's Kolasib district, bordering Hailakandi, however, asserted that there was no reason for anyone to explode bomb in Sahebmarra, which isn't a disputed area . "Why should people from Mizoram go and explode bombs in a place that falls in Assam. It is not a disputed area," Kolasib Superintendent of Police (SP) Vanlalfaka Ralte pointed out. According to Upadhyaya, more details will be available after a thorough investigation. Sarma, on his part, asserted that he will write to his Mizoram counterpart and request for a probe into the blast. As the incident occurred within "our territory, the Assam police will conduct an inquiry into it," the CM maintained. He also said that intelligence reports had suggested sporadic incidents may occur along the border and "I had mentioned about it in the assembly on Friday". It will take time for complete peace to return to Assam's border with Mizoram, he added. Meanwhile, AIUDF MLA from Katlicherra, Suzam Uddin Laskar, alleged that people from Mizoram have initiated road construction work in Chuninullah area of Hailakandi, and demanded immediate action from the Assam government. He claimed that inaction on the part of the state government has made the boundary dispute critical. Responding to the allegation, the Kolasib SP said local village leaders on the two sides of the border have mutually agreed to construct roads for the convenience of people and ease of movement. Border dispute between Assam and Mizoram had reached a flashpoint with six Assam policemen and a civilian losing lives in a bloody conflict on July 26 in Cachar district. A series of complaints was filed in both the states against top officials, with the Mizoram Police even registering a case against the Assam chief minister. Assam followed it up by issuing a travel advisory cautioning people from travelling to Mizoram while several organisations resorted to a road blockade to prevent trucks from moving to the neighbouring state. It was after the Centre intervened and neutral forces were deployed along the interstate border, the situation eased considerably with the states withdrawing cases against each other. Two Assam ministers Atul Bora and Ashok Singhal visited Aizawl and the both the state governments subsequently issued a joint statement pledging to maintain status quo and peace along the border. The Assam government also persuaded the organisations staging a blockade to lift it and free movement of vehicles resumed from August 8. Tension along the border with Mizoram in Cachar and Hailakandi districts of Assam has been building up since October 2020 with frequent incidents of land encroachment, grenade blasts reported from these areas. The two states share a 164.6-km border spanning across Assam's districts of Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj, and Mizoram's Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl. The long-standing dispute has its origin in two notifications -- one of 1875 that differentiated Lushai Hills from the plains of Cachar, and another of 1933 that demarcates a boundary between Lushai Hills and Manipur. Mizoram insists that the boundary demarcation made in the 1875 notification be followed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
14-08-2021||North East||TMC’s Bratya Basu urges Tripura’s CPI(M) workers to join the party||Criticising the opposition CPI(M) in Tripura for allegedly not coming out on the streets to protest against the ‘state-sponsored terror tactic’ of the BJP and protect its supporters, senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Bratya Basu on Saturday appealed to the Left supporters to join the Mamata Banerjee-led party. The CPI(M), which ruled the state for 25 years before being ousted by a BJP-led coalition in 2018, however, denied the charge and said its workers and leaders were the first to face the attack of the saffron party. Senior TMC leaders from West Bengal are of late visiting the North-eastern state where the assembly election is due in 2023. When the BJP has let loose a reign of terror in Tripura, the leaders of the main opposition party CPI(M) are not coming out on the streets to protest. If the leaders do not stand by the supporters, they should join our party," Basu, also a minister in West Bengal, said. The CPI(M) should not help the saffron party by opposing the TMC, Basu told a press conference. The TMC dethroned the CPI(M)-led Left Front in West Bengal in 2011 after the grouping was in power for 34 years. The Mamata Banerjee-led party returned to power in the state for its third consecutive term earlier this year facing stiff opposition from the BJP. Basu alleged that people in the state are looking for shelter in the face of terror unleashed by the saffron party in both the states Tripura and West Bengal. At least 14 leaders and workers of the TMC, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers, were arrested in Tripura on August 8 for "violating Covid norms". We were booked and attacked by the BJP sheltered goons, but not afraid. It is a state-sponsored terror tactic, but we know how to face it. Mamata-di (Banerjee) is with us. If your (CPI-M) workers) leaders are not giving you protection, join the TMC," Basu said. Asserting that the TMC will capture power in the next assembly elections in Tripura, Basu claimed that a large number of leaders of the Congress and the BJP are in touch with the TMC. The TMC started its organisation in Tripura in 1999 when former chief minister, the late Sudhir Ranjan Majumder, joined the party. Former Congress minister Prakash Das, ex-BJP office bearer Subal Bhowmik, state Youth Congress working president Santanu Saha and others joined the TMC recently. The allegations against the party were rejected by the CPI(M)'s Tripura secretary Gautam Das. "We are facing the saffron terror and our leaders are always standing by the supporters and workers of the party. Our party workers came under attack following a rally at Khowai district two days back. The house of our MLA was attacked, ransacked, even BJP sheltered goons hurled bombs in his house," he said. Basu is making baseless allegations to get some support, he claimed. He said that six TMC MLAs had joined the BJP before the 2018 assembly elections in Tripura, thus helping the saffron party come to power. Several other senior West Bengal TMC leaders including Parliamentarians Santanu Sen and Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, and Tripura leaders such as Subal Bhowmik and Ashish Lal Singh were present at the press conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
14-08-2021||North East||BJP rallies in Tripura against 'CPM and Trinamul friendship'||The BJP on Friday brought out rallies in Tripura in protest against the “CPM and Trinamul friendship” and the alleged efforts by the two parties to create instability in the northeastern state. The day the BJP showed its strength, around 30 Congress and BJP members joined the Trinamul Congress at a hotel in Agartala in the presence of Bengal minister Bratya Basu and MP Santanu Sen. BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya told The Telegraph that the party had to stage the rallies to counter the “misleading and disrespectful narrative” being fanned by visiting Trinamul leaders against the state government and chief minister Biplab Deb. “CPM-backed Trinamul people have said Tripura people have chosen the wrong party to lead the state. How can they say that? Are people of Tripura ignorant? Do they mean to say that? This is grossly misleading by a party (Trinamul) which is backed by the CPM. We won the polls convincingly and in a democratic manner to lead the state with our ally,” Bhattacharya said. The BJP and the IPFT won the 2018 elections to end the 25-year reign of the Left Front. “They (Trinamul leaders) have been using unparliamentary words like chor and goonda.... The rally was to highlight their misleading and disrespectful narrative to create instability,” Bhattacharya said. Friday’s protest rallies followed a police crackdown on Trinamul leaders. Few days ago, the police registered a case against six leaders, including national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, education minister Bratya Basu, MP Dola Sen and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, for allegedly obstructing public servants from discharging their duty. A purported video from inside the Khowai police station showed scenes of heated exchange between Abhishek and some police officers. They were booked for their alleged misbehaviour with police officers inside the Khowai police station on Sunday, the day the police arrested 14 Trinamul activists for violating Covid restrictions. They have secured bail. Accusing the administration of partisan conduct, minister Basu told media persons that Trinamul did not get permission to hold the joining rally but the ruling BJP was allowed to take out a huge procession despite Covid restrictions. Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen said that the arrests of the Trinamul workers in Tripura were illegal. “Irrespective of what they (BJP) do, we will continue with our political activities,” Sen said after the joining programme held around 4.30 pm. Bengal-based Trinamul leaders have made several visits to Tripura since mid-July, assessing the party’s strength and the measures required to tone it up. A new state committee is expected by September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
14-08-2021||North East||Assam Assembly passes bill imposing ban on cow slaughter||The Assam Assembly on Friday passed a bill that imposes a complete ban on cow slaughter and regulates the sale of beef and transport of cattle within the state and from outside. Violation of the slaughter ban and the transport of cattle without valid permits will invite stiff penalties under the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021. The bill was passed in spite of the Opposition urging the BJP-led government to send it to the select committee for wider discussions. The Opposition had proposed 75 amendments, stressing the adverse economic impact of the bill on the farming community. The government accepted one: exempting buffaloes from the list of cattle. The list of cattle will now cover bulls, bullocks, cows, heifers and calves. When it became clear that the government would pass the bill, the Congress, AIUDF, CPM and Raijor Dal MLAs walked out. Muslims make up 34 per cent of Assam’s population while beef is widely consumed across the Northeast, which has a large Christian population. Beef products will no longer be permitted to be sold in areas predominantly inhabited by Hindus, Jains and Sikhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
14-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: ISRO satellite launch fails||Shift the focus Sir — It is unfortunate that the attempt made by the Indian Space Research Organisation to place a new earth-observation satellite in space ended in failure (“Satellite mission fails”, Aug 13). ISRO’s GSLV-F10 rocket, which took off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota failed shortly after launching on Thursday. This was India’s first launch of 2021, and its first failure since 2017. The failure has been attributed to a ‘performance anomaly’. However, ISRO has unquestionably triumphed in many of its scientific endeavours, and has several stories of success. Unfortunately, these are not highlighted nearly as much as the failures of India’s space organization. A number of ISRO’s achievements have stunned even the scientists at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration of the United States of America. And yet, every failure, such as that of the GSLV-F10 rocket for the geo-imaging satellite mission, is played up. Unless the scientists at ISRO are recognized and lauded for their hard work, it will be difficult for them to reflect on and study the organization’s failures. The space body and its management must work to raise awareness among the common people not only about their own scientific perceptions but also about ISRO’s work and moments of success. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — The failure of the recent ISRO mission to put an earth-observation satellite into orbit was reportedly owing to nothing more than a technical problem. India’s space body has already embarked on and completed many successful missions, with many more projects in the pipeline. The scientists and technicians at ISRO must remember that failure is part of a long, successful journey. U. Mangalasseri,Malappuram, Kerala Sir — It is laudable that ISRO made its first launch of the year 2021, even if it ended in failure. The work put in by the scientific community while a pandemic rages in the country is not talked about or acknowledged enough. Anirban Guha,Calcutta Tricky question Sir — In the midst of a growing demand for raising the retirement age of Supreme Court and high court judges, the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, recently wondered whether “a person’s age is the appropriate yardstick to decide the tenure and time of retirement” (“CJI dwells on retirement age”, Aug 13). His comments are also applicable in the case of people in other, largely sedentary, professions who retire at the age of 60. Advancements in medical science and facilities have ensured that people live longer lives. At the same time, retiring at a fixed age renders a workforce that has valuable experience and knowledge redundant. On the other hand, extending the retirement age would pose a serious problem. The burden of unemployment among a young, eligible workforce is already high in India. If the retirement age is raised, it would likely delay the employment prospects of the youth. Politicians seem to be the only people who can avert mandatory retirement. A noted politician is said to have once quipped about an octogenarian ruler of a rival political party, “Era dehotyag korar aage padatyag korena (They do not resign till the die)”. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas  Save them Sir — It was distressing to read that a dead dolphin washed ashore on Mumbai’s Juhu Beach. In fact, by April, at least four ocean humpback dolphins — they are endangered — had washed ashore in the city. These occurrences are cause for serious concern among  wildlife conservationists, who seem to be fighting a losing battle against the pollution of oceans and other water bodies. Reportedly, 100 million marine animals die each year from plastic waste alone. Other forms of water pollution would only add to this number. The cleaning of India’s coastlines and adjoining water bodies must be undertaken on a war footing by the Union and state governments. Arshiya Seth,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
14-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Mr Doubtfire||Is it a bird, is it a plane, is it Superman? The sight of a man — an Olympic athlete no less — knitting in plain view is perhaps rarer than that of an imaginary superhero streaking across the sky. Tom Daley, the British diver, has created quite a splash with needle and thread: when he was not in the water, Mr Daley could be seen in the stands, weaving skeins of yarn together to create a pouch for the gold he won in the diving competition, a sweater for his friend’s dog, as well as a splendid Olympic-themed cardigan for himself. The shock and awe that greeted Mr Daley’s accomplishment on land can be attributed to the fact that the postmodern cultural discourse continues to segregate leisure along the lines of gender. Mr Daley could well have been confused with a matronly lady working wonders with yarn and thread simply because she had ample time on her hands. This prejudice is not old though. A cursory look at history would reveal that men have lorded over knitting for centuries; in the Middle Ages, women were not allowed to be part of all-men knitting guilds. This discrimination may have its roots in primitive codes of labour, codes that were disrupted and altered by emerging technology. For instance, with the invention of knitting machines in the 16th century, men stopped knitting, allowing women to gain access to the craft. Yet, technology was not an equitable enabler; it ended up creating newer divisions. As toxic masculinity started to cast condescending glances towards knitting, an art that Viking and Arab men once took pride in stopped being truly representative in terms of gender. Yet, it must be asked, what explains modernity’s enthusiasm to feminize specific forms of recreation? Cooking, knitting, sewing, cleaning — each requires skill, patience, hard work and imagination — are women’s business. That fits well with the prevailing — outdated? — idea that the world is the man’s business, while the home is the woman’s fief. Role reversals, in reel or real life, lead to considerable mirth still. Be it Mrs. Doubtfire — it featured Robin Williams in the role of a nanny — or men forced to take on household chores during the lockdown, the inversion of the template of division of labour has led to an explosion of memes and satire. Yet, more and more men may need to emulate Mr Daley. A study in 2018 showed that rising unemployment across the globe has been forcing men to take up jobs — caregiving is one example — traditionally associated with women. Funnily enough, while a woman shattering the proverbial glass ceiling is — quite correctly — lauded, men excelling in unconventional duties, be they at work or in play, continue to elicit the metaphorical prick from the needle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
14-08-2021||Opinion||The curtain rises: NYC puppet festival||It is no surprise that New York City has a rich and diverse culture when it comes to the arts. But one art form that is not celebrated enough is coming to the city with a bang with NYC’s first-ever ‘Puppet Week’, which includes exhibitions celebrating live puppet theatre performances. This August, the International Puppet Fringe Festival, NYC is coming to the city in collaboration with the Museum of the City of New York. It will be free to the public and will have over 40 performances by creatives in the field as well as over 100 iconic puppet characters. “During the pandemic, when our curtains couldn’t go up, our roster of puppet makers and puppeteers were eagerly preparing to enthrall audiences with their creative talents, and we can’t wait to finally share their work with you,” said Dr Manuel Morán, the founder of the festival, in a press release. Some iconic puppets that will be present, ready to evoke nostalgia, include Punch and Judy, Oscar the Grouch and Lamb Chop, among others. The exhibition will take place in the Museum of the City of New York and the Clemente Center in the Lower East Side. It will include puppetry and performances by artists who have performed in past festivals, as well as those who continue to perform in the city today. It will explore how puppetry came to New York and how it has been shaped by both the city and the globe. Green signal The iconic yellow taxi cabs in New York slowly dissipated as Ubers and Lyfts took over. Now, the existing ride-sharing services may be elbowed out by a new company called Revel who just got the approval to bring baby blue Teslas to Manhattan for its car service. The company had butted heads with the NYC Taxi and Limousine Commission in the last few months over the approval owing to an existing cap on the number of new taxis allowed to enter the market, but it had an exception clause for electric vehicles. Now, Revel has the green light to bring in 50 Tesla Model Y SUV taxis into the city. Revel does not rely on the community for drivers like Uber, but has a staff of full-time drivers with benefits and salaries like a traditional company. It is building superhub charging stations for its cars. A 20-minute-charge can take you an additional 100 miles. The production and sales of electric vehicles are rising in the country and expected to continue in this trajectory, especially under the new president, Joe Biden. Biden’s “Build Back Better” plan includes lowering the country’s carbon emissions by 2030, and moving towards electric and hybrid vehicles is a major part of that plan. In fact, the White House hosted an EV event on August 5 with executives from General Motors, Ford and Stellantis (formerly Chrysler) but Tesla — who owns nearly 80 per cent of the EV market and sells the most EVs — did not get an invite. Elon Musk, in a tweet, remarked that this was “odd”. Highly rated We enjoy seeing places and experiences ranked from best to worst and take to Yelp, Expedia and other sites for ratings. We are familiar with ranked hotels, restaurants and shops. Now, you can get to know about — and vote for — the best ranked bathrooms in the country. Cintas is hosting the “2021 America’s Best Restroom” award and it has carefully selected a list of 10 finalists and invited the public to vote on its website. A surprising one on the list is a bathroom at the JFK Airport’s Terminal 4. Normally, airport bathroom experiences are associated with stress, stench and queues but this one made the cut. Last year, the award went to Bancroft Park in Colorado Springs which is a self-cleaning restroom at the public park. The stalls were colour-coded to show occupancy, and water, soap and toilet paper were motion activated. Before the toilet paper ran out, the park maintenance manager would be alerted via an app. In 2019, the Nashville Zoo in Tennessee received the award because it is more than just a regular old bathroom — it has an indoor zoo exhibit inside the bathroom itself. The women’s bathroom features a family of six tamarins while the men’s has a floor-to-ceiling window with a ball python on display. Anyone can nominate their favourite bathroom — and the voting is open to the public. This is Cintas’s 20th year of giving out the best bathroom award. Its website carries testimonials from past finalists describing how the best bathroom awards have boosted business for them. Celebrate freedom India’s 75th Independence Day is being celebrated not only in India but also in several states in the United States of America by the large Indian community living across the nation. The Federation of Indian Associations in the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut regions is one of the largest organizations representing Indian Americans and hosts robust events every year. On August 15, the FIA is organizing free bus rides to Times Square from the Shree Umiya Dham temple in Edison, New Jersey, a city with a large concentration of immigrant Indians. At Times Square, the Indian flag will be hoisted. Later in the day, the Empire State Building will be lit up in the colours of the Indian flag as per tradition. The celebrations will then continue on a ticketed yacht, boarding at Hoboken, NJ with an eight-person table selling for $1,000. Flag-hoisting and festivities also take place in other states. The India Association of Greater Boston — founded in 1962 — is celebrating with dance performances and food. It had even partnered with the American India Foundation earlier this year to help raise money for medical supplies for Covid relief in India. In Providence, Rhode Island the iconic ‘Capitol Hill’ building will be lit up in the Tricolour, followed by the singing of the national anthem. The governor will kick off the event by hoisting both the Indian and American flags as two exemplars of democracy. Footnote The world’s most Instagrammed bookstore is in downtown Los Angeles. A UK-based website called the Knowledge Academy that studies Instagram hashtags concluded that The Last Bookstore in LA had the most hashtags as of February 2021. Second was Powell’s in Portland, Oregon. The next two were in Tokyo and Paris, although one in San Francisco ranked 9th. The Last Bookstore is located inside an old bank building and is designed with vaults, marble columns and arches in a 22,000 square feet space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
14-08-2021||Opinion||Bapu’s right hand||Like all other Indians, I grew up thinking of August 15 as the day when, back in 1947, the first government of independent India was sworn into office. However, in recent years the day has acquired for me another meaning, not unrelated to the first. In my consciousness, August 15, 1947 has been joined by August 15, 1942, which is the day that Mahadev Desai died in prison. Without his contributions, India might never have become free of British rule at all, and yet this great patriot and freedom fighter remains largely unhonoured today. Perhaps he would have wanted it that way. From the time he joined Gandhi in Ahmedabad in 1917 until his death in the Aga Khan Palace a quarter of a century later, Mahadev entirely submerged himself in the service of the Mahatma. He was Gandhi’s secretary, typist, translator, counsellor, courier, interlocutor, trouble-shooter and much more. He even cooked for his Master, his khichdi in particular attracting Gandhi’s praise. The best testimony to Mahadev Desai’s indispensability to Gandhi’s work and campaigns comes from the Mahatma himself. In 1918, a year after Mahadev joined the Sabarmati Ashram, Gandhi told his nephew, Maganlal, that his secretary “has come to be my hands and feet, and my brain as well, so that without him I feel like one who has lost the use of legs and speech. The more I know him, the more I see his virtues. And he is as learned as [he is] virtuous”. Twenty years later, when Mahadev came close to a breakdown because of over-work and his refusal to take a holiday, Gandhi scolded him thus: “Shall we say you have a mania for work? Don’t you know if you were to be disabled, I would be a bird without wings? If you became bed-ridden, I would have to wind up three-fourths of my activities.” One person who knew Mahadev Desai intimately was Gandhi’s English disciple, Mira Behn (Madeleine Slade). They first met when Mahadev came to receive her at the Ahmedabad station in November 1925, and they were together in prison when he died some 17 years later. In her memoirs, The Spirit’s Pilgrimage, Mira writes of Mahadev Desai that “he was tall, good-looking, with a mustache, and thinning hair on an intellectual head. By nature he was delicately sensitive, which showed particularly in his finely shaped hands. He had an extraordinarily quick and intelligent grasp of the complicated and ever-varying situations in which he was Bapu’s right hand, noting, discussing, drafting and writing, always in that swift and exquisitely clear hand. But the most striking thing of all about him was his intense devotion to Bapu. And in this was our strongest bond”. When Gandhi was arrested in August 1942 after calling for the British to ‘Quit India’, he was imprisoned in the house of the Aga Khan in Poona, which had previously been requisitioned by the colonial state for this purpose. With him were a few close associates, Mahadev Desai and Mira Behn among them. Knowing that this would be a long prison term, on the evening of August 14, Mahadev told Mira, “What a grand opportunity this would be for writing. I have at least six books in my mind which I would like to get down on paper...” The next day he was dead, of a heart-attack, aged 50. A day later, the suitcase Mahadev had brought with him to the prison was opened by Gandhi. Apart from his clothes, it contained a copy of the Bible (presented to him by the British Quaker, Agatha Harrison), some newspaper clippings and several books, among them a copy of Tagore’s play, Muktadhara, and a book called Battle for Asia. A scholar of Gujarati and English literature, with a deep interest in history, politics and the law, Mahadev Desai was perhaps the most learned of all Gandhi’s associates. The American historian, Ian Desai, has studied the books Mahadev read and made notes on, writing of how he passed on the information he gleaned to Gandhi, who was himself rather poorly informed about such subjects as political theory and international politics. In a fascinating essay published some years ago in the Wilson Quarterly, Ian Desai remarked that Mahadev “was the heart of this intellectual operation [of the freedom struggle], helping Gandhi refine his philosophy over the course of his career and providing him with concrete information to use in his ideological struggle with British imperialism”. Mahadev’s love of learning also features in an obituary published in The Manchester Guardian. In 1931, Gandhi and his secretary spent several months in England attending the Second Round Table Conference. On this trip, recalled the obituarist, Mahadev “liked going into English homes and seeing how people lived. No sooner was he inside them that he would gravitate to the bookshelves. It could be seen how much he loved books by the way he handled them. And one could be quite sure of finding him in some bookshop if he had a few minutes to spare”. While reading capaciously as well as closely, Mahadev never forgot his primary duty, which was to advise and assist Gandhi, and record for posterity all that his Master said and did. As Gopalkrishna Gandhi has observed, by diarising every event, noteworthy as well as insignificant, of Gandhi’s waking hours, Mahadev became the Mahatma’s “alter ego and what he recorded became a primary source”, indispensable for future historians and biographers. Mahadev’s diaries, writes Gopal Gandhi, “almost wrote themselves, like the works of the other ‘M’, whose name is inseparable from [that of the 19th century sage] Sri Ramakrishna”. Mahadev Desai died on August 15, 1942. Gandhi, who was much older than him, lived on for more than five years thereafter. He missed Mahadev and his counsel till the end. In the last week of his life, when he was preoccupied on the one hand with restoring peace between Hindus and Muslims and on the other with healing the rift between Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel, Gandhi remarked to his grand-niece, Manu, “Today we miss Mahadev as never before. Had he been alive, he would never have allowed things to come to such a pass”. Until I was in my forties, I myself had little understanding of what Mahadev Desai meant to Gandhi and to India. It was only while working on a biography of the Mahatma, and coming across a vast hoard of Gandhi’s personal papers previously closed to scholars, that I came to recognize Mahadev’s colossal contributions to our nation as well as his distinctive qualities of head and heart. After my book was published, my cousin, Subu, who is just a little younger than me but who had grown up in America, wrote saying that while he “certainly did not know of Mahadev Desai and his importance” before reading my biography, “now I’m convinced there wouldn’t have been an Indian Gandhi without him. I don’t understand why there aren’t statues to him across the nation”. It may be hard to canvass money and support for such an admirable enterprise, but I do hope, at least, that some younger scholar fluent in both Gujarati and English will begin work on a new biography of the man. Many years ago, Mahadev Desai’s son, Narayan, wrote a life of his father, which is moving and informative, and an important contribution to the subject. However, it now needs to be complemented by a book written by a scholar who is not encumbered by family pieties, who can use primary materials which have since become available, and who can take the wider historical view. Like Gandhi, Mahadev Desai was utterly non-parochial. He was a man who respected and befriended women, a Gujarati deeply knowledgeable about other parts of India, a Hindu who abhorred and opposed majoritarianism, an Indian keenly interested in the rest of the world. He was also a talented and prolific writer, who had a wicked sense of humour besides. And through what he did for and with Gandhi, he had a profound impact on the history of his nation and the world. He would make a wonderful biographical subject. I myself had to write about Mahadev Desai in connection with Gandhi, yet in the course of my research I discovered the extraordinary range of Mahadev’s own friendships while reading his correspondence with such people as the anglicized Kashmiri, Jawaharlal Nehru, the Indianized Englishwoman, Mira Behn, the Tamil Sanskrit scholar, V.S. Srinivasa Sastri, and the Catholic private secretary to the viceroy, Gilbert Laithwaite. Among my most joyous discoveries was a photograph of Gandhi on his morning walk in Sevagram, circa 1936, accompanied by Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan and Mahadev Desai, both dressed in khadi, the tall Pathan’s hand affectionately draped around the shoulders of the diminutive and ever-smiling Gujarati. On this Independence Day, we remember the men and women who helped make our nation — B.R. Ambedkar, Abul Kalam Azad, Subhas Chandra Bose, Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, Birsa Munda, Dadabhai Naoroji, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel, Bhagat Singh and many others. As honourable and admirable as any on that list was Mahadev Desai, who died exactly five years before the freedom he so nobly and selflessly fought for finally arrived. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants fed on credit due to lack of funds||The state forest department failed to sanction funds for two rescued elephants and over 60 deers kept in Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary following which the sanctuary authority fed the animals in credit. The Dalma wildlife sanctuary gets Rs 15 lakh annually for feeding the rescued elephants and deers, but though about half of the current financial year has elapsed the required fund has not been sanctioned yet. The sanctuary authorities maintain that as the state government is coping up with the fund crunch due to Covid-19 pandemic, it has failed to sanction the fund so far. Dalma divisional forest officer, Abhishek Kumar confirmed about not getting the fund for the maintenance of the rescued elephants and deers this financial year. "We would get the fund for the maintenance of the elephants and deers in the month of March every year. But this year almost half of the current financial year has elapsed, the fund is yet to be sanctioned. As a result of which the animals in enclosure are being fed on borrowed food," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The DFO said the fund issue has cropped up not only regarding the enclosed animals' maintenance, but also on other heads also, including the fund required towards the remuneration of the trackers who use to work for the upkeep of forest cover of the sprawling sanctuary. Stationed at the Makulakocha in Dalma about eight km away from the heart of the city, the two rescued elephants -- Rajni and Champa --are fed 'khichdi', pumpkins and straw every day. Similarly, the 60 plus deers which have been kept in an enclosure are fed grams, chaff and straw regularly. Initially, there were three rescued elephants at Makulakocha, but one of them, Laxmi, succumbed to her illness two years ago. "Whereas on the one hand, the number of the rescued elephants has come down to two after Laxmi's death in 2019, on the other hand, the number of the deers has increased considerably, thus consuming the Rs 15 lakhs that the state government has been providing every year since the past one decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||22 policemen named for Independence Day Awards||As many as 22 policemen from Jharkhand have been conferred with Independence Day awards for bravery and  meritorious service, according to list put forth by the Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday. While six policemen have been named for the  Police Medal for Gallantry, one has been named for the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and 15 for the Police Medal for Meritorious service. Among those named for gallantry are Manish Chandra Lal (inspector), Suresh Ram (SI), Rohit Kumar Rajak (DAP), Anirudha Kumar Ojha (DPF-SAT-2) and Yashwant Mahto (DPF SAT-2). Lal, who is posted in Gumla as SDPO, has been rewarded for his bravery during his stint in Hazaribagh in 2015 when he and his team raided a village in Chouparan upon receiving a tip-off about the of assembly of over 70 dreaded rebels. Following a fierce gun battle, Lal and his team also managed to gun down three Maoists. Recalling the encounter while speaking with reporters on Saturday, Lal said that it was one of the most challenging experiences of his career. But, he said he was happy that they successfully managed to thwart a major plan by rebels. “The encounter took place on January 12, 2015 when my team and I headed to the jungles in Chouparan after SP’s directives upon receiving a secret information about presence of large squads of Maoists. As we ventured into the forest, one group of rebels opened fire on us. We were were attacked from all sides but we retaliated with full might, forcing the rebels to retreat. We were successful in killing three naxals. We seizesd lots of ammunition and illegally amassed money to the tune of lakhs,” he said. Lal is also known to have killed over half a dozen naxals in Garwah during his stint there in 2008 for which he was also awarded the President’s bravery medal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||49-year-old 'Tiranga Man' distributes free flags for seven years||49-year-old Shaukat Khan also known as the 'Tiranga Man' has been distributing national flags free of cost for over seven years. The recipients of his free national flags include people from various socio-economic and other backgrounds. I have been distributing national flags since 2014. It is my seventh year. If I am not wrong I have so far distributed 2,00,000 national flags free," said Khan to The Telegraph Online. He went on to say,"I have launched a programme called Rashtriya Tiranga Samman Samaroh. It is in honour of our brave jawans who do their selfless duties day and night on the borders far away from their homes and families." "I want to drive a message to our border heroes that the entire nation stands with them," said Khan. Khan, a Class ten graduate, said his son and daughter are in colleges pursuing undergraduate and intermediate courses respectively. Asked as to how he does this philanthropy to which he said he has a showroom of a popular bike brand in Garhwa town that brings basic food to the table. One average size national flag costs around Rs100 and Khan said he spends his own savings on it. "I don’t have an NGO of any kind. I do not raise funds. I trust my own savings. People's trust and love for me keep me going," he said. He said he has distributed national flags at temples, madrasas, jails, police and CRPF institutions etc. Khan made it very clear when he said he has no political agenda. It is his profound love for India and Indians. Khan said, "My heart aches when I see violence in the streets over the measurement of patriotism. This is too bad a thing. Patriotism is in blood. It can never be thrust upon. It comes as naturally as leaves or fragrance comes to trees and flowers." He said whenever there is a procession be it religious or political protest, there are numerous national flags in it. Khan sees this as a great change for the good of the society and the country. He runs four free banks- Kapra bank, Chawal bank, Sattu bank and Pustak bank- in memoriam of the martyrs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archer Komalika Bari aims for gold at world meet||Jharkhand archer Komalika Bari will set her sights on bagging the under-21 recurve gold when she lines up to meet Spain's Elia Canales in the final of the World Youth Archery Championships in Wroclaw, Poland on Sunday. A win will put the 19-year-old Komalika at par with world number 1 Deepika Kumari as she will become the second recurve archer from India to hold the under-18 and under-21 world titles. She made it to the final after a come-back semi-final win over new Olympian Casey Kaufhold, 6-4. Deepika also hails from Jharkhand and presently lives with her husband and archer Atanu Das in Pune. Deepika completed the double in Legnica, Poland a decade ago. Jamshedpur-based Komalika, a cadet of elite Tata Archery Academy, rose to fame when she won the under-18 individual title at the World Youth Archery and Cadet Championships staged in Madrid, Spain in 2019. Considering her current form, the bespectacled archer should win the title in Wroclaw. Komalika and Jharkhandmates Deepika and Ankita Bhakat claimed the team gold at the recently concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris. An integral part of the women's recurve squad, she also picked up team yellow metal at the World Cup Stage 1 held at Guatemala earlier this year. Komalika, who is Jamshedpur-based, comes from a typical Indian middle-class household. Her father, Ghanshyam Bari, works as an LIC agent while mother Lakshmi is a homemaker. Earlier, she was a trainee at a cradle run by Indian Steel & Wire Product near Telco township in Jamshedpur. She made it to the Tata cradle in 2016. "Komalika is a very focussed archer who is least hesitant which are essential qualities in archery. She is a quality archer who is going to take big strides in the sport," Tata cradle coach and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahto had said to The Telegraph Online before the Indian team's departure for Poland. Purnima is the coach of the women's side in Wroclaw. Archery coaches in Jharkhand feel Komalika is the next Deepika in the making who is surely going to make it to the 2024 Olympic Games in Paris. "Komalika has all the qualities of a top-bracket archer. She is focussed and remains cool while shooting. Moreover, she's a hard working archer. A medal in Poland on Sunday will boost her confidence level. She is the next Deepika from Jharkhand," said B. Sriniwas Rao, chief coach at the government-run archery cradle in Dugni, near Seraikela.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders demand train fare hike rollback||Coal town traders have demanded the Indian Railways to immediately roll back the exorbitant hike in train fares implemented by the central government after the Covid induced lockdown. A letter in this regard has been sent by Sanjay Baid, president of Bokaro Chamber Commerce to Ashwini Vaishnaw, union minister of railway, demanding rollback of hike in train fare and simultaneously also demanded restoration of the pre-lockdown provision of concession for senior citizens, widow and defence personnel. Baid said that the fare of special trains ahead of lockdown was almost at par with the other trains but an exorbitant hike in train fare almost comparable with tatkal ticket fare has been carried out after the lockdown which is still continuing without any reason despite extension schedule of these trains several times. "As trains have been increased now on almost all the routes and situation has normalized there is no logic of running these trains as special trains putting the burden of extra fare on passengers including the senior citizens, widows students who have also deprived of their concession in reservation charges in name of special trains," said Baid. "For special trains, 500km of fare has been made mandatory which is not at all correct as the passenger travelling for 300 meters only will have to pay the fare of 500 kms of journey," said Baid who is also  member of Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee. President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, Deepak Kumar Dipu said, "The hike in fare has not only affected the long distance travellers but also those covering short distance like 28 km between Dhanbad to Sindri as the fare Sindri town passenger train has been increased to three fold to Rs 30 per passenger after its recent restoration from the pre lockdown fare of Rs 10 per passenger.” "We will soon meet Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad demanding restoration of all three ferries of train and simultaneous restoration of old fare of Rs 10 per passenger," said Dipu. Book trader Rajesh Kumar Gupta who is also the patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, "At a time when the common people are badly hit due to decreased income due to impact of pandemic the realization of exorbitant fare from passengers is not at all justified."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Visitors from South India dodging tests, causing spike in Covid cases in Ranchi||Passengers from southern states of India have led to an alarming spike in Covid-19 cased in Ranchi in the past one week, believe health officials who said on Saturday that a majority of the new Covid patients detected in the state were travelers coming to Ranchi from either Karnataka or Tamil Nadu. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the active caseload of Covid-19 in Ranchi was 52 on August 8. Cut to Saturday, at least 95 people were battling Coronavirus infection in this district. This last week has seen a rise in Covid cases after a sustained drop in cases over a period of several weeks owing to strict restrictions, health officials said. However, there are hardly any local patients with severe symptoms, said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar, adding that the Covid ward of Sadar Hospital in Ranchi had only one patient admitted on Saturday and he was stable. “Most of the new patients in Ranchi were travelers coming from either Karnataka or Tamil Nadu,” said Kumar, adding that the screening at railway stations, airport and bus stands needs to be intensified in order to check the spread of the virus among locals. “We have come across cases wherein passengers have tried to dodge Covid tests at the railway station and later tested positive for Covid-19,” the civil surgeon said. “I would suggest that security be beefed up around railway stations and bus stands, so no passenger can avoid the mandatory Covid test,” he added. Testing all passengers coming to Ranchi was important as undetected Covid patients may transmit the infection to local residents and the cases might increase, said Kumar, claiming that the easing of restrictions in the state did not play a major role in the spike in Covid cases. “If the spike was due to the relaxations provided by the government, then more local residents would have tested positive,” he said. Ranchi has been the worst-affected Jharkhand district in terms of caseload and fatality since the SARS-COV-2 virus made its entry in the state. As per government data, the district has reported 1,585 of the 5,131 casualties in Jharkhand and also accounted for 85,468 of the over 3.47 lakh Covid cases reported in the state so far. Ranchi is also well-connected to different cities of India via railways and airways, which increases the chances of infected people entering the district and spreading the virus among local residents, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: India women’s football camp in Jamshedpur from Monday||Ranchi: Jharkhand is set to host Indian women's football national camp in Jamshedpur from August 16 for preparations for the AFC Women’s Cup India 2022—a  flagship continental championship (Asia cup) which is scheduled next year, All India Football Federation (AIFF) has formally announced on Friday. Chief minister Hemant Soren’s office in a communiqué further informed that the state sports department has been directed to extend all the required logistic support and assistance to make this camp successful. India will be hosting this prestigious tournament from January 20-February 6, 2022, (AIFF) has noted. 2022 will also be significant year for women’s football in the country as India will also to host to the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup from October 2022 onwards. AIFF has released a list of 30 players who would take part in the upcoming preparatory camp in Jamshedpur. Jharkhand’s Sumati Kumari is also part of the probable squad. Sumati is among six forwards who would be vying for a spot in the national team from this camp. (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: The East Singhbhum senior superintendent of police M.Tamil Vanan has put the entire district on high alert for three days from Friday in the run up to Independence Day. During this period, the police officials have been instructed to remain not only in surveillance mode, but also to carry out surprise checks at the hotels, guest-houses and restaurants. This apart, the officers-in-charge of the police stations in the district have been asked to make deployment of armed police at strategic locations across the district, especially in the steel city. A senior police official on condition of anonymity said that outside steel city, Ghatsila and Patamda areas of the district are in the special focus of the police. "As the outlawed rebel outfit, CPI-Maoist tends to show its presence by resorting to subversive acts in the rural pockets, especially in Ghatsila subdivision and Patamda area, bordering Bengal, these two areas will be in our focus outside the city," said the police officer to The Telegraph Online. Deployment of police forces at the strategic locations have already started to be made across the district. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: The fast unto death launched by dependents of more than 50 deceased employees of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority in front of its office since August 10 continued for the the fourth consecutive day on Friday. Two of the agitators, Manju Devi and Kuldip Mahto, who were admitted at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and hospital two days ago after deterioration of their health condition joined the agitation after returning from the hospital. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Nine employees of Tata Steel bagged Prime Minister’s Shram Awards (PMSA) for the year 2018 bringing laurels to the company as well as the steel city. The Awards Shram Bhushan (cash prize of Rs 1 lakh each), Shram Vir (cash prize of Rs 60,000 each) and Shram Shree (cash prize of Rs 40,000 each) are given to the workers employed in public and private sector companies ( which employs 500 or more persons) in recognition of their distinguished performance, innovative abilities, outstanding contribution in the field of productivity and exhibition of exceptional courage and presence of mind. The announcements were made by the Union government on Friday, August 13. Two employees of the company have been conferred with prestigious Shram Bhushan award, six employees with Shram Vir award and one employee has been conferred with Shram Shree Award. (Pinaki Majumdar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
14-08-2021||Jharkhand||Brinda blames Centre for disruption of monsoon session||CPM politburo Brinda Karat blamed the Central government for the disruption of the monsoon session as the BJP was trying to run Parliament as an ‘RSS shakha’. “It is the responsibility of the Central government to run the Parliament but recently we have seen the ruling BJP government trying to run it (Parliament) like a RSS Shakha. We would not let the Parliament be a RSS Shakha or a place for gurudakshina where everyone would clap to the speech of Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The business agenda were finalised without taking opposition into confidence and BJP in order to try to hide its failure disrupted Parliament proceedings,” said the former Rajya Sabha from Bengal while addressing the media at the Circuit House in Dumka. Karat who was in Dumka since Thursday to chair the two-day CPM state level further accused the BJP misusing its majority in both the Houses of the Parliament. “The ruling party was misusing its majority as a tool of arrogance and tyranny to suppress voices of opposition instead of debating on major issues inside the Parliament. It was a shameful act that outside persons were called in as marshals to manhandle Parliamentarians,” Karat said. Speaking to media, on the sidelines of two-day CPM Jharkhand state committee meeting at Dumka in Jharkhand, Karat countered the BJP-led Central government blame that opposition ruckus had led to disruption of Parliament session and said, “It was not Opposition but the arrogance of the Central government which should be blamed for the disruption. Instead of debate on the use of Pegasus, the Central government simply ignored the Opposition demands on this vital issue. If the government tries to bulldoze opposition we will even take the issue on the street.” The CPM leader said that if the Narendra Modi-led government cares about the sanctity of the Parliament it should have disclosed all materials on Pegasus. “It should have discussed the issue and disclosed all materials and documents about the authorisation and orders relating to the use of Pegasus. It is not only the Pegasus row but also the farmers who have been protesting against the new farm laws but the Prime Minister has not even bothered to talk with them,” said Karat. Significantly, the Central government on Wednesday blamed the opposition behaviour in Rajya Sabha as a new low in Parliamentary democracy and sought apology from the opposition for disruptive and threatening behaviour forcing Parliament to close two days ahead of schedule. The CPM leader during a meeting with the CPM state leaders also discussed about the massive awareness campaign to be launched in Jharkhand in September against the anti-people policies of the Central government during which 10 lakh people would be contacted personally by the CPM cadres in Jharkhand. Karat also supported the pan-India movement by more than 150 organisations in memory of Father Stan Swamy who died while undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Bombay while under judicial custody. “We support the campaign by the human rights outfit and supported by several organisations for repeal of UAPA, sedition laws and release of undertrial prisoners arrested on fabricated charges,” said Karat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-74
