15-08-2021||Calcutta||IISER students raise funds to support Covid-affected people ||A group of students of IISER Kolkata in Kalyani are selling their paintings, photographs and handicrafts on their Facebook page to raise funds to provide oxygen cylinders and other support to Covid-affected people in places like Kalyani and Haringhata and Lalgarh. The students of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) have launched a Facebook page “Art for a Cause” and so far raised Rs 2 lakh, which has been used to buy oxygen cylinders and run a community kitchen to feed the underprivileged. The cylinders have been distributed through various volunteer groups. The students ran a community kitchen on the campus to provide food twice a day to underprivileged people who have recovered from Covid. A student of the institute said that the need for distribution of cylinders has come down with the steady drop in case count, but the Covid induced distress among the poor is on the rise and they are trying to address that. “We extended support to The Dreamers Foundation from Sreerampore in their efforts to provide study materials, notebooks and stationary to 350 underprivileged children from the Lalgarh village in Jhargram district,” said Susnato Karmakar, a research scholar. “We plan to reach out to the farthest corners of our state and be there for people who genuinely need a supporting hand.” Payment links have been posted on the Facebook page and once purchased, the artwork is shipped to the designated addresses. Photographs that the students captured on their cameras during family holidays and paintings that many still draw as a form of recreation have been uploaded on the page. The photographs are mainly available in 8X12 inches with a minimum price tag of Rs 500. For the acrylic artwork, the minimum price has been set at Rs 300. Under the handicrafts section, painted vases and bottles will be available soon. The artwork is available on Instagram as well. The group has contacted various photography clubs in Calcutta so that more work can be uploaded to raise funds. Students of Ballygunge Science College have also joined them. “Since we have extended our drive, this will require substantial generation of funds, which can be possible if we can attract more buyers with an array of impressive collections,” said Koustav Gangopadhyay, a final-year research scholar at IISER. The initiative was launched in May. They procured several oxygen cylinders bought from a local plant in Nadia and had them distributed to those in need. The cost of refilling the oxygen cylinders is borne by the group. Karmakar said in areas like Kalyani and Haringhata, with the crippling loss of income during the pandemic, many could not afford oxygen cylinders. “People in this belt of Nadia district tested positive when Covid cases were being reported in increasing numbers. Many were being asked to isolate at home with the support of oxygen cylinders. But these daily wage earners whose conditions have worsened in the lockdown earlier this year could not afford oxygen at home — a void that we tried to fill to some extent,” he said. The members of the forum have also distributed pulse oximeters, sanitisers and gloves through the volunteer group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta|| Vivekananda Road flyover raze phase two to begin from August 27||The second phase of the dismantling of Vivekananda Road flyover will begin from August 27. The stretch of the busy Vivekananda Road between Ganesh Talkies and Girish Park will be shut to traffic for nearly a month-and-a-half, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) decided on Saturday. Calcutta police would work out a detailed diversion plan for small, medium and heavy vehicles which ply along the Vivekananda Road, before the second phase of the dismantling begins, senior officers from Lalbazar who were present at a coordination meeting with several agencies in presence of Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the CMC's board of administrators, said. “We will come out with a detailed notification clearly explaining the route that the diverted vehicles would have to take once the Vivekananda Road is shut to vehicular traffic,” a senior police officer said. “But prior to handing over the stretch to the contractors, we will have to clear the area of all temporary structures with the help of the civic body.” Officials from the urban development department, which is overseeing the razing of the flyover, a 41-metre portion of which had collapsed in March 2016 killing 45 people, said the first phase of the demolition work on Strand Road was completed. “The stretch between Posta Bazar and part of the Strand Road near Howrah Bridge has been completed. The stretch would be opened to traffic only after the road-surface has been properly repaired,” said a senior official of the CMDA, the executing agency responsible for pulling down the flyover. Hakim said the CMC would take up the work of road repair on a war footing. Once ready, the part of Posta market which was shut for over a month and a half now for the first phase of the dismantling work, would be thrown open. He said the CMC would also repair the stretch of Vivekananda Road that would be damaged during the next phase of demolition work. Senior police officers said they would soon start inspecting the traffic volume on some of the key roads around the Vivekananda Road, including Beadon Street, KK Tagore Street, Nimtala Ghat Street and Rabindra Sarani to work out the blueprint for traffic diversion. “Godowns and shop-owners would have to be informed in advance about the closure of the Vivekananda Road and alternative parking lots would have to be identified,” said a senior officer of Posta police station. “Senior officers will meet the traders bodies to draw up the final plan.” The state government has engaged a Mumbai-based company to pull down the fallen Vivekananda flyover. On Saturday some of the senior officials of the company, which had also razed the fallen Majherhat bridge, said the biggest challenge would be pulling down the concrete deck slabs that now remain positioned very close to some of the buildings on the Vivekananda Road. “Some of the occupants of these buildings would have to be shifted out for a few days when the demolition work begins,” said an official of the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||Young Trinamul Congress leader shot dead in Khardah||A young Trinamul Congress leader was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Khardah late on Friday. The assassins shot at Ranajoy Kumar Shrivastava, 32, four times. The bullets pierced his chest and neck. The incident occurred around 11.45pm when Ranajoy was going home in his car with party colleague Sonu Sahu. Police and eyewitnesses said that five youths on two motorcycles intercepted Ranajoy’s car in Barapatti in Khardah. There was a heated argument, followed by an exchange of fists and blows. “Ranajoy tried to escape when some of the youths suddenly pulled out arms and fired at him from close range,” Sonu said. He was taken to B.N. Bose Sub-divisional Hospital in Barrackpore and then shifted to a hospital in Calcutta, where he was declared brought dead. Ranajoy had joined Trinamul a few years ago and was once said to be close to party leader Manish Shukla, who was then with Trinamul and later switched to the BJP and was killed in October last year. Trinamul insiders said Ranajoy was active in developing a support base among the Hindi-speaking community to neutralise the BJP’s influence in the Barrackpore Lok Sabha area. The administrator of Titagarh Municipality and Trinamul leader Prasanta Chowdhury blamed the BJP for the murder. “Miscreants close to the BJP were threatening him for the past few days. We told the police to check,” he said. The BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh said: “The Trinamul leadership is trying to mislead people and suppressing facts. The murder was the fallout of their internal bickering.” The police arrested five persons for their suspected involvement in the murder. The accused were produced at a Barrackpore court that sent them to 10 days’ police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||Laws hinder heritage conservation||Heritage conservation laws in Calcutta allow easy downgrade of protected structures and pave the way for demolition of protected buildings. This is something that Mumbai has been able to avert by making the process more complicated, a former commissioner of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said at an online discussion on protecting Calcutta’s built heritage on Friday. V. Ranganathan, who headed the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee, also said Calcutta should consider identifying and declaring stretches as heritage precincts as many parts of the city were dotted with buildings that had an aesthetic appeal. A heritage precinct is different from a heritage building. While an individual house can be tagged as a heritage structure, a precinct is a collection of houses on a road that together tell the story of a time, of a place or culture. Declaring a neighbourhood as a heritage precinct protects any of these houses from being pulled down and helps preserve the aesthetic appeal of the place for the time to come. Mumbai has several areas declared as heritage precincts where buildings enjoy a shield from indiscriminate demolition. Other speakers at the virtual discussion also repeated the call for having heritage precincts in Calcutta. “One of the disadvantages of the heritage protection laws in Calcutta is that the heritage conservation committee functions under the municipal corporation. It becomes easier to influence downgrading a building in such a case. A municipal corporation has to deal with more political pressure,” said Ranganathan, who retired as the chief secretary of Maharashtra government. A proposal for downgrading a listed heritage structure is sent to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s heritage conservation committee. The committee sends the recommendation for downgrade, if it feels so, to the mayoral council that gives an approval or rejects it, said a senior CMC official. In Mumbai, such a proposal has to be sent to the state government. “The process is more complicated and stringent (in Mumbai). Apart from extraordinary circumstances, downgrading is not allowed in Mumbai,” he said. In Calcutta, there have been instances of downgrading of listed heritage structures. The downgrade reduces the level of protection and paves the way for demolition, said author Amit Chaudhuri, founder of Calcutta Architectural Legacies (CAL) and moderator of Friday’s discussion. The Kenilworth hotel in Chowringhee was demolished after it was pushed down to grade III from grade IIA in 2018. Other speakers at the discussion were economist and Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, historian Sunil Khilnani and architect Channa Daswatte. Chaudhuri said the virtual discussion was organised to restart conversations on protection of heritage in Calcutta, something that was stopped by the pandemic. “But the pandemic could not stop the demolition of old grand buildings,” he said. The Facebook page of CAL has pictures of a beautiful house on Lansdowne Road being pulled down at the moment. The speakers spoke of identifying and declaring parts of Calcutta as heritage precincts. Daswatte, an architect from Sri Lanka who had helped conserve an old mansion in Park Circus that was once inhabited by a family and later turned into a restaurant, was one of the advocates of heritage precinc. “The attempt was commendable. An old beautiful mansion was not pulled down but preserved and then turned into a restaurant, but it was shut down. It could be because this single building stood among others that were not conserved,” he said. Daswatte said this was where declaring a neighbourhood as heritage precinct could be useful. “A precinct could give the place a charm...,” he said. Ranganathan told Metro that Mumbai had several parts of the city declared as heritage precincts. One of the earliest to be declared so was the area between Nariman Point and Malabar Hills, where a number of houses have the Art Deco style of architecture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||Sharp but scattered spell of rain brace Calcutta||Sharp but scattered spells of rain came down on pockets of Calcutta and its surrounding areas on Saturday afternoon. Independence Day and the next few days are likely to see extremely sweaty conditions, the Met office has said. An occasional thunderstorm can bring some relief but the discomfort index is likely to be on the higher side over the next few days. On Saturday, the showers took place between 1.30pm and 5pm. The showers were accompanied by frequent bouts of lightning. Around 2pm, the rain made driving difficult on Ballygunge Circular Road. At the same time, EM Bypass was also being lashed by a strong spell of rain. Salt Lake and adjoining areas also got drenched. Esplanade, New Market and adjoining areas in central Calcutta were comparatively drier. According to the figures with the pumping stations of the civic body, Patuli got around 35mm of rain, EM Bypass got around 25mm and Behala got 20mm. The Met office recorded around 10mm of rain in Alipore. Many people who had stepped out on a weekend were caught in the showers. Many of them rushed to a nearby mall. The showers led to traffic snarls across thoroughfares. The immediate forecast is that of hot and sultry weather. “Rain, if any, will be like Saturday’s showers. They are likely to be localised. The high moisture incursion can lead to the formation of cumulonimbus clouds,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, the deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. With the monsoon trough hovering at the foothills of the Himalayas, districts of north Bengal are likely to get heavy rain over the next few days. “The southwest monsoon currents are active. But in the absence of any major system over the Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastline, south Bengal is unlikely to get sustained rainfall. The currents are being drawn towards the monsoon trough,” Bandyopadhyay said. In the absence of heavy rain, the weather in Calcutta has been sultry. The minimum relative humidity has been over 60 per cent consistently. The humidity content is only likely to increase over the next few days, said the Met office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||Devajit Bandyopadhyay's Rup Rupantar maps varied history of Vande Mataram||A forthcoming book traces the varied history of Vande Mataram, the song that became the sound of the freedom movement and defined the idea of India, though it would also have its share of critics. This anthem, which visualises the nation as a mother, was composed by Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay and incorporated in his novel Anandamath (1882). Since then, it took on a life of its own and ran like a thread through important events of the Independence movement, connecting vital parts of the nation’s history, till today. Just the phrase Vande Mataram (I bow before you, Mother) became a rallying cry, especially since the Partition of Bengal in 1905. The book Vande Mataram: Rup Rupantar written by singer and Bengali theatre music expert Devajit Bandyopadhyay traces the history of the song in its many aspects, particularly the numerous ways it was sung. “It was set to almost 150 tunes,” said Bandyopadhyay. The book will be published this year by Patrabharati, Calcutta, as India enters the 75th year of its Independence. “It was first set to tune and sung by ‘Jadubhatta’, Jadunath Bhattacharya, who taught music to both Bankimchandra and Rabindranath Tagore,” Bandyopadhyay said. Anandamath was performed as a play in 1883 and Vande Mataram was sung on the stage. The song came into prominence again in 1896, when Tagore composed it in his own way for a session of Indian National Congress. This tune was to become one of the most popular Vande Mataram versions. “It was based partly on notations by his niece Pratibha Debi, published in their family magazine Balak,” said Bandyopadhyay. “The song really reached the heart of the people during Banga Bhanga (the Partition of Bengal). At this time, the tune to which Raicharan Mukhopadhyay had set it also became very popular,” he added. During the 1905 protests, the words Vande Mataram became a popular greeting or salutation. Sister Nivedita encouraged the singing of Vande Mataram at the school she had established for girls in Calcutta. It is widely believed that she inspired Abanindranath Tagore’s iconic painting ‘Bharat Mata’, the embodiment of the idea of the nation-as-mother. She also inspired the fiery Tamil poet and freedom fighter Subramania Bharati, for whom Vande Mataram became a clarion call to reform and recast society and free India. But India chose Tagore’s Janaganamana-adhinayaka, which interestingly sees ‘Bharata-bhagya-vidhata’, the one who decides the fate of the country, as male, over Bankimchandra’s ‘Vande Mataram’, as the latter refers to the goddess Durga in a later stanza and it was assumed that all religious communities of the new nation may not feel comfortable with it. Later, Anandamath, the novel that contains Vande Mataram, would be criticised severely by some for being rooted in Hindu fundamentalist ideas. Bandyopadhyay lists the many names who set it to tune spanning more than a century, from “Jadubhatta”, Tagore and Raichand to Omkarnath Thakur, Ravi Shankar, Naushad, Hemanta Mukhopadhyay, Dilip Kumar Roy, Timirbaran and Pankaj Kumar Mullick. Not to forget A.R. Rahman. It has been sung famously by V.D. Paluskar, M.S. Subbulakshmi, Hirabai Badodekar and Kesarbai Kerkar. “The most popular tunes are by Tagore, Hemanta and Rahman. Raicharan’s version was very popular till around Independence,” said Bandyopadhyay. One reason behind the popularity of Tagore’s version is the availability of printed notation, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta||JU teachers stress on exam time limit for B.tech students||The teachers of Jadavpur University have told the university authorities that BTech students have to write and submit their semester exams on digital platforms within four-and-a-half-hours and “not doing so may damage the academic excellence” of JU. In a letter addressed to pro vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya who chaired a meeting of the faculty council of engineering and technology on Saturday, the teachers have written: “We request the members of the council to give due importance and respect to the decisions taken by the faculty council regarding teaching-learning and the conducting of examinations. Not doing so may damage the academic excellence that has been built up over the years, through the hard work and effort of so many, in our university.” The teachers of the faculty council in early July had resolved to fix the time limit for the first-year undergraduate and postgraduate semester (second semester) exams due to commence from August 11. They had alleged “students are sharing answers among themselves” during online exams in the absence of a time limit. Recently, the students’ union staged a demonstration on the campus demanding that the time limit be dropped because connectivity woes faced by a section of students in flood-hit south Bengal was making it difficult for them to upload their answer scripts on time, a varsity official said. In the engineering faculty, where students in the last semester exam, held in May, had taken as many as 12 hours to complete a paper — three hours for writing and nine hours for uploading the script — several instances of shared answers were reported, said a section of teachers. Following the objection from the students in abiding by the time limit, the exams could not be held from August 11. The teachers association wrote on Saturday: “It is absolutely vital to assert the sanctity of the faculty Council when it comes to taking decisions on such matters in order to maintain the tradition of excellence at Jadavpur University. The general body meeting of JUTA, held on 12 August 2021, also reiterated this position”. A teacher in the engineering faculty said the students were taking extra time to submit papers citing poor connectivity. According to him, bright students were forwarding answers to the others and if the specified duration was spent on solving questions, the additional time was being used to copy the answers and hold consultations. “To justify connectivity woes, submission of papers is being delayed on purpose. Students might end up notching high marks but they are not being tested properly,” he said. In Saturday’s faculty council meeting, it has been decided that this time, first-year undergraduate and postgraduate semester (second semester) exams won’t be conducted following UGC advisory applicable for the intermediate semester students. “Students would be evaluated on the basis of equal weightage to internal assessment and previous semester results. But whenever exams are held, the time limit has to be adhered to. We don’t want to undermine the sanctity of the exam system,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of the teachers’ association. In the letter, the teachers association has also written: “On several occasions, the behaviour of a section of students who have placed their demands through deputations to the faculty council has been disrespectful and insulting towards teachers and other university office bearers. This is unacceptable.” “The attitude and tendency displayed by some students as they repeatedly seek explanations from members of the faculty council, engage in argument and counter-argument, and criticize their teachers, is not desirable at all,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Calcutta|| ‘Real’ tolerance: What it means||On the eve of Independence Day, Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson told a group of school students “tolerance is not enough” and “real tolerance” is respecting the other person. “Tolerance is an important word. We should respect tolerance. But tolerance is not enough. Tolerance means I am putting up with something.… Real tolerance between communities means not just tolerating but actually respecting the other person, wanting to understand what that other person is about, what that other person’s faith is about,” said Gopalkrishna Gandhi, former diplomat and governor of Bengal, now distinguished professor of history and politics at Ashoka University. Gopalkrishna was addressing students of Indus Valley World School online on Saturday in a lecture to mark 75 years of India’s Independence. “...we have in our country today, as we enter the 75th year, the great responsibility for mutual respect, for non-interfering in each other’s beliefs, not necessarily accepting it without scrutiny,” he said. Gopalkrishna told the students who heard the recorded speech online that the Buddha had said not to “accept anything unquestioningly”. “‘Examine it. And if you see it as right, then accept it... Even what I am saying, Ananda (Buddha’s disciple), don’t accept it uncritically. If you believe in it, then it is all right’,” he said, quoting the Buddha. Gopalkrishna spoke about the freedom struggle and Mahatma Gandhi and some of his lessons. “The lesson which Gandhi taught us is that within India, we respect every community as being as important and as close to us as our own,” he said. “We have now entered this platinum jubilee, a mature nation, mature because of our inheritance, also mature because of our experience and also because of our democracy which gives us the right to think, the right to choose in freedom.” Gopalkrishna spoke about India’s technological progress, something that allowed him to speak to students in Calcutta from a distance. He told the young students about the Indus Valley civilization that their school is named after. “India is a tapestry. Your school is well named after the Indus Valley, which is supposed to be the alpha of all studies of Indian civilization, the beginning, alpha. It starts with Indus Valley.” “There are other civilizations which are even older,” he said. “So when we take pride in our civilization, we should know that other civilizations are as important, even older. But in our civilization, one of the earliest dates that we have fixed due to evidence is the Indus Valley. Indus Valley’s monumental lesson to us is in its drainage and sewage systems.” In a pandemic-scarred world obsessed with hygiene, it is difficult to imagine a sense of hygiene 5,000 years ago. “Today, when the pandemic of virus demands that we follow essential hygiene, we learn from the Indus Valley the ABC of hygiene,” he said. From India’s glorious past and an appeal to be appreciative of all cultures and beliefs, Gopalkrishna went on to underscore the significance of freedom. “Freedom is also the freedom to examine, to learn from our past and not to repeat our mistakes.” The lecture was put up on the school’s official YouTube channel and social media pages and a notice was sent to all parents — of toddlers to Class XII. “He told us that we need to cultivate mutual respect, which goes far beyond tolerance and also deal with situations with equanimity,” said Amita Prasad, director of the school. “The lecture is online and the beauty of it is one can listen to it again and again like a favourite book and each time there is a new awakening.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
15-08-2021||Business||Tata’s e-commerce venture at root of Goyal outburst?||A frenzied guessing game is underway to figure why Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal unleashed a scathing attack on Indian industry at the CII annual meeting 2021. In a 19-minute tirade, Goyal attacked first the Tatas and then industry as a whole with remarks like, “At least you should resist the greed of these foreigners. You are welcome to do good honest business. But in wrongdoings … when I read the names of that have entered into partnership with Falana dhimkana (anyone and everyone)….”. Top industrialists are still reeling after the unexpected attack at what, till then, had been a love fest between the government and industry with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman making speeches on earlier days. “India Inc has been taken by surprise,” said one observer. “Nobody has a clear idea about why he said all this.” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh labelled Goyal’s comments “a bizarre tirade” and wondered whether they had been made without “official sanction.” Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill added that Goyal had massively undermined Modi’s pitch about “Ease of doing business India.” CII moved quickly to first edit Goyal’s speech, taking out the 19-minute attack on industry, and then to take his speech down from YouTube completely. The speed with which it moved triggered speculation that it had been ordered to take it down by the government. However, The Hindu had a recording of the speech and reported it on Saturday.   “CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video. Stand up to bullying!" Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said. One line of thinking is that Goyal was aiming primarily at the Tatas because he’s infuriated that the Tatas have strongly opposed some clauses of the proposed Consumer Protection (e-commerce) rules, 2020, and had raised these objections at a Government-industry meeting in July. Goyal, who also heads the Consumer Affairs Ministry, has been looking to move quickly to bring these rules into force but found that both Amazon and the Tatas were requesting more time to study the new changes. The new rules forbid sales by group companies that have a link with the e-commerce site owner. The Tatas pointed out that this would stop them from selling products from several newly acquired group companies. It would stop it from selling products from Starbucks, which has a tie-up in India with the Tata Group, like coffee or anything else on the proposed Tata e-commerce platform. The Tatas have bought companies like online grocery store BigBasket and online pharmacy 1MG and it would have difficulty selling products from these companies also. The Tatas are still a small player online and the group has been hoping to change that in the coming months. If the Tatas can ramp up their online presence, this could impact existing heavyweights like Amazon, Reliance Industries’s Jio and also Flipkart-Walmart. Zeroing in on the Tatas, Goyal said a “company like yours, maybe you bought one or two foreign companies, now their importance is greater than national interest?” He specifically attacked Banmali Agarwala, the Tata Sons President for Infrastructure, Defence and Aerospace, for opposing the e-commerce rules, saying, according to The Hindu, “Me, myself, my company. We need to go beyond that approach.” He added that he had already conveyed this message to Tata Group Chairman N. Chandrasekharan. Alternatively, there is the possibility that Goyal had been instructed to convey government displeasure with industry in general but that he overstepped the mark. The minister has been known to be abrasive at times both with industry leaders, journalists and others who meet him. In a broader attack, he also accused industry in general of structuring FDI deals so that they stayed within the four corners of the law but violated the spirit of the rules. However, he could have been instructed to make a limited show of displeasure with the Tatas. There’s also speculation that the government is counting on the Tatas to buy Air India and that the Tatas are possibly being difficult about what might be an expensive purchase that would be difficult to return to profit. Also, the Tatas already have two airlines, Vistara, which is a full-service airline, and Air Asia which is in the low-cost carrier segment. An additional complication for the Tatas is that they have agreements for both airlines that they would not invest in a competitor. Interestingly, the CII president for this year is Tata Steel Managing Director T. V.  Narendran. Goyal, in his speech, questioned industry’s commitment to India and challenged Tata Steel to sell its products in countries like Japan and South Korea. He insisted that both countries were “nationalistic” and so wouldn’t buy steel made in other countries. “When we talk of the ‘nationalistic spirit,’ many in the media call us orthodox and backward. Nobody in Japan, Korea calls this backward.” However, till Goyal made his appearance, the CII annual meeting had been proceeding smoothly with non-controversial speeches by Modi and Sitharaman. Both laid strong emphasis on Atmanirban Bharat. Sitaraman attempted to nudge industry to be more adventurous, saying, “It is time for Indian industry to come around in a big way and it is time to show its risk-taking capacity.” Adding to the mystery around the sudden outburst is the fact that Goyal had taken part in two CII meetings, one this month and the other in the last week of July where nothing untoward had happened. Inevitably, Goyal’s remarks triggered a Twitter storm with TV producer-turned-politician Nivedith Alva remarking that, “When a minister singles out India’s biggest companies – it’s almost as if he is upset that he wasn’t dropped along with Mr Prasad, Mr Javadekar etc. Headed in that direction.” Goyal’s outburst follows his welcoming in Parliament earlier in the week of a Supreme Court decision that Amazon and Walmart's Flipkart should face investigations into alleged anti-competitive behaviour. In welcoming the court’s decision, he invoked the "Quit India" campaign, Mahatma Gandhi’s movement demanding an end to British rule. Commentators said that Goyal’s “Quit India” talk sent a bad message to investors. "These companies (Amazon and Walmart) used legal tactics to stall the investigation ... I’m happy to tell you that yesterday, on the day of the Quit India Movement, all the efforts of these companies failed," Goyal told Indian lawmakers. Goyal has been in the headlines before for making strange comments. Two years ago, he was mercilessly mocked on social media for telling a meeting of the board of trade that “maths did not help Albert Einstein to discover gravity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||Business||ONGC logs massive jump in first quarter net profit at Rs 4,335 cr||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) saw a massive jump in its net profit in the first quarter of the current fiscal after the spike in oil prices compensated for a fall in production. Net profit in the April-June period came in at Rs 4,335 crore compared with Rs 497 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal when demand as well as price had plummeted because of coronavirus-related lockdown, the company said in a statement. The firm got $65.59 for every barrel of crude oil it produced and sold in the first quarter of the current fiscal compared with $28.87 per barrel realisation in April-June 2020. Gas price was lower by a quarter at $1.79 per million British thermal unit. The company produced nearly 5 per cent less crude oil at 5.4 million tonnes during the quarter while natural gas output was 4.3 per cent lower at 5.3 billion cubic metres. Of the total oil output, ONGC produced 4.6 million tonnes from fields it operates and another 0.55 million tonnes from those in joint ventures with other partners. Its own production was down 4.2 per cent, while joint venture output fell 2.8 per cent. ONGC’s own gas production was down 5.3 per cent at 5.1 billion cubic metres while that of joint venture fields was up by a third to 0.2 billion cubic metres. Overall, the gas output was down 4.3 per cent at 5.3 billion cubic metres. Gross revenue rose 77 per cent to Rs 23,022 crore. Petronet net up 22% Petronet LNG, India’s biggest gas importer, on Saturday reported a 22 per cent rise in its June quarter net profit as it handled more gas volumes compared with the year ago period when a nationwide lockdown had muted economic activity and shrunk fuel demand. Net profit in April-June stood at Rs 636 crore compared with Rs 520 crore earned a year back, Petronet CEO A.K. Singh said at a media call. The profit was, however, lower than the Rs 643-crore profit earned in the January-March quarter because of the impact of the second wave of coronavirus, he said. Petronet, which operates two liquefied natural gas (LNG) import terminals at Dahej in Gujarat and Kochi in Kerala, saw import volumes picking up in the first quarter  of the current fiscal over the year-ago period but it was lower than the preceding quarter. “During the quarter ended June 2021 (current quarter), the Dahej terminal processed 194 trillion British thermal units of LNG against 181 TBTU processed during the corresponding quarter ended June 2020 and 204 TBTU processed during the previous quarter ended March 31, 2021,” he said. Singh said some buyers deferred LNG cargoes because of high prices. Spot or current market LNG prices, which were $3-4 per million British thermal unit in April-June 2020, rose to $15-16 in the first quarter of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||Business||Chip crisis holding back recovery in auto industry||The shortage of semiconductors is holding back recovery of the auto sector. Both the Society for Auto Manufacturers’ Association (SIAM) and credit rating agency Icra have flagged the issue of the global crisis of semi-conductors which does not seem to have any long-term end in sight. “No one can predict when the crisis will be resolved as multiple industries are affected by the shortage,” said an industry insider. Ashish Modani, vice-president and sector head — corporate sector ratings, Icra, said: “Semiconductor shortage is playing spoilsport, constraining overall production volume, though underlying demand remains strong. The industry is expecting a loss of over 1 lakh units in the scond quarter of FY22 due to the shortage, which could have a bearing on overall annual production and sales volume.” Rajesh Menon, director- general of Siam, said: “The auto industry is managing supply chain challenges while ensuring the safety of its people and  keeping a close eye on the onset of a third wave. Amidst such an uncertain economic environment, the industry is trying to maximise production and sales.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea Q1 loss narrows to Rs 7,319 crore||Debt-ridden Vodafone Idea on Saturday posted a lower consolidated loss of Rs 7,319 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021 against a Rs 25,460-crore loss a year ago. Consolidated revenues from operations fell by 14 per cent to Rs 9,152.3 crore during the quarter under review from Rs 10,659.3 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2020-21. The total gross debt (excluding lease liabilities and including interest accrued but not due) as of June 30, 2021, stood at Rs 1,91,590 crore, comprising deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 1,06,010 crore and adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 62,180 crore that are due to the government. McLeod Russel McLeod Russel India has narrowed its loss in the first quarter of this fiscal to Rs 67.03 crore on a consolidated basis compared with Rs 90.52 crore  a year ago and Rs 114.87 crore in the previous quarter. Income rose to Rs 221.69 crore from Rs 196.4 crore a year ago. The company, which was admitted for corporate insolvency resolution proceedings last week for defaulting on loan payments, prepared the financial results under the interim resolution professional as the board is now suspended. The company said a restructuring plan under RBI guidelines was in the process of being finalised before the company was admitted for CIRP. Inter-creditor agreements between certain lenders were already signed and a techno economic viability study prepared by SBI Capital Markets were being re-vetted. The company did not disclose whether the section of lenders would continue to pursue the restructuring of McLeod’s debt, which may run parallel to the CIRP process. The Khaitan family, the promoters of McLeod, has not yet challenged the CIRP order at the higher court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||Business||Partners Group to acquire Atria Convergence for enterprise value of $ 1.2 billion||Swiss private equity firm Partners Group on Saturday said it will acquire a controlling stake on behalf of its client in broadband service provider Atria Convergence Technologies (ACT). The stake will be bought at an enterprise value of nearly $1.2 billion (around Rs 8,900 crore), Partners Group said in a statement. Partners Group, a joint investor in ACT since 2016, will buy the stake from Argan (Mauritius) and TA Associates. With over 7,000 employees, Bangalore-based ACT is a multi-service operator offering a package of internet, TV, data and other broadband services. ACT serves around 2 million wired broadband subscribers across 19 cities in India and has one of the largest optical fibre networks in the country, capable of delivering connection speed of up to 1 Gbps, the statement said. “ACT is on the frontline of digitisation in India. The company is an excellent opportunity for us to support the transformation of a growing business through expansion in new markets and development of new product offerings. “As existing investors, we have followed ACT’s journey for several years and have been impressed with Bala (ACT CEO) and his team’s strategic vision,” Partners Group managing director Manas Tandon said. Partners Group will work closely with ACT management and TA Associates, which will continue to hold a minority stake. “Partners Group has been an integral part of the company’s growth journey for several years and is a great believer and supporter of our core values. The firm’s experience working with global technology companies and its expertise in supporting multi-dimensional growth will be very valuable,” ACT chief executive officer Bala Malladi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
15-08-2021||India||Air India operates Kabul-Delhi flight with 129 passengers, services to Afghanistan not cancelled yet||Air India's return flight from Kabul to Delhi departed on Sunday evening with 129 passengers as Taliban forces entered the national capital of Afghanistan and waited for "peaceful transfer" of power.  Officials of Air India said that there is no plan yet to cancel its Delhi-Kabul-Delhi flight as of now and that it is scheduled to operate on Monday too.  Currently, only Air India is operating flights between India and Afghanistan.  The national carrier operated it Delhi-Kabul leg of the flight (with call sign AI-243) on Sunday afternoon with around 40 passengers, officials said.  Officials said AI-243 departed from Delhi at around 12.45 PM (Indian Standard Time) and had to hover for around one hour above the Kabul airport as it did not get permission to land from the air traffic control (ATC). They stated it was not clear what was the reason for the delay in the permission for landing of AI-243.  Therefore, the flight time for AI-243 on Sunday was around two hours and fifty minutes instead of usual one hour and forty minutes.  The return flight (with call sign AI-244) departed from the Kabul airport with 129 passengers at around 5.35 PM (Indian Standard Time).  Officials clarified that there is no plan to cancel Delhi-Kabul-Delhi flight as of now. They added that the flight is scheduled to operate on Monday.  However, they stated that the airline is monitoring the situation closely and it would take appropriate action as required.  India has put in place contingency plans to evacuate hundreds of its officials and citizens from Kabul that has been gripped by fear and panic following reports of Taliban fighters entering the outskirts of the Afghan capital city on Sunday.  People familiar with the development said the government will not put the lives of its staffers at the Indian embassy and Indian citizens in Kabul at any risk and plans have already been finalised in case they require emergency evacuation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||Kejriwal’s govt rolls out ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum in government schools from Sep 27||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced that the Delhi government will roll out the ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum in all government schools from September 27 as a tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. During his Independence Day address at the Delhi Secretariat, he also announced that the national capital will soon get its first Sainik School and a preparatory academy to groom children for the armed forces. Over the last 74 years, students have been taught physics, chemistry, maths, history, geography and other subjects but not patriotism since it is assumed that they will develop a feeling of love for their country, Kejriwal said. On the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the Delhi government is going to make this beginning. Under the ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum, students will be inspired to feel proud of their nation. The curriculum, Kejriwal said, will not be based on rote learning and there will be no tests. “It will be activity based and students will be told stories about independence and the nation's pride. Children will be made to realise their responsibilities and duties towards the country. “They will be prepared to fulfil their responsibilities and contribute towards the nation's progress. They will also be prepared in a way that if the need arises, they can lay down their lives for the nation and be willing to give their all to the country,” he said. The curriculum will be rolled out on September 27 as a tribute to Shaheed Bhagat Singh, he said. “Shaheed Bhagat Singh made a supreme sacrifice. At the age of 23, the young man was hanged and he embraced it without any complaint. His entire life is an inspiration. He not only inspired the people of his generation but even the future generations. This is our tribute to him,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister expressed hope that in the future, this curriculum will be taught in schools across the country. "I call upon parents... when your child comes back from school, talk to them about the country and ask them what they were taught on patriotism. This will not only inspire the students but also their parents. “Let's all come together on the occasion of 75th Independence Day and fill the entire nation with the spirit of patriotism... We will have a bright future if we prepare the children today,” he said. Kejriwal had announced the vision for the 'Deshbhakti' curriculum on the 73rd Independence Day in 2019. The framework of the 'Deshbhakti' curriculum submitted by a government-appointed panel was approved by the Governing Council of the State Council of Educational Research And Training (SCERT) on August 6. On Saturday, the SCERT director presented a copy of the curriculum framework to Kejriwal. Kejriwal also said his government has begun preparations to give Delhi its first Sainik School. "Every state has its own Sainik School except Delhi. We have begun preparations to open Delhi's first Sainik School," he said. "Preparations have also begun to open an armed forces preparatory academy. In this academy, along with studies, students will be prepared for the NDA and the armed forces. They will be provided with every kind of training and coaching so that a majority of Delhi's children can join the armed forces," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||India puts in place contingency plans to evacuate its officials and citizens from Kabul||India has put in place contingency plans to evacuate hundreds of its officials and citizens from Kabul that has been gripped by fear and panic following reports of Taliban fighters entering the outskirts of the Afghan capital city on Sunday. People familiar with the development said the government will not put the lives of its staffers at the Indian embassy and Indian citizens in Kabul at any risk and plans have already been finalised in case they require emergency evacuation. "The government is closely monitoring the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan. We will not put the lives of our staff at the Indian embassy in Kabul at any risk," said one of the persons cited above. Specifically asked when the Indian staffers and citizens in Kabul will be evacuated, they said decisions will depend on the ground situation. It is learnt that a fleet of the C-17 Globemaster military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force is kept on standby to undertake evacuation missions. According to reports from Kabul, Taliban fighters have entered the outskirts of the city, triggering panic and fear among the residents. In the last few days, the Taliban fighters have swept through most parts of Afghanistan, seizing control of around 25 of the 34 provincial capitals, including cities such as Kandahar, Herat, Mazar-e-Sharif and Jalalabad. The Afghan Presidential Palace said on Twitter that the situation is under control in Kabul and it has not been attacked, though there were instances of sporadic gunshots. It said the Afghan security forces are working with their international partners to ensure the security of Kabul. "Kabul has not been attacked. The country's security and defence forces are working together with international partners to ensure the security of the city and the situation is under control," the statement in Pashto said. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had a telephone conversation with security officials regarding the security of the citizens in Kabul, it said. The BBC reported from Kabul, quoting the country's acting interior minister, that a peaceful transfer of power to the transitional government is being prepared. As the situation deteriorated in Kabul, the United States and the embassies of several other countries began evacuating their staff from the Afghan city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||Modi sets 100 per cent achievement target for India on every front||Noting that the benefits of many schemes launched in the last seven years have reached crores of poor people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country has progressed much faster than before, while asserting that the target now should be cent per cent achievement on every front. In his eighth consecutive address from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Independence Day, Modi also said it is his firm belief that in 2047, whoever will be the prime minister, he or she shall be chronicling those accomplishments in his speech about which the country has taken a vow today. Describing the next 25 years as "amrit kaal", a reference to deriving the best in every field, he said the nation cannot wait so long to attain these goals, making it imperative for everyone to make efforts for it. The goal of "amrit kaal" is to ascend to new heights of prosperity for India and its citizens, Modi said, adding that it is also to create an India where the level of facilities will not divides the villages from the cities. He said the goal of "amrit kaal" is to build an India where the government does not interfere unnecessarily in the lives of citizens and which has every modern infrastructure in the world. "Amrit kaal is of 25 years, but we do not have to wait for long to achieve our goals. We have to start now, we do not have a moment to lose. This is the right time. Our country also has to change and we as citizens have to change ourselves too," the prime minister said. "Today, I am requesting from the ramparts of the Red Fort that 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' and now, 'Sabka Prayas', are very important for the achievement of our goals," he added. In this "Bharat Vikas Yatra", Modi said it has to be ensured that the country meets the goal of building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) when it celebrates 100 years of independence. "Just as we have made electricity accessible to 100 per cent households and have made authentic efforts to construct toilets in 100 per cent households, similarly, we now have to move ahead with the goal of achieving saturation of schemes and for this, we do not have to keep a distant deadline," he said. "We have to make our resolutions come true within a few years. Now, we have to move even further -- 100 per cent villages should have roads, 100 per cent households should have bank accounts, 100 per cent beneficiaries should have the Ayushman Bharat card, 100 per cent eligible persons should have gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme and 100 per cent beneficiaries should have aawas (housing)," the prime minister said. "We have to move ahead with a mindset of cent per cent achievement," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||India takes pride in having world’s largest Covid-19 jab drive, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that India takes pride in having the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme and more than 54 crore people have already taken the vaccine doses. In his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort, the prime minister spoke of the country's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and praised the scientists, doctors, paramedical staff among others. He lauded those involved in vaccine manufacturing in the country, saying India did not have to depend on others for vaccines due to their efforts. "We can say with pride that the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme is going on in India. More than 54 crore people have already taken the vaccine," he said. Modi said had India not developed its own vaccine, its supply from outside would have been uncertain. "The period of coronavirus pandemic presented a big challenge in front of our country and the entire human race in the world. "The people of India exercised restraint and fought the pandemic with a lot of patience. We had many challenges. But in every field, we countrymen have worked at an extraordinary pace. "It is the result of the strength of our scientists, our entrepreneurs that today we do not have to depend on any other country for Covid-19 vaccine," Modi said. "Imagine for a moment what would have happened if India did not have its vaccine. It took years to get the polio vaccine. In such a big crisis, when there is an epidemic across the world, how would we have received vaccines? "India might or might not have received it, and even if it had received the vaccine, there was no certainty of getting it in time," he said. "It is a moment of pride for us that because of our scientists, we were able to develop two make-in-India Covid-19 vaccines and carry out the world's largest vaccine drive," he said. The prime minister stated that online platforms like CoWIN and the system of giving digital vaccination certificates are attracting the attention of the world. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence," PM Modi said. The prime minister said though it is true that compared to other countries fewer people got infected by Covid-19 in India and also a high proportion of people could be saved from succumbing to the viral disease, it is not a matter of self-congratulation. "It is not something to be proud of! We cannot rest on these laurels. To say that there was no challenge will become a restrictive thought in the path of our own development," he said. "Our arrangements are less as compared to the rich countries of the world, we do not have what the world has, what the rich countries have... and we also have a large population and our lifestyle is also different. "Despite all our efforts we could not save so many people in this fight against Covid-19. So many children have been orphaned. This unbearable pain will always remain with us," he said. He also lauded scientists, doctors and paramedical staff for their role in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. "During the coronavirus global pandemic, our doctors, our nurses, our paramedical staff, sanitation staff, scientists engaged in making vaccines and citizens who devoted their time to public service, they all deserve to be worshipped," he said. The campaign to provide better health facilities to every poor in the country is also going on at a fast pace. For this, important reforms have also been made in medical education, the prime minister said, adding there has been a substantial increase in the number of medical seats in the country. Equal attention has been paid to preventive healthcare. Under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, quality health services are being provided to every village in the country. Affordable medicines are being made available to the poor and middle class through Jan Aushadhi Yojana, he stated. "So far more than 75 thousand health and wellness centers have been set up. Now work is being done exclusively on the network of good hospitals and modern labs at the block level. Very soon thousands of hospitals in the country will also have their own oxygen plants," he said. Along with the concern of basic needs, reservation is being ensured for the poor of Dalits, Backward, Adivasis, general category. More recently, in the field of medical education, a system of reservation has also been made for the OBC category in the All India quota, Modi highlighted. Talking about the provision of free ration to 80 crore people during the pandemic, he said it has surprised the world and is being talked about. "At the time of epidemic, the way India has kept burning the stove of their poor by giving free food grains to 80 crore countrymen continuously for months, this is also surprising to the world and is also a matter of discussion," he stated. Modi also called for steps to bridge the gap between lives in villages and cities. He batted for reaching a hundred percent coverage of schemes like Ayushman Bharat among the intended beneficiaries. "Just as we have made electricity accessible to 100 percent households, and have made authentic efforts to construct toilets in 100 percent households, similarly, we now have to move ahead with the goal of achieving saturation of schemes, and, for this, we do not have to keep a distant deadline. We have to make our resolutions come true within a few years. "Now, we have to move even further. 100 percent of villages should have roads, 100 percent of households should have a bank account, 100 percent beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat card, 100 percent eligible persons should have gas connection under Ujjwala scheme and 100 percent beneficiaries should have Aawas," the prime minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||Ola drives into green mobility space, launches first electric scooter ||Ola Electric on Sunday forayed into the green mobility space with the launch of its first electric scooter, Ola S1, at a price starting from Rs 99,999 (ex-showroom). The Ola S1 electric scooter would come in two trims -- S1 and S1 Pro -- carrying a price tag of Rs 99,999 and Rs 1,29,999, respectively. "I want to underline that it is going to be the best scooter ever made. It has the best design, performance and technology," Ola Chairman and Group Executive Officer Bhavish Aggarwal told reporters here. With never seen before technology, design and features, the company is looking for a global leadership in the electric two-wheeler segment, he added. The company will officially open Ola S1 for purchase from September 8, and start deliveries across 1,000 cities and towns in October. Till September 8, the company will keep accepting the bookings at Rs 499, Aggarwal stated. He noted that Ola S1 solves one of the biggest challenges which has hampered the growth of the EV sector in India has been the upfront cost. "In states with active subsidy grants, Ola S1 will be much more affordable than many petrol scooters. For instance, after state subsidy in Delhi, the S1 would cost just Rs 85,009 whereas in Gujarat it would be only Rs 79,000," Aggarwal said. The company has also tied up with banks and financial institutes for an EMI plan starting at Rs 2,999, he added. The Ola S1 comes with a range of 181 km, a top speed of 115 km per hour and can be fully charged in less than 40 minutes with a fast charger, and around six hours with the portable charger that will come with the scooter and can be installed at homes. The scooter comes with various features like reverse mode, hill hold function, driving modes and cruise control and takes less than 3 seconds to cross 0-40 km per hour. It comes with keyless lock and unlock system and safety features like an anti-theft alert system and geo-fencing. "Scooters are meant for the young but the industry has made such a vibrant category dull and boring and we are hopeful that we are going to change that," Aggarwal quipped. The scooter comes in 10 colours with in-house development 8.5 KW motor and 3.97 kWh battery packs. Ola is setting up a manufacturing plant, spread across 500 acres, in Tamil Nadu. The company has previously said it is investing Rs 2,400 crore for setting up the facility that will create nearly 10,000 jobs and will be the world's largest scooter manufacturing facility upon completion. Aggarwal noted that the first phase of the 'Futurefactory' is nearing completion. "By the end of the month, it is going to be ready. We bought the land in January and we put up the first pillar at April-end," he noted. The company will initially start with 10 lakh annual production capacity and then scale it up to 20 lakh, in line with market demand, in the first phase. When fully completed, the plant is going to have an annual capacity of one crore units that is 15 per cent of the world's entire total two-wheeler production. "We are building this scale because it is the only way of accelerating this transition to sustainable mobility," Aggarwal noted. Asked when the company expects to reach the one-crore production mark, he said: "Ten million production depends how fast the market scales up. We are estimating it to be within the next two years." "Everything is being done by us. We are working with suppliers for mechanical parts but core parts of electrification are being done by us in-house. It is part of our strategy to control the technology ourselves and also to design the components ourselves and then manufacture them on our own," Aggarwal said. Ola Electric would source items like plastics and tyres from outside vendors and for that, it plans to build an entire ecosystem around the factory, he added. On charging infrastructure, Aggarwal noted that the company would have established presence across relevant cities by the time deliveries commence in October. "Charging station roll out will follow sales rollout, so it will be sales, then charging stations but every city will have at least relevant scale as we begin," Aggarwal said. Ola had earlier stated that it would like to have 5,000 charging stations across 300 cities and towns across India. "That's the goal, we will be targeting that...The company has tied up with various partners and those will get operationalised once deliveries begin," Aggarwal said, adding that all kinds of developers, office complexes and even hospitals would be covered under the exercise. He noted that the scooter would have a hybrid approach when it came to actual sales. The company would have physical experience centres and online channel to sell the product. The sales outlets or the experience centres would come up across the country over the next few months, Aggarwal said. The executive pointed out that the company has received strong demand from about 1,000 towns and cities. "The EV revolution is here to stay whether incumbents like it or not. Consumers have shifted in their mindsets and before we know it, people will be buying only electric," he noted. He further said: "When we are going to share our bookings number with you in few days, I can assure you that it is going to be the highest number of reservations ever for any automobile launch in the country." On exports, he said the shipments would begin soon. "We have been very clear about the fact that we can build in India for the world and (demand for) two-wheelers is growing globally. All across the world, especially after COVID, people want personal mobility options and we want to be the global leaders in this segment," Aggarwal noted. The company's electric scooter would be relevant in markets like ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations), LATAM (Latin America) and Europe, he said. "The traditional markets for two wheelers have been Asian markets, LATAM and Africa have been growth markets for two-wheelers but the large volumes have always come from the Asian markets," Aggarwal said. Especially after Covid, even the West has opened up and more and more people in Europe want to buy electric two-wheelers, he added. Even in the US and North America, people have started to experience two-wheelers for urban mobility, Aggarwal said. "Over the next four-five years, we will see a lot of evolution. Lot of opportunities will open up globally for two-wheelers and they will have to be electric," he stated. On competition with other electric vehicle brands, Aggarwal stated: "In two-wheelers, the incumbents have not properly invested for electrification and we believe we will absolutely lead the way as our technology is ahead by a few years". When asked if the company is also looking at tapping into the Chinese market, he said: "China is not an immediate priority for us". "There are enough markets beyond that. The Chinese two-wheeler market is a unique one, while it's all electric, it’s all low-speed, low-quality electric vehicles. Transformation is happening there as well," he added. Aggarwal noted that the company has been very careful to source almost all the components from India, with only the battery cells coming from South Korea. Asked about the chip shortage situation globally, he said the company is dealing with the issue and has been able to overcome the challenge for the short-term. "It is something that the industry would have to deal with over the next 6-9 months...It is a challenge, so we are trying to deal with it," he said. Aggarwal noted that the company plans to enter various segments, including an electric car, in the coming days. He, however, did not share any details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||India will have to bow down before China if dependence continues: RSS||If dependence on China increases, we will have to bow before it, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday. Speaking after hoisting the national flag at a Mumbai school on the 75th Independence Day, the RSS chief also said "swadeshi" means doing business on India's terms. "We use the internet and technology a lot. Our country does not have the original technology. It comes from outside," Bhagwat said. "No matter how much we shout as a society about China and boycott Chinese items, but from where does everything that is in your mobiles come from? If the dependence on China increases, then (we) will have to bow before China," Bhagwat said. Economic security is important, he said, adding the adaptation of technology should be based on our terms. "We have to be swanirbhar", he said. "Swadeshi does not mean ignoring everything else. International trade will remain, but on our terms, he said. We have to be self-reliant for that," he added. "What we can manufacture at home should not be brought from the market," he said. He said the economic vision should be to produce more and competition should be for the best quality of produce. "We are not against international trade and commerce but our production must be in villages. It should not be mass production but production by masses," he said. A decentralised production will help India's economy to generate employment and self-employment opportunities, he said. With more producers, more people will be self-reliant, he said, adding the revenue generated should be distributed equitably. Industries should get encouragement from the government, Bhagwat said. The government should act as a regulator and not do business itself, he added. "The government will appeal and urge industries to manufacture what is important for the development of the country and formulate policies to encourage industries," he said. "We don't believe in complete nationalisation but it is also not true that the nation has nothing to do with industries. All these should function together as a family unit," he said. Small industries should complement bigger industries, he said, adding the focus should be people-centric and not profit-centric. The focus should be on research and development, MSMEs and cooperation sectors, he added. "Considering the economic unit as a family will help the economy to be an employment generator," he said. The government's job has to be to support and encourage industries. The government should give directions to produce what is important for the development of the country, he said. Controlled consumerism is necessary to ensure there is no exploitation of natural resources, Bhagwat The standard of living should not be decided by how much we earn, but by how much we give back, the RSS chief said. We will be happy when we consider the welfare of all. To be happy, we need sound finances and for this, we need financial strength," Bhagwat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Ex-servicemen hold march at Singhu border to mark 75th Independence Day||On the occasion of 75th Independence Day, ex-servicemen on Sunday held a march at the Singhu border where protesting farmers are celebrating 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas'. Veteran farmer leader Satnam Singh hoisted the Tricolour at the Singhu border and some cultural programmes are also lined up, farmer leader Raminder Singh Patiala said. "Satnam Singh (85) hoisted the Tricolour at 11 am, following which the former servicemen marched in their dresses. Students of DAV college in Jalandhar will perform 'Bhangra' for around one-and-half-hour," he said. The programme will conclude around 3 to 4 pm. Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh said 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas' is being celebrated across the nation. "The ex-servicemen marched from the KFC restaurant till the main stage at the Singhu border. 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas' is being celebrated across the nation where people are hoisting flags in support of the farmers," Patiala said. Another leader said the national flag was also hoisted at the Tikri border. He said there will be a 'Tiranga yatra' at the Ghazipur border. "We hoisted the flag at 8 in the morning. A 'Tiranga yatra' of 500 motorcycles from Hapur will reach the Ghazipur border at around 2 pm to celebrate the independence day," Dharmendra Malik of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said. Farmers from different parts of the country have been protesting against the three laws since November last year. While the farmers have expressed apprehension over the laws doing away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations, the government has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Giant mural on freedom fighters, thematic artwork on display at Red Fort||A giant mural on Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters along with thematic artworks depicting India's military might, technological achievements and cultural heritage was on display at the main gate of the Red Fort here for the 75th Independence Day celebrations. The makeshift wall of shipping containers was set up for security reasons but artists had turned the stacked metallic containers into eye-catching canvases with a strong patriotic theme. It was for the first time that such a temporary fortification was done on the occasion of Independence Day, a move that came after farmers protesting against three central agri laws had stormed the Mughal-era monument, which is also a UNESCO heritage site, on Republic Day and hoisted a religious flag. The organisers had ensured that the dull industrial objects served as a backdrop for creating appealing artworks. The face of the towering stack of containers, opposite the 17th-century fort's magnificent front wall was adorned with a mega mural depicting freedom fighters -- Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Rani Laxmibai, and scores of other unsung heroes who made the supreme sacrifice for the country's freedom from the British Rule. While six containers were stacked up in the middle section of the temporary wall, three to four of those were lined up vertically, flanking the middle section. A standard container is about 8 ft high. On the towering middle section facing the fort, India's technological and engineering achievements and its military prowess were portrayed through colourful images of an LCA aircraft, Delhi Metro train, Atal Tunnel under Rohtang Pass, BraMos missile system. The slogan 'Rashtra Pratham' (in saffron letters), Sadaiv Pratham'(in green letters)' had been mounted in huge size on top of the stack. On the side facing the main street (Netaji Subhas Marg), the middle section had a fabric canvas with thematic artwork printed depicting the cultural heritage and diversity of India, with 75th Independence Day embossed on it. The stack of containers facing the street and flanking the middle section was coloured in saffron-white-green, depicting the tricolour, in succession vertically, and a smaller blue container was kept on top of both the left and right sides. On the front wall of the fort, a decoration was mounted with two peacocks on either side and the numeral 75 adorned on it, marking the 75th Independence Day. The multi-layered security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos, kite catchers, canine units and sharpshooters on high-rise buildings, were placed around the Mughal-era fort, and social distancing norms were in place as last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||IAF choppers shower flower petals over Red Fort on I-Day for the first time||In a first, two Mi-17 1V Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters showered flower petals at the venue of main Independence Day celebration at the Red Fort here after Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the national flag. The petals were showered in the Amrut formation drawing loud applause and cheers from the audience. While the first chopper was controlled by Wing Commander Baldev Singh Bisht, the second was commanded by Wing Commander Nikhil Mehrotra. After the showering of flower petals, Prime Minister addressed the nation. Thirty-two Olympians who made the country proud at the Tokyo Games and two officials of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) were invited to participate in the Independence Day celebrations. Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who created history at the recently-concluded Olympics by winning the country's first track-and-field gold medal, was among the 32 athletes. Talking about the IAF choppers showering flower petals, Ritika Joshi, who was present in the audience, said, "It was a sight to witness when flower petals dropped on each of us. We saluted the commanders." For Shubhanshu Sharma, tricolour balloons released in the air was among the highlights of the celebrations. "This year having flower petals showered by IAF helicopters was a pleasant surprise which filled our hearts with respect for our forces," he said. A separate block was created on the south side of the Red Fort's ramparts for Corona warriors such as healthcare workers to honour them for the pivotal role they played in fighting the pandemic. India is commemorating its 75th Independence Day as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' under which a series of events have been organised across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Congress accuses Modi of making announcements but not implementing them||The Congress on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of only making announcements about schemes in his Independence Day speeches and not implementing them, even as it hit out at him for not withdrawing the three agri laws against which the farmers have been protesting. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said for seven years the country has been listening to the "same speeches" by the prime minister but nothing is being done for any aggrieved section, including small farmers. "He announces new schemes but these are never implemented or seen on the ground. He says a lot of things but never adheres to them. And now, by bringing the three new farm laws, he has spelled doom for the farmers," he told reporters after the prime minister's Independence Day speech. Kharge also took exception to the prime minister targeting the previous regimes on the issues of small farmers and development, saying the country will not progress by criticising the Congress from the ramparts of the Red Fort again and again. "The Congress has done a lot of work for this country during its regime like providing irrigation systems for the farmers. Manmohan Singh ji and Sonia Gandhi ji waived farmers' debt when the UPA was in power," he said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took a swipe at the prime minister over his announcement of Rs 100 lakh crore investment in the infrastructure sector, saying it was the same two years ago. "It has been two years since August 15, 2019. At least, the 100 lakh crore figure could have been changed," he said in a tweet in Hindi while posting the news of the prime minister's I-Day speech in 2019. Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa said it would have been a historic day had the prime minister announced the withdrawal of the three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi addresses nation on I-Day; Here are the top 10 quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday gave a call for Sabka Prayas' (everyone's efforts) along with 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' for building a self-reliant India, as he addressed the nation on Sunday on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day of India. Here are the Prime Minister's top quotes from his 90-minute speech:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Parliament ruckus shows sorry state of affairs, says CJI NV Ramana||Observing that the law-making process in the country is in a "sorry state of affairs", Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday rued the lack of debates in Parliament, saying this led to absence of clarity and a "lot of gaps and ambiguity" in the legislations. Doing some plain speaking at a public event, Justice Ramana said an elaborate discussion during the law-making process reduces litigation since when courts interpret legislations, "we all know the intent of the legislature". He was speaking at the 75th Independence Day function organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association(SCBA). Justice Ramana's remarks come against the backdrop of the tumultuous Monsoon session of Parliament when several bills were passed without any debate during the pandemonium following relentless protests by the Opposition over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws, price rise and other issues. Parliament was adjourned sine die on Wednesday two days of the scheduled date of August 13. The crucial observations of the CJI also assume significance in connection with a case where though the apex court is seized of matters concerning appointment in tribunals, the Centre went ahead and secured the passage of the amendment bill relating to tribunals without any debate in Parliament. The bill restored the provisions struck down by the Supreme Court recently. The CJI also exhorted the members of the legal fraternity to participate in public life and share their experience about laws. He said the country's long freedom struggle was led by lawyers. "Whether it is Mahatma Gandhi or Babu Rajendra Prasad, they were legal luminaries, who sacrificed their property, family and life and led the movement." "Most of the members of first Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were all lawyers and members from the legal fraternity. Unfortunately, we know what is happening now in the Parliament with respect to debates on laws." He said there used to be debates in Parliament on various constitutional amendments and how they will affect the people. "Long ago, I have seen a debate during the introduction of the Industrial Disputes Act and a member from Tamil Nadu used to discuss the law so elaborately as to how the law will affect the working class. It used to reduce the burden on the courts, as when the courts interpreted the law, we all knew the intent of the legislature," the Chief Justice said. "Now, it is a sorry state of affairs. There are a lot of gaps and a lot of ambiguity in the law-making process due to lack of debates... There is no clarity regarding the laws. We don't know what the intent of the legislature is. We don't know for what purpose the laws are made. This causes great inconvenience to the people. This happens when members of the legal fraternity are not in the Parliament and state legislature," he added. During the function, the CJI told the lawyers, "Don't confine yourself to your profession, earning money and living comfortably. Please think over it. We should actively participate in public life, do some good service and share the experience with the country. Hopefully, goodness will come out of it in the country." He added that the Supreme Court has played an active role in the country and has given more than what the Constitution has thought of, but he expects the legal fraternity to contribute more. "There are small issues but around 75 percent of the people in need of justice have got legal aid. You (lawyers) all should participate in the legal aid movement. On November 26 and 27, we may have two-day workshops on Constitution Day and legal aid," he said. At the outset, the CJI said it is a historic day and an occasion for all to rethink and review the policies to understand "what we have achieved and what we have to achieve in the future". "Seventy-five years is not a small period in the history of the country but we have to also consider the vast landscape and geographical condition of our country," the CJI said, while recalling his childhood days when they were given jaggery and and murmura (puffed rice) in school on the occasion of Independence Day. "Since then, a lot of development has taken place. Small things given to us in school made us very happy but in today's time when we have so many facilities, we are not happy. I think this is due to our saturation level," he added. Supreme Court Judges AM Khanwilkar and V Ramasubramanian were also present on the occasion along with several lawyers and members of the SCBA. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was also present on the occasion, said the Chief Justice of India is the karta' (guardian) of the Indian legal family and thus he does not wish to say anything more. "India is a young democracy and when we look around the neighbouring countries and they call themselves democracy and we all know how they have failed. In contrast, we have been able to sustain it the way it was envisioned by the framers of our Constitution," Mehta said. The CJI also unfurled the national flag after which the national anthem was played by a police band. SCBA President and senior advocate Vikas Singh said it is a historic day as the country is celebrating its 75th Independence Day and thanked the Chief Justice and other judges for gracing the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||India fighting terrorism and expansionism with great courage, says Narendra Modi||India is responding to the twin challenges of terrorism and expansionism with great courage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day address on Sunday, in a veiled reference to cross-border terrorism from Pakistan and Chinese activities. The prime minister also mentioned the government's resolve to strengthen the armed forces and promote defence manufacturing as he cited the construction of the country's first indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant. In his around 90-minute speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort, Modi referred to the 2016 surgical strikes and the Balakot airstrikes in 2019, saying they sent a strong message about India's resoluteness to take tough decisions. "Today, the world is looking at India from a new perspective and this vision has two important aspects...One terrorism and the other expansionism. India is fighting these two challenges and responding to them astutely and with great courage," the prime minister said. His comments came as India continues to deal with Pakistan-backed cross-border terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir and the eastern Ladakh border row along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). India and China have already completed the disengagement of troops and weapons from a number of friction points in the region. "India has given a strong signal to its enemies by carrying out surgical and airstrikes. This tells us that India is changing. India can take the most difficult decisions and is not reluctant to implement them," Modi said. India carried out surgical strikes in September 2016 targeting terror launch pads across the Line of Control in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in response to an attack on an army camp in Uri. Indian fighter jets bombed Jaish-e-Mohammed's biggest training camp near Balakot deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019, 12 days after the terror outfit claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Kashmir that killed 40 soldiers. Talking about defence manufacturing, Modi also talked about the production of fighter jets and submarines in the country. "You have seen, just a few days ago, India launched its first indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant for trials at sea," the prime minister said. India's first indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant last week successfully completed a five-day maiden sea voyage, ahead of its planned induction into the Indian Navy by August next year. The construction of the aircraft carrier has put India in a select group of countries that includes the US, the UK, Russia, France and China having capability to construct aircraft carriers. The prime minister said the government is committed to promoting self-reliance in the defence sector. In another announcement, Modi said the government has decided to open all Sainik schools to girls. At present, 33 Sainik schools are operating in the country. During his Independence Day speech Sunday, the prime minister said that two-and-a-half years ago, the maiden experiment of admitting girls in Sainik schools was carried out in Mizoram. "Now, the government has decided that all the Sainik schools in the country will also be open for the daughters of the country," he said. Sainik schools are run by the Sainik Schools Society which is under the administrative control of the Ministry of Defence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi announces Rs 100 lakh crore Gatishakti scheme to boost infra sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced an ambitious Rs 100 lakh crore holistic infrastructure development programme 'Gatishakti', which is aimed at boosting employment opportunities and productivity of industries. While Modi did not announce details of the plan, he said the plan will help local manufacturers compete globally and create new avenues of future economic growth. "India needs a holistic and integrated approach in infrastructure construction along with modern infrastructure. In the near future, India is going to come out with Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti National Plan and launch it," he said in his address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India's 75th Independence Day. Modi said the over Rs 100 lakh crore scheme will bring new employment opportunities for lakhs of youth. Gatishakti, he said, will be a national master plan which will lay the foundation of the overall infrastructure in the country and give an integrated and holistic path to the economy. Modi said as of now there is no harmony in modes of transport in the country. Gatishakti, he said, will break the silos and bottlenecks. "This will reduce travel time and productivity of industry will increase even more," he said, adding that Gatishakti will also go a long way in helping India's local manufacturers to be globally competitive. Besides, the initiative will lead to possibilities of developments of future economic zones. The Prime Minister stressed that Gatishakti will become basis of India's rejuvenation. Boosting infrastructure in Asia's third largest economy is at the heart of the Modi's plan to pull back the country from a sharp economic decline worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic. In the last fiscal year, India's economic output fell by a record 7.3% and a second wave of Covid-19 has delayed economic recovery. The prime minister also set a target to become energy independent by 2047, saying the goal can be achieved through a mix of electric mobility, moving to a gas-based economy and making the country a hub for hydrogen production. During his nearly 90 minutes speech, Modi said India will have to work together for manufacturing world-class products, using cutting-edge innovation and new age technology. He said that to further increase the developmental progress, the country will have to focus on the manufacturing sector and exports. "We have to work together...for next generation infrastructure, for world class manufacturing, for cutting edge innovation, and we have to work together for new age technology," he said. The Prime Minister also said that the government has introduced tax reforms that will give impetus to 'ease of living' and 'ease of doing business'. (With Reuters inputs)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Preparations underway to conduct Assembly polls in Jammu and Kashmir, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that preparations are underway for holding Assembly elections in the future in Jammu and Kashmir, where development is now visible on the ground. "Giving fair opportunities to the potential of all, this is the real spirit of democracy. Be it Jammu or Kashmir, where the balance of development is now visible on the ground. "The Delimitation Commission has been constituted in Jammu and Kashmir and preparations are on for holding Assembly elections in the future," the prime minister said while addressing the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. He also referred to the abrogation of Article 370 and said holding the first-ever District Development Council polls in J-K reflects the country's determination. Talking about Ladakh, which was carved as a Union Territory after the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir, he said it is also progressing towards its limitless possibilities of development. "On the one hand, Ladakh is witnessing the creation of modern infrastructure, while on the other hand 'Sindhu Central University' is also going to make Ladakh a centre of higher education," he said. Modi said that whether it is eastern India, the North-East, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh including the entire Himalayan region, or the coastal belt or tribal region, they will become the base for India's development in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||India celebrates 75th Independence Day as Red Fort dons tricolour||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||India records 36,093 new Covid-19 cases||India saw a single-day rise of 36,083 new coronavirus infections, raising its tally to 3,21,92,576, while the death toll has climbed to 4,31,225 with 493 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 3,85,336 and comprise 1.20 percent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.46 percent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A reduction of 2,337 cases has been recorded in the active coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, it stated. The ministry said less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for forty-nine consecutive days. As many as 19,23,863 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests done so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 49,36,24,440. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.88 percent. It has been less than 3 percent for the last 20 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2 percent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,13,76,015, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 percent, the data stated. A total of 73,50,553 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. Cumulatively, 54.38 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 493 new fatalities include 179 from Maharashtra and 105 from Kerala, the data stated. A total of 4,31,225 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,34, 909 from Maharashtra, 36,958 from Karnataka, 34,496 from Tamil Nadu, 25,069 from Delhi, 22,783 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,499 from Kerala and 18,291 from Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Modi sets 2047 target for India to become energy independent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday set a target of becoming 'energy independent' by 2047 through a mix of electric mobility, gas-based economy, doping ethanol in petrol and making the country a hub for hydrogen production. Delivering his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort, he said India spends over Rs 12 lakh crore on energy imports every year. "For India to progress, for Atmanirbhar Bharat, energy independence is the call of the hour," he said. "India has to take a pledge that it will be energy independent by the year we celebrate 100th year of Independence." The roadmap for that is to increase usage of natural gas in the economy, setting up a network of CNG and piped natural gas networks across the country, blending 20 per cent ethanol in petrol and electric mobility, he said. The country has achieved the target of 100 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity ahead of the target, Modi added. 'No dearth of political will to bring reforms' Asserting that there is no dearth of political will to bring reforms in India,  Modi called for a review of rules and procedures across the country so that every process that creates a hindrance for people is removed. India is writing a new chapter in governance, he said while addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 75th Independence Day. PM Modi said good and smart governance is required for implementing reforms in the country. "Political will is required to bring in big changes and big reforms. The world now knows that there is no lack of political will in India for reforms," he said. "Today the world is also a witness to how India is writing a new chapter of governance," he said. Modi said a campaign should be launched in all departments and government offices in both central and state governments to review rules and procedures. "Every rule, every process that has stood before the people of the country as a hindrance, as a burden, we have to remove it," Modi said. The prime minister said moving forward on the path of development, India will have to increase both its manufacturing and exports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||75 Vande Bharat trains to connect different parts of India, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday announced that 75 'Vande Bharat' trains will connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, he said it is unprecedented the way UDAN scheme was connecting far-flung areas of the country and the speed at which new airports are being built. "The country has resolved that 75 Vande Bharat trains will be connecting every corner of the country in 75 weeks of Amrit Mahotsav of Independence," he said. Vande Bharat, the indigenous semi-high speed train set, is being given a boost, with the Railways gearing to roll out at least 10 of them, linking around 40 cities, by August 2022 to commemorate 75 years of Independence. Hyderabad-based engineering firm Medha, which in February secured the contract to supply the electrical systems for 44 Vande Bharat trains, has now been told to advance its production plan, so that at least two prototypes can be rolled out by next March following all trials. The PM also talked about boosting rail connectivity in the northeast region, saying it is significant for the entire country. "Today, we are in the process of writing a new history as far as connectivity to the northeast is concerned. This connectivity is both between hearts and infrastructure. "Very soon the job of connecting the capital cities of the northeastern states by rail will be completed," Modi said. As of today, except Sikkim, all northeastern states are connected to the rail network. The capital cities of Assam, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh are already connected, while the work to link the capital cities of Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Meghalaya is underway. Keeping coronavirus-induced delays in mind, officials said that connectivity to the region will be achieved by 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||PM pays tributes to Nehru, lauds India’s Olympic athletes in Independence Day address  ||India has to march ahead with new pledges for the next 25 years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday while addressing the nation on India's 75th Independence Day. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence," the prime minister said. Addressing the nation on India's 75th Independence Day, he said the 'Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti National Master Plan' will develop the possibilities of new future economic zones, and also announced the setting up of a National Hydrogen Mission to make India the new global hub of green hydrogen and its largest exporter. In a nearly 90-minute speech that dwelt on a range of issues, including India's deprived poor, its farmers and the pain of Partition, the prime minister also spoke of the challenges of terrorism and expansionism. A message of New India By conducting surgical and air strikes, the country had sent out the message of a 'New India', he said. This shows India is changing and can take difficult decisions, Modi said from the ramparts of the Red Fort, the centrepiece of India's Independence Day celebrations. On terrorism, a veiled attack The nature of international relations, he added, changed after the Second World War and there is a possibility of a new world order in a post-coronavirus pandemic scenario. "India has seen the efforts of the world and also appreciated it. Today, the world views India with a new perspective. There are two important perspectives to it. "One is terrorism and another is expansionism. India is fighting these two challenges and responding to them astutely and with courage," Modi said without naming China and Pakistan.  Roadmap for 25 years Drawing a roadmap for the all-round development of India and its people, he said India has to march ahead with new pledges for the next 25 years. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence. Sabka Prayas The prime minister, who called for 'Sabka Prayas' along with 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' for building a new India, also announced that rice provided under any scheme will be fortified by 2024. The government's focus is to make small farmers, who own less than two hectares of land and comprise over 80 percent of all farmers, the country's pride, Modi added. "We are witnessing the rapid transformation of our villages," he told the nation while stressing that digital entrepreneurs are being nurtured in villages too. Reservation is being ensured for Dalits, STs, backwards and general category poor, he added in his speech and emphasised that the hand-holding of deprived communities is necessary. Over 4.5 crore new households have received piped water supply within two years of 'Jal Jeevan Mission'. PM calls for holistic approach Along with modern infrastructure, India needs to adopt a holistic approach in infrastructure construction, the prime minister stressed in his address after hoisting the tricolour. India imported mobile phones worth USD 8 billion seven years ago and is now exporting USD 3 billion worth of mobile phones, the prime minister said. "We will have to work together for manufacturing world class products, using cutting-edge innovation and new age technology," he told the nation. Vande Bharat trains to connect country In 75 weeks of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', 75 'Vande Bharat' trains will connect different parts of country, the prime minister announced. The prime minister said the capitals of northeast states will soon be connected with the railways. The region, he said, is also getting connected with Bangladesh, Myanmar and southeast Asia. On Jammu & Kashmir, NEP The development of Jammu and Kashmir is visible on the ground, Modi said, adding that the delimitation exercise is on and preparations are underway for assembly polls there. Describing the New Education Policy as a means to fight poverty, he said it will focus on encouraging teaching in regional languages. Sainik Schools for girls The government has decided to open all Sainik schools to girls, the prime minister said. "I call upon all departments to launch a campaign to review rules and procedures; we must remove all rules that create hindrance," he asserted. PM lauds Covid warriors Addressing the gathering held under the shadow of Covid with social distanced seating, Modi stressed that the day should not be merely a ceremony. People can take pride that the world's largest Covid vaccination programme in going on in the country, he said. He lauded doctors, nurses as well those involved in vaccine manufacturing and others involved in fighting COVID-19. The pain of partition was one of the greatest tragedies of the last century, the prime minister said while asserting that August 14 will be remembered as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. "I have faith in our youth; this is a 'can do generation', it can achieve every goal," he said. PM's praise for Olympic contingent He also lauded India's Olympic contingent, which was present at the Red Fort, and said their performance encouraged the youth of the country. "The young generation made India proud at the Olympics. Those athletes are present here today," Modi said and then requested everyone assembled at the function and people across the country to applaud the achievers of the Tokyo Games. He himself began applauding the athletes and the gathering joined him. "We can be proud of the fact they have not only won our hearts but inspired the youth of this country," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||L.K. Advani recalls 'trauma', underlines 'triumph of freedom'||BJP veteran L.K. Advani, himself displaced by the Partition, on Saturday recalled the “trauma” but also underlined the “triumph of freedom” that accompanied it, stressing “respect for diversity and freedom of expression” as the way to strengthen Indian democracy. “Eventually, when India became free on 15th August 1947, the triumph of freedom was accompanied by the tragedy of Partition,” Advani said in a statement that did not refer to Modi’s announcement about observing August 14 as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day”. “Having been a victim of it myself, I painfully recall the physical and emotional trauma this tragedy caused to the displaced people on both sides of the border.” Advani, 93, who was born in Karachi, asserted that India had blossomed into a prosperous country “over the (past 75) years”, his remark contrasting with the present government’s insinuations that nothing good had happened in the 67 years before Modi. “It has been my strong belief that the essence of Indian democracy is respect for diversity and freedom of expression. It is this that has contributed to India being a successful democracy,” Advani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Goyal comes under fire on social media for outburst on industry||Commerce minister Piyush Goyal has come under fire on social media after slamming the Tata Group and a couple of other Indian business houses for placing their own interests ahead of the nation’s. Goyal’s diatribe against the Tatas came on Thursday at an event organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), and apparently stemmed from Bombay House’s objections to proposed changes in e-commerce regulations that the minister was looking to introduce. Bombay House is the Tata Group’s headquarters in India’s commercial capital. A war of words erupted after a video of Goyal’s comments was withdrawn from YouTube. The Hindu newspaper reported that the government had directed the industry chamber to take it down. The newspaper report also said a flubbed attempt to put out a sanitised version of Goyal’s unseemly attack against Indian corporate houses was also blocked. Neither the commerce minister nor the CII would comment on the controversial video. Goyal had apparently hit out at the Tatas in his 19-minute diatribe. “Kya aapke jaisi company ek do aapne shaayad koi videshi company kharid li… uska importance zyaada ho gaya, desh hith kam ho gaya (You may have bought one or two foreign companies and now their importance has become greater than the national interest)?” he said. Sources close to the minister claimed his comments had been wrenched out of context. Opposition leaders seized the opportunity to fire a fusillade against Goyal and the Narendra Modi government. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he was flabbergasted by Goyal’s “unprovoked attacks” against Indian industry. “'First, he ensured Rajya Sabha did not function at all and now this bizarre tirade! He couldn’t be speaking without official sanction, could he,” Ramesh tweeted. The Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi said: “The kind of language used against industry captains and calling their work against nation’s interest is shameful.… CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video.” Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra termed Goyal’s comments an “unhinged rant”, adding that the “pressure of working in an underperforming one-man show must really be getting to them”. In a tweet, former Union minister Milind Deora said: “World over, governments are working with industry, entrepreneurs & traders to help them get back on their feet. GOI’s ‘minimum government, maximum governance’, prefers berating & bullying them toward unprofitability & decline. A strong economy is in India’s national interest.” Anil Swarup, a former secretary of the Government of India, said he was appalled that no one from the industry protested. “The industry acted worse than civil servants (at least some protested) when they were pilloried & called ‘Babus’ in Parliament,” he tweeted. E-commerce rules Industry was agog with speculation about what really triggered Goyal’s harangue. A few corporate observers said the Tata Group -- which is in the process of unveiling a Super App that will telescope multiple websites that sell products of group companies and other unrelated vendors -- had objected to the proposed new e-commerce rules that seek to place restrictions on any attempt to prioritise the sale of products on what is being construed as a digital marketplace. Last month, a Reuters report had said the conglomerate had been among the most vociferous in telling the government in a July meeting that the proposed e-commerce rules would have a major impact on its business and bar its joint venture partners like Starbucks from selling goods on Tata’s shopping websites. “If Tata cannot sell their own product — be it Voltas, Titan or plethora of other products — from this app, then it makes no sense for them. Likewise, if the consumers don’t get the option to choose from multiple other competing products, the app would not appeal to them,” explained a source who is aware of the context of Goyal’s tirade. Besides Starbucks, the Tata Group has joint ventures with Inditex of Spain which owns Zara and the high street Massimo Dutti apparel brands. The app is expected to provide an additional outlet to them as well. The Super App is at the heart of the digital ambitions of the Tata Group under chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran. In the past year, the Tatas have bought a majority stake in grocery chain BigBasket, online pharma chain 1mg and fitness start up CureFit. The new e-commerce rules are likely to impede the salt-to-software conglomerate’s plan to consolidate digital sales under one app. The Tata Group did not comment on Goyal’s remarks. Digital fiefs Just a few days ago, Goyal had fired a sharp broadside against Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart for seeking judicial intervention in an effort to stop an anti-trust investigation into their trade practices. After the Supreme Court turned down the plea by the two e-commerce giants, Goyal had gloated in Parliament over the symbolic significance of the date on which the Supreme Court announced its verdict, which he said coincided with the launch of the Quit India Movement. The sudden attack now against the Tatas comes at a time when several Indian and foreign business groups are scrambling to establish digital marketplace fiefs. The outburst also comes amid a severe setback to Reliance Industries’ plan to acquire Kishore Biyani’s Future Retail after the Supreme Court ruled that an emergency arbitral award that Amazon had secured from a Singapore tribunal was enforceable in India. In April, Reliance Industries was forced to push back the deadline for closing the over Rs 25,000-crore deal by six months to September 30 --  a date that looks in some doubt as the legal battle escalates. On Thursday, Future Retail filed a special leave petition in the apex court challenging the verdict. No date has yet been set for a hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Bombay HC grants interim stay on operation of some parts of IT rules||Bombay High Court has said dissent is vital for democracy and granted an interim stay on the operation of some parts of the Information Technology Rules, 2021, which require that all online publishers follow a “code of ethics”. Sub-clauses 1 and 3 of Clause 9 of the new rules were, on the face of it, “manifestly unreasonable”, the high court said. “The indeterminate and wide terms of the rules bring about a chilling effect qua (regarding) the right of freedom of speech and expression of writers/editors/publishers” as they can be hauled up for anything if the authorities so wish, the court said. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni stayed these two sub-clauses of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, saying they seem to violate the petitioners’ constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19. “Dissent in democracy is vital.... For proper administration of the State, it is healthy to invite criticism of all those who are in public service for the nation to have a structured growth, but with the 2021 rules in place, one would have to think twice before criticising any such personality, even if the writer/editor/publisher may have good reasons to do so,” the judges said. If a committee proposed under the rules did not approve of criticism of a public figure, anyone who criticises such a person would invite punishment, said the court. The high court order came on petitions filed by the legal news portal, The Leaflet, and journalist Nikhil Wagle, which challenged several provisions of the new IT rules, saying that they were vague and likely to have a “chilling effect” on a citizen’s right to free speech. The court, however, refused to stay Clause 14 that pertains to the setting up of an inter-ministerial committee with powers to regulate online content and deal with grievances and breach of rules and Clause 16 that deals with  blocking online content in case of an emergency. Such a committee is yet to be formed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Twitter unlocks handles of Congress leaders including Rahul||Twitter on Saturday unlocked the handles of the Congress and its leaders, including Rahul Gandhi. The Congress tweeted: “Satyameva jayate (The truth alone triumphs).” The tweet that led to the lock on Rahul’s account — showing a photo of the Congress leader with the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and killed in Delhi — still remains invisible in India. This owes to a notice from the National Council for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to Twitter to prevent the revelation of the child's identity. The unlocking of the accounts comes a day after the girl’s mother told reporters the family had no objection to their images being shared by politicians in the quest for justice. A Twitter spokesperson said in an email to The Telegraph: “As part of the appeal process, @RahulGandhi has submitted a copy of the formal consent/ authorisation letter to use the referenced image via our India Grievance Channel. “We have followed the necessary due diligence process to review the appeal in order to protect the safety and privacy of the affected individuals. We have updated our enforcement action based on the consent provided by the people depicted in the image. “The Tweet is now withheld in India and the account access has been restored. As explained in our Country Withheld Policy, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in accordance with valid legal provisions under the Indian law(s). The withholding actions are limited to the specific jurisdiction/ country where the content is determined to be unlawful and remains available elsewhere.” The Congress had accused Twitter of a double standard, as tweets by the National Commission of Scheduled Castes and its member Anju Bala of the BJP that contained photos of the parents had not led to their handles being locked. Rahul said in a video on Friday: “Our democracy is under attack. We are not allowed to speak in Parliament. The media is controlled. And I thought there was a ray of light where we could put what we thought on Twitter. But obviously, that’s not the case.” Twitter had explained the restriction of access to the Congress accounts saying they had not deleted the tweet, while the Congress alleged that the Centre had arm-twisted the US-based company. On Friday, Twitter had transferred the MD of its Indian subsidiary, Manish Maheshwari, as a senior director in the parent company in San Francisco. In June, an FIR was lodged in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh against Maheshwari for tweets by Congress leaders showing a news report by a portal on an alleged incident of communal violence. However, the Indian subsidiary, Twitter Communications India, is responsible only for business here and not content, which is handled by the parent company, Twitter Incorporated. The Reuters news agency reported that an internal staff memo thanked Maheshwari for his work in India during “extraordinarily challenging times”. On Friday, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo had said he had written to Facebook as well over a video of the grieving parents posted by Rahul on Instagram, a social media platform owned by Facebook. By posting the video and the tweet, Rahul is deemed to have violated the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, which prohibit the revelation of the identity of any alleged child victim of sexual abuse. In 2018, the Supreme Court had ruled that “…No person can print or publish the name of the (rape) victim or disclose any facts which can lead to the victim being identified”. Violation is punishable with a jail term of up to six months. Delhi High Court has refused to issue notices on an individual’s plea for an FIR against Rahul on the issue and adjourned the matter to September 27. Earlier this week, senior human rights lawyer Indira Jaising had tweeted: “We must understand the prohibition against disclosing the identity of a rape victim is to protect the living survivor; that logic does not apply to the dead victim.” After the gang rape and murder of a paramedical student in a bus in Delhi in December 2012, the victim and her parents had been kept anonymous by most publications and personalities. After Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014, a news agency had tweeted photographs of Modi meeting the parents without blurring their faces. Twitter took no action against this. The following year, the victim’s mother referred to her deceased daughter by name at a public event and said that it was the perpetrators who should feel ashamed and not the family. Photos of the parents are widely available on social media but there have been no strictures from any panel. Interim relief On August 1, the Dalit girl was hurriedly cremated by a crematorium priest and other crematorium staff who claimed she had been electrocuted while using a water cooler on their premises near Delhi Cantonment. After protests by Dalits, the police - who face allegations of intimidating the parents -- booked four men including the priest in connection with multiple offences including rape and murder. No conclusive evidence from the forensic examination has emerged so far because the child's body has been burned. On Thursday, a Delhi court allowed an interim compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh to the girl's parents on the ground of loss of life but declined interim relief for rape citing lack of evidence. Additional sessions judge Ashutosh Kumar said in his order: "The IO (investigating officer) has further admitted that neither any statement of any eyewitness nor any other evidence, including medical or scientific, could be collected so far to confirm as to whether the victim child was raped or not. He has further submitted that at this stage, he cannot conclusively say as to whether the victim child was raped or not." The order added that disclosure statements by the accused to the police - not considered conclusive unless corroborated by material evidence - suggested that the priest and a crematorium employee had raped and murdered the child and two other employees had participated in the cremation, thereby destroying evidence. The parents have petitioned Delhi High Court for a judicial probe, alleging administrative failure by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||August 14 to be observed as Horrors Remembrance Day, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tweeted that August 14 would now be observed as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day”, stressing that the misery suffered during the 1947 partition of the country can never be forgotten. August 14 being Pakistan’s Independence Day, many saw Modi’s announcement as politically and ideologically loaded, timed with the preparations for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year. “Partition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence,” Modi tweeted. “In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.” Modi added: “May the #PartitionHorrorsRemebranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment.” Some, however, alleged that the Prime Minister’s statement was aimed at reopening old wounds and polarising people. “This is vile! It is not about remembering people who lost families to the partition, this is done to open wounds and create communal hatred,” musician, author and activist T.M. Krishna tweeted. RJD leader Manoj Jha questioned the wisdom of the announcement and asked Modi to focus on removing poverty and divisiveness. “I don’t know who advised the Prime Minister to observe the remembrance day of Partition. India has suffered the agony of Partition, but its character and fabric were kept entirely different from Pakistan,” Jha said. “Our foundation is the Constitution and the Prime Minister should focus on the key objectives of poverty removal and ending communal divide. It is his responsibility to address the growing chasm between communities. He is not concerned about this at all.” Sometime after Modi’s tweets, the home ministry issued a notification that said: “Therefore, the Government of India declares 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to remind the present and future generations of Indians of the pain and suffering faced by the people of India during the partition.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Separatist spearheads may lie blunted in Kashmir, but not separatism||Syed Ali Shah Geelani, the patron protagonist of Kashmiri secession, is 91 and in cascading poor health. He barely ever speaks out or issues a statement. When he does, the communiqué comes from proxy social media handles that operate from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. His sons, one a doctor, one a university teacher, are often the first ones to issue disclaimers to the local police absolving themselves of any association. The odd hartal or protest call that gets issued in the senior Geelani’s name goes mostly unheeded. Ashraf Sehrai, Geelani’s most prominent associate, died while in jail as a Public Safety Act detainee this May of Covid-related complications. Moulvi Umer Farooq, head of the moderate faction of the secessionist Hurriyat, has remained under house arrest for nearly two years and refrained from any of the activities that were his calling card. The public prayers of his outfit, the Awami Action Committee, that the Moulvi be allowed to conduct prayers at Srinagar’s Jama Masjid have gone unheard. Yasin Malik of the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) is in Tihar jail, charged with armed assault on an Indian Air Force party in 1990; four personnel died in the attack. Malik has the company there of another separatist, Shabbir Shah. Masarat Alam, another feisty separatist, lies bundled in jail on a long catalogue of charges that include sedition and violence against the state; Aasiya Andrabi, firebrand militant of the Dukhtaran-e-Millat, and her husband Qasim Faktoo, one of the founders of the Hizbul Mujahideen, are also behind bars, charged with waging war on the state. The lead actors of Kashmiri separatism have been rendered ineffectual, one way or another. Those that still have the freedom of their homes — Prof. Abdul Ghani Bhat and Moulvi Abbas Ansari among them — seldom risk going public with the views they’ve long held close and fought for. “The realisation has gone home that it is no longer possible to take liberties beyond a point and not suffer consequences,” a senior police officer told me. “This is a very different dispensation, it has very low, or no, tolerance for any appeal or action that challenges the state or the legitimacy of India. The recent raids on suspected leaders and activists of the Jamat-e-Islami across the state were part of the exercise to underline that. Miscreants are aware they are under keen watch and will not get away with actions that undermine the nation.” But to interpret the blow to separatists as a sign that separatist sentiment in the Valley has been whittled would be to grossly misread Kashmir’s ground reality. As one retired bureaucrat who spent a lifetime espousing India’s case as a secular democracy, told this paper: “How do you even expect the Kashmiri to like you, especially after what happened in August 2019? We were made to feel deeply hurt and humiliated, reduced as a people. But that was not all. Our humiliation and our chaining became a thing to rejoice all over the country. That celebration of our suffering cannot be a thing to forget.” It is no surprise that most Kashmiris are reluctant to talk frankly about how they feel; it comes from a deep sense of resignation and, in no small measure, out of fear. “We’ve been knocked into levels of despair that we see no way out of,” a shop-owner in Polo View, Srinagar’s fashionable shopping avenue, told me. “And why would I risk what I still have opening myself up to you?” Then, he suddenly turned acerbic out of not being able to resist it. “I can tell you happy and lovely things, as you often hear being broadcast on television channels, but they will all be lies, or things I have been forced to say by someone in authority. We do not even have the freedom to shut our shops when we feel like shutting them as an expression of our anger; the police will heckle and threaten us into lifting shutters and then the channels will show how Kashmir has returned to being a place of peace and good cheer. All lies!” The eve of Independence Day has for a long time been an uneasy moment in the Valley, laden with apprehension over what untoward or ugly turn the slightest provocation could trigger. This year, the administration has ordered teaching and non-teaching staff at schools across the Union Territory to turn up for work, ceremonially hoist the national flag, and demonstrate proof of it. School heads have also been instructed to call students to school (10 per cent in view of Covid restrictions) and make them learn the national anthem which must be sung in each institution. “But what really are we meant to celebrate?” a school teacher asked, palpably outraged at the order. “Our chaining and our gagging? Is that what Independence Day means? When people wish to celebrate they do it with the fullness of their hearts, you don’t require government orders to be proud of your nation.” Separatist spearheads may lie blunted in Kashmir, but not separatism as widespread sentiment; nor the Kashmiris’ deep sense of anger and disdain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi relies so heavily on Pakistan to win elections: Congress||The Congress on Saturday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement about August 14 being observed as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” as an oblique dig at Pakistan to polarise Indians and divert attention from his government’s mismanagement of the pandemic and the economy. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala linked the announcement to the Uttar Pradesh elections, due early next year, where the BJP’s performance will be critical to Modi’s hopes of retaining power in 2024. “Modi has started preparations for the Uttar Pradesh elections. Modi relies so heavily on Pakistan to win elections,” he said in a statement. “He has to divert attention from the horrific Covid mismanagement, abnormally high prices, Pegasus snooping, farmers’ movement, unemployment and theft in the name of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is an attempt to reinvent the shamshan-kabristan discourse.” In the run-up to the last Uttar Pradesh elections in 2017, Modi had told a rally that if a kabristan (graveyard) was built in a village, a shamshan (cremation ground) too should be built there. This was seen as an attempt to give a communal twist to the electoral discourse. Now the Yogi Adityanath government is grappling with a macabre discourse of another kind — that of families of dead Covid patients failing to find space at either cremation grounds or graveyards during the second wave of the pandemic. Bodies were dumped into rivers or buried in the sand on riverbanks, their photographs causing national outrage and international horror. Modi has as Prime Minister greeted Pakistan on August 14, its Independence Day. His sudden realisation of the need to recall the horrors of the Partition at a time India was poised to begin celebrating its 75th year of Independence left many observers baffled. “Partition of the country was the saddest and cruellest part of our history,” historian S. Irfan Habib tweeted. “We need to forget that hate and commit ourselves not to ever repeat that insanity ever. Do remember it but only to learn that fanatical madness ruins lives and leads to disastrous consequences.” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh called “Mr M” the “Ustad of doublespeak and hypocrisy” and accused him and the “toxic ecosystem he has nurtured” of polarising and dividing society. The Congress said that Modi was the only Indian Prime Minister to have greeted Pakistan on March 22, its National Day. Modi had written to his Pakistan counterpart Imran Khan on March 22 this year saying: “Excellency, on the occasion of the National Day of Pakistan, I extend greetings to the people of Pakistan. As a neighbouring country, India desires cordial relations with the people of Pakistan.” The seeds of Partition were sown by the Muslim League in 1940 at its March 22-24 session in Lahore, which resolved to create a separate nation of Pakistan. Surjewala recalled that Muslim League leader Fazlul Huq had read out the 1940 resolution, and that BJP icon Syama Prasad Mookerjee had in 1942 formed a Bengal government with him under the patronage of British rulers while opposing the Quit India call given by the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Kerala church opens gates of cemetery to cremate Hindu woman||A Kerala church opened the gates of its cemetery to cremate a Hindu woman whose family lacked enough space to conduct the last rites at their modest property. Hindu families in certain rural areas of Kerala do not prefer to conduct the last rites at public crematoriums. So when Omana Achary, 68, passed away on Thursday, her family approached the St Joseph’s Church in Ramankary, Alappuzha, seeking permission to cremate her at the church cemetery, located just 100 metres from their home. The vicar agreed even before he had taken the matter to the church committee, made up of members of the parish. “I didn’t think twice when the family approached me,” Father Varghese Mathilakathuzhy, vicar of the church that is part of the Changanassery Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar order, told reporters. Nor did the church committee object. “We knew the family of Omana since her son had done some carpentry job on our church premises,” Father Varghese said. The vicar was present during the cremation along with the other church committee functionaries. He also mobilised more than 20 volunteers from the parish to clean the ground and arrange for other facilities for the cremation, held around 3pm on Thursday. Congress leader Joseph Checkoden, former panchayat member from the area and a neighbour of Omana’s family, described the vicar’s gesture as a “model worth emulating”. “It’s a clear message to everyone. Not only did the vicar immediately agree to allow the cremation, he made all the arrangements,” Checkoden, a member of the same parish and convener of the Congress-led United Democratic Front for the Kuttanad area in the district, told The Telegraph on Saturday. He said a proper pyre was built at the cemetery and all the Hindu rituals were conducted. Checkoden said the church had already allowed the cremation of Christians in the same cemetery following the Covid outbreak. Cremating dead Covid patients is widely considered a safer option than burying them. “My 84-year-old uncle, George, had died of Covid in May during the peak of the second wave. I was the one who lit the pyre after the vicar agreed to have my uncle cremated at the cemetery,” Checkoden said. He said his uncle’s ashes were then buried according to Christian rites at the same cemetery. While churches have traditionally buried the dead, they have been open to cremation in many instances. The Alappuzha Latin Catholic Diocese had in July permitted the cremation of Covid victims at their respective church cemeteries. The church had cited permission from the Vatican to cremate the dead because of a space crunch at burial grounds several years before Covid made such decisions inevitable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Stop 'selective leak' of CCTV footage, order detailed probe: CPI MP to RS secretary-general||CPI MP Binoy Viswam on Saturday wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretary general seeking access to CCTV footage of the proceedings on Wednesday when several Opposition MPs, including women, said they were manhandled by marshals while the government claimed it was the MPs who pushed. Alleging that unknown persons were brought into the Rajya Sabha to help the government bulldoze the insurance bill, Viswam said: “Since then the government has used every avenue to portray a biased and concocted narrative against members of the Opposition. From the selective leaking of privileged property of the Rajya Sabha in the form of CCTV footage and internal documents to the filing of false allegations by the marshals alleging assault by the Opposition MPs, it is clear that the government is actively trying to mislead the country and whitewash its own draconian actions.” Viswam pointed out that the footage was a property of the House and not the government and sought access to the full recording for Opposition MPs. The CPI leader alleged that he, along with other Opposition members, was “physically manhandled and targeted by unknown personnel in Parliament”. “Upon the devious attempts by the government to pass this anti-people bill, we exercised our right as parliamentarians to protest the same and it is only the bringing in of over 40 personnel, whose identity is unknown and suspect, that led to the chaos in the Well of the House,” he claimed. He also alleged that there was a “deliberate move” to create multiple cordons of security, which resulted in members of the Opposition being manhandled.  Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi had alleged that the Opposition members had manhandled marshals citing CCTV footage from the Rajya Sabha. He had demanded that the Rajya Sabha Chairman constitute a special committee to probe the misbehaviour and indiscipline by Opposition members and strict action against them. In his letter, Viswam said: “I was personally targeted by 4-5 of these outsiders who... grabbed hold of me and physically assaulted me.” “In order for a fair and just probe into the incident, it is imperative that the Rajya Sabha not be turned into a political tool for the government and selective leaks related to the events of 11th August must be stopped immediately. Further, any probe into these events must abide by principles of justice and as such the complete footage of the house on 11th August 2021 be provided to the Members of Opposition against whom such allegations are being made in addition to all such complaints or other documents pertaining to them.’’ Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu is said to have watched the footage on Saturday .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Delhi High Court asks Animal Welfare Board of India to file affidavit on status of circus animals||Delhi High Court has asked the Animal Welfare Board of India to file an affidavit on the status of animals of circuses that have closed down. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, which was hearing a petition by the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India, gave three weeks to the AWBI to file the affidavit. PETA counsel Aman Hingorani said an affidavit filed already by the AWBI did not specifically disclose the status of such animals. “Mr. Rajesh Kumar Gogna, Advocate who appears for respondent No. 3 (AWBI) should ensure that a further affidavit is filed, disclosing the status of the said animals within the next three weeks,” the court said in its order dated August 10. Last year, the court was informed by the Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisation (FIAPO) that according to a report filed by AWBI, around 740 circus animals were registered with it, but in a survey only 28 were found. The court had then directed the AWBI and the Central Zoo Authority to find out what happened to the missing animals and file an affidavit on the status of all circus animals registered with them. It had termed “serious” and “shocking” that there was a huge gap in the number of animals found by the AWBI, as against those registered with it, when it inspected circuses across the country. PETA India and the FIAPO had moved the high court last year for the protection of animals in circuses stranded across the country because of the pandemic. PETA India claimed in its plea that because of the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, circuses are finding it difficult to feed the animals that left many of them vulnerable to starvation. It sought a direction to the Centre to immediately notify the Performing Animals (Registration) Amendment Rules of 2018 which expressly prohibits the training and exhibition of performing animals in circuses and “mobile entertainment facilities”. The matter will be heard next on November 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||75th I-Day: Twenty Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel awarded gallantry medals ||Twenty Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel, who fought shoulder to shoulder with the Indian Army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control last year, have been awarded gallantry medals on the eve of the 75th Independence Day. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the 3,488km-long China frontier which passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The army remains behind the ITBP. Sources said the ITBP troops have been awarded gallantry medals for displaying bravery during the two clashes last year — the violent clash on June 15, 2020, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed and the confrontation on May 5 in which several Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured when they came to blows and hurled stones at each other near the Pangong Lake, two-thirds of which is under Chinese control, and Hot Springs area. The 20 ITBP personnel awarded medals are among the total 1,380 service medals announced by the Centre for various central and state police forces on the eve of Independence Day. Sources in the ITBP said out of the 20 jawans awarded for gallantry in eastern Ladakh, eight have been decorated for their gallant acts, meticulous planning and tactical insightfulness and for defending the country in Galwan on June 15 last year. Twelve personnel have been awarded police medals for gallantry for their bravery during the face-off on May 18 last year near the Pangong Lake and Hot Springs in Ladakh. “ITBP troops displayed exemplary courage by effectively using shields to protect themselves and also responded fiercely to (Chinese) People’s Liberation Army’s advancing troops during the violent clash at the Galwan Valley,” said an ITBP official. According to the official, the ITBP troops fought through the whole night and received minimal casualties by giving befitting replies to the stone-pelters of the PLA. The paramilitary force kept the PLA troops at bay due to the high altitude training and maneuvering experience of the force in the Himalayan deployments, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Partition: The Other Part||Among the millions who crossed the great divide in the north was six-year-old Balbir Singh Suri. Leaving their home in Jhelum district, now in Pakistan, the Suris survived on “roti and achar given by the army”, cowering in a truck that brought them to Patiala in India’s Punjab. Sitting in his Princep Street office in central Calcutta today, the 81-year-old covers his ears with his palms, shuddering, “People dying, people killing... Kaat ke udhar se idhar phenk raha thha aur idhar se udhar. Have you seen that film Bhaag Milkha Bhaag? It was exactly like that.” The vivisection of India in 1947 led to one of the largest mass migrations in human history. The 3,323-kilometre Radcliffe Line, announced just two days after the declaration of Independence, sliced up the populous states of Bengal and Punjab. Over a million were killed, 15 million displaced and countless others simply disappeared. The Sikh community had been part of Calcutta from way before Partition. In the essay, The Other Sikhs: Punjabi-Sikhs of Kolkata, Himadri Banerjee writes, “As the railways facilitated travel between these two distant parts of the British-Indian Empire, Sikhs had reasons to come to the metropolis. Their link with the capital of the British-Indian Empire went back to the mid-nineteenth century when they had passed through the city, on the way to China to fight in the Second Opium War (1858-61).” But after Partition it became home to several refugees from West Punjab. The Dhan Pothohar Bradri — biradri means brotherhood — consists of some 440 Punjabi families, mostly Sikhs. It was founded in 1948 by one Chattar Singh Rekhi as a self-support system for all those who had migrated from West Punjab. A booklet-cum-directory of the society enumerates one of its objectives as — “To create brotherhood among the families of Dhani, Pothohar and Sohann comprising the districts of Rawalpindi, Jhelum and Campbellpur (now in Pakistan) residing in Calcutta.” Taranbir Singh Mokha, current president of the Bradri, says, “My father told me that when these people came, somebody had expired. They didn’t even have four people to lift the body. That’s how the idea came up...” According to the 2011 Census, the Sikh population of Calcutta was 13,849, which was 0.31 per cent of the total population of the city. In 1951, the community constituted 0.56 per cent of Calcuttans and in 1961, 0.51 per cent. “Compared to other parts of India, the number of Sikhs who came over to Calcutta after Partition was less because West Bengal was grappling with the problem of Hindu refugees from East Pakistan,” explains Banerjee, former Guru Nanak Professor at Jadavpur University’s department of history. But numbers are hardly indicative of the community’s strength or presence in their adoptive home. Banerjee writes that during the pre-Partition years, Calcutta’s Punjabi-Sikhs made their presence felt “from the domain of surface transport to the sphere of literary activity. Participation in the city’s nationalist politics as well as their tie with the Left ideology made them partners in the anti-colonial struggle”. So when Mokha’s father arrived in Calcutta in the 1950s, it was not entirely a journey into the unfamiliar. In the many-layered Punjabi migrant and Calcutta narrative, the Partition migrants from West Punjab form just one chapter, one thread, if you will. Mokha’s grandparents were from Rawalpindi. His grandmother was a high school teacher and grandfather had a small business. Soon after Partition, he expired. His grandmother got a teacher’s job in Ambala and that is how she brought up her children. Mokha says, “My father got a chance to come to Calcutta, he was 16 then, because a relation had already come here and started a business.” No two families had the same journey. For Jhelum’s Suri family, the first stop out of Pakistan was Patiala. “The Maharaja of Patiala helped us a lot,” says Suri. They then moved to Delhi and thereafter to Dehradun where his maternal uncles had found a footing. When he couldn’t pass matriculation, Suri landed in Calcutta as a 15-year-old to join his cousin in the motor parts business. That was 1955. Suri slept on the pavement for a whole week before securing a corner near the stairway of a building in the same lane, but the elderly gentleman’s mein turns pure joy as he talks about what kept him going — hockey. “At 6 every morning we would go to the Maidan. And you know what, no bus conductor or tramwallah would charge us for tickets! Even taxi drivers gave us free rides, saying ‘you are players’.” Three years down the line, Suri was on his own — “jhola niye, maal niye”. Opportunity was yours to grab, he explains in fluent Bengali, you earned as much as you toiled. “We were in the market by 9am. And the grind continued till 10 or 11pm.” His own shop materialised in 1964. In time, a match “made in heaven” was initiated by a gentleman across the street, his would-be-wife’s uncle. A graduate from Shimla, her family too had migrated from Pakistan. Hari Om Batra, president of the Calcutta Punjab Club, is into the finished leather business and also owns a finance company. His grandfather and his five children were living in Sargodha (now in Pakistan) district when destruction came knocking on their door. Give us your girls and we will leave you — was the thing going around. The family fled overnight with whatever jewellery they had, first by bullock cart and then by train. They stayed in a refugee camp in Delhi before moving on to Ambala, where they were allotted some land. But that was hardly sufficient for a big family such as theirs. Batra’s father, then in his early twenties, commuted to Jalandhar to sell balloons, clothes and the like, travelling ticketless and often pulled up by the railway checker. Still searching for sustenance, one part of the family shifted to Agra, where they came in contact with some Muslim families. “They were Khurja Muslims who were engaged in the leather business,” narrates Batra. Providence or coincidence, they were planning to shift to Pakistan. A sort of barter was carried out — leather work in exchange for help with the Batra family’s own jaggery business back in Sargodha. It was leather that occasioned Batra’s father’s frequent visits to Calcutta — a leather hub even then. Much later, in 1960-61, they rented a small office space — one room in Chandni Chowk; this meant they didn’t need to rent a place for the nights. Says Batra, “I recall coming with him when I was six or seven. We laid out mattresses at night and by morning it was back to business. About 10 years down the line, my father bought an apartment in Karnani Estate on Park Street along with a group of friends…” And the West Punjab stories abound, of Partition induced migrations and movements to Calcutta. They are little known perhaps given their numbers, especially in comparison to the influx from East Bengal and perhaps because they are difficult to fathom given the leap of geography they entail. But they are there nevertheless, a true and an indelible part of the Calcutta mosaic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Cyber cafe owner held from UP for hacking into ECI website, making fake voter I-cards||A 24-year-old cyber cafe owner was arrested in Saharanpur on Friday evening on the charge of illegally accessing Election Commission of India data and making fake voter I-cards, police said after the poll panel issued a statement mentioning the scam. Officers, however, stayed tight-lipped about the ECI’s assertion that one of its data entry operators in the district too had been arrested for sharing his official user ID and password with prime accused Vipul Saini. An election data analyst told The Telegraph that the data entry operator would be an employee at the office of the district magistrate, who is the district electoral officer. Saharanpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) S. Channappa told reporters that Saini had hacked the ECI website. But he made no mention of the data entry operator. “Vipul Saini runs his own computer shop at village Maccharheri in the Nakur area of Saharanpur district. He used to log in with the help of the same password that the ECI uses,” Channappa said. “Saini made 10,000 voter IDs in the past three months,” he said. On Friday, the ECI had said: “Assistant electoral roll officers are mandated to provide citizen-centric services including printing of voter ID cards…. (A) data entry operator of one of the AERO offices has illegally shared his user ID (and) password with a private service provider in Saharanpur’s Nakur sub-division to print some voter ID cards.” It added: “Both these persons have been arrested. The ECI’s database is absolutely safe and secure.” Channappa didn’t take calls from this newspaper. Superintendent of police (Saharanpur rural) Atul Sharma and Nakur circle officer Arvind Singh Pundir said said only the SSP and the cyber cell had any information to provide. Pundir said he knew “only about one arrest”. An officer of the cyber cell of the Saharanpur police said: “We don’t know who else was arrested besides Saini.” The election data analyst, who asked not to be identified, said: “The ECI appoints a data operator in every district. He or she is authorised to log into the ECI website and make necessary entries. Sometimes they share data unofficially with their friends or members of political parties. In Saharanpur, the data operator shared the password with an outsider. I noticed that the ECI had blocked most of its data over the past week without explanation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Puri lifts restriction on cremation of bodies from outside at Swargadwar crematorium||The Puri district administration on Saturday lifted the restriction on cremation of bodies from outside at the Swargadwar crematorium in the pilgrim town. The order will come into effect from Monday. However, only the bodies of persons who died of diseases other than Covid-19 and other causes will be allowed to be cremated at Swargadwar with adherence to coronavirus guidelines. “The restriction imposed on observance of the funeral rites of the deceased belonging to other districts, states at Swargadwar, Puri, as well as immersion of ashes at Mohodadhi (sea) in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district is hereby withdrawn in view of decreasing trend of Covid-19 positive cases in the Puri district as well as Puri Municipality areas,” said an order issued by the Puri collector. According to the order, a maximum of 10 people will be allowed to accompany the body to Swargadwar for cremation. The administration had imposed the restriction on April 25 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Only those from Puri were allowed to cremate their dead at Swargadwar which has religious significance as people believe that performance of last rites at the crematorium opens the gateway to heaven.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress: Matangini Hazra hailed from Bengal not Assam ||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has scant knowledge of history and demanded an apology from him for incorrectly saying that freedom fighter from West Bengal, Matangini Hazra, hailed from Assam. The BJP said that the TMC was unnecessarily creating a controversy over the gaffe made during the prime minister's Independence Day speech, and claimed that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had also made many faux pas in her speeches in the past. West Bengal TMC general secretary Kunal Ghosh said that the prime minister has scant knowledge of history and merely read out a written text in a "dramatic style". The TMC spokesperson tweeted, "@BJP4India Matangini Hazra from Assam? R u mad? U don't know history. U have no feelings. You just read a written speech (that also by others) with drama." "This is insult to Bengal. You must beg apology. Hope Your LOP from East Midnapore will also condemn such a mistake," Ghosh added, while attaching a purported clipping of the speech. The TMC leader sought a response from Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly and Nandigram's BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari, who had often referred to the contribution of Medinipur, from where Matangini Hazra hailed, to the freedom struggle. The TMC tweeted on its official handle, "Matangini Hazra is a freedom fighter from Bengal, Mr. @narendramodi!" "With such scant regard for our glorious history, you have insulted all of #Bengal once again. Is @BJP4India committed to erasing our history? Mocking it as they please? SHAME," the party said, attaching a purported video with the post. Reacting to the controversy, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said, "It was a minor mistake on the prime minister's part and the TMC is deliberately highlighting it while trying to overlook other parts of his speech where he spoke about many projects initiated by the Centre." BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, "It was a slip of tongue. What about the series of gaffes made by the chief minister on our freedom fighters and history? Did she ever apologise for those blunders?" Senior Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said, "It was a serious mistake by the PM showing his ignorance about Bengal's history and its contribution to the freedom struggle." State Left Front chairman Biman Bose said, "Things like these happen if someone who has grown up with RSS teachings does not care to read or find out on his own and depends on the text prepared by his office without even checking." Hazra (1869-1942), who lived in Tamluk in present-day Purba Medinipur district, was shot dead by the British Indian Police while she was leading a procession as part of the Quit India movement launched across the country by Mahatma Gandhi in 1942. Her death triggered widespread condemnation and steeled Indians' resolve against the British colonialists, giving more impetus to the freedom struggle. Hazra is a familiar figure across West Bengal and there is a statue of her in Maidan area in the heart of Kolkata. She is remembered while paying tributes to freedom fighters and both the TMC and the BJP had invoked her during the high-voltage campaign in Purba and Paschim Medinipur districts during the assembly elections this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Strengthen voices against those who try to stifle freedom, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday called for strengthening voices against all forces that try to stifle freedom. She unfurled the National Flag and took salutes from various police wings during a parade on Red Road in Calcutta on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. The chief minister also awarded various police personnel for their gallantry and paid floral tributes at the Police Memorial and a statue of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, whose 125th birth anniversary was celebrated this year. Though Mamata did not address the people, she tweeted, "On the 75th Independence Day, let us all come together to strengthen our voices against all forces that aim to stifle our freedom. We must never forget the sacrifice of those who fought a long and hard battle for this day. Warm wishes to all my brothers and sisters. Jai Hind!" Colourful tableaux themed on various schemes and campaigns of the state government were taken out at the event. Many dignitaries, including Chief Secretary H K Dwidevi, Home Secretary B P Gopalika and Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra, were present at the programme. Meanwhile, community clubs and social organisations also took out rallies, while the National Flag was hoisted at educational institutions and government offices. Various political parties also observed the day their offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 90 more phones in e-wallet case||Bankura police on Saturday recovered 90 mobile phones dumped near a pond in Chhatna. The phones were allegedly used to receive OTPs (one-time passwords) issued via fictitious e-wallets to route money cheated from bank accounts of unsuspecting victims. Interrogation of nine persons arrested so far after the racket was busted on Wednesday also led the police to nab one Bibhas Karmakar on Saturday. He supplied forged identity proofs for SIM cards. “We suspect a few more involved in the racket have abandoned the basic mobile phones that used to receive OTPs. We have also arrested another person in this connection. Probe is to get to the root of the racket. We are waiting for forensic lab reports of some smartphones to get details of end-users,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura superintendent of police, on Saturday. Till Saturday, the police arrested 10 youths, including alleged mastermind of the e-wallet racket Abhishek Mondal, seized over 8,000 SIM cards and several computers and smartphones. Bankura police on Saturday recovered 90 mobile phones dumped near a pond in Chhatna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress to screen new entrants in Darjeeling ||The Darjeeling district committee of the Trinamul Congress has decided to screen people wanting to join the party from the block levels to the district, the decision coming as a part of an overall strategy to check the antecedents of new entrants to the ruling party. This is the first time such a process is being adopted by the party in the district, said a source, adding that the step is being taken to ensure that the public at large does not get any wrong signal at a time leaders from various parties are making a beeline to join the party even in a district where Trinamul has not fared well in polls. Election to the Siliguri Municipal Corporation is due and many expect the state government to conduct the same soon. Against this backdrop, the district committee’s decision is vital. Ranjan Sarkar, president, Darjeeling district committee (plains) of Trinamul, said there were allegations that people involved in “wrongdoings” had managed to get entry into the party at the grassroots. “There are allegations that people involved in wrongdoings have either managed to get entry or are trying to enter the party. We have decided to ask leaders right from the block level to district level to screen those wanting to join the party before they are inducted,” said Sarkar. The Darjeeling district committee has also started conducting inquiries on allegations raised against new party members. “We are carrying out necessary inquiries about new members against whom allegations have been raised. If we find the allegations have merit, we will showcause (them). None will be spared if found guilty,” said Sarkar. The leader said many people are joining the Trinamul after it swept the recent Bengal Assembly polls with three-fourths majority. Many in the party believe that some new members could have joined the ruling party just “for political shelter”. “If we are not careful the new entrants could do more harm than good to the party,” said another leader. Trinamul leaders said they “welcome everybody to our party” but added the district committee had decided to be more vigilant. “Everyone will have to go through a proper screening process. This will be carried out from the block to the district level and the report will be sent to the state leadership for final approval,” said Sarkar. In case of heavyweights from other parties joining, the final decision is always taken by the state leadership. The new decision seems to be aimed at screening local leaders and supporters. Trinamul has not fared well in elections in Darjeeling district. During the 2021 Bengal Assembly election, the party candidates lost from all the five assembly segments in the district. Gautam Deb, one of the well-known faces of the party from north Bengal and two-time minister, lost from Dabgram-Fulbari seat. “We are hoping for a better performance in the coming elections and for this we have to be vigilant and avoid sending out a wrong message to people,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Bid to keep Duare Sarkar camps free of politicians||The Mamata Banerjee government prohibited the distribution and receipt of forms in bulk at the Duare Sarkar camps set to start from Monday, making it clear that political interference won’t be entertained at the first mega public outreach of the Trinamul government after returning to power for the third time. “Bulk receipt of pre-filled forms and bulk distribution of blank forms is prohibited,” reads a minute of a video-conference conducted by the chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi with district officials and department heads on August 12. Government sources said the instruction clearly indicates the state government’s keenness to ensure no political party, including Trinamul, can interfere in the programme that would be entirely manned by government officials. “It is longstanding practice in Bengal that political parties help people particularly in rural areas where literacy rate is not high to fill up forms for government benefits. This is the first time the government is trying to prevent it,” said a senior government official. When political parties help beneficiaries by filling up forms, party members fill up forms and submit them in bulk. If forms can’t be given and received in bulk, political parties can’t get involved, sources said. The top brass of the government did not want political interference in the camps to keep them free of controversy, officials said. “Complaints often came up against local political leaders...of them asking for money from beneficiaries….The government wants to get rid of such complaints. Government officials in camps will help beneficiaries fill up forms,” said a source. A Trinamul insider said if complaints of “cut money” rear their head now, it could ruin the entire effort.  “It is expected that 2 crore women will register through the camps for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme this time... If complaints come up against our local leaders, it may derail our government’s effort,” said a Trinamul MLA. Sources also said the effort to keep political parties away would also restrict Opposition parties in Bengal from extracting mileage. “If political parties were allowed in camps, the BJP would have taken the opportunity to reach out to the masses in some areas. The ruling establishment clearly wants to nip this probability in the bud,” said a source. Some government officials wondered if restricting political interference would create trouble for many people who can’t fill up forms on their own. “Though it is being said that the government officials would help people who can’t fill up forms on their own, practically it is impossible for those present in the camps to simultaneously run camps and fill up forms,” said a bureaucrat. He said the involvement of gram panchayats would have helped poor and illiterate people fill up and submit forms properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul clears Congress air but adds reminders||Trinamul Congress mouthpiece Jago Bangla on Saturday published an editorial detailing the stand on national politics, saying the party was not espousing the idea of a non-Congress alliance. It also took care to send implied reminders on the singular role Mamata Banerjee played in defeating the BJP in Bengal, and that Trinamul and its leadership should be treated with the respect their stature deserves. The editorial in the Bengali daily, coming two weeks after Mamata’s Delhi visit, is being viewed as an attempt to bring to an end speculation over Mamata’s view of the Congress and its role in a pan-India platform of non-BJP forces ahead of the Lok Sabha polls of 2024. The crux of the editorial reflects what Mamata had repeatedly stressed during her four-day Delhi trip between July 26 and 30. “We are certainly not talking about an alliance excluding the Congress. Rather, instead of a third alternative, a direct alternative alliance should be the aim of those in the Opposition this time,” read the piece, a reassertion of Mamata’s call for a united fight against the BJP to make the next general elections “Hope 24”. “The Trinamul Congress is in favour of a consolidated alliance. We do not have to furnish new evidence of our good intentions,” added the editorial in the paper, which became a daily from weekly on July 21. The context, the editorial stated, was rampant speculation and even criticism of Trinamul’s absence from recent political exercises for the national Opposition, convened by the Congress, especially Rahul Gandhi. Mamata, during her Delhi trip earlier this month, visited the Congress chief’s residence and met both Sonia and Rahul. In the editorial, Trinamul stated it was trying to set the record straight, asserting it was in favour of unity of non-BJP, secular, democratic parties for the sake of the nation, but it was unwilling to be slighted or relegated to the role of a sidekick.  Bringing up Mamata’s visit to 10 Janpath, the editorial underscored the party’s anti-BJP credentials inside and outside the Parliament, and said Trinamul would not stand for being casually told over a phone to show up at a rally. Trinamul sources said this happened a few times in the recent past ahead of Opposition events conceived by the Congress. The editorial was peppered with swipes at the Congress, especially in the context of the part it played in Bengal in the run-up to the key Assembly election, obliquely accusing it of adding fuel to the fire of the BJP’s no-holds-barred offensive on Trinamul in Bengal. The editorial said how Trinamul, under Mamata’s sole leadership, defeated the BJP while the Congress-Left alliance drew a blank should not be forgotten. “Unlike in many other states, there was no alliance necessary here (in Bengal). But for the sake of the nation’s interest, we want Opposition unity. Here, Trinamul’s fight, victory, role ought to be remembered,” read the editorial, underscoring the Congress’s lapses in preventing the BJP’s rise nationally and the need to figure out what needs to be done to plug the previous chinks in the alliance  armour. “Trinamul is not thinking about the leadership of the alliance. The priority is to bring to an end the anti-people policies of the BJP,” it added. “Only because the Congress could not fulfil its responsibility nationally was the BJP able to form the government with so many MPs. Had the Congress been able to put up a fight as a suitable alternative, then even in the last Lok Sabha election, the BJP could not have won so many seats.” The editorial said Trinamul knows how the BJP’s supposedly invincible electoral juggernaut can be brought to a halt and its desire for Opposition unity should not be judged based on its attendance in a programme or two. “… it wants an Opposition alliance, and the All India Trinamul Congress also knows the formula for building it,” it concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Smuggled 250kg hilsa seized at border||Border Security Force personnel on Friday evening seized over 250 kilos of hilsa valued at Rs 4.25 lakh that were being smuggled into India from Bangladesh through a riverine border in Murshidabad district. The BSF sources in Calcutta said a patrolling team of the 141 Battalion attached to Dayarampur outpost in Murshidabad intercepted six small boats with 257kg of hilsa packed in bags brought through the Padma river. A BSF officer said: “Initially, it appeared some villagers were fishing. But since their body language appeared suspicious, we challenged them near the river bank. They fled leaving the six boats. The team seized 257 kilos of mature hilsa from the boats.” The consignment was handed over to Customs, officiating commanding officer of the 141 Battalion Arvind Kumar said. A major drop in the catch of the prized fish has been seen for the second consecutive year in Bengal, apparently owing to the rising level of the riverbed because of silt that has shrunk breeding space, trapping of juvenile fish and excessive harvesting through “bottom trawling” or scooping hilsa from the bottom of the sea with nets. Fishermen, who ventured to catch hilsa from Namkhana-Kakdwip fishing harbour, said the gross catch this year has been 25 per cent of the projected catch till August. This shortfall has created a huge demand for the hilsa. BSF officials said smugglers were trying to cash in on the demand by smuggling the hilsa from Bangladesh. Last year, the BSF had thwarted smuggling of the hilsa from around Bangladesh and seized about 800 kilos of the prized fish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 705 new cases and 15 deaths ||Bengal on Saturday reported 705 new Covid-19  infections, 721 recoveries and 15 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 31 to 10,078 with 55 straight days of a fall in active cases. Bengal has 2.64 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 82 new infections and one death on Saturday. With North 24-Parganas logging 88 new infections, Saturday was also the ninth day on the trot of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Fourteen Bengal districts reported two-digit figures of new cases. Kalimpong, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and Jhargram reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.16 per cent, its highest this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.43. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.63 per cent on Saturday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday, while Hooghly and Calcutta reported one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.38 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 15.09 lakh recoveries and 18,291 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Ganga gulps health centre and homes in Malda||The rising Ganga gobbled up 40 houses in Malda district, including a concrete two-storey sub-health centre at Bhimagram in Kaliachak-III block on Friday night. Many families could salvage nothing but only watch helplessly as their houses disappeared one after another during the four-hour erosion. “The river gobbled one house after another in an incredibly short time,” said Rajib Sheikh, a local youth Trinamul leader. Bhimagram residents Akhtar Seikh, Khoka Seikh, Mainul Seikh and Nurul Sheikh said they could do nothing. These villagers had gathered in the area, some 30km from Malda town, to discuss plans for Independence Day when the erosion started at around 7.30 pm. All celebration plans have been put off now. Once the erosion started, many villagers ran out of their houses and gathered before the sub-health centre, which was built by the state government at an estimated cost of Rs 12.5 lakh in 2014. They watched with dismay as the building went under water too. Many villagers recorded this on their smartphones. Smriti Das, a nurse at the centre said they had sensed almost a month back that the building was in danger of getting submerged. “We had shifted all essential items from the centre,” she said. Kaliachak-III block has 43 sub-health centres but the one that was swallowed on Friday night catered to most patients in the area. “This was the most popular health centre for women and children from Lalutola, Durgaramtola, Hatichapa, Narayantola and Bhimagram villages. Apart from free treatment, medicines would also be distributed free of cost,” said Jiaul Hoque, a primary school teacher. Efforts are on to resume health services in the locality immediately. Rajarshi Mitra, district magistrate, Malda, said: “The health centre could not be saved but measures have been taken to resume health services in the locality immediately.” Malda has been battling erosion since June end and at the moment Manikchak, Kaliachak-I and Kaliachak-III are worst affected. There are 15 blocks in Malda district. Bhimagram is under the supervision of Farakka Barrage Project Authority (FBPA) which has now started anti-erosion work on a war-footing. “But nothing has worked,” said Chandana Sarkar, the Trinamul MLA of Baishnabnagar, who inspected the area on Saturday morning. Sources maintain that the FBPA has floated a Rs 80 crore tender for anti-erosion work in Baishnabnagar Assembly area. “However, this is not the right time to commence that work because of the monsoon. The work will probably start from November,” said a FBPA official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Erosion below rail line hits trains in Murshidabad||Incessant rain on Friday evening led to the sudden erosion of 70 metres of land below the railway line in Murshidabad’s Ahiran village on Saturday around dawn. The stretch from below the Azimganj-Farakka line of Eastern Railways’ Malda division, halfway between Sujnipara and Jangipur was hollowed out by a strong current or flood. Since Friday night, as rain pounded the stretch, trains got delayed. After Saturday’s erosion, at least 11 trains had to be rerouted from Farakka via Rampurhat and Burdwan. Farakka station hosts a dividing line. “On Saturday, Nabadwip Dham-Malda Express was cancelled and many special trains including the Kamrup Express and Teesta Torsa Express were rerouted,” said an Eastern Railways official on Saturday. These trains were to originate from Howrah station and operate on the North Bengal-Katwa route, for which Farakka is a vital cog. The Farakka-Azimganj line was also closed. “Repairs started at the crack of dawn and the target is to finish them by Sunday evening. Operations may resume on Monday at best,” said Malda division’s PRO Pawan Kumar. The development reportedly caused widespread distress to passengers hailing from Suti, Samserganj, and Jangipur, most of whom travel to suburban areas or to Calcutta on trains for their livelihood. "We will lose too much time trying to traverse this 250km to Calcutta by bus. It is impossible to keep up that routine daily, and moreover buses provide no guarantees of service. We hope things are back to normal by Monday," said Jangipur businessman Amal Biswas, 40.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
15-08-2021||North East||TMC alleges that its two MPs were attacked twice in Tripura||The Trinamul Congress alleged that its two MPs, Dola Sen and Aparupa Poddar, had come under attack twice by suspected BJP members in Tripura on Sunday. Tripura Trinamul leader Ashish Lal Singh told The Telegraph that the MPs from Bengal had gone to Nandigram in the Sabroom subdivision, about 120 km from Agartala, to hoist the national flag at the party office. Tripura is ruled by the BJP-IPFT coalition government. Sharing details of the alleged attack, Singh said: “From Nandigram, the MPs went to open a new party office, about 7km away. Our women MPs were attacked by BJP goons. This shows there is no security for even women in Tripura. The cars they were travelling in were damaged by the hoodlums who were armed with rods and sticks. An old party hand, Becharam Das, suffered serious injuries to the head.” Both the MPs returned to Calcutta in the evening after receiving treatment at GB Pant Hospital in Agartala. Over the past couple of weeks, Trinamul had alleged that leaders — including national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee — had been repeatedly attacked in Tripura as the ruling BJP was worried about Trinamul’s growing popularity in the state. Official sources said suspected BJP members had pelted the cars of the MPs with stones. “The driver of one of the cars was injured. The MPs were not hurt. An investigation is on and action will be taken against the attackers,” said a source. Trinamul sources said Poddar and Sen had faced attacks twice, first in the Sabroom subdivision and then in the Belonia subdivision. Both the subdivisions are in South district. Reacting to Sunday’s incident, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said: “We condemn any sort of attacks. But at the same time, we want a thorough police inquiry because we are getting conflicting reports from the ground. We want the inquiry to find where and why Trinamul MPs went to Sabroom in South District. If they went, did they inform the local police?” Before leaving for Calcutta, Sen spoke to media persons at the GB Pant Hospital. “There is no freedom in Tripura where a goonda raj exists. We have taken a pledge on Independence Day to restore Tripura’s freedom with the support of people. Everyone should join hands to restore democracy in Tripura. Ten persons were injured in the attack,” the MP said. Sen alleged that the police and BJP activists were working together. “We have informed the Tripura DGP (V.S. Yadav) about the attack over phone and through WhatsApp.” Our leaders and supporters are not safe in Tripura.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
15-08-2021||North East||Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui resigns amid violence over police encounter of former militant||Meghalaya Home Minister Lahkmen Rymbui resigned on Sunday amid violence in Shillong over the police shooting of a former militant.  Rymbui also urged Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma to institute a judicial inquiry into the shooting of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, the self-styled general secretary of the banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council who had surrendered.  "I hereby express shock to the incident where (L) Chesterfield Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the lawful tenets of the law," he stated in his letter to the chief minister.  "I would like to request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect. This will facilitate free and fair inquiry taken by the government to bring out the truth of the incident. I propose judicial inquiry be conducted," he added.  Rymbui told PTI that his United Democratic Party also backed the decision to step down.  "I have put forth my papers, after due consultation with my party leadership, to allow a free and fair probe into the killing of Thangkhiew," he said.  UDP, an ally of the Sangma's NPP in the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government, also urged for a judicial probe into the incident, which resulted in violent protests, Rymbui said.  A source close to the chief minister said the government accepted the resignation as the home minister was unaware of the incident.  The Meghalaya government has imposed a curfew in Shillong and banned mobile internet services in at least four districts as vandalism and arson rocked the state capital and nearby areas on Independence Day.  Thangkhiew, who had surrendered in 2018, was shot dead on August 13 when he allegedly tried to attack a police team with a knife during a raid at his house in connection with a series of IED blasts in the state.  Police said they have evidence that Thangkhiew masterminded the blasts after his surrender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
15-08-2021||North East||Himanta Biswa Sarma invites ULFA (I) chief for peace talks||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday appealed to ULFA (I) chief Paresh Barua to come to the negotiating table. Sarma also expressed his gratitude to COVID warriors for their unrelenting fight against the pandemic, and reaffirmed his government's commitment to the war against drugs and human trafficking. He made 10 'requests' to the people of Assam, including taking care of aging parents and marrying off daughters not before the age of 21, to mark the 75th Independence Day. Speaking at the state function organised on the occasion, the chief minister said that Assam is celebrating Independence Day without any bandh called by militant groups, including ULFA, for the first time in decades. “On behalf of the people of Assam, I appeal to Paresh Barua to come forward for dialogue. Let no youth of our state be killed anymore,” he said. The ULFA (I), which had been calling for Assam Bandh on Independence Day and Republic Day for several decades, refrained from the practice for the first time for Independence Day this year. The outfit has also declared a unilateral ceasefire since May this year in view of the pandemic situation. The chief minister had earlier urged Barua to come for peace talks after assuming power in May this year. Sarma thanked all COVID warriors, including doctors, nurses, laboratory technicians and ambulance drivers, for working tirelessly in the pandemic. Noting that COVID-19 vaccination for all eligible people was progressing well in the state, he said that 1.5 crore doses will be administered in the next one week. He congratulated boxer Lovlina Borgohain for her Olympic bronze medal and said that her success is an inspiration for all. Sarma paid tributes to the six Assam Police personnel killed in violence along the inter-state border with Mizoram on July 26, and conferred them the 'Chief Minister's Special Service Medal in a Crisis Situation' posthumously. He said that the Assam government is committed to resolving the border disputes without compromising with the state's constitutional boundary. "I urge the northeastern states to resolve the disputes through talks to keep the 'soul' of our region alive," he said. The chief minister said that the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, which was passed by the assembly on Friday, shows the state government's resolve to protect the cultural ethos of the state. He said that the government is committed to eradicating poverty through population control and will carry on its war against drugs, human trafficking and other social menaces. Sarma said his government will fulfil its pre-poll promises including providing one lakh government jobs and waiving loans taken by women from micro-finance institutions. "We want to do away with red-tapism in bureaucracy," he said. The chief minister announced that freedom fighters' pension issued by the state government will be increased to Rs 36,000 at par with the central remuneration and state honours will be accorded to all these former revolutionaries during their last rites. He made 10 'requests' to the people of the state and urged them to comply with these to build a better Assam. Sarma urged people to observe birth and death anniversaries of Vaishanvite preachers Srimanta Sankardeva and Madhabdeva as opportunities to emulate their teachings. He called on people to make it a tradition to begin all programmes with a rendition of the state song and conclude those with the National Anthem. Urging people to take care of their aging parents, the chief minister said that his government will sanction seven days leave per year to its employees to visit their parents and requested other employers and businessmen to follow suit. To improve the work culture, he requested government employees to spend an extra hour at the office and leave no work pending. He appealed to people to stop using single-use plastics and do at least one 'good deed' this year like giving free tuition to needy students or organising health camps. Sarma urged people not to marry off their daughters till they attain the age of 21, and cooperate with police to fight drugs and human trafficking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
15-08-2021||North East||Ulfa-I extends unilateral ceasefire announced on May 15 by another three months||The proscribed Ulfa (Independent) on Saturday extended its unilateral ceasefire announced on May 15 by another three months because the pandemic situation in Assam was yet to stabilise. The declaration comes close on the heels of its August 12 declaration not to call its customary Independence Day bandh, the first time since 1996. The twin Ulfa (I) announcements and Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s positive response has fuelled speculations of a bilateral ceasefire being round the corner to pave the way for a formal peace process between the Centre and the outfit. In a statement emailed to a section of journalists, Ulfa (I) commander-in-chief Paresh Barua said the decision to extend the ceasefire was taken because the Covid situation was yet to stabilise and that they will shun hostilities as part of their social responsibility. Till Friday, there were 8,654 active cases in the state, of which 763 cases were detected during the day. Altogether 20 deaths because of Covid were also reported. Though curfew hours have been reduced, the ban on inter-district travel imposed in May continues to check the spread of Covid-19. The ongoing ceasefire, announced on May 15 because of difficulties faced by the masses owing to Covid-19, is only the second time since 2006 that the outfit has announced cessation of hostilities. The outfit had in 2006 responded to the Centre’s decision to temporarily suspend all counter-insurgency operations to pave the way for talks. Sarma, who had appealed to Ulfa (I) to join the mainstream the day he assumed charge on May 10, described the extension of ceasefire as a very “positive and encouraging” sign. “Before this the Ulfa had also not called its customary bandh on Independence Day... I hope this ceasefire becomes permanent and pray that the Ulfa (I) under the leadership of Paresh Barua returns to the mainstream with full honour,” Sarma said. The Ulfa, formed in 1979, has led an armed insurgency with the objective of securing a sovereign Assam. It was banned in 1990. Over the years its top-ranking members have joined the mainstream. It also suffered a major split in 2011 when the then Ulfa chairman Arabinda Rajkhowa decided to join the peace process. Barua has since renamed his faction Ulfa (Independent). Time and again Barua has made it clear he was not against talks but negotiations have to include the issue of sovereignty. Since the Centre wants the talks to be held within the framework of the Constitution, past efforts at peace have not made much headway. Sources said moves are now on to find a middle path so that the peace process can take off. “Not calling a bandh on Independence Day and extension of ceasefire are welcome as these fuel hopes of a breakthrough,” a source said. Though the Ulfa (I) has not called any bandh on Sunday, it has, however, urged the masses to stage their protest democratically by hoisting the outfit’s flag, waving black flags and wearing black badges by adhering to Covid protocol. Barua is said to be controlling the reins of his outfit from the Myanmar-China border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
15-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Shared freedom||Art provokes. It challenges prejudices, pushes the boundaries of settled thought and discovers new forms and modes — all of which can cause discomfort, even anger. The transgressive nature of creativity can only flourish when the artist has the right to offend to some extent, according to Akhil Sibal, an advocate who had defended M.F. Husain when his works attracted the charge of obscenity. Mr Sibal deplored the fact that artists tended to sanitize their work amid increasing intolerance and the threat of the law. Husain’s career demonstrates that the use of the law by the most intolerant elements in society has a long history in India. This is more common now, affecting not just films or music or story-telling, but laughter too. For comedy, especially stand-up comedy, has grown into a tool of witty criticism. Without a law against laughter, the State’s disapproval may yet be manifested through laws penalizing the hurting of religious sentiments, for example, as in the case of the arrest of the comic artist, Munawar Faruqui, earlier this year. He was arrested for allegedly insulting Hindu deities and Amit Shah. Mr Sibal referred to the critical, free thinking aspect of art. But this should thrive beyond art too. Are Indians truly independent from that viewpoint? There can be no absolute freedom, of course; in a democracy, each citizen’s freedom is bounded by that of others. This principle envisages a tolerant, diverse co-existence, within which everyone is free to express themselves, argue or differ. This is enumerated in Article 19 of the Constitution. The limitations to freedom that it itemizes, however, are so phrased as to allow subjective interpretations — sovereignty and integrity of India or the security of the State can mean different things to different regimes as, for instance, can public order, decency and morality. The Constitution-makers had looked ahead at a time of hope in spite of the blood spilled in order to reach the tryst with destiny; they had not imagined that phrases in the Constitution and related sections in the Indian Penal Code — penalizing alleged hate speeches or threats to the interests of the State for example — would be used with deliberate misdirection to fetter society. Independent India was envisioned as a secular democratic republic, not a Hindu rashtra. Specific definitions and the revival of institutional checks and balances would erase the grey areas that allow the misuse of provisions and laws. Only then can the violence of dominant groups be punished instead of dissenters and activists being imprisoned. The right to offend is a fundamental tenet of a free society. That Indians baulk at saying or creating anything that is critical of the majority religion or the ruling party and its policies are indications of how far the country has slipped on the path to freedom and equality. To celebrate India’s independence today would be to ensure also that the promises of the Constitution are fulfilled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
15-08-2021||Opinion||Feeding the beast||The principal strategy of contemporary majoritarianism is singling out a group, demonizing it as an alien fifth column, and then publicly making an example of it. In earlier columns, I’ve examined how State-sponsored majoritarianism deals with minorities in countries as different as Myanmar, China and France. Myanmar, a pseudo-democracy, ethnically cleansed the Muslim Rohingya from Rakhine, a province bordering Bangladesh. China, a communist autocracy, has set itself the task of dissolving the Uighur as a Muslim community and it has attempted this by destroying mosques, by interning the Uighur on a massive scale, by intrusively surveilling the Uighur outside the camps and by coercively dispersing adult Uighurs to other parts of China. France, a Western European democracy, shares China’s suspicion of Muslim ‘extraterritoriality’. Political parties and voters across the political spectrum have targeted French Muslims as a dangerously unassimilated minority. Marine Le Pen, the leader of France’s Front National, a party with clear historical connections to fascistic French political movements like Action Française and Poujadism, speaks, nonetheless, from the mainstream of French politics when she attacks French Muslims as an incorrigibly anti-secular threat to the republic’s ideals, especially its cardinal principle of laicité. French Muslims are in no imminent danger of disenfranchisement, ethnic cleansing or concerted violence, but they do constitute a politically beleaguered minority, singled out for suspicion by both State and civil society. Despite the enormously varied contexts of majoritarian politics and policies in these three countries, they have some features in common. In all three cases, there seems little or no significant opposition to the singling out of the stigmatized minority from civil society groups or political parties other than those that speak from within the minority community. Le Pen, Macron, mainstream French conservatives, mainstream media groups seem to agree that France’s Muslims are a problem. This consensus seems even starker in Myanmar and there’s no sign that in what passes for public opinion in China, there is any disagreement with the State’s decision to ‘domesticate’ the community and bring it to heel. Modern majoritarianism is not covert, it is explicit and performative. It sets out to make an example of the minority in question. The savage ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya was publicly defended both by Myanmar’s junta and its erstwhile ruling party, the National League for Democracy. Aung San Suu Kyi, once an icon of easy liberalism, endorsed the army’s genocidal purge with a ruthlessness that Marine Le Pen might have envied. The country’s Parliament passed laws singling out Muslims and its Buddhist monks exchanged notes with their Theravada Buddhist counterparts in Sri Lanka on the best way of dealing with inconvenient Muslim minorities. Using the police or the army or the bureaucracy against a minority serves several purposes. It indicates to the general population that the minority is a kind of underclass that does not have the protection of the State. An underclass is a prerequisite for successful majoritarianism because the poor, subaltern, working-class sections of the nominal majority — Han, white, Buddhist — are best mobilized by offering them objects of hatred more wretched than them. Pogroms and vigilante violence constantly reiterate and celebrate this public subordination. Phone cameras, Facebook Live and WhatsApp shares allow people to vicariously participate in violent subordination on an unprecedented scale. This simultaneity, this sense of sharing a moment with thousands and millions of others, creates a virtual solidarity. It’s like watching a Premier League football match live. You might be thousands of miles away but, if you have a dog in the fight, you feel a sense of belonging, of ownership, that you wouldn’t feel in the absence of a live telecast. Majoritarianism is, amongst other things, a live carnival that you can be a part of. A couple of days ago, a video began to circulate amongst Indian WhatsApp groups, a clip that showed a Muslim man being beaten in Kanpur. His young daughter tried to protect her father, begging the mob to spare him. Even as the police intervened to take him away, his assailants kept him hitting him. Later, there were dark allegations of ‘conversion’, reports that goons had chosen to leverage religious community to settle a local dispute. This is irrelevant detail. The important thing here is the spectacle, the ecstatic rage and furious joy that bearing witness to ‘righteous’ violence brings. When white southerners gathered to watch a black man being lynched, they participated vicariously in the dispensing of summary justice because the black man was, in their view, an over-sexed animal, much given to molesting white women. Something like that feeling is harnessed by campaigns against ‘love jihad’, by the criminalization of the cattle trade, by the lynchings that keep predatory minorities in order. If majoritarianism is to be understood as a global phenomenon, India is the paradigmatic case. This is simply a matter of scale. India not only has the largest population in the world, it is also home to two hundred million Muslims. This is the size of the total population of Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country. India’s Muslim population is both dispersed and massive. Only Indonesia and Pakistan have larger Muslim populations. Even if the Indian State wanted to, it couldn’t do what China and Myanmar have done: reduce or disperse or expel a relatively small minority compactly located in a frontier province. Fascism is not a useful term for majoritarianism in India because given the defining precedent of Nazi Germany, it implies a big bang, death-camp climax. This is both wrong and a distraction from the real danger. Majoritarianism in India is not premised on a final solution. Majoritarian parties and organizations are unlikely to attempt large-scale ethnic cleansing or try to corral two hundred million Muslims in concentration camps. This is not on account of moral scruple but because the logistics of both exceed India’s State capacity. Majoritarianism in India offers a tasting menu, not a main course. Love jihad, vigilantism, lynching, public beatings, urban riots, the threat of the National Register of Citizens, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act’s success in smuggling in a religious criterion for citizenship, the ransacking of minority universities, the Ram Mandir, the taming of Kashmir, these hors d’oeuvres help feed the beast. The ‘success’ of the Gujarat model in segregating and subordinating Muslims in that state sustains the majoritarian wager that campaigns of episodic intimidation and violence can replicate this success on a pan-Indian scale.  India’s majoritarians believe that this carnival of contained but exemplary violence can indefinitely sustain an election-winning electoral majority. They are wrong, but that’s an argument for another day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
15-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Twitter, it seems, is going out of its way to please BJP govt||Sir — Twitter had initially received much praise for standing up to the autocratic ways of the Government of India when the Information Technology Rules, 2021 were issued. But clearly business interests always triumph over any urge to stand up to the bullying tactics of the State. Not only is Twitter now in compliance with the IT Rules, it seems to be going out of its way to please the reigning Bharatiya Janata Party government. What else could explain the clear prejudice against the Congress? First, Rahul Gandhi’s account was temporarily suspended last week after he tweeted pictures of the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Northwest Delhi. Twitter deemed this a violation of its rules. If indeed Rahul was in breach of regulations, the post could have been removed. What was the need to suspend the account of one of the principal leaders of the Opposition for a week? When BJP leaders spread canards about anything and everything in the country, Twitter does little more than attach a manipulated media tag to the post, if that. Such a tag may mean something to an educated user with the privilege of understanding how social media works, but to most common people who blindly consume and regurgitate the lies that are fed to them on social media such a tag means next to nothing. Why, when voices in the government are not silenced, is the Opposition not being allowed to speak its mind? Aneesha Das,Calcutta Sir — Even while Indians celebrated the achievements of its women athletes in Tokyo, news emerged of the rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi. Yet, it is business as usual for the government and the Opposition in the capital city. While the government is more bothered about why Rahul Gandhi visited the victim’s house, the Congress scion himself is losing sleep over his Twitter account being blocked and his millions of followers being deprived of his opinion. There is no doubt that Twitter’s actions reek of bias, but should not the focus be on getting justice for the girl who was raped and killed? Twitter is a relatively new medium; the role of the Opposition in a democracy is much older and more potent than a social media platform. Opposition parties communicated with the masses before social media existed. In fact, with the arrival of such means like social media and other internet platforms, politicians have become complacent, not reaching out to the public in real-life. Perhaps instead of crying over Twitter stifling his voice, Rahul should take this opportunity to speak his mind directly to the masses who matter, and they are most certainly not on Twitter. Rahul K. Jha,Jamshedpur Sir — Today, India’s 75th Independence Day, is the perfect opportunity to probe the idea of independence and introspect on whether Indians are indeed free. From recent revelations about spyware being used allegedly for mass surveillance to the State setting a religious test for citizenship, freedom and agency seem to be fraught concepts in India right now. Artists, activists and dissenters are silenced and killed for exercising their ‘freedom’. Instead of celebrating an event that was achieved at the cost of many lives and much sacrifice, we should try and safeguard freedoms for one and all. Jayanta Bhattacharya, Calcutta Sir — The article, “Online class toll begins to show” (Aug 14), delineates the unfavourable impact of online teaching, particularly on pupils at the pre-primary level. It is not surprising that learning from home puts extra pressure on parents who are expected to fill in for teachers. But they are often unable to do so because of domestic chores, work or lack of knowledge. But the article only discusses schools within Calcutta, that too English-medium ones. These form a tiny segment of pre-primary schools in Bengal. Students in Bengali-medium schools in cities and villages form the bulk; they are more deprived than most. With the pandemic still raging, no light is visible at the end of the tunnel. Sanjit Ghatak, South 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
15-08-2021||Opinion||Kapil Sibal's birthday bash was nothing more than a party, or was it? ||The birthday party of the Congress parliamentarian and former minister, Kapil Sibal, generated a lot of political noise. While one section of the media innocently portrayed it as another effort to forge Opposition unity, another section mischievously linked the event to the rebel ‘Group of 23’, speculating over whether it was a plot to chart out a new path without the leadership of the Nehru-Gandhi family. Some conspiracy theorists went so far as to suggest that Sibal hosted the dinner on the day Rahul Gandhi was in Srinagar, away from Delhi. While leaders with mature thought processes laughed off the controversy, those swayed by the media’s interpretations wondered whether the G-23 was getting active again. The truth, however, is that it was a birthday party used by the host for some political publicity. One G-23 member remarked in a private conversation, “Sibal, too, is very ambitious, but he will realize the ground reality if he invites the same set of leaders with the stated objective of forging Opposition unity. Top leaders went because it was the birthday party of a top lawyer who has fought everybody’s case, not of a politician who can play any role in Opposition unity”. A high-profile leader from another Opposition party said, “We went to Sibal’s birthday party, not to a political event. Politics was discussed informally because we are politicians. Had it been a cricketer’s party, the topic of discussion would be cricket”. The Opposition leaders are clear in their minds that politics will be conducted by the Congress, not a rebel group of the Congress, and there was no question of being part of a design to isolate the Nehru-Gandhi family. Bihar has become a land of poster wars. Tej Pratap Yadav, the eldest son of the Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, keeps lambasting senior party leaders every other day. At times, he trains his guns on journalists as well. Investigations revealed that at the root of the malaise is the continuous absence of his photographs from the huge posters in and around the state party headquarters in Patna. Lalu, Rabri Devi, their younger son, Tejashwi, and several other leaders are given space on the billboards, but not Tej Pratap. “We all know that a silent power struggle is going on in the party and Tejashwi is now way ahead in it. But not giving Tej Pratap a place in the posters is like pinching him regularly... at least give him space on the posters to keep him calm,” a senior RJD leader said. Somebody from Tej Pratap’s group put up a huge poster displaying him prominently along with Lalu and Rabri. Tejashwi was missing. Alas, somebody blackened the poster in the dead of night. It had to be removed hurriedly in the morning. Another poster fight is going on in Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United). It is between the new national president of the party and the Lok Sabha member, Rajiv Ranjan Singh — also known as Lalan Singh — and the Union steel minister, RCP Singh, a Rajya Sabha member who was recently removed from the post of national president. The two groups keep putting up posters and pulling them down if one leader or another is either missing or poorly represented. The showdown will be on August 16, the day the Union minister returns to Patna from Delhi after losing his party chair. The Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly has been systematically marginalizing senior party leaders. After edging out veterans like LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, the recent ouster of Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar from the Union cabinet was an assertion of the motive. Two faces of the old guard, Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari, remain, but their say and influence in key matters have been drastically cut. Rajnath or Gadkari could have resolved the recent stalemate in Parliament by using their experience and good equations with the Opposition, but they were not involved. Rajnath spoke, but then stepped back, possibly because he was asked to do so. The farmers’ agitation continues but neither of the two leaders have been put forward to diffuse the crisis. One reason for this, according to whispers in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s corridors, is that the current regime does not want to give importance to the Opposition by involving the two seniors. The other reason is the intent to send out the message that the prominence of these leaders is on the ebb. Many in the BJP believe that by the next general elections in 2024, Rajnath and Gadkari could find themselves on the margins. The editor-turned-politician and the legislative assembly member from the Biju Janata Dal, Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, has kicked up a fresh political storm by describing VK Pandian — the private secretary of the Odisha chief minister, Naveen Patnaik — and the Jajpur MLA, Pranab Prakash Das, as the CM’s ‘two eyes’. Speaking at a function, Soumya, the son-in-law of the former chief minister, JB Patnaik, said, “Administrators and politicians are like the two eyes of a ruler. And in case of Naveen, they are MLA Pranab Prakash Das and Pandian babu”. He went on to say that since the CM can see only what his “two eyes” want him to see, there is always a chance of him being misled. In that case, he argued, the party will be doomed. He went on to argue the case for the supreme leader needing a third eye, or the media. “However loyal these two eyes may be, there is no guarantee they will continue to remain so. That is why a clever leader [like Naveen] also needs to have a third eye,” said Soumya, who has been sulking ever since he was excluded from the CM’s ministry. Last month, his editorial in his popular daily criticizing the state government for trying to suppress Covid-related deaths had raised eyebrows. The leader had gone to the extent of demanding a white paper on the issue from the dispensation, giving the Opposition much-needed ammunition against the government. The BJP national general-secretary, CT Ravi, has angered the Congress by suggesting that hookah bars be opened in the name of Jawaharlal Nehru. He said this while commenting on Congress leaders’ opposition to the BJP government in Karnataka contemplating renaming Indira Canteens that offer affordable meals. Started during the Congress regime headed by PC Siddaramaiah, Indira Canteens have been a big hit in the state. The question is, will Ravi not change, or will his party not allow him to change?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
15-08-2021||Opinion||Jack and the peace-talk||Around the time Twitter suspended the account of Rahul Gandhi and several other Opposition leaders, the founder of the social media platform was spelling out his world vision. Jack Dorsey tweeted: “Bitcoin will unite a deeply divided country [United States]. And eventually: world.” And this might come as a shock to Mr Gandhi because during his 2018 maiden India visit, Dorsey met the Dalai Lama before he met him, but Dorsey’s take on world peace is this --- “… my hope is that [bitcoin] creates world peace”. So don’t be fooled by the beard and, so what if you think a blue tick is as good as a halo and no matter what pandemic evangelism you might have pulled off riding the platform --- the founder of Twitter is not Mr God. The name’s Dorsey and he is a nerd-cum-entrepreneur, no more required to be possessed of a conscience or prize it over bottomline than your Adani or Ambani. When he holds forth on how “focus on one thing isn’t hate of the others”, he is not spewing a life view — stop focusing on the beard — but arguing against all cryptocurrency except for bitcoin. When he talks about Twitter’s future, he is sure that bitcoin will be a big part of it. And when he said in June, “I don’t think there is anything more important in my lifetime to work on,” he was still on bitcoin. When Dorsey talks blue sky and decentralisation, he is actually tech-talking; bluesky is the name for Twitter’s decentralised social networking effort. And notwithstanding his I-do-not-celebrate-or-feel-pride thread following Twitter’s decision to suspend Donald Trump’s account, it is a fact that the “right decision” was taken only when Joe Biden had secured victory in the US presidential polls and Trump’s countdown had begun. So the shock at Twitter’s censory behaviour is bizarre. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, whose account has been suspended, said, “It’s obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform… they are interfering in our political process… And as a politician I don’t like that.” To think, as a politician he believed as much.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
15-08-2021||Opinion||Can you see what’s written there?||From where I am this is all I can see. And I may be right in believing I can read what I see. I am no longer sure. I seem to have left behind the ability to make sense of things; or shall I say that ability has left me, drip by drip, day after day. I can no longer be sure. I say “read” when actually there is nothing to read in what I see and you probably see too. There are no letters and no words. There isn’t a language. There’s nothing to read. But perhaps there is. I am confused. I can no longer make sense of one thing and another. Too many things that I thought were those things turned out not to be those things. I mean I used to think a lie is a lie and then it turned out that a lie is actually the truth. When they lie they say it like the truth and it is received as the truth. It seems I have lost my definitions and understandings of things as I had grown up to learn them. Turns out I was fed the wrong definitions and the wrong understandings, and it can be a little unsettling that all this time has been spent living and perceiving in error and now it may be too late. I probably should not be saying “read” when there is nothing to read in what I see. But then, perhaps there is. Who knows? I used to think, perhaps wrongly, that it is possible to read things by seeing things, they need not be letters or words or sentences, or longer things with many many sentences. They may just be what they are and it is possible to read them. Read a sign, for instance, or a situation, or a scene. Possible? I can no longer be certain. From where I am I can see very little and read very little. There are bars that tunnel the scope of my vision and there is nowhere else to look at anything from. All the time that I have been here, this is the only view I am allowed of what is outside. Or where you are and from where you can turn your gaze 360 degrees and up and down and see all there can be seen. You can probably guess where I am. It’s Independence Day, but it is not independence day. See I told you things mean different things, different from what you thought they mean. I might wish to read in what I see a tableau of freedom, and open sky, whatever little I can see of it, and birds in flight. But I may also read a menaced sky and birds of prey, watching over, in readiness to swoop rather than soar. I can’t tell what it is, I can no longer tell one thing from another. All that flies Isn’t all free Those are lies Of a high degree.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-51
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum live streams Independence Day celebrations||Health minister Banna Gupta hoisted the tricolour at Gopal Maidan in Bistupur on Sunday during the 75th Independence Day celebrations held amid strict adherence to Covid-19 norms. The function which was also live streamed on the Facebook page of PRD East Singhbhum was also attended by East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior superintendent of police M. Tamil Vanan and other senior district administrative officials. Soon after unfurling the national flag at 9.05am, the minister inspected the parade. In his address he said that Covid-19 pandemic has posed several challenges for the state government. He appealed to people to continue following the Covid appropriate behaviour. The function was held with several restrictions. Public participation was not allowed due to the pandemic. The one hour function saw felicitation of freedom fighters and felicitation of corona warriors. Tata Steel, Tata Motors and other Tata group companies also celebrated the day in a simple manner. Tata Steel managing director T.V. Narendran unfurled the national flag at a function organised at the company's works main gate. Addressing the function he wished the people on this historic day. He went on to say that the Covid-19 pandemic had severely impacted business and growth but hoped that things will change for the better. Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL), formerly Jusco, also organised a function on its premises at Bistupur to mark the day. Managing director of TSUISL Tarun Daga hoisted the national flag. Others, like Tata Motors and its ancillaries based at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district, also celebrated Independence Day, adhering to Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum tribal village holds Independence Day celebrations for first time||Patipani village in Bodam block of East Singhbhum district on Sunday, witnessed flag-hoisting for the first time after the country’s independence. Patipani village, located about 25km away from Jamshedpur, is inhabited by Birhor which is a primitive tribe, the people belonging to which prefer to stay in the trees. Patipani is one of the most remote and neglected villages in the district. Though the administration has off late started providing the basic necessities like house, drinking water and medical facility beside supplying food-grains, due to lack of proper education, the residents of the village tend to earn a living by venturing into forest for collecting firewood and saal leaves that's they sell in the local market. Organised by a Jamshedpur-based social organisation, Kabi Kaushal Samaj Seva, the flag-hoisting was attended by over 50 Birhors, including women and children. A 90-year-old woman, Bali Birhor, unfurled the national flag amidst the slogan "Bharat Mata ki Jai." Madhab Birhor who is the village head said as of now their children who read in primary level school in the adjoining village used to attend the Independence Day celebration held at the school "But it is the first time that we felt proud as the flag-hoisting for the Independence Day was held at our village," observed Madhab after the tricolour was unfurled. Bali Birhor who is the eldest resident of the village could not say anything due to the language problem. On this occasion, the functionaries of the social outfit distributed sweets among the villagers. The outfit also gave out sarees to the woman folks for making the occasion special.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||CBI announces Rs 5 lakh reward for anyone sharing information on Dhanbad judge's death||The CBI has announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh for anyone sharing "information of importance" on the alleged killing of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, who was mowed down by an autorickshaw on July 28, officials said on Sunday. A notice announcing the reward said Anand was killed on July 28 and the case is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). It said if anyone has any information of importance, it can be shared with the special crime team of the CBI housed at the CSIR Satkar guest house in Dhanbad through phone numbers 7827728856, 011-24368640 and 24368641. "Cash reward of Rs 5 lakh will be given to the person who will give worthwhile information relating to the crime," it said. The CBI has taken the custody of two men -- autorickshaw driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma -- who are accused in the case. The 49-year-old judge was allegedly mowed down by a heavy autorickshaw while he was on a morning jog in Dhanbad on July 28. CCTV footage showed that he was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at the Randhir Verma Chowk when the autorickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. The CBI has recreated the accident scene, while experts of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) have also collected evidence from the spot. The case was handed over to the CBI by the Jharkhand government. The central agency had dispatched a 20-member team under its ace investigator VK Shukla, recently awarded as one of the best investigators by the Union home ministry, to probe the matter. The Jharkhand High Court and the Supreme Court are keeping an eye on the case. A high court bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had directed the CBI to initiate a probe at the earliest. The court had also directed the state government to hand over all the documents of the case to the CBI. Taking cognizance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Justice Ranjan had converted it into a writ petition and ordered the formation of an SIT headed by Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar to look into the matter. Dissatisfied with the progress report, the bench had questioned the delay in registering an FIR into the case. The incident occurred at 5.08 am and the FIR was registered at 12.45 pm when it was clear from the CCTV footage that the judge was picked up from the spot and taken to a hospital, the court had said. "Do the police register an FIR only on the basis of a statement? Do the police not register an FIR on their own? Why did the police take six hours to register the FIR?" the court had asked. It had also said there is fear among judicial officers following the incident and directed that the security of courts, including the high court, and that of judicial officers be strengthened. On July 30, the Supreme Court also took suo motu cognizance of the "sad demise" of the Dhanbad judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant stresses on development using democratic norms||Chief minister Hemant Soren said  that his government is following the agenda of development through democratic norms, and appealed to all residents of Jharkhand on Independence Day to work towards strengthening social equilibrium. Delivering his speech to celebrate India's 75th Independence Day at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground on Sunday,  his second since  assuming charge in 2019, he stressed on the principal of "Vikas Moolmantra,  Aadhar Loktantra", and said that his government was working on multiple fronts to usher in holistic development in Jharkhand, which since its creation in 2000, is still battling numerous problems.  Hemant said upgrading the agriculture sector to working on industrial promotion, job creation, development of sports, strengthening elementary and higher education, ensuring basic necessities, boosting power production, among others, are  his government’s key focus areas. Hailing the contribution of scores of freedom fighters who laid down their lives for the nation's independence and creation of a separate Jharkhand state over the years, he said his government was committed to safeguarding the rights of its people so that the local culture, lifestyle and aspirations are fulfilled. Revealing plans to boost agriculture, one of the mainstays of people living in rural areas, he said the government had over the last year come up with several plans and policies. Jharkhand, he said,  was working to set up Kirshi Pathshala in every district for all-round capacity building of farmers. He said, “It will be known as Samekit Birsa Gram Vikas Yojana-cum-Krishi Pathshala, which is going to start soon. In the first phase, we plan to identify one agriculture farm in every district to first upgrade it with all facilities which will act as a model place for others to come and learn various nuances of farming. This will help local farmers cutting across dairy, fishery and others, to get exposed to state-of-art facilities and latest techniques so that they can replicate it further.” Hemant spoke of his government's farm loan waiver scheme and plans to build cold storage.“We offered loan waivers to the tune of Rs 750 crore, benefitting 1.82 lakh farmers so far,” he said. Talking about post-harvest facilities, he said that construction of 5000 metric tonne capacity cold storages was underway in various districts while several major and minor irrigation schemes were being refurbished to improve irrigation facilities. He also spoke on how they are working to increase income of those living in rural areas citing that since the onset of the pandemic followed by lockdowns, the government has been tackling the situation on the principle of life and livelihood ("jeevan bhi and jeevika bhi"). Equal emphasis was being provided for the creation of jobs in the state for which, he said that new recruitment rules were formulated for grade 3 and 4 jobs in government departments. “The policy aims to provide jobs to only locals. Those who did their 10th or 12th from this state will be eligible for applying. This apart, we have also made mandatory of basic knowledge of local rituals and culture for candidates so that we can safeguard our tradition, customs and languages,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||Fan of Mahendra Singh Dhoni ‘walks’ 1,400km and waits||A fan of former cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni had come all the way from his village in Haryana to Ranchi in Jharkhand to meet his idol. “Dhoniji se mil ke hi ghar lautunga (I will return home only after I meet Dhoni),” said Ajay Gill, who was waiting outside the gate of Dhoni’s farmhouse at Simalia on the outskirts of Ranchi on Friday morning. The 18-year-old said Dhoni would certainly spare 10 minutes for him as he came from such a far-off place on foot. Though it is a tough ask, Ajay claimed to have walked for 16 days since July 29 to cover over 1,400km from his village Jalan Kheda in Hisar district of Haryana. The only problem was Dhoni was in fact in Chennai and getting ready to fly to Dubai on Friday for the resumption of Chennai Super King’s IPL campaign. He was adamant to stay put there till he met Dhoni even when told that his idol would return after about three months. Hearing about him, a young businessmen went to meet Ajay and convinced him to return home. Ajay, who works at a saloon at his village, drew the attention of passersby because of his look. He had coloured his hair yellow, orange, dark blue and light blue — the colours of Dhoni’s CSK — and also partially tonsured his head in such a manner that “Dhoni” was written on one side and his nickname “Mahi” on the other side. “A fellow barber from Sonepat did it for free when he found me walking towards Ranchi and learnt about my purpose,” Ajay said waving the Tricolour he was carrying. “I’ll also get it signed by Dhoniji,” he further said, bringing out a cricket bat from a kit slung over his shoulder. Asked about the reason for his adulation, Ajay said he also played cricket earlier but stopped after Dhoni declared his retirement from international cricket. On why he had come all the way to Ranchi, Ajay said: “I now want to start afresh with his blessings,” adding that Dhoni had come in his dream one night and asked him to visit. “We are impressed that he walked all the way from Haryana but convinced him to return now and come again later,” said Anurag Chawla who along with his three friends took him to a hotel for the day and also bought him a ticket for a Delhi-bound flight in the evening. “Ranchi is a beautiful place with its wonderful people,” Ajay said before boarding the flight, adding that he was grateful to them for everything they did. “This being Dhoni’s hometown, Ranchi has its share of both cricket and the craze for the game,” an onlooker said at the airport, adding that they witnessed the second that day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jan Azadi 75: People’s organisations call to join freedom campaign ||People’s organisations in Jharkhand will create awareness from Independence Day about joining a yearlong nationwide initiative to remember the values and aspirations of the freedom movement and campaign across the country to intensify contemporary struggles and visions for a democratic India. The campaign, Jan Azadi 75: On the Path to Freedom, has been initiated by the National Alliance of People’s Movements, an alliance of people’s organisations, to also re-assert the roles, contributions and challenges of people’s resistances in the past 75 years. The campaign, which was started on August 9 this year, will conclude on August 15, 2022. Tribal rights organisations and social outfits who are associated with the NAPM will reach out to people in all 260 blocks across 24 districts of Jharkhand between August and mid-September holding dialogues with rights defenders, civil rights organisations, trade unions, farmer outfits, student unions and social organisations to endorse and join the campaign. “We have already started discussion with civil society organisations who are taking part in the agitation seeking justice for Father Stan Swamy and demanding repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA and sedition for the last few weeks. We will be also holding discussions during the agitation planned out in different districts of Jharkhand for the cause of farmers, trade unions and human rights defenders and reach out to all the 260 blocks so that more organisations endorse their participation in the campaign,” said Aloka Kujur, tribal rights activist and a member of the Adivasi Adhikar Manch. “Any organisation sharing our thoughts can click on a web link (https://bit.ly/3yJHSj5) to endorse and join the campaign by filling up the details. The campaign was inaugurated on the historic day of August 9, marking the Quit India Movement. We hope to reach out to people of the country and build a discourse around protecting our democracy, plural ethos, human rights, socio-ecological justice and constitutional values through the campaign,” said Meera Sanghamitra, one of the conveners of the NAPM. Sanghamitra added: “Through a series of yearlong action programmes, Jan Azadi 75 hopes to bring before the people the true history of the freedom struggle and those who actually contributed to nation-building till date. We also propose to bring forth a People’s Chargesheet against the power holders, in particular the current regime which is all set to destroy our democracy.” Organisations who endorse the campaign can plan and organise local-level meetings, including peaceful protests, dharnas, news conferences, candlelight vigils, submitting memoranda to authorities, writing open letters, yatras, discussion forums, workshops, webinars, etc, both in physical and virtual mode, under the banner of Jan Azadi 75. I-Day pledge Over 160 groups, including civil society organisations, trade unions and farmer outfits, will take a pledge to defend the legacy of the freedom movement, the spirit of the Preamble and values of the Constitution in Jharkhand on Sunday as part of a nationwide campaign. The movement, “National Campaign to Defend Democracy”, spearheaded by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties,  Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a conglomeration of human rights organisations) and trade unions in Jharkhand, will see members reading a pledge. “We pledge to campaign for repealing all draconian laws and assert the right to bail of every citizen. We believe that the right to question and the right to dissent are the foundation of our democratic, secular and socialist republic. We commit to campaign against all ideologies, laws, and state actions that deprive us of the freedoms of speech and opinion, conscience, association, and to non-violent opposition,” the pledge says. “The countrywide movement between August 15 and 28 will call for an intensive campaign and street action to defend the right to dissent, repeal the sedition law, UAPA and repressive state laws, restore right to bail and ensure justice for Father Stan Swamy,” said Siraj Dutta of the Mahasabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
15-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad shelter home for women||Dhanbad: The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has launched a shelter home for women near the golf ground of Dhanbad by converting the existing shelter home into an all women facility intended at providing temporary accommodation to homeless women and girls. The shelter home with 40 beds is meant to provide temporary shelter to street vendors and other daily wage earners established under the National Urban Livelihood Mission is presently being operated with the help of NGO, Safe Approach. Only nominal charges are taken from the visitors for the stay at the shelter home but those who can't pay the same due to financial constraints can also avail the facility free of cost as DMC will bear their accommodation expense. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The placements for the batch of 2018-22 at the Adityapur-based National Institute of Technology (NIT) began on a positive note. Initial figures suggest that the tech cradle of national repute is heading for another impressive placement year. Data available from the institute's Training and Placement Cell revealed that in the last one fortnight ever since the online recruitment process began on July 27 around 120 students from various streams of engineering bagged lucrative jobs. The batch-size for placement comprises over 500 students. Placement of over 100 students within a fortnight of the beginning of the recruitment process is a record in the history of NIT. (Pinaki Majumdar) Hazaribagh: Korra police arrested a 30-year-old man who had raped a minor girl on the foothills of popular tourist destination Canary hill. Suraj Kumar took advantage of the situation after knowing that the victim was worried for her mother, a daily wage labourer who didn't return home late evening. He asked her to sit with him on his bike as pillion rider promising to help in searching for her mother. But he took her to Canary hill last week and raped her for the entire night. Officer-in-charge of Korra police station, Prashant Kumar Mishra said police had launched a massive hunt for him and was arrested. He said Suraj was forwarded to Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Gumla: The police on Saturday arrested an active member of the proscribed CPI(Maoist), who was wanted in 11 Naxal related cases, from Gumla district. Police said that five detonators and a knife were seized from Guddu Oraon also known as Sukhram Oraon after the arrest from his in-law's place at a village under Bishunpur police station. Following a tip-off that he would reach there to meet his wife, the police laid a trap and nabbed him. Oraon is a member of the squad of Maoist commander Ravindra Ganju, which operates in Latehar, Lohardaga and Gumla districts of Jharkhand, police said. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-73
