16-08-2021||Calcutta||Dilip Ghosh, Suvendu Adhikari arrested in Calcutta for violating Covid rules||The BJP’s state chief Dilip Ghosh and leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Suvendu Adhikari including top party leaders were arrested in Kolkata on Monday for violating Covid-19 rules during a protest in the heart of the city. The BJP has alleged that 150 leaders and party workers were arrested. The BJP leaders, including former Minister of State Debasree Chowdhury, staged a sit-in at the Gandhi statue to mark the “Poschimbongo Bachao Diwas (Save West Bengal Day)” to counter the Trinamul Congress's “Khela Hobe Diwas”. The BJP had announced they would organise a dharna at Rani Rashmoni Avenue - a street designated for protests in the city. However, even after they failed to get the necessary permissions, they showed up at the Gandhi statue. The police battled with central security provided to several BJP leaders to arrest them. The BJP has claimed that the Trinamul Congress (TMC) has hurt the sentiments by celebrating Khela Hobe Diwas today - a day recorded in Indian history as the Direction Action Day of 1946 when protests called by the Muslim League had led to horrific riots in Kolkata which came to be known as the Great Calcutta Killing. The TMC clarified that the Khela Hobe Diwas was being held to encourage sports in the state and in remembrance of a stampede during a football match in the city on this day in 1980. Throughout the day, football matches were held under the Khela Hobe banner in Kolkata and the districts by sports clubs supported by TMC leaders at the local level. The arrested BJP workers and leaders were released after being taken to the police headquarters in Kolkata’s Lalbazar. “The partisan police has murdered democracy by arresting BJP leaders during the Save West Bengal Day,” the party said in a statement. The BJP leaders’ protest was in violation of Covid rules which prohibit political gatherings and meetings, police sources told NDTV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
16-08-2021||Calcutta||Police seize heroin worth Rs 50 crore from Malda district||Heroin worth Rs 50 crore was seized from Malda district by the Calcutta police hours before it was to be smuggled into the city, officers of STF said on Sunday. The seizure came following the arrest of two men — who were caught in Mominpur two days ago allegedly carrying a huge consignment of yaba tablets, also called “happy pills”. STF officers said Mohammad Esmail Sheikh and Abhishek Salam were arrested in on August 12 for allegedly possessing Amphetamine tablets, commonly known as yaba tablets. Drugs weighing around 2.291kg, worth Rs 5 crore, were seized, police said. A court sent the duo to 14 days’ police custody. “During their remand we learned that a heroin consignment was headed for Calcutta,” said a senior police officer. Based on the input, cops arrested two more men near Adina Morh, Gazole, on Sunday and seized about 10.068 kg of heroin worth Rs 50 crores. The accused were identified as Lalit Shahani and Sumit Ali Patra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
16-08-2021||Calcutta||Firhad Hakim inaugurates Partition Museum on Wheels||The city got a ‘Partition Museum on Wheels’ on Sunday. Transport minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated the museum on India’s freedom struggle and Bengal’s Partition inside a tramcar. The New Delhi-based The Arts and Culture Heritage Trust and the West Bengal Transport Corporation have come together to set it up. The museum on wheels is on two bogies. The first highlights the rising resistance against the British Raj from the 1900s. It delves in to key moments during the 1900 to 1947 period, leading to independence and how the borders were drawn dividing Bengal and Punjab in two. The second car focuses on the mass migration and rehabilitation that took place post-Partition and explores the humane angle. The museum will be on display at Esplanade till December. From January 1, 2022, the museum on wheels will trundle down other parts of the city. The two tram bogies have been done up with rare photographs of some of the tall figures of India’s independence movement, including Subhas Chandra Bose and Mahatma Gandhi, black and white pictures of hundreds of refugees at bridges, river banks and railway stations awaiting transport to cross over to India following Bengal’s Partition. It has posters and items of daily use by some of the families before independence — a serving spoon made of brass that a family used since 1943, which was brought over with other things of value when migrating to Calcutta from East Pakistan. Hakim said the museum captured the ethos of Bengal. “The museum on wheels beautifully depicts the efforts of our freedom fighters and the impact of the division of Bengal and Punjab on the national psyche,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
16-08-2021||Calcutta||Police prosecute 1,178 motorists for violating night curfew rules||Police prosecuted 1,178 motorists in the city for violating the night curfew rules on the eve and early morning of Independence Day. A large number of those prosecuted told cops that they had confused the restriction time on Saturday night with the new night curfew timings that would be in effect from Monday night, officers said. “Many of them told us that the curfew has been reduced by two hours and every time we had to remind them that the new timings would be effective only from Monday night,” said an officer of the traffic department in south Calcutta. Till Sunday, the night curfew was between 9pm and 5am the next morning. According to a recent government notification, the curfew hours at night have been reduced by two hours from Monday, suggesting that citizens, except people attached with emergency or essential services, will not be allowed to stay outdoors after 11pm instead of 9pm every night. On the eve of the Independence Day, the 25 traffic guards intercepted and carried out anti-sabotage checking of 2,447 vehicles across the city between 9pm on Saturday and 5am on Sunday. Of these, 1,178 motorists could not give an explanation for why they were on the roads violating the curfew, cops said. A majority of the prosecutions were reported from the east traffic guard that covers pockets of south Calcutta, including Shakespeare Sarani, Camac Street and Park Street. Many of the prosecuted cited the presence of their families in the car while requesting they be spared. An officer posted on Rashbehari Connector said: “Many motorists think taking their families out during the curfew hours would give them immunity from being prosecuted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
16-08-2021||Calcutta||Crowds are back in malls and restaurants in Calcutta  ||Malls, restaurants and markets were crowded on Sunday. Museums and parks are still shut. The cinemas have reopened but there was no new big-ticket release this weekend. Thus malls and eateries were the main attractions. The Covid protocols were limited to wearing masks but social distancing went for a toss at several places. South City mall was busy since morning. By 1.30pm the parking area was full. Around 5pm, people had to wait for a few minutes even to step on an escalator. The stores, most of which had “sale” posters stuck outside, did brisk business. “The footfall was around 20 per cent more than the usual weekend footfall, which has also been on the higher side for the past month or so,” said a mall official. The day ended with over 60,000 people visiting the mall, he added. Quest mall was also busy throughout the day. “Business was good. Hope this is a pointer to the future. On Sundays, the footfall is usually decent but that often does not translate into business. But today it was different,” said the manager of an apparel store at the Beckbagan mall. Several electronic appliance stores also come up with “special discounts” in the run-up to Independence Day. One such outlet in the Gariahat area had at least 20 people inside at 4.30pm. A steady stream of people poured into City Centre in Salt Lake and the crowd swelled in as the evening progressed. By 4pm the parking lot of the Salt Lake mall was full and guards were seen diverting the vehicles headed towards the parking lot. Sharmila Saha, 22, had gone to the mall for a bit of shopping with friends. She said nearly everybody in their group had been pining to step out of their homes.  The group finally decided to do some shopping together and then go to a restaurant, said Saha, who is pursuing a course in Economics at Calcutta University. “We decided to come here as the mall is open and is airy as compared to the other malls. The pandemic is still on so we did not want to visit a place that has central air-conditioning all around. We will also have dinner before heading home,” said Saha. More than 30,000 people visited the mall till 6pm on Sunday. The restaurants were packed throughout the day. Even the post-lunch period —4pm to 7pm — was packed. Around 2pm, dozens of people waited outside Peter Cat restaurant in Park Street. The waiting time was an hour. A string of eateries on Sarat Bose Road were also packed throughout the day. In the evening, it was hard to find a place at cafes in Southern Avenue area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-17
16-08-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman remains non-commital on excise duty cut on petrol and diesel||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday remained non-committal on cut in excise duty on petrol and diesel, saying payments in lieu of past subsidised fuel pose limitations.  Petrol and diesel as well as cooking gas and kerosene were sold at subsidised rates during the previous Congress-led UPA government. Instead of paying for the subsidy to bring parity between the artificially suppressed retail selling price and the cost that had soared because of international rates crossing USD 100 per barrel, the then government issued oil bonds totalling Rs 1.34 lakh crore to the state-fuel retailers.  These oil bonds and the interest thereon are being paid now.  "If I did not have the burden to service the oil bonds, I would have been in a position to reduce excise duty on fuel," she told reporters here. "Previous government have made our job difficult by issuing oil bonds. Even if I want to do something I am paying through my nose for the oil bonds."  Sitharaman, who had raised excise duty on petrol and diesel to record high to shore up revenue collections last year, said the interest on oil bonds paid in the last seven years totalled Rs 70,195.72 crore.  Of the Rs 1.34 lakh crore of oil bonds, only Rs 3,500 crore of principal has been paid and the remaining Rs 1.3 lakh crore is due for repayment between this fiscal and 2025-26, she said.  The government has to repay Rs 10,000 crore this fiscal year (2021-22). Another Rs 31,150 crore is due to be repaid in 2023-24, Rs 52,860.17 crore in the following year and Rs 36,913 crore in 2025-26.  "A significant amount is going for interest payment and principal repayment. What unfair burden on me," she said.  "Opening balance in 2014-15 was about Rs 1.34 lakh crore and interest repayment was Rs 10,255 crore. Since 2015-16, interest burden each year is Rs 9,989 crore."  The collections from the hike in excise duty far exceed the amount due to be paid to oil companies.  Excise duty on petrol was hiked from Rs 19.98 per litre to Rs 32.9 last year to recoup gain arising from international oil prices plunging to multi-year low as pandemic gulped demand.  Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas Rameswar Teli had last month told Parliament that the Union government's tax collections on petrol and diesel jumped by 88 per cent to Rs 3.35 lakh crore in the year to March 31 from Rs 1.78 lakh crore a year back.  Excise collection in pre-pandemic 2018-19 was Rs 2.13 lakh crore.  The hike in taxes last year did not result in any revision in retail prices as they got adjusted against the reduction that was warranted because of fall in international oil prices.  But with the demand returning, international oil prices have soared, which have translated to record high petrol and diesel prices across the country. More than half the country has petrol at over Rs 100-a-litre mark and diesel is above that level in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha.  Sitharaman said the Centre has kept open the option of inclusion of petroleum products under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. "Whenever states agree on this, it can be brought under the GST."  Inclusion under GST would mean subsuming of excise duty and VAT (levied by states) into one tax. This would help contain the cascading impact of tax-on-tax (VAT being levied on excise duty).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises 145 points to scale fresh peak||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 145 points to end at a fresh high on Monday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and Tata Steel. Despite opening on a choppy note, the 30-share index ended 145.29 points or 0.26 per cent higher at a new peak of 55,582.58. It touched a record intra-day high of 55,680.75. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 33.95 points or 0.21 per cent to a fresh high of 16,563.05. During the day, it rose to new intra-day peak of 16,589.40. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, M&M, Bajaj Finserv and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid ad UltraTech Cement were among the laggards. Domestic benchmark indices extended gains today, while midcap and smallcap stocks remained under pressure said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Strong rebound in metals followed by financial services aided Nifty. Additionally, sharp recovery in Reliance Industries after media reports stating USD 25 billion Aramco deal is on advanced stage also supported benchmark indices, he noted. Further, strong June quarter performance reported by metal companies and steady pricing in international markets aided metal stocks to see sharp rebound, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses, while Shanghai was positive. Equities in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.33 per cent to USD 69.65 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Taliban takeover likely to impact India and Afghanistan bilateral trade: Exporters||With Kabul falling into the hands of the Taliban, bilateral trade between Afghanistan and India will get impacted significantly in these uncertain times, according to exporters. Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) Director General Ajay Sahai said domestic exporters should follow caution looking into the political development in Afghanistan, particularly with regard to payments, for which adequate credit insurance may be availed by them. "The trade will be impacted. It would reduce due to the growing uncertainty in Afghanistan," he said on Monday. Former FIEO president and country's leading exporter S K Saraf too said there will be a significant fall in the bilateral trade. "We may not lose all because they need our products," Saraf said. Afghanistan stares at an uncertain future as President Ashraf Ghani left the country just before Kabul fell into the hands of the Taliban on Sunday. Sharing similar views, FIEO Vice-President Khalid Khan stated there would be a complete standstill in the trade for a certain time, as the situation is out of control in Afghanistan. "It is a landlocked country and the air route is the main medium of exports and that has been disrupted. Trade will resume only after the uncertainty will get down," Khan said. Biswajit Dhar, a professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University said India's aid to Afghanistan was creating a market for domestic products and due to the current situation, "all this will stop". Chairman of Plastics Export Promotion Council of India (PLEXCONCIL), Arvind Goenka said now private players will have to deal through third countries to export to Afghanistan. Rajiv Malhotra, proprietor of Sai International and an exporter to Afghanistan said exports from India would completely stop as now there will be an issue of timely payment. "We are watching the situation to decide on our next move," Malhotra said. The bilateral trade stood at USD 1.4 billion in 2020-21 as against USD 1.52 billion in 2019-20. Exports from India were USD 826 million and imports were aggregated at USD 510 million in 2020-21. Afghan exports to India include dried raisin, walnut, almond, fig, pine nut, pistachios, dried apricot and fresh fruits such as apricot, cherry, watermelon, and medicinal herbs. India's outbound shipments to that country include tea, coffee, pepper and cotton.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||My Journey as HR professional from India to Canada ||Today, let me tell you my story. My story of migrating to Canada from India as an HR professional. For me, it was indeed an “Express Entry”, as I got my Canadian permanent residence much sooner than I expected. In around 5 months. Why Canada? Immigration or migrate overseas was something that did not just suddenly pop into my mind one fine day. It was a carefully thought-out process. I always wanted to settle abroad. The carefree life and a high standard of living were the biggest motivating factors for me. Also, free education and excellent healthcare. After all, we all require healthcare at some point in time. If I could somehow settle in a country that could guarantee me a good hospital stay, should I need it for any reason, it was seriously worth the effort. Don’t get me wrong. I have nothing against my home country. While I did want to immigrate overseas and experience the good life, I also planned on giving back to my own country once I was successful overseas. With the entire world connected through the world wide web, reaching anyone at almost any part of the world hardly takes a few seconds. I would be a successful NRI in Canada one day. That day, I will give back to my community back in Valsad in Vadodara in the form of the remittances that might help in making my community a better place for the next generation. Canada, though not the top country for immigration for me, it was definitely on my list. Initially, I had planned on Australia immigration. But then, some simple online research, as well as personal feedback from a couple of my friends and friends of friends that had settled in Melbourne, I decided my HR career had brighter prospects in Canada. So it was Canada for me. Why getting the right help matters? Though I learnt my lesson the hard way, I did learn it in the end. Always seek immigration and visa assistance from those who know it the best. Trust me, friends and relatives are not the right people to turn to for immigration advice. While friends and family, or even colleagues and neighbors for that matter, might have your best interest at heart, they don’t have the complete picture. Honestly, with the immigration policies being changed so often and so unpredictably by the foreign governments, it is difficult for a layman to keep abreast with all the latest updates. Here is where a team of professionals come in. Experience Matters Trust me, getting professional help is always better for visa and immigration. You might think you can do it on your own, but visa and immigration take a lot of money and time. Visit visas can easily be done on your own. Immigration though needs guidance. Now, not everyone can be asked for help. If you do think that you need a professional on board, it is always recommended to approach someone that has experience. Preferably, over 10 years of experience in visa and immigration matters. Y-Axis, for example, has been around since 1999. When you go for the initial counseling, always ask questions. The more, the better. Make it a point to understand the process completely. The best visa and immigration consultant will be the one that will explain in detail, and not force you to only sign on the dotted line. Express Entry Finally, my profile was in the Express Entry pool. The Canadian occupation code  for me was that of 1223, human resources and recruitment officers. I work as a Staffing Analyst. I got my Educational Credential Assessment report “for immigration purposes” from World Education Services. I got my WES report quite easily. Then, came the English language test. Busy with my full-time job, I opted to get my IELTS coaching completely online in weekend classes only. IELTS I had to give 2 times. I had passed the first time itself, but I wanted a better score. Coaching for IELTS was taken the second time around. ITA from IRCC After some time in the Express Entry pool of candidates, I finally managed to get my invitation to apply for Canadian Express Entry through IRCC of Canada. By this time, I had also secured a good job in Canada from India. I took the help of Y-Axis Jobs for this. Online coaching that I got for IELTS was also through Y-Axis. No, I did not take the complete Canada immigration package. I took the Y-Axis coaching and Y-Axis Jobs assistance only. Rest I managed on my own. Canada Now, I’m in Canada. I'm working as an HR professional in the city of Burnaby in the province of British Columbia, to be precise. I was nominated by British Columbia PNP for my Canada PR so I had to settle in BC itself. So far, I’m enjoying the new life I opted for. Might be getting married to a Canadian permanent resident soon. We have much in common. Also from India, my fiancé got through as a skilled worker under the Express Entry system. She is a Software Engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note on profit booking, weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Monday tracking profit booking at higher levels and a weak trend in global markets. After dropping over 100 points in the opening session, the 30-share index turned flat. It was trading 20.92 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 55,416.37, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 11.50 points or 0.07 per cent to 16,517.60. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints and Titan. On the other hand, M&M, Tata Steel, TCS and Tech Mahindra were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex jumped 593.31 points or 1.08 per cent to its new all-time high of 55,437.29, and Nifty breached the 16,500 level, advancing 164.70 points or 1.01 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 16,529.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 819.77 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Benchmark indices opened on a choppy note amid profit-booking at fresh peaks, said experts. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, while benchmark Nifty and Sensex witnessed strong rebound last week, it was not a broad-based rally considering heavy selling pressure in midcap and smallcap stocks. June quarter earnings were impressive, and a number of companies succeeded to beat consensus estimates, which offered comfort to the market, he noted. The sharp improvement in key economic indicators like GST collection and auto sales volume indicate sustainable rebound in corporate earnings in subsequent quarters. This should aid the market to sustain premium valuations, he added. While concerns over global growth due to the recent rise in delta variants of coronavirus cases in different parts of the world continues to persist, he believes that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.06 per cent to USD 69.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Ola launches e-scooter in India, deliveries to commence in October||Ola Electric Mobility Pvt Ltd on Sunday launched two variants of its electric scooters in India and will start delivering from October across 1,000 cities. The basic model S1 is priced at Rs 99,000, excluding registration and insurance, while the S1 Pro is priced at Rs 1,29,000. The S1 and S1 Pro offer a range of up to 121 kilometres (km) and 181 km, respectively. The maximum speed that the vehicles offer are 90 kilometres per hour (kmph) and 115 kmph, respectively. “I want to underline that it is going to be the best scooter ever made. It has the best design, performance and technology,” Ola chairman and group executive officer Bhavish Aggarwal said. The Ola Electric scooter will directly compete with not just existing two-wheeler EVs, such as Ather Energy, Ampere Electric, Okinawa Scooters, Tork Motors and Hero Electric, but also with the petrol options offered by Honda Activa and others. SoftBank-backed unicorn Ola Electric, set up in 2017, is the electric vehicle (EV) arm of transportation platform Ola (ANI Technologies Pvt Ltd). Its launch has taken off at a time Elon Musk-led Tesla Inc is set to make its India entry, while the government is trying to boost the manufacturing of EVs, their batteries and other components amid soaring petrol prices. “The EV transition is very important for our country and the whole industry needs to adopt it. We have to build the technology in India. By 2025, all two-wheelers in the country should be electric. The EV revolution is here to stay whether the incumbents like it or not,” Aggarwal said. Ride-hailing firm Ola’s electric arm is building what it calls a “Future Factory” on around 500 acres of land in Tamil Nadu’s Krishnagiri district. When fully ready, it will produce 10 million e-scooters every year, making it the largest two-wheeler maker globally. The first phase itself will produce two million e-scooters, to be retailed in India and exported. Market leader Hero MotoCorp produces around 6.5 million two-wheelers annually. Around 22-25 million traditional two-wheelers with internal combustion engines are sold in India every year. The two variants of the e-scooters offer a “key-less experience” where sensors communicate with the user’s phone, unlocking the scooter when in range and automatically locking it as one leaves. It has an AI speech recognition algorithm and a 7-inch touchscreen display. The scooters are powered by a proprietary operating system “Ola Moods”, which will change the ride experience, including the look and feel of the display, and how the scooter sounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra to roll out nine SUVs by 2026||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd has announced that the company will launch nine SUVs by 2026 even as it took the wraps off the new XUV700. Bookings for the XUV700 will begin before the festival season. The XUV700 will come in diesel and gasoline variants. There will be manual and automatic options along with both five- and seven-seater capacity. Speaking about Mahindra’s SUV focus and the unveiling of the XUV700, Anish Shah, MD & CEO of M&M, said, “It is sheer passion that drives our people to create advanced, adventure-ready vehicles, with an unmissable presence. We are ready to lead the core SUV segment with nine new exciting SUVs planned for launch by 2026. Our most ambitious addition, the XUV700, is throbbing and pulsating with technology, power and intelligence to let people explore the impossible.” Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director, auto & farm sectors, M&M Ltd, said, “Every once in a while, an automobile comes to change the future course of its manufacturer and in the process, it transforms the segment itself. The XUV 700 marks the beginning of a whole new Mahindra and a new era for the SUV segment in India. We have raised the bar on best-in-class features, technology and design. Our customers are in for a longstanding treat with the innovative new XUV700.” The company is offering the XUV700 in two series — MX and AdrenoX (AX). The AdrenoX series is further classified into three variants — AX3, AX5 and AX7. M&M also announced the prices for the four variants in the five-seater manual transmission category. The MX gasoline variant comes with a price tag of Rs 11.99 lakh, while its diesel version is priced at Rs 12.49 lakh. Similarly, the AdrenoX AX3 petrol version carries a price tag of Rs 13.99 lakh, while AdrenoX AX5 for Rs 14.99 lakh. Pricing for the rest of the variants will be announced soon, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Fintech start-up SaveIN gets patent for its social finance platform||Fintech start-up SaveIN has got a patent for its social finance platform aimed at digitising informal, social and relationship-based loans among family, friends, colleagues and business partners. “We want to positively impact the financial health of Indians, by leveraging their own trusted network and providing access to need-based and contextual financial products,” SaveIN founder and ex-banker Jitin Bhasin said in a release. According to CMIE’s Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS) 2020, 77 per cent of urban Indian households reach out to family, friends and acquaintances in times of need. There was a 100 per cent increase in the last year (2019-2020) in the number of urban households borrowing from family and friends. SaveIN, an online platform, is trying to bank on this by catering to those Indians who lend and borrow money among each other. SaveIN had recently raised an undisclosed amount in a pre-seed funding round from a clutch of Indian and international angel investors and industry captains across banking, consulting, block-chain, credit bureau and fintech. It is in discussions to raise more capital to expand its market reach, accelerate product development and strengthen its in-house team. Claiming to be India’s first social finance platform, SaveIN said it plans to reach over 5 lakh users by the end of this financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||General Insurance Corporation of India loss up to Rs 770 crore||Government-owned reinsurer — General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC Re) — saw its incurred claims ratio climb above 100 per cent amid rising Covid claims — both on health and life insurance. Incurred claims ratio — the total value of claims settled to the total value of premiums collected — of the reinsurer was 104.3 per cent for the quarter ended June 30, 2021 against 94.2 per cent previous year and 81.9 per cent for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. In absolute terms, incurred claims stood at Rs 11,837.40 crore in the June quarter against Rs 12,868.74 crore a year ago and Rs 6,202.19 crore in the January-March quarter. In a disclosure to the stock exchanges, GIC Re said that the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is a concern for reinsurers as well since the market will be exposed across the entire business spectrum. The reinsurer made a provision of Rs 5,350.36 crore in its actuarial valuation. Losses widened during the April-June quarter to Rs 771.73 crore against loss of Rs 557.47 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year and a profit of Rs 1,260.44 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. Gross premium collection during the quarter was at Rs 14,289.92 crore against Rs 15,881.55 crore previous year.In January-March collections were Rs 8,812.83 crore. “The underwriting performance was impacted on the back of a challenging environment. However, we are taking necessary measures to bring down the incurred claims ratio and improve overall profitability,” Devesh Srivastava, chairman and managing director, GIC Re told analysts at the earnings call. Srivastava further said that the company continues to focus on bringing down the combined ratio to near 100 (it was 123.4 per cent as of the quarter ended June). The process however could take longer on account of the pandemic. Combined ratio, which includes incurred losses and expenses, is a measure of profitability and financial health of an insurance company. While the losses on the health side were on the rise, Srivastava said that the health portfolio has also grown amid rising demand for insurance during the Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India to launch direct customer-to-customer used car selling platform||Mercedes Benz India Limited (MBIL) is aiming to increase its used car business by 50 per cent through the launch of a direct customer-to-customer selling platform called Marketplace. At present, its used car business comprises 20 per cent of its new car sales. With the online platform, the German luxury brand hopes its used car business will be 30 percent of its new car sales. The company which hopes to achieve its 2019 new car sales of 13,786 units by the end of this year has already registered a 65 per cent growth on its 2020 new car sales of 7,893 units in H1 2021. Consequently, the company is hoping to post a used car sales of over 4,000 units after the launch of the Marketplace. Commenting on the launch, MBIL CEO Martin Schwenk said: “There are two ways in which used cars sell in the market. About 20 percent of the customers trade in with the dealer while 80 per cent shop around. The used car business is largely unstructured. With the Marketplace we are trying to do it in a structured way. The Marketplace will enable direct sales between customer to customer, better transparency, support from dealers, greater inventory.” While stressing that Mercedes Benz India has no direct stake in the used car transactions but “with every sale of a used car, there will be more customers buying a new car”. When asked if the pandemic has impacted the second hand market, Schwenk said: “For us there has been no significant impact. Activities are now at a pre-Covid level, the market is relatively stable and we are witnessing an increase in demand for used cars.” The CEO said, “The last few weeks after the second wave, the market is back to pre-Covid levels”. Replying to a question if customers were hanging on to their old cars in the face of economic uncertainty, Schwenk said: “We have not experienced that. We are cautiously optimistic and we hope 2021 will have a graceful end.” The company is also transforming the way it retails new cars. It will directly sell its vehicles to customers with its dealerships facilitating the process with brand experience, displays in the showrooms, sales consultations and test drives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
16-08-2021||Business||Tata Steel lays out capital expenditure of Rs 3,000 crore for European operations||Tata Steel has laid out a capital expenditure of Rs 3,000 crore for its European operations as its focus is to make the business “stronger”, the company’s CEO and managing director T. V. Narendran said. He made the remarks while responding to a question related to the company’s strategy for the European business, which Tata Steel could not sell earlier because of multiple reasons. “For (financial year) 2022, we have guided that our capex will be... Rs 3,000 crore for Europe. It is more for sustenance capex, environment related capex, capex on the product mix, enhancement that we are doing particularly in the Netherlands,” he told PTI. In Europe, he said, the company’s operation is being separated into Tata Steel Netherlands and Tata Steel UK which would help in cost efficiencies and management focus. The European business this year will be cash positive in terms of EBIDTA and PAT. It will be a strong year for European businesses as well. Tata Steel’s focus is on the performance of the European business. “We are not actively looking for any buyer. If you make the business stronger, that helps with the value of the business,” Narendran said, replying to a question on whether the plans to sell the business have been dropped. Speaking on the sale of its assets in Europe, the CEO further said it was SSAB which had reached out to Tata Steel. “We had not gone looking for them. The only time when we were actively working on it was when the Thyssenkrupp proposal was there.” SSAB was interested, they pursued then dropped it. Tata Steel is under no pressure to take any hasty action. The company will continue to focus on performance of the business, he said. According to the company, steel deliveries at Tata Steel Europe increased 17.4 per cent year-on-year to 2.33 million tonnes in the April-June quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
16-08-2021||Business||NTPC to set up pilot project on hydrogen fuel||State owned power producer, NTPC, has invited global expressions of interest (EOIs) to set up a pilot project on hydrogen blending with natural gas in city gas distribution. “NTPC Ltd, India’s largest integrated power generating company under the Ministry of Power, has floated a global expression of interest (EoI) to set up a pilot project on hydrogen blending with natural gas in city gas distribution (CGD) network in India,” a company statement said on Friday. This pilot on hydrogen blending with natural gas will be the first of its kind in India and would explore the viability of decarbonising India’s natural gas grid. NTPC, with its ambition of playing a key role in India’s transition to the hydrogen economy, would later take this up at a commercial scale across India. The successful execution of the pilot will also demonstrate the decarbonisation objective along with import substitution aims under the government’s “Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan”. The EOI follows the recent tenders floated by NTPC-Renewable Energy Ltd (REL) for a green hydrogen fuelling station at Leh, and by NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd (NVVN) for procurement of fuel cell buses. A dedicated 1.25mw solar plant is also being set up at Leh by NTPC-REL to power the hydrogen fuelling station. NTPC Ltd is also keenly exploring production of green ammonia to decarbonise the fertiliser industry and possibly fulfil the government's upcoming mandate of using a certain percentage of green hydrogen in the fertiliser and refinery sector. A detailed study on green methanol production at Ramagundam has been completed and the company is expected to take a final investment decision in the near future. Renewable pitch Union minister R. K. Singh interacted with investors from the US and invited them to explore investment opportunities in the renewable energy and power sector in India. During the meeting, the power, and new & renewable energy minister informed the business leaders that India is on track to achieve the set renewable energy target of 450GW by 2030 and said electricity distribution reforms will enhance the consumption of renewable energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
16-08-2021||Business||PM Narendra Modi announces Rs 100-lakh-crore 'Gatishakti' initiative for infrastructure growth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the government will launch a Rs 100-lakh-crore plan for an integrated infrastructure growth that will help reduce logistics costs and make the economy competitive. “We will launch a masterplan for Gati Shakti, a big programme ... This scheme of more than Rs 100 lakh crore will result in new employment opportunities for lakhs of youth,” Modi said from the ramparts of the historic Red Fort. He said “Gati Shakti will be a national infrastructure master plan, which will lay the foundation of holistic infrastructure and will lead to an integrated and holistic pathway to our economy”. “Right now, there is no coordination between our means of transport. Gati Shakti will break the silos and will remove all these obstacles. This will reduce the travel time for the common man and the productivity of our industry will also increase,” Modi said. “Gati Shakti will also go a long way in making our local manufacturers globally competitive and also develop new possibilities for the creation of future economic zones. In this decade, the power of speed will form the basis of India’s transformation,” the Prime Minister said at the Independence Day celebrations. Modi said the scheme will form the basis of the Amrut Kaal—the 25-year period till India celebrates 100 years of its independence. T.V. Narendran, president of the Confederation of Indian Industry, said, “The Prime Minister’s words on manufacturing quality to build pride in Indian products were timely with a renewed thrust on the mission.” “This increased spending on infrastructure will give a multiplier effect to rejuvenate the aggregate demand in the economy. Undoubtedly, robust growth of infrastructure is the key ingredient to realise the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” Sanjay Aggarwal, president of PHDCCI, said. India has been working for a reset of its logistics sector involving railways, highways, inland waterways and airports to put in place an effective transportation grid. This comes against the backdrop of logistics comprising about 13 per cent of the total costs for Indian companies, making exports uncompetitive vis-a-vis China. The Indian logistics sector is expected to grow to $360 billion by 2032. Modi announced a Mission Circular Economy that will replace petroleum with other forms of energy to make India energy independent by 2047. A National Hydrogen Mission; new systems to ensure last-mile delivery of government services and more support to the socially backward were among the other new measures he announced. Modi said the country spends more than Rs 12 trillion annually on energy imports and becoming energy independent was critical. “India is moving fast towards achieving its climate goals,” he said. Manoj K. Upadhyay, founder & chairman, ACME Group, said, “This is the biggest goal which is going to give India a quantum jump in the field of Green Hydrogen.” According to estimates and net-zero targets being taken by various countries for 2030 and 2050, the green hydrogen ecosystem will be a $12-13 trillion industry by 2050. It can be an excellent opportunity for India to become a significant exporter of green hydrogen, helping the world reduce carbon emissions and creating local jobs and wealth. “Mass deployment of renewable energy in India helped us to produce electricity cheaper than any other sources of energy, similar deployment of green hydrogen at the lowest cost will help us in cost leadership position not only to meet our green hydrogen and ammonia demand internally, we can also become a major exporter of Green Hydrogen and green ammonia to worldwide. This initiative on green hydrogen can help us to build an ecosystem of a 2-3 trillion dollar industry in the next 20-25 years,” Upadhyay said. Modi in his speed emphasized on “Indian-made”: whether it was building fighter aircraft or mobile phones. He said India used to import mobile phones in large numbers but is now exporting them as well. He asked exporters to make goods that were not merely competitive but also high quality, saying “your goods are brand ambassadors for the country”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
16-08-2021||India||Customised ideas made to order only for your specific needs||For the conscious shopper, there is emerging a slow-curating option for their wardrobe which includes customised fits, gorgeous Indian fabrics that are sustainable and western aesthetics that oftentimes prove to be more comfortable for daily wear. These made-to-order brands with active Instagram presence are helping you with designs, fabric options and styling ideas –– all you have to do is send them your measurements when something you like ‘drops’ for sale. In most cases, the faces behind these small businesses are the kindest people one can hope to work with and the relationship between the shopper and seller is based on a mutual sense of trust. We curated a list of few such labels we absolutely love... The Cowrie Collective Founded by Mumbai-based Gaurie Kumar, The Cowrie Collective has a loyal set of followers who can’t stop gushing about the final product when it reaches them. Focusing on dresses mostly, the brand works primarily with cotton printed fabrics with occasional foray into satin. The delicately designed dresses are named with equal amount of love –– Dahlia, Seaside, Marigold, Angrakha! They even make skorts and tops and the only way to get in the queue for a Cowrie dress is to follow them on Instagram where Gaurie has details of the ordering process. Born out of a dream by Pearl Academy student Gaurie, her final push came when she saw her very talented and experienced tailors worry about their business post-lockdown. “Danish bhai had encouraged me enough to start The Cowrie Collective and show these clothes to other people and see if they’d be interested in buying them. To my (very pleasant) surprise, they were! We sold our first piece within 20 minutes and the next one within 40. This motivated the three of us greatly and we started seeing this as something we could actually pull off (and enjoy),” said Gaurie. Found here: @cowrie.collective Ruska Clothing Ruska is all about the shirts! Think pineapple print in soft cotton customised to suit your needs. They even store co-ords and strappy tops, allowing a make-your-own-combo possibilities with your order. Started by Anna, gender fluidity forms a major factor for this inclusive label. Customers can tailor their needs (pun intended!) and make choices from the ‘highlights’ section of Ruska’s Instagram profile. “This also lets the consumer become part of the creation. When they visualise, give time, they don’t realise this but they make a mindful consumption/purchase. It is not an impulse decision, which is what fast fashion brands try to push. Creating only what is needed is the intent here. Supply is equal to demand,” said Anna. Found here: @ruska_clothing Kajrakh Back-knot halter top made of cotton with padding or a Vyakran spaghetti top in box pattern with all the Hindi letters printed on it –– Kajrakh is style and quirk meeting affordability and Indian prints. With their own website playing host to wonderful discounts and sales, Kajrakh is a brand we absolutely loved for their summer offerings. Their designs are contemporary and their crop tops can definitely double up as blouses for your mother’s saris. If you love mixing and matching your wardrobe essentials, there could be little space to go wrong with some pieces from Kajrakh. Their cute cotton bras in Warli print sure has our heart. Just a DM or WhatsApp away, get your hands on some of their reasonably priced tops and dresses now while the sale is on. Found here: @kajrakh/kajrakh.com Ashta Founded by sisters Samyuktha and Nandini Rajaram, Ashta is a brand that creates products by sourcing fabric directly from the source. While their indigo fabrics are organically-dyed and hand-block printed using Dabu technique (resist dyeing), sourced from artisans in Rajasthan, their handwoven ikat fabrics are sourced from a group of weavers in Telangana. Hailing from Coimbatore, Ashta is a small tailoring unit based out of their home which began on September 1, 2019. They are focused on customised, sustainable, upcycled and affordable fabrics and they are further driving home their mission by upcycling any material you provide them into dresses or any clothing of your choice. Send them your measurements and your mom’s old sari that you love and get a new dress delivered to your doorstep in 10-20 days. “We were just another clothing label but what made us different was the early start to a business that was born out of passion and we always focused on customisations. While it is the key, if we set up a studio space we’ll be having our range of predetermined designs which can also be customised when the client requires,” said Samyuktha. With dress names which go like Andini, Yukta, Radhe, Iraivi and Aditi, what’s not to love?! Found here: @ashtabysamyuktharajaram Srishh clothing Focusing on Sanganeri block prints, Srissh Clothing creates cute shirts and tops, dresses and tank tops. A craft unique to the artists of Sanganer in Jaipur, these block-print techniques have been passed down through generations and date back to over 500 years. The artisans of Sanganer use calico style, which involves painting the outline and then filling it in slowly. Made on cotton fabric, with soothing colours, these clothes are made for humid summers that plague India. Found here: @srishh_in The Sass project Mother-daughters trio Sujata, Sanya and Sara began the Sass Project in October 2020 to give customers what they deserve –– a great fit! Sujata had been a part of the textile industry for over 10 years and she realised the waste fabric that would accumulate from her projects. To move towards a zero-waste sustainable business model, they decided to use the leftover material to make kurtas and sell online. Now they have forayed into adjustable tops, dresses, sets and more. They will customise anything you could possibly dream of. Based out of Delhi, they ship worldwide. “We see ourselves as a much bigger brand with a large brand reach in the next five years. Our goal is to be accessible to everyone and give everyone clothing that fits them perfectly. We want to be known as a zero-waste, fashionable brand, affordable, embracing Indian artisans,” said 23-year-old Sanya. Found here: @sassproject Tamarind Chutney Tamarind Chutney Tamarind Chutney began with a simple agenda –– a desire to improve the livelihoods of artisans and promote craft traditions that enrich India. They provide a fresh, quirky and contemporary take on age-old Indian crafts while promoting slow fashion and ethical business practices. It was co-founded by Tanvi and Charanya, two close friends from school, who often spoke about working on crafts together because it united their interests in Indian craft apparel and social entrepreneurship in the livelihoods space. Tanya, a Stanford graduate, decided to plunge right in with Charanya who was looking to shift from her job at an apparel company. “We envision a future where price transparency, sustainability, and fair wages become industry norms rather than brand USPs. With our work, we hope to create a flourishing market for Indian crafts that gives fair livelihoods to the artisans,” said Tanvi. They have a website and a flourishing Instagram presence, which speaks about everything from price transparency in their garments to body positivity. Think cute summery tops, palazzo bottoms, bag, ties and belts and you shall find it on their website that ships worldwide. Found here: @thetamarindchutney /tamarindchutney.com Anutamaya Anutamaya was a brand that began in the pandemic to customise classic Indian and contemporary western styles at great prices with a lead time of seven-eight business days. The client can even send their designs to the brand and the label will customise it according to their current fabric availability. While their main fabric is cotton and rayon, however, on special request they even arrange other fabrics. Affordable and sustainable are the key words for this one-woman brand. “The initial setting time wasn’t easy, from searching the right people for work, material to source, the design and how to do the cost-cutting yet not compromising with the quality of the product. Gradually, it all worked out for the best,” said Anu, founder of the brand. The label has co-ord sets, dresses and tops that are made to order while also being affordable. “It’s been almost a year now and it’s so satisfying to see we have gained exposure, we are being recommended, have some loyal clients and great response from all over India,” she added. Found here: @anutamayaofficial||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||Farmers to mark 9 months of their agitation with national convention||Farmers protesting against the Centre's three contentious agri laws will organise a national convention on August 26 to mark the completion of nine months of their agitation, according to a statement from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Monday. "To mark the completion of nine months of historic, continuous peaceful protests by lakhs of farmers, Samyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to hold a national convention on August 26. This all-India convention will witness the participation of representatives of hundreds of farmers' organisations which have been part of the ongoing protests locally, regionally and nationally, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions said. Details regarding the venue of the national convention will be worked out later, a farmer leader said. Thousands of farmers from across the country, particularly Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi borders, including Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, since November last year. The three laws that the farmers are demanding to be repealed, they claim, will do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties. Before their national convention on August 26, the farmers will also mark the completion of 36 years of the Narmada Bachao Ancholan, for which a 'Narmada Kisan Mazdoor Jan Sansad' is being organised in Badwani in Madhya Pradesh, the SKM said. On August 17, to mark the completion of 36 years of Narmada Bachao Andolan, 'Narmada Kisan Mazdoor Jan Sansad' will be organised in Badwani. Several SKM leaders are expected to take part in this event, which will see the participation of thousands of farmers from various places in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra in addition to villagers from numerous villages of Narmada valley, the body said. It added that to strengthen their agitation against the three contentious laws, farmers from southern India have been arriving at the protest sites on Delhi borders. More farmers from distant locations are joining the protest sites. Hundreds of farmers from Tamil Nadu reached the Singhu border yesterday. A contingent of farmers from Karnataka addressed the gathering at Ghazipur border today, the SKM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||Will provide 1.11cr jabs to Kerala to combat Covid: Health minister||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who arrived in Kerala with a central team on Monday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, said the Centre has allocated Rs 267.35 crore to the state to strengthen its health infrastructure and will also provide it 1.11 crore vaccines in August and September. In a tweet, subsequent to his "intensive" meeting with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state Health Minister Veena George, Mandaviya said that besides the Rs 267.35 crore an additional Rs one crore would be made available to each district of Kerala for creating a medicine pool. He also said that the central government has assured all possible help to Kerala, including providing vaccines to the state. "Had an intensive meeting with the Chief Minister and Health Minister of Kerala, @VijayanPinarayi ji & Veena George ji, along with State officials to review Covid-19 situation in Kerala." "Central Govt allocates Rs 267.35 crore to Kerala under Emergency Covid Response Package- II. It will strengthen the state's health infrastructure & effectively manage Covid-19. Additionally, Rs 1 crore will be made available to each district of Kerala for creating a medicine pool," he tweeted. Later the Kerala Public Relations Department (PRD) said that the Union Minister assured that the central government will take steps to provide 1.11 crore urgently needed vaccines to the state to combat Covid-19 as was requested by the CM. Mandaviya also tweeted that the "Central Govt will ensure creation of a Center of Excellence that caters to Telemedicine Facilities in every district in Kerala. For prioritising the health of children, paediatric ICU to be established in district hospitals with a 10 kilo-litre liquid oxygen storage tank facility." After the meeting with the Kerala CM and Health Minister, Mandaviya also met Governor Arif Mohammed Khan. "Paid a courtesy call on the Hon'ble Governor of Kerala, Shri Arif Mohammed Khan. We had a discussion on the measures being taken by the Central Govt to support Kerala's fight against Covid-19," the Union Minister tweeted. He also tweeted that he toured the Hindustan Latex Ltd (HLL) unit in Thiruvananthapuram, reviewed its operations and also took stock of the quality of medical products being manufactured there and also visited the Covid facility at the Government Medical College in the state capital. Giving details of the meeting between the central team, the CM and state health minister, the PRD in a statement said that starting of a vaccine manufacturing unit at the Bio Park in Thiruvananthapuram was discussed and the Union Minister said such an establishment would be beneficial as both Covid and other vaccines can be produced there. During the meeting, the CM said that 56 per cent of the population was still unaffected by Covid and therefore, more people were likely to get infected in the coming days and in such a scenario the only way out was to vaccinate everyone, including one million guest workers, which is why more vaccines are needed, the PRD statement said. In the meeting, Mandaviya said the central government was trying to provide necessary assistance to all the state governments and his current visit was part of the same, the PRD said. According to the PRD, the Union Minister also said that through such visits the Centre gains knowledge of the measures taken by states to defend against Covid-19 and the experiences of the central government can be shared with them He further said that in August, 18 crore vaccines were produced with 20 crore more to be manufactured in September and Kerala will get the number of doses it deserves and any additional demands would be considered sympathetically. Earlier in the day, the PRD said that Mandaviya lauded the coronavirus prevention steps taken by the state government. He also termed the healthcare system here as "excellent" and assured availability of more vaccines for Kerala, and praised the lack of vaccine wastage by the state by saying that it has set an example with regard to administration of doses, the PRD said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan also said that Kerala was ahead of the national average in vaccination and the death rate here was low, it said. He also said that more attention should be paid during Onam and that those who are in home quarantine should be monitored separately. Mandaviya and the central team visited Kerala at a time when it was accounting for more than half of the nation's daily fresh infection caseload. Kerala on Sunday reported 18,582 new Covid-19 cases, which was more than half of the national total of 32,937 fresh coronavirus cases. On Sunday, the Test Positivity Rate was 15.11 per cent in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||Meet Pawan Monga, Delhi BJP’s Member who is gaining recognition for his exceptional work during Pandemic||With Covid pandemic hitting the world, a lot around us has changed. The world is in chaos and the same applies to India. There was a kind of an undeclared emergency with the government being left with no option apart from imposing a lockdown. The lockdown further led to job losses, manufacturing units being shut down and laborers forced to flee their workplaces and migrating to their hometowns. The pandemic was also a test for the healthcare system of the Nation which eventually collapsed in the second wave that hit the country in Mid 2020. There was a scarcity of beds and oxygen supply in the hospitals across the country. Things were onto a next level in the National Capital with people unable to get medical facilities for their loved ones. There was total chaos as people were left to die. A lot of individuals, well known personalities, members of civil societies and NGOs came forward to do their bit in helping people. One such individual is Pawan Monga, who happens to be the Executive Member of BJP’s Delhi unit, has done a tremendous job during these difficult times. Pawan who is also the President of ‘Ekta Mission’, with his team of selfless, hard-working people did a commendable job during the second wave. Pawan was seen on the ground working tirelessly day and night. He made sure that people across Delhi don't suffer from lack of food and medical facilities. He helped people in arranging them with Plasma, Injections, Oxygen Cylinders and the life saving drug- Remdisivir. ‘Ekta Mission’ is the platform which he utilised in doing this noble work. They have been credited to run successful campaigns making people aware of the importance of wearing a mask and using the sanitizers. Ekta Mission also helped lakhs of underprivileged, poor people by distributing them lakhs of masks and sanitizers free of cost. They further set up several camps and covid booths across the city providing people with relief items. Pawan has been leading from the front in the Nation’s fight against the Covid. He is the man who made other political leaders across the political spectrum hit the ground, saving the lives of thousands of people. Pawan also inspired his own leaders in the BJP to come forward and get united in these miserable times. Seeing his commitment, a lot of young people volunteered in Ekta Mission’s program and together they have been successful in providing food and medical facilities in the remotest parts of the City. Pawan with his initiative made sure that there’s no deaths due to the lack of beds and oxygen cylinders in Delhi and keeping this in mind, they have been successful in arranging oxygen cylinders, hospitals beds, ICU wards and medicines. Apart from this, Ekta Mission has set up several blood plasma donation camps across the city for those people who have defeated and recovered from the deadly virus. For migrant laborers, they have worked towards providing them with food and medical care during these tough times. Commenting on his campaign and the love it received from the common public, Pawan said “I am delighted to have been able to serve the people by providing them with the essentials. ‘Ekta Mission’ has been successful in arranging beds and oxygen cylinders for lakhs of people and this gives me immense satisfaction.” “Our party, BJP was on the ground 24*7 working for the people and I am happy to be a member of such a political party.” Pawan and his Ekta Mission deserves all sorts of appreciation for the immense work they have done during the Covid times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||After a lull Southwest Monsoon has started to revive rainfall, says IMD||After a break, the Southwest Monsoon has started reviving and rainfall activity has started to increase over south India, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said a low pressure is likely to form over the west-central Bay of Bengal off Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts during the next 24 hours. "There will be a revival of rainfall activity. Under the influence of this system, rainfall activity is likely to increase over the northern part of the southern peninsula and central India," Mohapatra said. However, subdued rainfall activity is likely to continue over north India and Gujarat, the IMD said. After heavy rains in the second half of July over several parts of the country, there was a lull in the rainfall activity. The IMD said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is likely over Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha during next five days. Isolated heavy falls are likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh on August 17, Telangana on August 18 and 19, over Jharkhand from August 16-19, over the Gangetic West Bengal on August 16 and 17, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during August 16-20. Rainfall activity over Madhya Pradesh will increase from August 17 to 19; over Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha from August 16 to 18. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls are also very likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh on August 16; Odisha and Telangana on August 16 and 17, and Vidarbha on August 18. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely over Maharashtra (except Vidarbha area) during next three days till August 19 with reduction thereafter. Isolated heavy falls are very likely over these areas during August 16 and 17 heavy to very heavy falls are very likely on August 19. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are very likely to continue over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls are also very likely over Assam, Meghalaya on August 16 and 17, Arunachal Pradesh on August 17, and Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura on August 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||India promises to help stranded Afghan Sikhs and Hindus to return||In its first reaction to the unfolding developments in Afghanistan, India on Monday said it is constantly monitoring the situation and will take all steps to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals as well as its interests in that country. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India is also in touch with representatives of the Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan and will facilitate the repatriation of those who wish to leave that country. "The situation in Afghanistan is being monitored on a constant basis at high levels. The government will take all steps to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals and our interests in Afghanistan," Bagchi said. Capping its month-long rapid advances, the Taliban took positions in Kabul on Sunday evening hours after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani left for an unknown destination, paving the way the takeover of the capital as well as the country. "The security situation in Kabul has deteriorated significantly in the last few days. It is changing rapidly even as we speak," Bagchi said. He said there are a number of Afghans who have been India's partners in the promotion of mutual developmental, educational and people-to-people endeavours and India will stand by them. "We have been issuing periodic advisories for the safety and security of Indian nationals in that country, including calling for their immediate return to India," he said. "We had circulated emergency contact numbers and had also been extending assistance to community members. We are aware that there are still some Indian nationals in Afghanistan who wish to return and we are in touch with them," Bagchi added. 5 killed at Kabul airport Amid a thoroughly chaotic day in Afghanistan where 5 people lost their lives while trying to flee the country, over 200 Indians are reportedly stuck in the country's capital Kabul. The contingent, including Foreign Ministry staff and paramilitary soldiers tasked for their protection, are yet to be evacuated from the city, NDTV quoted sources as saying. An Indian aircraft is parked at the chaotic Kabul airport, sources said, adding the big concern is how to safely bring the staff from the Indian mission compound to the airport. The Taliban has enforced a curfew in the city, they said. The Indians stranded in Kabul include some 100 personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police or ITBP, tasked with protecting the Indian mission in Afghanistan. Air space closed The Afghan airspace has been closed to commercial flights after thousands of desperate people overran the tarmac this morning in the hope of getting out of the war-torn country, a day after the Taliban took control of the city. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has already left the country. Why the delay? Questions are being raised on why the Indian mission staff were not evacuated in the last three-four days when the situation on the ground was changing fast, sources have said. The missions of other nations in the war-torn country had been thinning out when Taliban started taking city after city before encircling Kabul and entering the city on Sunday. With Afghanistan's airspace closed, Air India flights coming from the US are likely to be re-routed, they said. The Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority asked all transit aircraft to reroute, adding any transit through Kabul airspace would be uncontrolled, news agency Reuters reported. Kabul's flight information region covers all of Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||Supreme Court extends deadline to frame guidelines for compensation to Covid victims' kin ||The Supreme Court on Monday granted 4-week extension to the Centre to frame guidelines for ex-gratia compensation to families of those who died of Covid-19. The Centre told the top court that the exercise of framing the guidelines is at an advanced stage and therefore some more time is required for in-depth examination before it is finalised and implemented. During the brief hearing, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati about compliance of other directions given by the court in its verdict on June 30. Bhati told the bench that she will file an affidavit within two weeks giving the entire details of compliance of other directions issued by the court. The bench then ordered that time be extended by four weeks for compliance of the direction on framing of the guidelines. It directed the Centre to file a status report on compliance of other directions of the court and listed the matter for further hearing after two weeks. The apex court had in its June 30 verdict directed NDMA to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons who died due to Covid-19. The Centre has moved an application seeking some more time to frame the guidelines on the ground that the exercise which was in active consideration of the NDMA was at an advanced stage and requires a little more in-depth examination. In its June 30 verdict, the top court had also ordered steps to simplify guidelines for issuance and correction of death certificates/official documents, stating the exact cause of death, that is, 'Death due to Covid-19' for enabling dependents to get benefits of welfare schemes. The top court's verdict had come on two separate pleas filed by lawyers Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking directions to the Centre and the states to provide Rs 4 lakh compensation to the families of coronavirus victims as provisioned under the Act. Four intervenors, who had lost their family members due to Covid have also moved the top court through advocate Sumeer Sodhi contending that there cannot be any discrimination in the amounts being paid by different states to family members of those, who had succumbed to the deadly infection. The apex court in its verdict, however, had noted the peculiarity and the impact and effect of the pandemic and said that it cannot order payment of Rs 4 lakh as ex-gratia compensation which should be decided by the NDMA as there was a need to focus simultaneously on prevention, preparedness, mitigation and recovery, which calls for a different order of mobilization of both financial and technical resources . We direct the NDMA to recommend guidelines for ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of the persons who died due to Covid-19, as mandated under Section 12(iii) of Disaster Management Act (DMA) 2005 for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to the persons affected by disaster - Covid 19 Pandemic, over and above the guidelines already recommended for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to persons affected by Covid-19, it had said. It had also directed the Centre to take appropriate steps on recommendations of the Finance Commission on providing insurance cover for deaths caused by Covid. The direction had come after the Centre said that presently there was no guideline/policy/scheme in NDMA which relates to National Insurance mechanism that may be used to pay for disaster related deaths due to Covid .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||Everyone has failed us, says Afghan Intelligent official ||“I had to run, else the Taliban would have killed me. Everything ends here. I could not bring my family along,” Afghan intelligence officer Asif said in broken Hindi as tears welled up in his eyes, hours after he landed in Delhi. The 41-year-old officer took the last commercial flight from Kabul to Delhi on Sunday to escape "certain death", leaving behind his ailing mother, wife and an eight-year-old son. A compatriot helped Asif find a modest accommodation -- a small room, attached bathroom and a marble slab with a sink that he called kitchen -- in Lajpat Nagar for Rs 500 a day. "I will try if I can get a room for Rs 200-300, said the officer, who wanted to be identified as just Asif. Asked if he had food, the officer of the National Directorate of Security (NDS), the national intelligence and security service of Afghanistan, burst into tears. His hands trembled and lips quivered as he took out his passport, an NDS identity card and photographs of his family from his bag. "The Taliban are catching us, killing us. They sent us notices, asking us to revolt against the government or die. We lost hope after (President Ashraf) Ghani fled (the country). Hundreds of officers from the security establishment have fled to Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and other countries, he said, as beads of sweat trickled down from his forehead. Asked if his family is safe back home, Asif said he had no information as Internet services have been hit in some areas in Kabul, which fell to the Taliban on Sunday. "I got my visa a month before. Ten days ago, we had intel that the Taliban is going to return, he said. “Pakistan betrayed us.... I served my nation for 20 years. This was my life,” Asif said before he broke down again, holding some of his pictures in NDS uniform and the security badge. He told PTI he and his colleagues shed their uniform and changed into civilian clothes before boarding a flight to India last night. Air India -- the only airline that has been operating flights between India and Afghanistan -- operated its last Delhi-Kabul-Delhi flight on Sunday. The flight scheduled for Monday has been cancelled. Asif says women have ditched salwar-kameez for burqas and have been keeping indoors. They will be killed if they don't, he said. "Sab khatam (everything is over)... There is no chance we will return to our country ever. Our beloved home is lost. I don't even know if my family will be able to make it to India, Asif said. Afghanistan stares at an uncertain future as President Ashraf Ghani left the country just before Kabul fell into the hands of the Taliban on Sunday. Sitting in his chemist shop barely a hundred metres away, Yousuf Yousufi, who fled Afghanistan five years ago, is hooked to his mobile screen, watching videos of crowds at the Kabul airport and Taliban fighters storming presidential palace. Some of the videos that a friend in Kabul sent to him purportedly showed people jostling with one another to get into a plane at the Kabul airport. The burst of machine gun could be heard in another video shot at night, as people ran down the streets. Taliban forced many policemen leave our motherland over the years. Else, they would have killed us some day, the 35-year-old father of three children said. "My mother, sister and brother are stuck there. They have locked themselves inside our home in Kabul. I have not been able to talk to them. The Internet isn't working there, he said. Yousufi's eyes are swollen and red. He says he hasn't slept well for three days. He says he's stressed and takes a puff of a cigarette before suddenly breaking down, seeing a video which showed a child crying over the body of a woman. “You asked me why I left my family there. I am an Afghan policeman. These children (the ones in the video) are my family. Our leaders abandoned us,” he said. “Everyone has failed us. The United States ditched us.... We will be forever indebted if the Indian government help us evacuate our family,” Yousufi said. In the adjoining four-storeyed building, Shukriya, 47, recalled the time when she ran a beauty parlour in Kabul. “My parents sold me to a mujahideen' for Rs 4 lakh. He had two more wives. He would not let me go to the market without a burqa and beat me up if I talked to a man,” she recalled. The government helped Shukriya get a divorce and she fled to India with a daughter and a son. “The Taliban are cruel to women. They won't let girls go to school, they abduct and forcibly marry teenagers and stone them to death if they fall in love,” she said. Shukriya felt Afghanistan has lost his chance to become a modern, democratic state with the relentless advance of the Taliban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||Can’t compel reluctant Centre to file detailed affidavit on Pegasus, says SC ||The Supreme Court Monday said it cannot compel the reluctant Centre to file a detailed affidavit on pleas seeking information if Pegasus spyware was used to snoop on certain citizens and steps it took to probe the allegations amid vehement claims that there was nothing to hide and it will set up a panel to examine all aspects related to the issue. The apex court bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana would on Tuesday deliberate on whether the Centre should file a detailed affidavit in the matter, after the short one in which it submitted on Monday that the pleas were based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the matter, if gone into on the basis of unsubstantiated reports, may have national security implications and it cannot be handled by asking furnish an affidavit etc. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology in a two-page affidavit told the bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, that to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, the Centre will constitute a Committee of Experts in the field which will go in to all aspects of the issue. You see, when the government is reluctant, then can you force it to file a detailed affidavit? the bench said, adding, “We will continue tomorrow... If Mr Mehta (Solicitor General) may decide to file an affidavit, then we have nothing to say, or we will hear all of you.” The law officer said, “The government is not reluctant at all... I ask myself a question if a one page affidavit is filed saying that Pegasus was not used then will they withdraw the petitions. The answer is no.” He said, “If it is for fact finding, then I am for it. But if it is for sensationalising which is alien to Article 32 then I cannot help it. It looks like petitioners want to go somewhere else other than what courts want to see.” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for veteran journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar who have filed one of the petitions in the matter, argued that the Centre should file an affidavit stating whether the government or its agencies have used Pegasus. The Solicitor General said, “Pegasus issue would involve the aspect of national security and the matter is sensitive.” We are dealing with a sensitive matter and the attempt seems to be to make it sensational, Mehta told the bench, adding, There would be an issue of national security . At the outset, Mehta told the bench that this issue is "highly technical" and expertise was needed to examine the aspects. "There is nothing to hide. It needs an examination by a committee of experts. This is a highly technical issue. We will appoint eminent neutral experts from the field," he said. Sibal said the Centre's affidavit does not say whether the government or its agencies had used the spyware. "We do not want the government, which might have used Pegasus or its agency might have used it, to set up a committee on its own," Sibal said. While contending that petitioners have relied upon news reports published by a web portal, Mehta said, “According to us, a false narrative is created.” The law officer referred to statement of minister in parliament and said the issues have been clarified and nothing further needed to be done in view of the fact that none of the petitioners have made out a case which has been raised after a web portal published a sensational story before parliament session. During the hearing, Justice Bose told parties about his one meeting with one of the petitioners in a social gathering and asked whether anybody has any objection if he continues hearing the pleas. All lawyers, in one voice, said no. “Only, I can have the objection. We don't have any objection... I have full faith,” said Mehta. Sibal raised many objections to the Centre's short affidavit and said the government should say on oath that it never used the spyware and if it has used the technology then we do not want the government which might have used pegasus to set up a committee. I am not concerned about the individuals. I am worried about the institutions which are the journalists and courts and both are the pillars of democracy, he said and again referred to alleged snooping of a woman employee and some officials of the apex court. He referred to rules and said the affidavit in the matters should be filed by Home Secretary instead of other officials. “If Interception is allowed legally then Home Secretary will know and if he says he does not know then it has been done without his knowledge,” he said, adding that countries like Israel and France have started a probe and Indian govt is saying that everything is fine. This is wholly unacceptable. Give them time but let them state on oath did they use Pegasus, how it was used, what deal contracts were entered into. Cabinet secretary should reply, he said. The court is hearing a batch of pleas, including the one filed by Editors Guild of India, seeking independent probe into the matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
16-08-2021||India||Pawar to Centre: Bring law to remove quota cap||Maintaining that the Constitution was bigger than any court judgement, NCP president Sharad Pawar on Monday asked the Centre to enact a law to remove the Supreme Court-mandated 50 per cent cap on reservations and allow states to exceed the existing quota limit. Pawar also said the use of force by mashals during ruckus in the Rajya Sabha last week was an "attack" on parliamentarians and democracy, and asserted that the Modi government fielding seven Union ministers before the media to justify its stand on the bedlam shows it was on a "weak wicket". Addressing a press conference here, Pawar said the Constitution was bigger than any judgement and asked the Modi government to bring a constitutional amendment to relax the 50 per cent cap on reservations in jobs and education and allow states to exceed existing quota limit.Articles 15(4) and 16(4) (dealing with provision for socially and educationally backward classes,and reservation) do not put any limit on the percentage of quota and there is no constitutional hurdle in increasing the same, the former Union minister said. The central government has already exceeded the 50 per cent limit by providing a 10 per cent quota in jobs and education for economically weaker sections, Pawar said. Pawar asked the Centre to undertake a caste-based census and claimed the Modi Central government misled people on the quota issue. The constitutional amendment of restoring the right of the states to prepare a list of OBCs, taken away two years ago, is a mere eyewash, he said. Unless the 50 per cent cap is relaxed, the Maratha quota cannot be restored. Similarly, the empirical data on OBCs should be shared with the states. Unless the data is available, it cannot be known how much representation needs to be given to smaller castes, the NCP leader said.Pawar said reservation in most of the states is above 60 per cent. Someone will have to show courage to speak in front of Modi. Deception is the only motive for the constitutional amendment," he said.On August 10, the Lok Sabha passed a bill allowing states to decide who their Other Backward Classes (OBCs) are. The 127th Constitution Amendment Act, 2021, restores the power of states to identify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs), usually called OBCs.In May, the Supreme Court struck down the 2018 Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming it as unconstitutional", and held there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal verdict. At the press meet, Pawar also spoke about the ruckus that erupted in the Upper House of Parliament last week and the opposition and the government trading charges over the unprecedented unruly scenes. The veteran politician (80) said in his 54 years of parliamentary life, he had never seen 40 marshals entering the House during a session. Pawar said the use of force by marshals in Parliament was dangerous for democracy. The fact that seven to eight ministers came together to justify the government action shows they were on a "weak wicket", the NCP leader said. Pawar said the opposition was only asking the government to discuss some key issues. "Never before in parliamentary democracy 40 marshals had entered the House and pushed the MPs. This was an attack on parliamentarians and we condemn it. The opposition members were demanding that the Centre make its stand on the Pegasus case clear, debate the farm laws and scrap them and discuss price rise. "We also demanded that the insurance bill be sent to a joint select committee but the government got it passed in a hurry. Opposition members protested against this act of the government ," he said. Pawar further said a probe was needed into the allegations that "outsiders" entered the House when it was in session. He also said any Congress leader from among Abhishek Manu Singhvi, P Chidambaram and Kapil Sibal should be part of a parliamentary committee on the Pegasus 'snooping' issue. Before the Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die last Wednesday, it witnessed ugly scenes of Opposition members jostling with marshals as they tore papers, entered the Well of the Upper House and attempted to go near the presiding officer's chair. Referring to the din in the House, Pawar said, "We were told some bills are about constitutional amendment. The opposition said there is no mention about discussion on the Pegasus issue. Whatever happened, happened in front of me since my seat is in the front. Some members did go into the Well." With the Taliban taking over Afghanistan, Pawar underlined the need to review India's foreign policy concerning all the neighbouring countries. "We should be alert and will have to take precautions in the long run. There was a time when except Pakistan and China, our relations with other neighbours were good," the former defence minister said. Taliban insurgents swept into Afghanistan's capital Kabul on Sunday after the government collapsed and President Ashraf Ghani left the country. "It is time to review our foreign policy concerning other countries. The situation is not good. But it is a sensitive issue. We will cooperate with the government since this is about national security," the former defence minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||Over 200 Indian still stuck in Kabul: Report||Amid a thoroughly chaotic day in Afghanistan where 5 people lost their lives while trying to flee the country, over 200 Indians are reportedly stuck in the country's capital Kabul. The contingent, including Foreign Ministry staff and paramilitary soldiers tasked for their protection, are yet to be evacuated from the city, NDTV quoted sources as saying. An Indian aircraft is parked at the chaotic Kabul airport, sources said, adding the big concern is how to safely bring the staff from the Indian mission compound to the airport. The Taliban has enforced a curfew in the city, they said. The Indians stranded in Kabul include some 100 personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police or ITBP, tasked with protecting the Indian mission in Afghanistan. The Afghan airspace has been closed to commercial flights after thousands of desperate people overran the tarmac this morning in the hope of getting out of the war-torn country, a day after the Taliban took control of the city. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has already left the country. The Cabinet Secretary is meeting with Foreign Ministry officials to work out the evacuation plan, which is already in place, in detail, sources told NDTV. Questions are being raised on why the Indian mission staff were not evacuated in the last three-four days when the situation on the ground was changing fast, sources have said. The missions of other nations in the war-torn country had been thinning out when Taliban started taking city after city before encircling Kabul and entering the city on Sunday. With Afghanistan's airspace closed, Air India flights coming from the US are likely to be re-routed, they said. The Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority asked all transit aircraft to reroute, adding any transit through Kabul airspace would be uncontrolled, news agency Reuters reported. Kabul's flight information region covers all of Afghanistan. Five people were killed at Kabul airport today, but it's unclear whether they died in firing or stampede, Reuters reported. The Taliban took control of Afghanistan after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country and conceded the terrorists had won the 20-year war. The astonishingly quick collapse of the government, with terrorists taking over the presidential palace on Sunday night, was what triggered fear and panic in Kabul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||Rules on retro tax to be framed soon, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the rules that will lead to scrapping of the retrospective tax demands made on companies such as Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Plc will be framed soon. Parliament earlier this month passed a bill to scrap all tax demands made using the 2012 retrospective tax legislations. The bill provides for government refunding the retro tax to companies provided all legal challenges are withdrawn. Now the rules for the same have to be framed, which Sitharaman said will be done soon. "I will follow the law passed in Parliament," she said. The finance minister said her ministry officials are discussing with Cairn, Vodafone on closure of retro tax cases, refund and settlement. "No discussions with me (have happened) so far," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||Mamata has excellent vision for TMC's future, says Sushmita Dev||Former Congress leader Sushmita Dev, who joined the TMC on Monday, said West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has an "excellent vision" for the party's future and hoped that she would be helpful in that regard. Dev, who was the chief of the women's wing of the Congress, joined the TMC in the presence of senior party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien in Kolkata. "We warmly welcome the former President of All India Mahila Congress Sushmita Dev to our Trinamool family," the Trinamool Congress (TMC) said in a tweet. A former MP, Dev was the national spokesperson of the grand old party and the chief of the All India Mahila Congress. She sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, sources said, but offered no reason for her quitting. "Met TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and had a good discussion with him. He has an excellent vision and clarity for the party. Then the three of us met the (West Bengal) chief minister. She clearly has an excellent future vision for the party and I hoped that I would be helpful in that regard. "I would be meeting the press in Delhi On Tuesday and answer all questions," Dev said in a video statement released by the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||India’s democracy needs repairing, says Sonia Gandhi||As India enters the 75th year of independence, the Congress Monday said party chief Sonia Gandhi has urged people to introspect what freedom means and told them it is a "sin" to remain silent when fundamental rights and the Constitution are "trampled upon". She also said the country's democracy needs repairing. "When fundamental rights of people, guaranteed by the founding fathers of our Constitution are being trampled upon, it is a sin to stay silent," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, quoting Gandhi's article in an English daily. He said that in the article, the party president has talked about what freedom means for people, with the country entering the 75th year of Independence. When the government "attacks" Parliament and "tramples upon" its traditions, "enslaves" democracy, attempts to "violate" the Constitution and "shackles" institutional autonomy, the people of the country need to introspect what freedom means to them, she has said. Gandhi has alleged that currently journalists do not have the freedom to write, TV channels the freedom to show the truth, and writers and thinkers the freedom to express themselves. She also alleged parliamentarians don't have the freedom to express their views, people affected by the oxygen shortage crisis and GST do not have the freedom to speak and the states, in a federal structure, do not have the freedom to demand their rights. In her article she argues that Indian democracy is in need of repair. "We must undo the damage." She said the progress achieved in the last few decades has been reversed under the present government which indulges in "hollow slogans, event management and brand-building" at the cost of governance. "After decades of progress towards an India of our dreams, why is our democracy in danger? It is because tangible achievements have been substituted by hollow slogans, event management and brand-building only to benefit those in power at the expense of governance. "It is because symbolism has triumphed over meaningful action. It is because democracy is sought to be replaced by an autocracy. Today's symbolism and reality is that Parliament House is being turned into a museum," Gandhi said in the article shared by the Congress. As we begin independent India's 75th year, we owe it to our freedom fighters to undo this damage to our Republic, the Congress president said. She also called on the need to draw courage from them to take on those who would replace their inclusive, liberating idealism with a narrow, sectarian, worldview overflowing with prejudice and discrimination. "We must not be swayed by hollow attempts to appropriate our icons by those who made no contribution to our struggle for independence. They may borrow Gandhiji's eyeglasses but their vision for our country remains Godse's. Our founders rejected that divisive ideology 74 years ago, and we must reject it once again," Gandhi said. She said in a world affected by the COVID-19 and climate change, India's response to these challenges will be crucial to the world. "The recently concluded Monsoon session of Parliament displayed the disdain of the present [Modi] government towards parliamentary processes and building consensus," Gandhi said. She claimed that the opposition was repeatedly denied an opportunity to raise issues of national importance. "Increasingly over the past 7 years, laws have been passed without debate in the House or scrutiny by a Committee, effectively turning Parliament into a rubber stamp," she alleged. She also alleged democratically-elected state governments have been toppled, disrespecting people's mandates. She also criticised the government's handling of the coronavirus crisis. "Decades of progress in improving health care have been reversed by the mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic." Referring to the farmers' agitation, she alleged the government has refused to heed to their legitimate concerns. "We must ensure that those who feed us do not themselves starve. We have to make agriculture more sustainable, economically and ecologically," she said. She also alleged the misuse of laws and government agencies. "Doctored videos, planted evidence, and fake toolkits are all becoming weapons of intimidation and disinformation to suppress dissent," she alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||HC seeks Centre's stand on plea concerning data leaks on online platforms||The Delhi High Court has sought the Central government's stand on a plea concerning the alleged cyber security breaches and data leaks on the online platforms of BigBasket, Domino's, MobiKwik and Air India. Justice Rekha Palli granted time to the counsel for the Centre to seek instructions and listed the petition by Yarlagadda Kiran Chandra, General Secretary of Free Software Movement of India, which claims to be a national coalition of various regional and sectoral free software movements, for hearing on September 23. Learned counsel for the respondents, who appears on advance notice, prays for time to obtain instructions. List on September 23, 2021, the judge said in the August 13 order. In his petition, Chandra has prayed for a direction to Computer Emergency Respondent Team -India (CERT-In) to act on his representation and commence investigation and review the alleged data breaches. The petitioner has said that he wrote to the CERT-In on several occasions on the breaches of data of millions of users of Big Basket, Mobikwik, Domino's and Air India platforms, urging it to investigate and update the citizens, but no action was taken. He said that under Section 70B of the Information Technology Act, 2000, CERT-In is responsible for collecting and analysing information on cyber incidents and take emergency measures for handling cyber security incidents etc. The petition said that presently, since there is no law governing data protection in India and the aggrieved users do not have any legislative recourse against such breaches, an investigation by CERT-In on frequent data breaches at mass level is important to safeguard the privacy of users. The data breaches at MobiKwik, BigBasket, Air India and Domino's have leaked sensitive personal information of millions of users including their addresses, phone numbers, passport information, credit-debit card details, hashed passwords, bank accounts, KYC details. These breaches seriously impact the privacy of the users including their financial details and personal addresses, the petition reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||Police seek time to argue UAPA bail plea for Delhi riots case ||A court here on Monday adjourned the hearing on the bail application of former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan in the Delhi riots conspiracy case till August 20, after the prosecutor sought more time and said that he cannot talk in the air. Jahan, along with several others, has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the case and they are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, who represents Delhi Police and was slated to argue on the bail plea today, sought an adjournment from Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat stating that he needs more time to prepare the case. Advocate Pradeep Teotia, appearing for Jahan, objected to the adjournment request and apprised ASJ Rawat that the matter is pending for the last six months. “I cannot argue like you. I need to be fully prepared. I cannot talk in the air,” the prosecutor told advocate Teotia, impelling the judge to intervene and ask them to not fight over petty issues or get personal with each other. Jahan's counsel had concluded his arguments on her bail plea on July 23 and the SPP was slated to argue before the court today. The matter will now be heard on August 20 at 11 am. Earlier, Jahan, through her lawyer, said that the investigating agency does not have an iota of evidence against her in the conspiracy case. She also asked if it was "wrong to have a political affiliation". Besides her, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, former student leader Umar Khalid, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the anti-terror law. In June, the Delhi High Court had granted bail to Tanha, Narwal, and Kalita in the case, saying the State blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in anxiety to suppress dissent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||HC to ED: Respond to Avantha Group promoter's plea||The Delhi High Court Monday asked the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to respond to a plea by Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar, arrested in connection with a Rs 500-crore money laundering case, claiming that he was produced before the trial court after expiry of statutorily mandated 24 hours. Thapar has approached the high court challenging a trial court's August 5 order by which his plea to declare his arrest as illegal was dismissed without recording reasons. Justice Yogesh Khanna asked the ED to file within seven days, its counter affidavit to the two petitions filed by Thapar and listed the matter for further hearing on August 27. The high court was informed that Thapar, who was sent to 10-day ED custody, will be produced before the trial court later in the day. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, representing Thapar, argued that the time of arrest shown in the arrest memo is 7;55 PM on August 3. However, the search and seizure was conducted by the ED officials at Thapar's place at 8:30 AM on August 3 and he was arrested at that time only. He said that on August 4, Thapar was produced before the special judge, PMLA, after the expiry of statutorily mandated 24 hours period contrary to the provisions of law and he was remanded ED custody for a day. On August 5, he was sent to 10 days in ED custody. Time of arrest is when the person is first to put to restraint, that is, 8:30 AM here and not the time of arrest recorded by the arresting officers. He was not produced before the court within 24 hours, Aggarwal argued. Besides, Thapar has also sought a copy of Enforcement Case information Report (ECIR) registered by the ED, the copy of reasons to believe that Thapar was guilty of offence of money laundering and a check-list prepared before the arrest. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, representing the ED, said he would file a reply to the petitions and that there was no urgency in the matter. According to the ED, Thapar was arrested on August 3 night after the agency carried out raids against him and his linked businesses in Delhi and Mumbai. The agency had told the trial court that investigation revealed that around Rs 500 crore worth proceeds of crime were allegedly laundered through Oyster Buildwell Pvt Ltd (OBPL), Jhabua Power Ltd (JPL), Jhabua Power Investment Ltd (JPIL), Avantha Power & Infrastructure Ltd (APIL), Avantha Realty Ltd (ARL) etc. which were being controlled and beneficially owned directly or indirectly by Gautam Thapar. The probe revealed that sham agreements were made by these entities to fraudulently obtain huge amount running into more than 500 crore from Yes Bank and further by different modes of layering the tainted amount was laundered and the loan account thus turned NPA causing a loss of huge public money, it had alleged. The case is having international ramifications involving proceeds of crime stashed outside the country in form of immovable properties and bank accounts which is to be unearthed, it had said. The ED has been probing an alleged transaction between his company Avantha Realty, Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and his wife, who are already being investigated under the PMLA by the agency. The case of money laundering was registerd by the ED after taking cognisance of an FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). "The (CBI) FIR alleges that Rana Kapoor, then MD and CEO of Yes Bank Limited, obtained illegal gratification in the form of a property in a prime location in Delhi at much less than the realisable market value belonging to Avantha Reality Ltd for sanction of a loan to ARL and for extending concessions, relaxations and waivers in the already existing credit facilities provided to Avantha Group companies and for advancing new and additional loans to them by Yes Bank Ltd," the ED had said earlier. CBI had last year booked Kapoor and his wife Bindu for allegedly obtaining a bribe of Rs 307 crore through the purchase of a bungalow in a tony Delhi area from a realty firm at half the market price and facilitating around Rs 1,900 crore bank loans to it in return, the agency had said. The CBI suspected that the discounted transaction for the 1.2 acre-bungalow on Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi was a gratification to Kapoor through the company Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in return for non-realisation of over Rs 1,900 crore in loans from Yes Bank to Gautam Thapar-promoted Avantha Realty and group companies, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi treats Neeraj Chopra to churma, enjoys ice-cream with PV Sindhu||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hosted the Olympic-returned Indian athletes for breakfast at his residence, a day after lauding their memorable performance at the Tokyo Games from the ramparts of the Red Fort. The breakfast spread comprised churma for gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, while star shuttler PV Sindhu enjoyed a scoop of ice-cream with the PM. Modi had promised Sindhu that he would have ice-cream with her if she wins a medal in Tokyo. Check these images that are going viral on social media: Indian athletes returned from Tokyo with a haul of seven medals, including javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra's historic gold in track and field. It was the country's best ever show at the Olympics. Modi, who had applauded the Indian athletes' tremendous show during the 75th Independence Day celebration at the Red Fort on Sunday, was seen talking to Chopra and bronze medallist PV Sindhu, who become only the second Indian and first woman to win two Olympic medals. The shuttler had also brought with her the silver medal she had won at Rio five years ago. The members of the India men's hockey team that won a bronze after 41 also chatted with the PM, who was seen examining a hockey stick. Bajrang, Dahiya also present Also, present was the wrestling contingent, which returned from the Olympics with two medals. Ravi Dahiya won a silver and Bajrang Punia a bronze medal. Vinesh Phogat who has been suspended by the WFI for indiscipline was also present along with young Anshu Malik, Seema Bisla and coach Jagmander Singh. The other medallist included weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, who opened India's account at the Games on the first day competitions with a silver medal and bronze winning boxer Lovlina Borgohain. The women's hockey team that exceeded all expectation by reaching its maiden Olympic semifinal was also present alongside the boxing, shooting and athletics contingents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||Death toll climbs to 25 in Himachal Pradesh landslide||Two more bodies were recovered on Monday from the site of the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, taking the death toll to 25, a senior official said. Search and rescue operation for those missing in the landslide that occurred on Wednesday last are underway. State Disaster Management Director, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, said as per information provided by Bhawanagar SHO, two bodies had been retrieved from the rubble at Chaura village on National Highway 5 in Nichar tehsil on Monday. He said search and rescue operations, which had been suspended on Sunday night, resumed again on Monday morning. An SUV and its passengers feared buried under the rubble could not be traced so far, he said, adding that it might be possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris. The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and members of local police and home guards. On the day of the incident, 10 bodies were recovered and 13 people rescued. Earlier on Wednesday, eight bodies were found in a taxi during the search and rescue operation. Two cars had also been recovered in a damaged condition on Wednesday, but no one was found in them. On Thursday, four bodies were found from the landslide site, while three were taken out on Friday. Subsequently, six bodies were retrieved from the rubble on Saturday. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had informed the state assembly after visiting the spot on Thursday that 16 people were still missing. After that, 11 bodies have been recovered so far. At least five people are still missing, officials said. An HRTC bus, which along with other vehicles, was buried under the debris, was found in a badly damaged condition on Thursday. A truck was also found, which had rolled down towards a riverside due to stones falling down a mountainside, and the driver's body was recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-310
16-08-2021||India||Will form panel to probe Pegasus snooping issue, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that there is "nothing to hide" in the Pegasus snooping allegations and it will constitute a committee of eminent experts to examine all the aspects. The government told a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana that this issue is "highly technical" and expertise was needed to examine the aspects. "There is nothing to hide. It needs examination by committee of experts. This is a highly technical issue. We will appoint eminent neutral experts from the field," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar who have filed a plea seeking probe into the snooping allegations, said the affidavit filed by the Centre does not say whether the government or its agencies had used the spyware. "We do not want the government, which might have used Pegasus or its agency might have used it, to set up a committee on its own," Sibal said during the hearing which is going on. Earlier in the day, the Centre filed an affidavit in the top court and said that a batch of petitions seeking an independent probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations are based on "conjectures and surmises" or on other unsubstantiated media reports. In its affidavit, the government said its position on the alleged Pegasus snooping has already been clarified in Parliament by IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. "A bare perusal of the captioned petition and other connected petitions makes it clear that the same are based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material," the affidavit said. With a view to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, it said, the government will constitute a committee of experts. On August 10, the top court had taken exception to "parallel proceedings and debates" on social media on the snooping row by some petitioners and said that there must be some discipline and they must have "some faith in the system". The apex court is hearing a batch of pleas, including the one filed by the Editors Guild of India, seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. Earlier, during the hearing of the matter, the top court had said that allegations of Pegasus related snooping are "serious in nature" if reports on them are correct. It had also asked the petitioners whether they had made any efforts to file a criminal complaint on this. Editors Guild of India has sought in its plea that a special investigation team be set up to conduct a probe into reported surveillance of journalists and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||India adds over 32,000 fresh Covid cases, 417 casualties in a day||India's coronavirus caseload mounted to 3,22,25,513 on Monday with 32,937 fresh infections, while the active cases came down to 3,81,947, the lowest in 145 days, according to Union health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,31,642 as 417 more people succumbed to COVID-19, the data updated at 8 am showed. The 3,81,947 active cases, down from 3,85,336 on Sunday, comprise 1.18 per cent of the total infections in the country, the lowest since March last year. The national recovery rate stands at 97.48 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.79 per cent. It has remained below 3 per cent for the last 21 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.01 per cent, it said. So far, 3,14,11,924 people have recuperated from COVID-19. The case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it added. As many as 11,81,212 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 49,48,05,652. Cumulatively, 54.58 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 417 new fatalities include 130 from Maharashtra and 102 from Kerala. Of the total 4,31,642 deaths reported so far in the country, 1,35,039 were from Maharashtra, 36,979 from Karnataka, 34,519 from Tamil Nadu, 25,069 from Delhi, 22,784 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,601 from Kerala and 18,303 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||Delhi Police constable shoots self in head, critical||A Delhi Police constable allegedly attempted suicide by shooting himself in the head with his service pistol in southwest Delhi's Vasant Vihar area on Monday morning, officials said. The victim, Rakesh (35), was immediately rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where his condition is stated to be critical, they said. The reason behind the constable's extreme step is not yet known, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said, "We received a PCR call at Vasant Vihar police station around 6 am about a police constable who had a bullet injury. Immediately, the local police team rushed to the spot at police picket Poorvi Marg, where constable Rakesh was found unconscious." He shot himself with the government-issued pistol from the right side of the head and the bullet exited from the left side, the officer said. "Immediately, he was rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre and his condition is critical," Singh said. An investigation is underway, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||Congress leader Sushmita Dev quits party||Congress leader and the party's women's wing chief Sushmita Dev has quit the party and sent her resignation letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi, sources said on Monday. The sources said that Dev may join the Trinamool Congress. Dev, a former MP, is currently a national spokesperson of the Congress and is the All-India Mahila Congress chief. She offered no reason for her quitting the party. In her letter to Gandhi on Sunday, Dev said she was beginning a "new chapter in my life of public service . Dev has also changed her Twitter bio to a former member of the party and former chief of the Mahila Congress. In her letter to Gandhi, Dev said she is resigning from the primary membership of the Indian National Congress. "I cherish my three-decade long association with the Indian National Congress...I hope I have your good wishes as I begin a new chapter in my life of public service," she said in the letter. She had met the Congress president along with other leaders of the Assam Congress on Saturday. Her Twitter account was also temporarily blocked last week after she shared Rahul Gandhi's picture with the parents of the nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||Delhi records minimum temperature of 27.3 degrees Celsius||Delhi on Monday recorded a minimum temperature of 27.3 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The maximum temperature is likely to reach up to 37 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity was recorded at 63 per cent at 8.30 am. The weather department has predicted partly cloudy skies for the day. The national capital had witnessed a warm Sunday with the maximum temperature settling at 37.3 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, while the minimum was 27 degrees Celsius. The air quality index (AQI) was 121 at 8 am, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||India celebrates 75th Independence Day||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||Modi's I-day speech adds 'sabka prayas' to his 'sabka saath' slogan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to freedom fighters, added “sabka prayas” (effort by all) to his “sabka saath” slogan, described the youth as the “can-do generation” and asked them to take the country forward. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort to mark the start of the 75th year of independence, Modi urged people to strive collectively (sabka prayas) to take the country to new heights by the 100th year of independence. Beyond such exhortations and slogans, however, his speech contained little by way of a road map for the future. “The journey of the next 25 years is the divine period of the creation of a new India,” the Prime Minister said. “Aaj Lal Kile se main avhan kar raha hoon: Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas aur sabka prayas hamare har lakshyon ki prapti ke liye bahut mahatwapurn hai (I’m urging you from the Red Fort today: Solidarity with all, development for all, trust from all and effort by all are very important for us to reach all our goals),” he said. Modi had begun his speech by remembering the freedom fighters. He referred to the pain of Partition and reiterated that his government would observe August 14 as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” — a decision announced on Saturday that many saw as an attempt to polarise people by taking a dig at Pakistan. Modi played up his government’s schemes and spoke of expanding their reach, referring to “100 per cent India” and “saturation”. “Now we have to move towards saturation. We have to make sure that 100 per cent villages have roads, 100 per cent households have bank accounts, 100 per cent beneficiaries have Ayushman Bharat cards and 100 per cent of those eligible have a gas connection,” he said. Modi announced a PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan for holistic infrastructure development to help local manufacturers turn globally competitive. “All manufacturers should target the global market. India should become the hub of the global market,” he said, adding that this would generate huge employment opportunities. In his Independence Day speech last year, too, Modi had spoken of turning India into a global manufacturing hub. His slogan then had been “Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India)”. Claiming that his government had brought remarkable changes to the lives of the deprived sections, the Prime Minister announced a plan to introduce fortified rice for the poor under various schemes. Experts had recently cautioned that a government proposal for mandatory fortification of rice with iron to combat anaemia was based on flawed assumptions and haemoglobin measurements, and could harm segments of the population through excessive iron intake. Citing climate change, Modi announced a national hydrogen mission: “We have to make India a hub for the production and export of green hydrogen.” Green hydrogen is a hydrogen-produced fuel that is made from renewable energy sources instead of fossil fuels. Modi announced 75 Vande Bharat trains that would connect every corner of the country, and said Sainik schools would be opened for girls too. He referred briefly to the devastation caused by the pandemic before moving on to more upbeat themes. Some 32 Indian athletes who had participated in the Tokyo Olympics had been invited to the event: Modi called on the nation to applaud them and held them up as a symbol of the country’s youth power. “My faith is in the country’s youth. My faith is in the country’s sisters, daughters, farmers and professionals. This is a can-do generation; they can achieve every goal,” Modi said. He wound up with a poem that suggested that India’s time had come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||CJI Ramana regrets lack of debate in Parliament and state legislatures||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday regretted the lack of debate in Parliament and state legislatures, his remark coming against the backdrop of the Centre railroading several bills through Parliament without discussion during the just-ended monsoon session. Justice Ramana said the Houses once witnessed elaborate discussions over every bill and rued that the lack of quality debate nowadays often led to legislation riddled with “ambiguities” and “gaps in law”. “I still remember the debates which used to take place in the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and various state legislatures,” the Chief Justice said at the Independence Day celebrations on the Supreme Court lawns. “Unfortunately, over a period of time, you know what’s happening in the Houses, whether it is Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha, if you see the debates that used to take place in the House, were very, very nice and constructive debates….” In the monsoon session, the Narendra Modi government passed 19 bills with hardly any discussion as the Opposition stalled proceedings demanding debates on issues such as the Pegasus snooping controversy. “It’s a sorry state of affairs (now). We see legislation and laws being passed with a lot of ambiguities and lots of gaps in law. There is no clarity regarding the laws. We don’t know for what purpose a law has been made. This creates a lot of litigation, inconvenience and loss to the government and inconvenience to the general public,” Justice Ramana said. “That’s what happens if intellectuals and professionals like lawyers are not there in the House. I don’t want to say more than this, but it is time the legal community take the lead in making laws, to participate actively in social and public life.” The Chief Justice recalled that Parliament and the state legislatures once boasted large numbers of legal experts as members. He cited how CPM parliamentarian P. Ramamurti from Tamil Nadu (who had been an MP for 16 years between 1960 and 1983) had contributed extensively to a debate on the various contours of the Industrial Disputes Act. Justice Ramana said the leaders of the freedom struggle like Mahatma Gandhi, Vallabhbhai Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajendra Prasad were lawyers. Later, apart from Gandhi, the rest became parliamentarians. He exhorted the senior lawyers present: “I don’t want you all to confine yourselves to only your profession of earning money and living comfortably. Please think over as you must also participate in public life. I hope your knowledge, wisdom and experience will help the country and people will feel happy.” Justice Ramana praised the Supreme Court’s role over the past 75 years, saying it had not just interpreted the Constitution but gone beyond it to grant rights and privileges to the underprivileged. Turning nostalgic, Justice Ramana recalled how he had taken great enjoyment in Independence Day celebrations as a schoolboy. “I still remember, I was aged around 10 years. Those days when we used to go to school we were given some jaggery pieces and some murmura (rice flakes), yet we used to enjoy,” he said. “(The) small things which we used to get in school — we used to feel happy and proud of the events.” He added: “Today is a very happy and historic day. Apart from celebrating Independence Day it is time to rethink and review our policies, as to what we have achieved and what we have to achieve in our future days. “Seventy-five years is not a small time in a country’s history. But at the same time we have to look into the vast population and geographical conditions of the country, particularly when we got Independence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||Kabul: India's delay in final call on shuttering embassy questioned||As Kabul came under siege earlier than expected, India on Sunday drew up contingency plans to evacuate diplomats and nationals from Afghanistan but a final call on shuttering the embassy had not been taken till evening. “India is closely monitoring the fast-changing situation in Afghanistan to decide on the evacuation of diplomatic personnel from Kabul,’’ sources said when asked if a decision had been taken about the embassy in the Afghan capital in the wake of the Taliban reaching the capital’s outskirts. The Kabul mission is now India’s only functional diplomatic post in Afghanistan. A routine Air India flight which had to hover in the skies above Kabul for over an hour early Sunday afternoon before managing to land in the midst of the Taliban siege of the capital left the city in the evening with 129 passengers. While Air India has not yet cancelled its scheduled services to Kabul, India — according to sources — has Indian Air Force flights on stand-by; ready to proceed to Afghanistan for evacuation of diplomats and other Indians still in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Hundreds of Tricolor hoisted amid shutdown||The Valley on Sunday hosted for the first-time hundreds of Tricolor-hoisting ceremonies but a near total shutdown against the Independence Day celebrations played spoilsport for the government. Kashmiris have traditionally stayed away from the national commemorations like Independence Day or Republic Day but there was a virtual riot of colours at stadiums, schools, colleges and other government institutions on Sunday. The administration illuminated the city’s iconic landmark, Ghanta Ghar, in colours of the Tricolour and hoisted a massive national flag at centuries old monument atop Hari Parbat hill. Several local newspapers, also in a first, splashed messages on front pages greeting their readers on Independence Day. The events came in response to government orders making it mandatory for heads of educational institutions to unfurl the flag, as part of a two-year-old campaign beginning with the scrapping of special status to fully integrate Kashmir with the country. Official sources said e-mails were sent to newspapers with a direction to greet readers, although a government official dismissed it as “fake news”. Several newspapers greeted readers but some skipped the greetings. Over the past two years, the government could not “enforce” such events because it had enforced a lockdown. “Independence Day will be celebrated in all schools. Directions should be conveyed to all the CEOs, principals/headmasters to hoist national flag at all schools. Videos and photos of the event will be uploaded on Google drive,” a government order last week said. Thousands of teachers and students participated in the preparations over the past several days for the flag-hoisting events, although educational institutions have remained shut for two years because of repeated lockdowns. The government had relaxed Covid-19 restrictions on gatherings for August 15 events. Among many school heads obliging was Muzaffar Wani, father of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani whose killing in 2016 led to a civilian unrest. Wani is a headmaster of a government school in Tral and his pictures unfurling the national flag were widely shared on social media. The Valley, however, observed a complete shutdown. The markets were shut and the roads deserted, suggesting the participation in Independence Day events was not all voluntary. Top politicians, including Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, chose not to greet people on social media. A schoolteacher in Srinagar said the fear of losing jobs or harassment forced many teachers to fall in line. The government has in recent weeks terminated at least 18 government employees for their alleged azadi links and enquiries were held, which has instilled fear among the employees. A government spokesperson, however, said the celebrations were held with great fervour and enthusiasm and “rekindled the spirit of the Indian freedom movement.” Many on social media, however, expressed outrage over the “forced hoisting” of the national flag. Sabbah Haji, who runs a non-profit school in Jammu’s Doda, regretted the government was “doing school-by-school phone calls” to check whether they hoisted flags, rather checking “status of teaching and students” in the schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-311
16-08-2021||India|| Nitish Kumar announces revival of bazaar samitis in Bihar||Chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced the revival of bazaar samitis in Bihar, a U-turn in policy that is likely to be resented by ally BJP and welcomed by the farmers agitating in several states against three new farm laws. One of the three laws does away with the need for bazaar samitis — called mandis in some places — a provision the farmers fear will leave them to be exploited by big companies that buy farm produce. Bazaar samitis are government-regulated markets where farmers sell their produce to middlemen with the government expected to ensure they are not exploited. These markets had shut down after the Nitish government repealed the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act in 2006, deciding that reining in the middlemen was a hopeless task. However, some of the middlemen retained their stalls at the erstwhile bazaar samitis and many farmers continued to sell there, but without government infrastructure or supervision. “Agriculture bazaar samitis will be revived, renovated and developed in a phased manner in the state to provide a market to the farmers for their produce,” Nitish said in an Independence Day announcement. “We shall spend Rs 2,700 crore on this. Separate market and cold storage facilities will be provided at the bazaar samitis for food grains, fruits, vegetables and fish.” Farmers are agitating in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat and a few other states apart from conducting a nine-month-old sit-in at Delhi’s borders. One of their demands is an assurance that mandis will continue to function. Nitish’s announcement comes amid a continuing strain in relations between his Janata Dal United and the BJP since the October-November Assembly elections last year. The JDU with 43 seats has to play second fiddle to the BJP, which won 74 seats. Nitish’s lieutenants have indicated they believe that the BJP sabotaged their party’s electoral prospects through various ploys, including covert support to erstwhile ally Chirag Paswan who fielded Lok Janshakti Party candidates against the JDU. The JDU has differed from the BJP on several issues recently, demanding a caste census and a probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations and opposing the new citizenship regime, two-child norms for elections, the amendment to Article 370 and talk about a uniform civil code. In his Independence Day speech, Nitish announced that all villages in Bihar would be covered by milk cooperative societies, with women managing 40 per cent of the new societies that would be created. Nitish said his government would ensure that the state-run Sudha Dairy’s products, now available only in the cities, are marketed at all the towns and block headquarters over the next four years. He said the state would expand the facilities to produce ethanol from sugarcane, molasses and maize. He also announced the establishment of three new colleges to teach agricultural biotechnology, agricultural engineering and agri-business management under the Bihar Agriculture University at Sabour, Bhagalpur. Bihar will also have an eco-tourism wing under the department of environment and forests. Nitish announced an increase in the dearness allowance from 17 per cent to 28 per cent with effect from July 1 this year. The Centre had recently hiked dearness allowance for its employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
16-08-2021||India||Time to reduce dependence on personalities||I was the accidental finance minister in the government of Atal Bihari Vajpayee which took office in March 1998. Jaswant Singh was the finance minister in the earlier 13-day Vajpayee government in 1996 and he was the hot favourite for the post again in 1998. But he unfortunately lost the Lok Sabha election in 1998 and Vajpayee was advised by the RSS, I believe, not to include in his cabinet those who had lost the Lok Sabha elections. So, both Jaswant Singh and Pramod Mahajan were out, having lost the Lok Sabha elections. So, the million-rupee question was, who should become the finance minister? Earlier, I had been told by friends in the know of things that I was likely to get the commerce ministry. I was extremely happy, having served in that ministry in India and abroad for seven years when I was in the IAS. But ultimately things turned out differently. I understand that it was (L.K.) Advani who persuaded the Prime Minister to give me the finance portfolio since I was the party’s spokesperson on economic issues, Sushma Swaraj being the main spokesperson on all other issues. This is how, purely accidentally, I became the finance minister in the Vajpayee government. I had won my Lok Sabha seat, no doubt, but I was not a leader of any consequence even in the party. My stature in government was thus completely out of proportion to my standing in the party and led to many problems. For one, ministers who considered themselves senior to me in the party would often invite me to their office for a discussion on some issue or the other and I would oblige, with my officers in tow, if necessary. It was the peon in my office who told me one day, with great hesitation, that this was not done. The practice was that if a minister had some issue to discuss with the finance minister, she would ask for time and come to the finance ministry; the finance minister did not go from “bhawan” to “bhawan” to discuss matters. Not only that: the finance minister had the authority to summon other ministers to the finance ministry for discussions. After this veiled admonition, I changed the practice and everyone fell in line immediately. It was that easy. The only exceptions I made, deliberately, were for L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and George Fernandes, though George was extremely informal in such matters and would often walk across from the South to the North Block for a discussion. It took me a while, thus, to get over my earlier hesitation and start behaving like the finance minister of India. But in this piece I want to raise another issue. Quite early in my days in the finance ministry, it was brought to my notice by my officers that a long pending issue was the introduction of value-added tax (VAT) at the state level. We already had Modvat at the central level and were slowly proceeding in the direction of central VAT. I decided to take the matter up with the states and called a meeting of chief ministers. I did not go running to the Prime Minister to seek his permission to call such a meeting, nor did I consider it necessary to invite him to inaugurate the conference. I felt confident because I had realised by then that Vajpayee’s policy was to give full freedom to his ministers to function in their respective domains. So I called this meeting, conducted it myself and at the end of it suggested to the chief ministers to form a committee to take matters further. I also suggested that Jyoti Basu, the CPM chief minister of West Bengal, should head the committee. The suggestion was accepted unanimously as indeed was my suggestion later that a state finance ministers’ committee be constituted and headed by Asim Dasgupta, the finance minister of West Bengal. Later, the chief ministers agreed to convert the finance ministers’ committee into an empowered one. The process I adopted became a shining example of cooperative federalism and the precursor to the present GST Council, indeed of the GST itself. I kept the Prime Minister fully informed of the developments on this front from time to time. Never once did Vajpayee or the officials of the Prime Minister’s Office ever suggest to me that the Prime Minister or the PMO should also be involved in the exercise. Never once did they interfere with the work I was doing on this issue or any other. I was wondering what would have happened to me if I had dared to take such an initiative in this government. There is no doubt that the Prime Minister in our system is not merely the primus inter pares but the supreme ultimate authority in all matters. So, he does not have to assert his authority in small matters, especially of detail, to prove that he is the boss. A Prime Minister’s authority is a given and accepted by all without demur. It is this development in the parliamentary system of government that has largely obliterated the difference between the parliamentary and presidential systems of democratic governance. So, people have no hesitation in asking today that if such and such party has so and so leader, who do you have to match her? They forget that in our parliamentary system the people elect members of Parliament or state legislatures, who then elect their leader, i.e. the chief minister or the Prime Minister. The phenomenon of the Prime Minister gradually emerging as the big boss did not go unnoticed even in the UK, the mother of parliamentary democracy. It did cause concern too. Lord Hewart, the Lord Chief Justice of England, wrote a book, The New Despotism, which was published in 1929. In it he described the new despotism as an attempt to subordinate Parliament, to evade courts and to render the will or the caprice of the executive unfettered and supreme. The book did create a flutter for some time but soon the trend of the executive assuming unbridled power became an irreversible trend, not only in England but also in all those countries that followed the Westminster model. Even in India, where we have been so proud of our democracy, this trend has now become deeply rooted. The Constitution of India provides for balance between the three organs of the State: the executive, legislature and the judiciary. But over time this has become dependent on the personality of the person heading these three branches. This dependence on personalities is not a healthy development for our polity. We therefore need wide-ranging reforms today to re-establish the constitutional balance envisaged by the founding fathers of our Constitution. Until then we are destined to suffer the aberration that afflicts our polity today. Yashwant Sinha is a former Union finance minister||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
16-08-2021||India||Odisha govt rolls out Smart Health Cards for 3.5 crore people ||The Odisha government on Sunday rolled out Smart Health Cards for 3.5 crore people in the state under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana. The BSKY, the flagship health programme of the state, focuses mainly on providing health services to the economically vulnerable section of the society. Odisha is the first state in the country to provide such smart health cards to its citizens. Announcing this while unfurling the national flag here on the 75th Independence Day, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said the initiative of his government would transform the health service delivery system and create history in the health sector of the country. Around 3.5 crore people of 96 lakh families will get this Smart Health Card. This card will be given to all the beneficiaries phasewise. “Beneficiaries of National and State Food Security Schemes, Annapurna and Antyodaya will get this card,” Naveen said. Annapurna and Antyodaya are both subsidised rice schemes for the poor. Under the BSKY, each family can avail free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh per annum. In the case of women the limit has been extended to Rs 10 lakh every year. The beneficiaries can avail health services in more than 200 hospital chains of the country, including Odisha. “It will go a long way in strengthening the health security of people of Odisha,” Naveen said. The BSKY was launched on August 15, 2018, with an objective to provide universal health coverage, with special emphasis on health protection of economically vulnerable families. Earlier, people in order to avail the benefits under the BSKY had to show their BPL card, ration card or the income certificates (below Rs 50,000) obtained from the local tehsildar. “Now people need not to show all these things and waste their time in collecting certificates. They will just show the health cards at the hospitals and avail the health service without any hassle. It is people-friendly,” officials maintained. The Odisha government considers that its BSKY is better than the Government of India’s Ayushman Bharat health scheme. Despite the requests made by the Centre to join hands with Ayushman Bharat scheme, Odisha has far declined to accept it. The Odisha government has maintained that all premier healthcare institutions across the country, including Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, CMC Vellore, Narayan Hrudayalaya, have been covered under the BSKY. Similarly, all government hospitals of the state government and health centres are also included in the BSKY.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
16-08-2021||India||Odisha government for ‘direct election’ of mayors||The Naveen Patnaik government has issued a draft notification to amend the Odisha Municipal Rules, 1994, to hold “direct election” for the posts of mayors of municipal corporations and chairpersons of municipalities and notified area councils and sought public opinion on the issue. Suggestions and grievances in this regard can be lodged with the principal secretary, housing and urban development, within a month. Currently, corporators and councillors elect the mayors of municipal corporations and chairpersons of the municipalities and notified area councils, respectively. According to the draft notification issued on Friday, a candidate can fight for both the councillor and chairman’s post. But he or she will retain only one if elected to both the posts. The authority will place two ballot boxes, one for the election of the chairpersons and other for the councillor, during polling. The civic polls in the state have been delayed by over two years. The state is yet to amend the existing laws to determine reservations and delimitations of seats. The tenure of 65 civic bodies, including the Berhampur Municipal Corporation, expired in September 2018, while the tenure of 48 urban local bodies, including the Sambalpur, Rourkela and Bhubaneswar municipal corporations expired in February 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal allows all production units to function at full strength in normal working hours||The West Bengal government on Monday allowed all production units, mills and industries, including the IT and ITES sector, to function at full strength in normal working hours as part of its relaxations of the ongoing COVID-19 restrictions.  The order issued by chief secretary HK Dwivedi on Monday evening said the relaxations have been allowed provided employees are vaccinated and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and protocols are fully maintained.  The additional relaxations also included the opening of museums, including ASI protected monuments and entertainment parks with not more than 50 per cent capacity at a time and compliance with COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and protocols.  The state government had extended the COVID-19 restrictions in the state till August 31 and allowed all shops and establishments, including restaurants and bars, to remain open up to the usual working hours but not beyond 10.30 pm.  The state has also allowed outdoor government programmes by maintaining physical distancing and health and hygiene protocols.  Theatre halls, auditoriums, open-air theatres, stadiums and swimming pools would be allowed to open with not more than 50 per cent of seating capacity at a time, the order said.  The relaxations were announced after a review of the COVID-19 situation by the state executive committee of the West Bengal state disaster management authority.  All outdoor activities including movement of people and vehicles shall be strictly prohibited between 11 pm and 5 am, except for health services, law, and order, essential commodities including agricultural products and other emergency services.  District administration, police commissionerates and local authorities shall ensure strict compliance of the directives.  The order has come into effect from Monday itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee cabinet approves formation of board to boost industrialisation||The Mamata Banerjee cabinet on Monday approved the formation of an industrial promotion board to facilitate the establishment of more factories in West Bengal, a senior minister said.  The chief minister will head the board which will look into issues related to power, water supply and land, and work out solutions through coordination among various departments, Industry Minister Partha Chatterjee said after a cabinet meeting.  Apart from the chief secretary and the chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, ministers and secretaries of the finance, industry and commerce, information technology, tourism, food processing and horticulture and power departments will be the board members.  "Although the state government has introduced a one-stop shop system for industrialisation, there are various problems in case of power, land and finance-related issues.  "This is why the chief minister took the decision to form the board where all departments concerned are included so that there is better coordination and work is expedited quickly and willing investors don't face hassles, bringing in more investments," Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta’s Kabuliwalas worry about kin back home as Taliban take over Afghanistan||With the Taliban taking control of Afghanistan, after sweeping into its capital city, Kabuliwalas (people of Kabul) in Kolkata are a worried lot, having not been able to get in touch with their family members back home. Afghans in Kolkata -- commonly known as Kabuliwalas -- usually visit from one door to the other selling wares from their country, mostly dry fruits, rugs and perfume, or deal in the business of lending money. Fifty-eight-year-old Omar Masood, a moneylender who has been living in the city for the past several decades, said that he hasn't been able to establish contact with his family and friends in Kunduz over the past two weeks. "It was in July that I last spoke to my younger brother and family. Since May, I have been asking them to leave Afghanistan and move to either India or any other country... I am clueless about their whereabouts now," Masood said. Taliban fighters, who were removed from power in Afghanistan by US-led forces in 2001, have resurfaced again, taking control of key cities including Kabul on Sunday, after the government there collapsed and embattled president Ashraf Ghani fled home, much like his fellow citizens. Thousands of people have died and millions have been displaced in the conflict. Mohammed Khan (49), who moved back to Kolkata from Kabul last year, said the situation in his country had been taking a turn for the worse for a while now. "I left Afghanistan in the mid-nineties after the Taliban took control of the country for the first time. But in 2017, I decided to return as everything seemed fine back home. I even opened a shop there. But after the US decided to withdraw its forces from the country, things started going downhill. I had no option but to move back to Kolkata with my immediate family, he explained. Khan further said that he had been spending sleepless nights with no news from his extended family on the outskirts of Kabul. "Many people from my family were killed by the Taliban in the nineties as we were opposed to their regime. I don't know what fate awaits my family there," he rued. Several Afghans living in the city expressed hope that the Indian government will take in the refugees who have fled their country. "We would request the authorities in India to look after the Afghan refugees as they have no place to go," 60-year-old Omar Farooqi said. Farroqi also said one of his relatives studying in Pune has decided to file an application for extension of student visa as he does not wish to return to the Taliban-controlled country. Kabuliwalas had been visiting Bengal since the late 19th century and early 20th century for door-to-door sale of merchandise, and the profits earned by them are usually ploughed into the money-lending business. Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, in one of his iconic works written in 1892, immortalised the Kabuliwalas in a tale of friendship and sacrifice. Shortly after Independence in 1947, when formal trade between the countries began, the Kabuliwalas found their market for dry fruits shrinking, with most switching over to the business of money lending once and for all. Many of them had even procured a license for the business. According to some Afghan residents of the city, with the advent of the easy banking system, microfinance companies, Kabuliwalas are struggling to keep their business afloat. Such is the dismal state of affairs that the number of Afghans in the city has come down from 10,000 in 2001 to just around 1,000 at present. Many of them went back to Afghanistan after peace returned to the country, following its first parliamentary elections in 2005. Official sources said there are around 15-20 Afghan kothis or tenements left in the city where the Pathans live with their friends and families. Mullah Khan, who has been residing in the city for the last four decades, lamented that he wanted to spend his retired life in his hometown in Kandahar, but now that seems to be a distant dream. "After my father left for his homeland in 1981, I took over his dry fruit business in Kolkata. Later, I shifted to the money-lending business. I, too, had decided to return to my homeland by next year. But now it seems to be a distant dream," said Khan, whose relatives were killed by Talibans in 1999.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Former Congress MP from Assam Sushmita Dev joins TMC||Former Assam MP Sushmita Dev, shortly after quitting the Congress, joined the TMC in Calcutta on Monday, in the presence of the party's national general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee. Dev had been serving as the national spokesperson of the Congress and its women's wing chief. Taking to Twitter, the TMC welcomed the former parliamentarian to its camp. "We warmly welcome the former President of All India Mahila Congress @sushmitadevinc to our Trinamool family! Inspired by @MamataOfficial, she joins us today in the presence of our National General Secretary @abhishekaitc & Parliamentary Party Leader, Rajya Sabha, @derekobrienmp," the TMC wrote on its official Twitter handle. She visited TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's office at Camac Street in Calcutta earlier in the day. Sources in the TMC said Dev is likely to meet TMC supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna later in the afternoon. Dev, who sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Sunday, has offered no reason for quitting the grand old party. In her letter to Gandhi, Dev said she was beginning a "new chapter in my life of public service". "I cherish my three-decade long association with the Indian National Congress...I hope I have your good wishes as I begin a new chapter in my life of public service," she said in the letter. She had met the Congress president along with other leaders of the Assam Congress on Saturday. Her Twitter account was also temporarily blocked last week after she shared Rahul Gandhi's picture with the parents of the nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Modi refers to Matangini Hazra as a freedom fighter from Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday referred to Matangini Hazra as a freedom fighter from Assam, committing the latest gaffe by a BJP leader relating to a Bengal icon. Modi referred to “the courage of Matangini Hazra in Assam” while reeling off a list of freedom fighters during his Independence Day speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort. “(Whether it’s) respected Bapu who turned the fight for freedom into a people’s movement; or revolutionaries like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shekhar Azad, (Ram Prasad) Bismil and Ashfaqulla Khan, who sacrificed everything for freedom; Laxmibai, the Queen of Jhansi; Chennamma, the Queen of Kittur; Queen Gaidinliu; or the courage of Matangini Hazra in Assam... the country is remembering every individual,” he said. The gaffe drew protests from the Trinamul Congress and the CPM and also drew attention to the BJP’s disconnect from the freedom struggle. Hazra, often referred to as Gandhi Buri (Ma Gandhi), was a freedom fighter from Tamluk in what is now East Midnapore district. She was shot dead by the colonial police while leading a protest during the Quit India Movement, which the BJP’s forebears had opposed. Trinamul accused the Prime Minister of insulting and “mocking” Bengal while the CPM said Modi had hurt Bengalis’ feelings. “Matangini Hazra is a freedom fighter from Bengal, Mr @narendramodi! With such scant regard for our glorious history, you have insulted all of #Bengal once again,” Trinamul tweeted from its official handle. “Is @BJP4India committed to erasing our history? Mocking it as they please? SHAME.” Hazra was 72 when she led a procession of around 6,000 people, mostly women volunteers and activists, towards the Tamluk police station on September 29, 1942, in the face of police firing. The Biplabi newspaper of the parallel “Tamluk National Government” had reported: “Even after the firing started, she (Hazra) continued to advance with the tricolour, leaving all the volunteers behind. The police shot her three times. She continued marching despite wounds to the forehead and both hands. “As she was repeatedly shot, she kept chanting, ‘Vande mataram’…. She died with the flag of the Indian National Congress held high and still flying.”Many central BJP leaders had invoked Hazra in their campaign speeches ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls, especially while addressing rallies in the erstwhile undivided Midnapore, now split into West Midnapore, East Midnapore and Jhargram. However, through the campaign, BJP leaders had dropped clanger after clanger in their eagerness to appropriate Bengal’s historical and cultural legacy — from describing Santiniketan as Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace to mistaking a statue to an unknown hunter for one of Birsa Munda. A state BJP leader said he found it surprising that his party’s supreme leader had made such a “careless” error about a Bengal icon like Hazra. However, Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh claimed it was a “small mistake”. “There is no need to blow it out of proportion. Those who are pained (at the faux pas) today, what have they done for Matangini Hazra?” he asked. Trinamul state general secretary Kunal Ghosh took a dig at Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s Nandigram MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, who used to be a self-proclaimed Gandhian till his defection ahead of the election. “This is insult to Bengal. You (Modi) must beg apology. Hope Your LOP (leader of the Opposition) from East Midnapore will also condemn such a mistake,” Ghosh tweeted. Suvendu used to declare himself an ideological descendant of the Tamluk National Government of 1942 and its chief protagonists — all Gandhians — such as Hazra, Satish Chandra Samanta, Sushil Kumar Dhara and Ajoy Mukherjee. A native of Contai in East Midnapore, Suvendu represented the Tamluk Lok Sabha seat between 2009 and 2016. His brother Dibyendu is the current MP from Tamluk. Senior Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim took a swipe at the Prime Minister. “This isn’t really his fault --- they have been taught by the RSS, which doesn’t tell them about the real Indian culture. All they know is communal polarisation,” Hakim said. CPM central committee member Sujan Chakraborty said: “The ancestors of the people who are running the nation today made no contribution to our freedom struggle other than acting as the (British) police’s informants. The more they learn from the RSS, the more goof-ups they will make.” Several state BJP leaders, speaking on the condition of anonymity, expressed deep embarrassment at Modi’s gaffe. “This blunder, that too coming from Modiji himself, is so, so shameful. Our leaders keep proving to the people that they have no knowledge of Bengal’s history or culture,” one of them said. He underlined how, following the election defeat, the BJP had ignored Tagore’s death anniversary a week ago after having marked the occasion in a big way last year, ahead of the Assembly polls. “So, was all the fervent worship of Bengal’s icons and all things Bengal merely a bid to somehow appropriate them ahead of the polls?” he asked. Many state BJP leaders believe that the party’s patent ignorance and lack of connect with Bengal’s history and culture – highlighted by the star campaigners’ serial bloopers – had contributed to the rout in the Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Army boat race on Teesta-Mahananda Link Canal to celebrate 75th Independence Day||The Eastern Command of the Indian Army organised a boat race on the Teesta-Mahananda Link Canal at Gajoldoba on Sunday in commemoration of the 75th Independence Day. Gajoldoba is around 25km from here. The event was conducted in the Teesta-Mahananda corridor through which the army had launched operations to capture Hilli, Rangpur and Bogra, thereby facilitating the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971. The boat race witnessed participation by 18 teams from the army, air force, central armed police forces and the National Cadet Corps (NCC). Hundreds of people gathered along the canal’s banks to witness the boat race that started from Gajoldoba near the Teesta Barrage. Soldiers of the Kripan division of the army performed martial arts also. Along with common people, former army personnel, senior officials of the state administration and the forest and irrigation departments of Bengal and Sikkim were present at the event. Maj. Gen. Ritu Raj Raina, the Chief of Staff of Trishakti Corps, appreciated the camaraderie and sportsmanship displayed by the participants. He said the event was a befitting tribute to all those who sacrificed their lives in the struggle for independence and also reflected the synergy among the defence forces, the central armed police forces and the civil administration. As a part of the celebration of 75 years of India’s independence which is being named as “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav,” the armed forces have been conducting various events across the country. Teams of the army have scaled 75 mountain passes. Among these, teams of Trishakti Corps, which has its headquarters at Sukna, on the outskirts of Siliguri, scaled eight such passes and on Sunday, they unfurled the Tricolour in all these passes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Flood situation deteriorates in Malda as two of three major rivers flow over danger levels||The flood situation in Malda deteriorated in the past 24 hours as two of the three major rivers in the district were flowing over danger levels. As the Ganga, Mahananda and the Fulhar swelled up because of rains, fresh areas were inundated. There are apprehensions that major areas of Malda will get flooded in the next few days like it had happened in 2019. The Bhutni island on the Ganga was inundated and most areas in all three panchayats were under water. In the South Chandipur panchayat on the island, eight of 12 villages are submerged. Similar flooding has been reported from North Chandipur and Hiranandapur, the other two panchayats. Altogether, around one lakh people live in Bhutni and almost 30 per cent of them moved to safer places. Villages in Gopalpur and Manikchak panchayats of Manikchak block also face inundation. Sources in the state irrigation department said the Ganga was flowing at 25.71 metres, which was 0.41 metres higher than the extreme danger level. “In 2019, the water level of the Ganga had touched the 26 metre mark which had left vast areas of Manikchak flooded. We fear we have to face a similar situation again,” said Imran Sheikh, a Trinamul Congress leader in the block. Along with Manikchak block, the river spilled over its banks and inundated villages in the Parlalpur panchayat of Kaliachak 3 block also. The Fulhar, another major river in the district, was flowing at 27.85 metres, which was 0.42 metres above the danger level, on Sunday evening. The river has inundated vast areas of Bilaimari and Mahanandatola panchayats in Ratua 1 block. “If the Fulhar also keeps rising, it would flood different villages of Harischandrapur 1 and 2 blocks,” said a source in the irrigation department. The Mahananda, on the other hand, was flowing at 19.95 metres, only 1.05 metres below the danger level. “We are keeping our fingers crossed and hope the water levels of all these three rivers will recede in a couple  of days. However, we are keeping a close watch on the situation as further downpour in upper catchment areas of these rivers can lead to an increase in water levels,” said Pranab Samanta, an executive engineer of the state irrigation department posted in Malda. The situation has also put the administration on alert. “We have information that newer areas have been flooded. Officials at block levels are working in consonance with different agencies and rural bodies and extending all necessary help to the affected people. At the district and subdivisional levels, round-the-clock monitoring of the situation has been initiated,” said Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 673 new infections and 12 deaths||Bengal on Sunday completed eight straight weeks — 56 consecutive days — of a fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases as the state reported 673 new infections, 709 recoveries and a dozen deaths. The total of active cases fell by 48 to 10,030. “The last time the state reported a rise in the total of active cases was on June 20, nearly two months ago. This is yet another milestone to be proud of,” said a Bengal minister. “The total improved from 23,016 on June 20 to 10,030 today… by over 56 per cent, in these 56 days. We had then been getting around 2,200 new infections daily and 50-60 deaths. We have come such a long way since,” he added. With Calcutta logging 77 infections and North 24-Parganas 85, Sunday was the 10th consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Fifteen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. Kalimpong, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and Jhargram reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.16 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic — still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.43. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.56 per cent on Sunday. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday, while Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and South 24-Parganas recorded one each. Calcutta reported two. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.38 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 15.1 lakh recoveries and 18,303 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Couple and child killed in road accident on NH12 in Malda||A couple, their son and a fourth person died when an SUV they were travelling in collided with a dump truck on NH12 near Gazole in Malda district on Sunday afternoon. The deceased were Gopal Ghosh, 40, his wife Swapna, 35, their son Someswar, 6, and the couple’s friend Dulak Sheikh, 40. Swapna succumbed to her injuries while she was being taken to Malda Medical College and Hospital. The other three died on the spot. “The Mahindra Bolero in which they were travelling in is used by a state government department on rent. Preliminary investigation suggests that the driver of the vehicle was travelling with his family and a friend from Raiganj to Malda. They were using the vehicle as today was a holiday,” said a police officer. The accident occurred at Mashaldighi. Local residents said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was carrying out repairs along a stretch of the four-lane NH12. “So, one of the two lanes, along which vehicles should travel from Raiganj to Malda, has been kept closed for traffic. We suspect the driver overlooked the diversion and did not understand that he was travelling on a lane through which vehicles were coming from the opposite direction,” said Samir Pandit, a resident of Mashaldighi. After the incident, local people rushed for help. A police team also reached the spot. “The impact was so intense that it took a long time to extricate the bodies from the mangled SUV. The collision led to a halt in the traffic on the stretch for some time,” said the police officer. A herd of 20-odd elephants strayed out of the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri on Saturday night and entered the Kalipur Eco Village, an accommodation run by the state forest department. The herd damaged windows and walls of a number of rooms and also the kitchen. The water pipeline was also damaged. The property, sources said, is closed now and there were no guests. The herd left after some time. The department ordered an inquiry to estimate the loss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
16-08-2021||North East||HNLC leader encounter death: Meghalaya orders judicial probe||The Meghalaya government announced a judicial investigation into the encounter killing of a former militant leader whose supporters committed vandalism and arson on Independence Day, forcing the administration to clamp curfew in state capital Shillong where the situation is peaceful on Monday. The government will set up a peace committee headed by Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong comprising representatives of civil society organisations and others as members, Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma said after an emergent cabinet meeting. The government also decided to extend curfew in Shillong by another 24 hours till 5 am of August 18. Mobile internet services will also remain withdrawn for the next 24 hours, he said. “Based on the suggestion of the members, the cabinet has decided to institute a judicial inquiry under the Commission of Inquiry Act to look into the events that took place on August 13,” Sangma said. The chief minister, however, did not name the judge who will probe the August 13 encounter death of 54-year-old Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, the former self-styled general secretary of the outlawed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC). The Ministry of Home Affairs has approved deployment of additional central armed paramilitary forces (CAPFs) to assist the state in containing the law and order situation in the state capital. “I have spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah twice yesterday on the law and order situation. Five additional companies of CAPFs have been requisitioned and four have already arrived,” Sangma said in a video statement. Two companies of Border Security Force and Central Reserve Police Force each have reached the state. The deputy CM headed peace committee will also have cabinet ministers H Dohling and R Tongkhar. "The committee will co-opt members from civil societies, religious organisations, community heads, etc," Sangma said. "There will also be a Sub-Committee for Security & Law & Order headed by the Chief Minister, Sh. @SangmaConrad with Deputy CM & Home Minister as members to look into aspects of law & order, possible future threats & overall functioning of @MeghalayaPolice," he tweeted later. Although Home Minister Lahkmen Rymbui has resigned on Sunday amid violence in Shillong “to allow a free and fair probe into the killing”, the chief minister is learnt to have not accepted his resignation. Rymbui belongs to the United Democratic Party, an ally of the National People’s Party headed Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government. Rymbui and his party had urged the chief minister to announce a judicial probe into the killing of Thangkhiew who had surrendered in 2018. The state BJP has condoled the death of Thangkhiew. "I on behalf of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Meghalaya Pradesh. I understand the family lost a father, which is irreplaceable and has left a vacuum to the family," BJP state president Ernest Mawrie said in a condolence message on Sunday. Thangkhiew was shot dead on August 13 when he allegedly tried to attack a police team with a knife during a raid at his house in connection with a series of IED blasts in the state. Arson and vandalism were reported from Jaiaw and Mawalai areas of Shillong on Independence Day when the former militant leader’s funeral took place. Unidentified miscreants hurled petrol bombs at the private residence of the chief minister at Third Mile area of Upper Shillong on Sunday night but no one was injured. He was at his official Polo Hills residence at that time. A few hours later, a CRPF vehicle proceeding to control the situation came under attack by a mob who were burning tyres on a road at Mawlai. Two police vehicles were also torched at the two affected areas on Sunday night. However, no untoward incident was reported from anywhere of the state capital till the evening on Monday. “The situation in the state capital remained peaceful today. It is under control,” a senior home department official told PTI. The Meghalaya Human Rights Commission had on Sunday directed Chief Secretary MS Rao to furnish a detailed report on Thangkhiew’s death within 15 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
16-08-2021||North East||Meghalaya home minister resigns amid violence over police shooting of former militant||Meghalaya Home Minister Lahkmen Rymbui resigned on Sunday amid violence in Shillong over the police shooting of a former militant. Rymbui also urged Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma to institute a judicial inquiry into the shooting of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, the self-styled general secretary of the banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council who had surrendered. "I hereby express shock to the incident where (L) Chesterfield Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the lawful tenets of the law," he stated in his letter to the chief minister. "I would like to request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect. This will facilitate free and fair inquiry taken by the government to bring out the truth of the incident. I propose judicial inquiry be conducted," he added. Rymbui’s plea came after the several pressure groups demanded his resignation after the killing of  Thangkhiew, which various groups claimed was a “cold-blood murder”. Rymbui told PTI that his United Democratic Party also backed the decision to step down. "I have put forth my papers, after due consultation with my party leadership, to allow a free and fair probe into the killing of Thangkhiew," he said. UDP, an ally of the Sangma's NPP in the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government, also urged for a judicial probe into the incident, which resulted in violent protests, Rymbui said. A source close to the chief minister said the government accepted the resignation as the home minister was unaware of the incident. On Sunday Black flags were spotted at several locations in Shillong in protest against the “killing” of Thangkhiew, reported Nagaland Post. The flags were put up by a group under the banner “Voice of Mawlai people”. In wake of the series of incidents in Shillong and its outskirts, the Independence Day celebration was held in a very low-key manner. Meghalaya DGP, R Chandranathan said that a SUV vehicle requisition by the State police was hijacked by miscreants near Umshing-Mawkynroh police outpost before it was set ablaze at Jaiaw area. Chandranathan said the miscreants also decamped with three INSAS rifles and one magazine of the SF-10 personnel from the vehicle, according to Nagaland Post. Hijackers drove the  SUV vehicle through Mawlai, brandishing the police looted weapon, as witnessed by people along  streets in Mawlai. “The investigation is on to find out the identity of these miscreants,” the police official said. The Meghalaya government has imposed a curfew in Shillong and banned mobile internet services in at least four districts as vandalism and arson rocked the state capital and nearby areas on Independence Day. Thangkhiew, who had surrendered in 2018, was shot dead on August 13 when he allegedly tried to attack a police team with a knife during a raid at his house in connection with a series of IED blasts in the state. Police said they have evidence that Thangkhiew masterminded the blasts after his surrender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
16-08-2021||North East||Khadi to boost Arunachal Pradesh's 1,000-year-old paper craft||The efforts to revive a 1,000-year-old handmade paper-making craft of Arunachal Pradesh’s Monpa community has received further boost with the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) making the paper available for sale through its online portal. The efforts for revival, which had featured in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat, has been attributed to the personal initiative of Tawang-based lawyer and social worker Maling Gombu, KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena and the state government. The revival work started last year and culminated with the inauguration of the Monpa handmade paper-making unit in Tawang, bordering China, on December 25 last year to save the traditional craft driven to extinction. Modi had referred to this revival in his radio programme, through which he reaches out to the masses on important developments and success stories. “Friends, an example of how protection of environment can open avenues of income was seen in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh too. For centuries a type of paper called ‘Mon Shugu’ is made in this hilly region of Arunachal Pradesh. The locals here make this paper from the bark of a plant named Shugu Sheng, hence trees do not have to be cut to make this paper. Besides, no chemical is used in making this paper, thus, this paper is safe for the environment and for health too,” Modi had said. The Prime Minister also said in his broadcast: “There was a time when this paper was exported but with modern techniques, large amount of paper started getting made and this local art was pushed to the brink of closure. Now, a local social worker Gombu has made an effort to rejuvenate this art, this is also giving employment to tribal brothers and sisters there.” An elated 47-year-old Gombu told the Telegraph that it was a matter of great pride to feature in Mann Ki Baat and be part of a historic effort. “What has happened is that our revival efforts has received a huge boost with the Prime Minister mentioning it in his programme. More people will know about this unique hand-made paper. Its demand will rise. For us preserving the ancient art form is of paramount importance. We are grateful to the KVIC for its support. The KVIC chairman also launched the sale of the paper through its portal www.khadiindia.gov.in. We are selling over 500 sheets a month on an average. It is a double delight for us,” Gombu said. An official KVIC note — Revival of 1000 years old Heritage Art of Monpa Handmade Paper in Tawang (Arunachal Pradesh) —said the heritage art of making Monpa handmade paper originated over 1,000 years ago. Once produced in every household in Tawang, this handmade paper was a source of livelihood for the locals. However, the industry almost disappeared in the last 100 years; prompting KVIC to plan a revival of this ancient art. The fine-textured handmade paper, which is called Mon Shugu in the local dialect, has great historic and religious significance, as it is the paper used for writing Buddhist scriptures and hymns in monasteries. “Setting up of the paper unit is a historic event for the locals. Monpa handmade paper is produced from the bark of Shugu Sheng tree which is a native to Tawang region. In ancient times, Monpa handmade paper made in Tawang was exported to many countries such as Tibet, Bhutan, Thailand and Japan. However, this art gradually declined and was replaced by Chinese paper,” the note said. An attempt at revival of this handmade paper industry was also made in 1994 but failed because of various geographical challenges in Tawang. This time, too, it took almost three months of rigorous efforts to commission the unit owing to Tawang’s difficult mountainous terrains and inclement weather conditions. KVIC chairman Saxena, who was equally upbeat after Modi’s appreciation of the revival efforts, told over the phone from Delhi that the ongoing revival initiative was aligned with the Prime Minister’s call for preserving India’s dying heritage crafts. “At the same time, the Monpa handmade paper is an apt example of ‘Local to Global’ owing to its huge export potential. The paper unit has engaged 12 female and two male artisans who can produce 500 to 600 sheets per day and earn Rs 400 per day as wages. The paper is being sold through our portal. A 24 by 16 inch size sheet is sold for Rs 50. The Monpa hand-made paper is unique because of its durability, lasting about 500 years, and nothing written on it can be erased,” Saxena said. Monasteries and artists are potential buyers. “I am also in touch with monasteries in Leh and Ladakh,” Saxena said. “Our experts from Jaipur handmade paper unit visited Tawang thrice and we have spent around Rs 25 lakh to set up the unit. By increasing production of Monpa handmade paper, it can again be exported to other countries and regain the space occupied by China in the last few decades. This is a local product with great global potential. We are sure as business grows, number of people engaged by the plant will also grow. I am thankful to Maling Gombu and the Arunachal government for all their support,” Saxena said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
16-08-2021||North East||Petrol bombs hurled at Meghalaya chief minister's private residence, curfew in Shillong||Unidentified miscreants on Sunday night lobbed a petrol bomb at the residence of Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma, police said.  The incident took place around 10.15 pm when vehicle-borne attackers lobbed two Molotov cocktail bottles at the premises of his personal residence at Third Mile in Upper Shillong, they said.  No one was injured in the incident, according to a senior district police officer.  The first bottle was lobbed at the front part of the house while the second one was thrown behind the backyard, he said, prompting the guards there to douse the fire immediately. Curfew was imposed in Shillong and mobile internet stopped in at least four districts of Meghalaya on Sunday amid vandalism and arson over the police encounter of a top militant leader, who had surrendered, officials said.  The curfew was imposed in Shillong from 8 pm on Sunday till 5 am on Tuesday, they said.  Mobile internet was stopped for 48 hours, beginning at 6 pm, in East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hills and Ri-Bhoi districts, they said.  Stray incidents of vandalism and arson were reported, having the potential to disturb public peace and tranquility and cause a threat to public safety, Home Secretary CVD Diengdoh said, quoting reports from the police headquarters.  Violence was reported from these areas as Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, a militant who had surrendered, was laid to rest at a cemetery in Shillong after being killed by police in an encounter at his home on August 13.  Thangkhiew was suspected to be the mastermind of a spate of IED attacks since his surrender in 2018, police said.  Director-General of Police R Chandranathan said there was ample evidence against Thangkhiew when he sent his team to arrest the "retired" general-secretary of the banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC).  Thangkhiew allegedly attacked the police with a knife when his home was being raided, provoking a retaliatory shot in which he was killed, Chandranathan had said.  Hundreds of his supporters carried black flags as his body was taken to the cemetery.  Government vehicles were vandalised and a police vehicle was set on fire at Jaiaw area of Shillong allegedly by his supporters, police said.  Banning mobile internet, the chief secretary said, "Messaging systems like SMS, Whatsapp and social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and Youtube are likely to be used for transmission of pictures, videos and text and have the potential to cause serious breakdown of law and order."  The curfew was imposed in Shillong through an order issued by East Khasi Hills district administrator Isawanda Laloo.  The Meghalaya Human Right Commission has also taken suo moto cognisance of the encounter, noting, "The instant case appears to have resulted in gross human rights violation which according to Article 21 of the Constitution mandates for protection of life and personal liberty for every person within the territory of India."  The commission has directed the chief secretary to submit a detailed report on the incident within 15 days, failing which the commission has said it will conduct its own investigation into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
16-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Partition Horrors Remembrance Day||Old divisions Sir — The prime minister has declared that August 14 will henceforth serve as a reminder of the horrors of Partition (“Partition rabbit out of PM hat”, Aug 15). The declaration of the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day is nothing but an effort to keep alive the pains of an ugly event and to continue to fan the flames of bitterness and animosity among communities in India. The Partition of India was a black day in history; to date people suffer its after-effects. To go out of one’s way to continue remembering this sad day is akin to keeping old wounds festering. In light of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, this move can only be seen as another effort to polarize the electorate. Sadiq H. Laskar,Guwahati Sir — One wonders why the prime minister needed to resurrect the pain of Partition when the present generation was just moving on from these horrors and focusing on a peaceful future. In reality, this is nothing but an attempt to polarize Indians and divert attention from the government’s many failures including the mismanagement of the pandemic and the economy. The prime minister has clearly blown the poll bugle for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Is it not necessary to heal the wounds rather than poking at it? One wonders how much longer Partition and Pakistan are going to be used as a poll plank to sow the seeds of division among people. Moreover, if the horrors of Partition are to be remembered, why not a day to recall the carnage of the 2002 Gujarat riots as well? Instead of removing the poison of social disharmony and strengthening the spirit of oneness, why must we remember a day when people were divided by the powers above them? Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — The prime minister wants the country to remember the horrors of Partition. His intention behind opening old wounds that are yet to fully heal is to sow communal disharmony so that people fight among themselves and do not pay attention to his government’s inefficiency as well as its nefarious intent to line the pockets of the rich and powerful. But simply telling people that Narendra Modi is trying to divide the electorate is not enough. With a clever player like our prime minister, the trick will be to defeat him at his own game. He wants people to remember the Partition. It is time people did recall the Partition, but also time they saw it more clearly from the distance afforded by history. It is now incumbent on civil society and the Opposition to remind people of the real reasons behind the Partition. Then, too, political leaders with their own agenda had divided people whose lives were near-inextricably intertwined. This tearing asunder left scars that still have the potential to cause pain. People need to recall not just the horrors of Partition but also its causes. The parallels with our times will be striking. Perhaps in using the saffron party’s actions to turn the table against it is the only way forward for a beleaguered Opposition that has failed to counter the Bharatiya Janata Party robustly at the hustings. A.K. Sen,Calcutta Sir — Narendra Modi seems to have developed some kind of a code of his own where he always says the exact opposite of what he means. “May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment,” he said on the eve of Independence Day. But it is he who is responsible for disrupting social harmony and setting up a religious test for citizenship that is dividing the country at present. Farhat Bashir,Noida  Lost magic Sir — The Immersive Media & Books 2020 survey found that 70 per cent of audiobook users and 61 per cent of ebook readers multitask while reading or hearing a book. Whatever happened to the idea of reading a book for leisure? Can there be any doubt that curling up in bed with a book and a glass of wine or laying down in an open space and reading with the clouds passing in the background are experiences that are matchless? Surely, sweating in the kitchen over a pot of bottle gourd while Stephen Fry reads out Harry Potter in one’s ears takes the magic out of the experience of reading? Devyani Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: National shame||India is now in its 75th year as an independent nation. This would be the right time to examine the lives of those who have aged along with the country. The results of this assessment can be found in a performance index of states, released by the Government of India, that measures the quality of life led by the elderly in the country. It maps senior citizens’ well-being along four major parameters — financial and social well-being, health and income security — and a series of sub-pillars that include economic empowerment, employment and enabling environment. While Rajasthan and Maharashtra offer a good quality of life to the elderly in the ‘aged states’ category — states where the population of senior citizens exceeds five million — West Bengal and Telangana rank at the bottom. Whereas the highest average in the pillar-wise analyses was scored in the health category, data show that India’s elderly suffer intensely in terms of income security. This plight is not new; in 2018, the Supreme Court had to instruct the Centre to find ways to increase elderly citizens’ monthly pension. The broader troubles confronting this constituency must be considered in the light of the fact that the number of senior citizens in India is expected to touch 319 million by 2050 — three times the estimate of the 2011 census. Some of these challenges are the result of broader social transformations such as the disintegration of the traditional forms of family. That amendments had to be made to the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 to include sons-in-law and daughters-in-law within the ambit of caregivers is a testament not only to societal apathy but also its resultant indignities that the elderly are subjected to. Alternative care systems, such as agencies that supply medically-trained staff to the infirm as well as old-age homes offering modern amenities, exist, but such privatized models of care-giving are neither affordable for all nor a sustainable substitute for family-based care. The Union ministry of social justice did announce its ‘Seniorcare Ageing Growth Engine’ project through which elderly care products and services are made available by start-up companies. But its reach and success pale in comparison to templates that are in place in the West. The labour potential of the elderly continues to be looked down upon by economic policy. There is a case for organizations to retain or hire efficient elderly workers for their experience; banks, too, should be encouraged to offer special credit schemes to the retired to start small businesses. The rights and livelihoods of India’s senior citizens are still undermined in a country whose culture encourages the veneration of the elderly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Insomnia||The nation must not sleep over what has given the chairman of the Rajya Sabha a ‘sleepless night’. A distressed M. Venkaiah Naidu said that the pandemonium witnessed recently in the upper House — he has held members of the Opposition guilty of unruly conduct — had caused him to lose sleep. The word is that Mr Naidu is scrutinizing legal precedents and deliberating with senior officials to chalk out a deterrent. Committees exist to examine the moral and ethical responsibilities as well as the privileges of House members. Hopefully, Mr Naidu’s deliberations would be of participatory nature so that government and Opposition can find a way out of the mess together. It is the absence of collaboration that seems to have crippled Parliament. The Centre, typically, has passed the buck, blaming its political opponents. Yet, it has shown a marked disinclination to respond to the charges hurled at it by the Opposition. These range from a shocking obduracy on the part of Narendra Modi and his government to refuse to discuss issues of pertinent public interest and national security — the allegations of snooping on Indian citizens, the farmers’ stir, a heated border with China, the mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and so on — to the alleged manhandling of Opposition members inside the House to the creation of a twisted, unbalanced narrative that seeks to demonize the Opposition for the logjam. The consequences of this firefight go beyond the dire implications for the spirit of parliamentary, if not political, consensus. Policy-making is being adversely affected by the truncated sessions. There is also a case for examining Parliament’s productivity beyond the number of sittings. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s electoral dominance has coincided with the emergence of a dispensation that is no longer willing to send bills to a parliamentary committee for wider, representative discussions. Even the Chief Justice of India has taken note of the absence of debate, deepening apprehensions about the Centre’s preference for a unilateral nature of governance. Mr Naidu should wield the stick against not only unacceptable behaviour but also violations of the moral and ethical imperatives that underpin parliamentary democracy. The stick should also be used to beat transgressors, be they from the government or the Opposition, in an unbiased manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Opinion||A death and its clues||I have never met Father Stan Swamy or any of his alleged co-conspirators. Like most other people, I have only read about them and their alleged conspiracies to destabilize the Republic in the media. As also the threat they pose to my safety for which they must be incarcerated. They must stay unfree, says the State. And who are we to question that profound wisdom? The State is eminent domain; it must have had its reasons for holding an eighty-four-year-old priest in a cell and denying him a chance to access bail. Many commentators have analysed this and pointed out the maladies of our time. But knowing all this does not assuage my inner self. Father Stan’s death haunts me as if it’s a personal loss. Why do I think that I knew him when I clearly did not? Probably because I had met soft-spoken but upright Jesuits like him when I was an undergraduate student in St Xavier’s College. People who could rise above their religious affiliation and extend a hand across the divisions of our society. As far as I can see, we are mourning not only the passing away of a gentle priest but the death of people who can stand with courage and conviction to build a mosaic of togetherness. Stan Swamy’s death points out to us that we have lost very many elements of what it means to be human — sympathy for the poor and the underprivileged and the resolve to defend and articulate their concerns. And, yet, we are also without a doubt a more prosperous India than, say, even three decades ago. Not that this prosperity has been distributed well for inequality among the classes has grown. Nor have we been able to create and distribute basic welfare facilities — education, health and shelter for those who are in need. What we have managed well, however, is to create an all-consuming, aspirational middle class with authoritarian streaks that has thrown up a greater number of social pathologies than ever before. It is this sense of loss that we mourn when we remember Stan Swamy and the denial of basic human dignity to an old man. We also grieve for the passing away of the symbols of a past life that we may never recover. The question is not only who killed Father Stan Swamy but also what dies along with him. What are the causes that have led to the current state of affairs that Indians find themselves in? If we were to ask these questions and answer them honestly, then it would be clear that Father Stan’s death symbolizes both the rot that has set in and our collective failure to break out of the mould of self-absorption. This new, self-absorbed individual is the outcome of our honeymoon with the neoliberal world, for every age must produce — sociologically — the character of the times. The dominant theme today is the celebration of a compassionless, egoistical human being. This unconcern with our fellow citizens must not be argued away as the manifestation of our ‘natural selves’ in the manner that the 17th-century English philosopher, Thomas Hobbes, had done. This new, brutish, self-absorbed man is the product of careful grooming and pedagogy. His persona is a socialized self, but it is emerging with a difference. For the emergent self is no longer capable of thinking collectively, of listening patiently, and sympathizing or empathizing with the victims created by the system. In our quest for economic growth, in our obsession with technology as a panacea for our problems, we have managed to normalize the marginality of the people who have been dispossessed of their land, livelihood and sustenance. The pattern that has developed over the years has a singular storyline: the prosperity of a few must be subsidized and sustained by the many marginalized, indigenous people. This story is not only true of India but also for most of the world. What is worrisome is our collective inability to spot this injustice and take corrective steps. Our unreflective selves have been shaped and transformed by a model of learning and pedagogy where we ‘see’ but are not ‘observant’, we ‘hear’ but do not ‘understand’. What Father Stan and his resistance did is bring to our notice those whom we have consigned to our amnesia, thereby disturbing our exclusive comfort zones of high consumption and spending. The question that is critical here is whether we can recover, even partially, a more sensitive, caring self. To do that, we need to embark upon a reorientation of our teaching and learning processes, of investing time and money in subjects that would allow us to be critical and compassionate. The recovery of our collective self cannot be based upon ideas that are the causes of our failures but by allowing for a more reflexive self to evolve through a dialogic process that acknowledges the world as plural and diverse. Rabindranath Tagore did precisely this by creating Santiniketan, where one moved out of the confines of the ‘mainstream’ to learn about the world we inhabit. Later, in different countries and at different times, the likes of Ivan Illich and Paulo Freire made similar efforts. It is no coincidence that Father Stan was a student of Paulo Freire. It is for us now to take up the unfinished projects that would lead us to the ‘pedagogy(ies) of the oppressed’ so that we may not belittle the struggles of those whom we invariably leave behind in our singular quest for ‘success’. While we know who killed the good Jesuit, we have to look inside us to discover the accomplices of his killers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Opinion||Noisy nation||"Just consider how terrible the day of your death will be./ Others will go on speaking, and you will not be able to argue back.” Amartya Sen quotes Raja Ram Mohan Roy’s poem to demonstrate India’s loquacious culture and argumentative tradition in his The Argumentative Indian: Writings on Indian History, Culture and Identity. India loves to be noisy. Voice is life and silence is death in a democratic polity. The argumentative tradition, Sen says, if used with deliberation and commitment, can be extremely important in resisting social inequalities and in removing poverty and deprivation. India has been blessed with a long tradition of public arguments and intellectual heterodoxy. Constitutional democracy is fastened to public reasoning. Public reasoning provides the opportunity for the citizenry to take part in political discussion to influence public choice. In Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras (1950), Justice Patanjali Sastri rightly observed that “Freedom of Speech and Press lay at the foundation of all democratic organizations, for without free political discussion, no public education, so essential for the proper functioning of the process of Government, is possible.” But in praxis, free speech has been a paper tiger in India. Sedition and contempt of court, two living fossils in the Indian legal ecosystem, impose an omertà of sorts on free speech that silently kills the very spirit of democracy. A writ petition has recently been filed in public interest, challenging the constitutional validity of Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, as being ultra vires of Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution read with Articles 14 and 21. The petitioner is a public-spirited person and a retired major-general from the army. He pointed out that in I.R. Coelho v. State of Tamil Nadu (2007), the Supreme Court had held that the Constitution is a living document and all constitutional provisions have to be construed as having regard to the march of time and the development of law. The Supreme Court has clarified that fundamental rights in the Constitution are not to be read as isolated silos or as watertight compartments, but are to be read as if the content of each fundamental right animates the other. The petitioner contends that a statute criminalizing expression based on unconstitutionally vague definitions, such as ‘disaffection towards government’, is an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right to free expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) and causes the constitutionally impermissible ‘Chilling Effect’ on speech. The reasonableness of the restriction of free speech under 19(2) — in this case, sedition — will need to be looked afresh considering procedural as well as substantive due process embodied in Articles 14 and 21. The petitioner has set forth the doctrine of Chilling Effect on speech, wherein the probability of the impugned provision causes psychological tether in the free exercise of the right and the content, and that the court should consider the implication of that probability and the severity of the Chilling Effect while weighing on the validity of such a provision. Even in the United States of America, the doctrine got established only as late as 1967, starting with Justice William J. Brennan’s dissenting opinion in Walker v. Birmingham. The most concrete pronouncement on a penal statutory provision being unconstitutionally vague causing a Chilling Effect on speech is as recent as 2015 in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India. The court held that Section 66-A of the Information Technology Act casts restriction so widely that virtually any opinion on any subject would be covered by it and any serious opinion dissenting with the mores of the day would be caught within its net. Such is the reach of the section and if it is to withstand the test of constitutionality, the Chilling Effect on free speech would be total. While our founding fathers were busy drafting the Constitution, George Orwell was composing his Nineteen Eighty-Four: A Novel, often referred to as 1984. On December 13, 1946, Jawaharlal Nehru moved the ‘Objective Resolution’, which later became the Preamble to the Constitution of India, that, inter alia, promised freedom of thought and expression. There was no need to mention freedom to think at that point of time as thought was viewed as an intangible psychological process; it was unimaginable then that thought could be interfered with. Meanwhile, Orwell was imaging the Thought Police — thinkpol — that discover and punish thoughtcrime, personal and political thoughts disapproved by the government. The thinkpol use criminal psychology and omnipresent surveillance via informers, telescreens, cameras and microphones to monitor the citizens of Oceania and arrest those who have committed thoughtcrime that challenges the status quo authority of the Party and the regime of Big Brother. Our founding fathers, too, were prescient to the possibility of a future Orwellian State as they promised liberty of thought in the Constitution. But in this era of cyber, Byzantine politics and Pegasus snoopgate, the Chilling Effect is creeping into our neurons as well. Not only the State apparatus but also pernicious social elements enforce the Chilling Effect on free public discourse. In 2013, Narendra Dabholkar, a rationalist and the founder of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, was shot dead. He was an ardent advocate of the criminalization of black magic and human sacrifice. The conspiracy behind the murder has never been unveiled, nor have the culprits been punished. The macabre murders of Govind Pansare, M.M. Kalburgi and Gauri Lankesh followed. “The murders of the four activists-writers show the grave dangers of free speech in India where the mob enjoys immunity from the law even as the state structure fails to protect free thinkers or even looks away from the citizen’s rights enshrined in the Constitution... the cult of violence is breeding faster than the Aedes Aegypti mosquito and infecting many with the fever of blood lust against those they disagree with” — writes Sagarika Ghose in Why I Am a Liberal: A Manifesto for Indians Who Believe in Individual Freedom (2018). For the blood of those free-thinking intellectuals, our society is collectively guilty. A liberal polity should be anchored in discussion, debate, and dissent. Salman Rushdie’s Haroun and the Sea of Stories (1990) is a saga of the war between loquaciousness and silence. Rashid, Haroun’s father, is a storyteller known as the “Ocean of Notions” by his admirers and the “Shah of Blah” by his rivals. Let the ‘Oceans of Notions’ and the ‘Shahs of Blah’ reign. The cacophony of democracy is more soothing than the monotonous drone of authoritarianism. Faisal C.K. is Under-Secretary (Law) to Government of Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||State hockey star Nikki Pradhan gets promotion in railways after Olympic stint||Two-time hockey Olympian Nikki Pradhan was on Monday promoted as OSD (sports) in group B gazette officer at South Eastern Railways for her contribution and success in the promotion of the game. Pradhan was part of the Indian women’s team, which scripted history by reaching the semi-final in this year’s Tokyo Olympics. Since the debut of women’s team in field hockey in 1980 Olympics, it is for the first time that the Indian team had reached a semi-final match. In the match, the team suffered defeat against Great Britan by 1 goal in a highly spirited match which went down till the wire. An official notification from the SER on Monday night stated that Pradhan was made general manager of the SER, Archana Joshini gave consent for her out of turn promotion. The communiqué read, “Nikki Pradhan, who is current employed with Ranchi rail division as chief yard master has been accorded out of turn promotion for her contribution to the hockey. She is now made OSD (sports), a gazette officer in the rank of group B.” This was Nikki’s second consecutive stint in the Olympics. In 2016, she was part of Rio Olympics becoming the first woman hockey player from Jharkhand to represent the highest form of tournament. Before that she was part of U-17 Indian team which played Asia cup in Bangkok in 2011, took part in U-21 Asia cup in Bangladesh in 2012, Asia Cup in 2017 in Gifu (Japan), participated in Asian games in Jakarta in 2018. Ranchi’s divisional rail manager Pradeep Gupta welcomed the development stating that it testifies railways commitment towards promotion of players and sports. Nikki hails from Hesal village in Khunti, an impoverished district over 40km from Ranchi. She along with Salima Tete from Simdega was part of the national squad in this year’s Olympics. Buoyed by the team’s performance despite losing out on bronze medal, the Jharkhand government too showered sops on the players by giving them Rs 50 lakh each, a scooty, laptop and a smart phone. Chief minister Hemant Soren has also announced to provide them with a 3000 sq feet house at the choice of their location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to launch stray dog catching drive amid backlash ||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has remodelled and converted a mini truck to a stray dog catching van to provide relief to residents from stray dog menace that has caused several road accidents besides dog bites. The civic body is taking inputs from the Ranchi Municipal Corporation to prepare a team of dog catchers by imparting training and also procure dog catching equipment. The team would also include experts from district animal husbandry department to avoid any fatal injury or death to dogs during the process of caching them and also during sterilizing them for birth control. The corporation has already carried out a partial trial of the dog catching drive last week. Executive Officer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Md Anis said, “Though the dog catching van has already been developed by our engineering cell by carrying out remodelling of the existing mini truck as per the tips received from Ranchi Municipal Corporation but some more work in terms of equipment purchase as well as training etc is yet to be carried out for formally launching the dog catching drive.” “We will resume the drive as soon as the equipment is purchased as training is already under process,” said Anis and added the increased population of dogs are causing accidents besides the dog bites to the children are also sometimes turning fatal. Notably, a wide variety of dog catching equipment  including dog catcher pole, or catching nets are used to catch the stray dogs after which sterilization of dogs is also carried out. Meanwhile the dog lovers of the district have expressed apprehension over the entire drive turning out to be an inhuman initiative against the dogs. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, a renowned hotelier Anutosh Bagchi who is also a well known dog lover said, “The process of catching the dogs through poles is quite inhuman as it leads to breaking of collar bone or vertebrae of the dogs.” “Before the launching of the drive a shelter home should be ready to provide temporary shelter to the sterilized dogs and they should be again left back to same place from where they have been caught before the sterilization,” said Bagchi and added that they apprehend that these dogs are likely to be left in a forest where they will die due to different reasons. “We will soon meet Satyendra Kumar, Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner and request him to not carry out the drive without proper preparation like development of shelter home for post sterilization care,” said Kumar. Souvik Banerjee, another dog lover of Dhanbad also expressed similar apprehension and added that instead of dog catching drive the DMC seems to be preparing for the dog killing drive without making proper preparation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Patients of MGM hospital to get better quality food ||Patients of MGM medical college hospital will be provided better food as the state health department has raised the rate of the food from Rs 50 to Rs 100 per day provided to them at the hospital. As there has been a cent percent increase in the rate of food provision, the patients admitted in the medical college hospital will not only get better quality food but will also be able to choose from a variety of food items. Revealing about the development, superintendent, MGM medical college hospital, Arun Kumar said the state health department authority has increased the rate of food at which the patients would be provided breakfast, lunch and dinner free of cost at the hospital. "We have received a circular to this effect from the state health department on Monday. Now each patient will be provided food at the rate of Rs 100 per day. Earlier, it was Rs 50 only," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The hospital superintendent said they have received the circular to this effect on Monday and they have to make the necessary changes in the food items according to the enhanced rate. "Soon after getting the circular, we convened a meeting of the dietician and the food vendors. We are chalking out the new menu for the patients who will be provided the food according to the new rate in the next couple of days," pointed out the superintendent. The rate of food worth Rs 50 per patient per day was effective from the year 2013. Despite such a low rate, the patients would be given eggs and bananas for breakfast and a unified course meal for lunch and dinner. But during the visit of erstwhile health secretary K.K. Sone to the medical college hospital two months ago, the issue of food provision for the patients had been discussed, leading the health secretary to ask for a hike in the food rate soon. Annu Sinha, dietician of the medical college, said, "Due to a very low rate of food provision we were compelled to provide a fixed menu for the patients, but shortly we would be able to provide a variety of food as per the requirements of patients." With a capacity of 600 plus beds, the MGM medical college hospital has an average bed occupancy rate of 90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi ki Roshni shines bright, now available on Amazon ||Portable solar lamps manufactured by women's self help groups of Ranchi made their debut on Amazon on Monday, the global e-commerce platform expected to boost sales of a locally made product that is not only eco-friendly but also competitively priced. The Ranchi district administration launched the solar lamp project in 2018 to provide cheap and eco-friendly lighting solutions in rural parts of the state. Titled Ranchi ki Roshni, the district administration roped in local self-help groups who were trained — right from designing to making these lamps. Currently, 15 women function out of the Ormanjhi block office to manufacture the lamps. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said Amazon would hopefully add to sales. “We are immensely happy and proud that the district administration’s initiative with women's  self help groups is now getting recognised,” he said. Another official said that as an introductory offer, customers buying the lamps through Amazon would get a 10 per cent discount on the marked price of Rs 499. “The prices are dynamic as the project is still in a nascent stage. Before the Covid pandemic, we were selling it at Rs 160 per piece. But, post- lockdown, prices of raw materials, mainly plastic and metals, two key elements in our product, shot up exponentially. Hence, we had to priced it close to Rs 500 on Amazon,” said an official. The sale proceeds would be ploughed back to the project to meet recurring expenses like salaries. etc. Earlier this year, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) signed an MoU with the district administration for supplying about 40,000 lamps in a phased manner. So far, 10,000 lamps have bbeen passed on to NDRF. “Although, we are supplying the lights free of cost to NDRF, funding for making them is being given by Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL) from the PSU's CSR funds,” said an official. Ranchi ki Roshni was originally conceptualised by My Shelter Foundation and a group of IITians while they were pursuing internship with the district administration in 2018 as a cost-effective source of lighting for the poor. They developed LED bulbs, micro-solar panels and a battery to provide low- cost solutions. Later, the district administration adopted the model and women's goups were trained. The idea was also applauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Ranchi at the time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS-Ranchi to study use of anti-cholestrol drugs to prevent Covid mortalities||Doctors at Jharkhand’s premiere healthcare facility, the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), will soon begin a trial to study the life-saving effects of lipid-lowering drugs on patients suffering from severe symptoms of Covid-19 as a part of a research, health experts monitoring the Covid ward of the hospital said on Monday. Dr. Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of the Covid-19 task force at RIMS, said the research was approved earlier by the hospital administration, but the trial could not start as the number of patients dropped significantly soon after the RIMS administration’s nod to begin the research work. “It has been seen that drugs used for lowering cholesterol in patients reduce the virulence of the virus, which not only reduces the symptoms but also lowers the chances of transmission from the patient to another healthy individual,” said Dr. Kumar, who will be heading the research. During the trial, doctors at RIMS will be primarily using Atorva, a kind of lipid-lowering drug, which is administered to prevent heart attacks and treat patients who have survived heart attacks, said Dr. Kumar. “The trial would begin once RIMS has sufficient patients of Covid-19 to conduct the research. We are hoping that the number of patients does not rise, but if at all there is a rise in cases, this research may help us save many lives,” he added. Some foreign researchers found that administering Statins, a type of lipid-lowering drug, reduced the chances of mortality in Covid patients, especially those suffering from severe symptoms. Such drugs are usually administered to people suffering from cardiovascular diseases or those patients who are at a high risk of developing cardiovascular diseases due to various conditions including obesity. A study by researchers from the University of California San Diego School of Medicine found that lipid-lowering drugs were anti-inflammatory and anti-thrombotic, which helped in reducing symptoms in Covid patients. The researchers also found that patients on regular dosage of lipid-lowering drugs due to history of illnesses had lower chances of in-hospital deaths. As per government data, more than half of the 5,131 Covid casualties in Jharkhand were reported among senior citizens, most of whom already suffered from comorbid conditions and diseases. Doctors say that administering lipid-lowering drugs might also help patients with severe comorbid conditions overcome a SARS-CoV-2 infection. RIMS, which treated patients from across Jharkhand and neighbouring states during the Covid-19 pandemic, is also a part of an international research on the effects of coronavirus on the nervous system and brain of individuals. This research will also involve experts from European countries and the U.S.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Archer Komalika Bari wins gold at world youth championship||Jharkhand archer Komalika Bari on Sunday became the junior world champion after clinching the gold medal at the World Youth Archery Championship in Wroclaw, Poland. The 19 -year-old Jamshedpur-based Komalika beat Spain's Elia Canales in the under-21 summit clash. The win has put the bespectacled Komalika at par with world number 1 and Jharkhand mate Deepika Kumari as the second recurve archer from India to hold the under-18 and under-21 world titles. Deepika also hails from Jharkhand and presently lives with her husband and archer Atanu Das in Pune. Deepika completed the double in Legnica, Poland a decade ago. Jamshedpur-based Komalika, a cadet of elite Tata Archery Academy, rose to fame when she won the under-18 individual title at the World Youth Archery and Cadet Championships staged in Madrid, Spain in 2019. She comes from a typical Indian middle-class household. Her father, Ghanshyam Bari, works as an LIC agent while mother Lakshmi is a homemaker. Earlier, she was a trainee at a cradle run by Indian Steel & Wire Product near Telco township in Jamshedpur. She made it to the Tata cradle in 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||'Library man' tribal official in Jharkhand establishes 25 libraries||A tribal official in the agriculture department in Jharkhand has earned the moniker of Kolhan’s “library man” for establishing as many as 25 libraries, including 12 digital libraries, in over a decade to help underprivileged students pursue their dream of higher education. Sanjay Kachyap, a 40-year-old market secretary of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Parsudih (Jamshedpur), has used his own experience of struggles in pursuing higher education to provide the benefits of libraries to poor students in rural hinterlands, mostly in rebel-hit areas. “I had to forgo my ambition of joining the civil services (after two attempts) due to paucity of funds back in 2002. Completing graduation (honours in history from Tata College in Chaibasa) was itself a struggle. I somehow got through the railway recruitment board exam for train guard in 2004. But I could not devote much time to my inner calling to do something for poor students while on duty. I left the job in 2008 after succeeding in the Jharkhand Public Service Commission examination for market secretary in the agriculture department and started preparing a blueprint for my philanthropic activities,” said Kachyap, who hails from remote Pulhatu village in Chaibasa in West Singhbhum. His parents were manual workers. Kachyap got support from like-minded tribal academicians from districts of Kolhan region (comprises East Singbhum, West Singbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts) and started the Digital Library Kolhan Group in 2008. He set up the first digital library at a community hall in his native village and in over a decade he has set up digital libraries in extremism-affected areas like Manoharpur, Kharsawan, Gudabandha, Dumaria and Mosaboni. “I want poor but meritorious students do not face the same problems which I faced while pursuing their dream of higher education and getting through competitive examinations. So far through crowd-funding we have managed to install computers and LCD projectors in 12 libraries. Books have been stocked in all the 25 libraries established so far. The books pertain to school and college syllabuses and for competitive examinations like banks, railway, Staff Selection Commission and the UPSC,” Kachyap added. He has been contributing half of his salary to this cause since 2008 while the rest is generated through support from sympathisers to his cause. The passion for providing books to remote areas in the Kolhan region has made Kachyap convert his five-year-old hatchback into a mobile library. “I decided to convert my car into a library on wheels on December 8 which marked the death anniversary of tribal scholar Kartik Oraon. The car will be stocked with old and new books. I will drive it on my off days and Sundays to remote villages to create awareness about reading books and education amongst children,” said Kachyap. The Digital Library Kolhan Group does not spend much on infrastructure though. “We use the community halls, abandoned schools (closed after merger of schools during the previous BJP government in Jharkhand) and even rooms in private houses of sympathetic villagers for our library,” said Kachyap. Nearly 100 students have bagged government jobs taking help of rural and Mohalla libraries. Two of the libraries are fully Wi-fi enabled providing free internet to marginalised students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
16-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet minister makes time for field work||Far from the political hubbub in Ranchi, a cabinet minister in the Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand has found time from his schedule to work in his field during the sowing season. Rashtriya Janata Dal legislator from Chatra and state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta reached his native village Kari under Moktama panchayat in Chatra district, over 200km from Ranchi, earlier this month and set about ploughing his field the next day. “I keep myself informed about my field. During paddy planting season I make it a point to be in my village to lend a supporting hand to plough the field along with my relatives. In fact in our village there is still a tradition of helping other villagers in planting paddy during the sowing season. I will be doing this work in my village for four days before returning to Ranchi,” said Bhokta. The 50-year-old lawmaker did not show signs of tiredness even after putting in over six hours of work on the field. “I have been ploughing and also looking after livestock in my house since childhood. So my body is attuned to this work. Even after I became a minister, I find time from my busy schedule to be in my village and find out the problems. I always suggest to my farmer friends and brothers to opt for multiple cropping to increase their income instead of depending solely on paddy. I also request the young generation not to feel embarrassed in doing work in the field as paddy is still our main diet,” said the minister who worked between 8am and 2pm in the 10-acre field. Bhokta said that agriculture production would help the villagers tide over the impact of inflation in the long run. “We have seen the sky-rocketing prices of fuels which has led to an increase of almost all edible items. The villagers should focus on increasing agricultural production so that they have enough food for themselves even after selling it in the market. I always suggest to farmers in my village to carry out vegetable production and also grow maize to supplement their income. With the cooperation of the villagers, we have built a good number of wells (around 75), including deep bore ones, which help in irrigating the land quickly instead of depending solely on monsoon,” said Bhokta. He also keeps in mind his responsibilities as a minister. “It takes three hours to reach Ranchi from Chatra. I make it a point to attend meetings in Ranchi in time even though I am tied up with work in my village during the sowing and harvesting season (November-December). Our government is also considering training the farmers in modern methods of farming,” said Bhokta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-72
