17-08-2021||Calcutta||Two men die after app-based bike skidded and CMC garbage dumper hit them near Park Circus||Two men riding an app-based commercial motorbike died after the two-wheeler skidded and a Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) garbage dumper hit them near the Park Circus seven-point crossing on Monday afternoon. Police said the pillion rider, Nabin Jhunjhunwala, 39, a resident of Gariahat Road, had hired the two-wheeler from an app-bike service. The rider has been identified as Chandan Yadav, 32. They were travelling from Ballygunge Phari towards Park Street when the accident happened at the crossing of Jannagar Road and Park Street, near the Park Circus seven-point crossing, around 12.40pm. Eyewitnesses told The Telegraph that the bike had lost balance and faltered along the tram line before skidding. The duo fell on the road. “Trailing the bike was a CMC garbage dumper which ran over the biker and hit the pillion rider, too,” said a police officer. Jhunjhunwala and Yadav were taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, where Yadav was declared dead, the police said. Jhunjhunwala died of injuries sometime later. Both were wearing helmets. The garbage dumper has been seized by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Health panel asks hospital to refund Rs 1.2 lakh to patient||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission asked Apex Clinic Private Limited in Behala on Monday to refund Rs 1.2 lakh to a patient after it was found that the hospital had charged excess for a pathological test. Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said they found that the hospital had conducted 21 blood gas tests on the patient during his seven-day stay at the hospital in May. Banerjee said that the commission, which has several doctors as its members, felt that conducting the same test several times was unnecessary. The commission also found that the hospital had charged Rs 700 more for each test than the capping set by the commission. The commission has announced a cap on the maximum amount that private hospitals can charge for certain pathological tests. Several hospitals have opposed it. The hospital had also charged the man for 8 days though he was in the hospital for 7 days, said Banerjee. “The man was admitted to Apex at 1.27pm on May 1. He was discharged from the hospital at 12.46pm on May 8. The duration of his stay at the hospital was less than seven days, but the hospital had billed him for 8 days,” said Banerjee. The hospital’s bill amounts to Rs 3.30 lakh. The commission felt that the treatment charges should not have exceeded Rs 30,000 for each day. “We fixed the total bill at Rs 2.10 lakh. The hospital was asked to refund Rs 1.20 lakh to the patient,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Passengers injured as bus hits tilting tree in New Alipore||Several passengers of a bus were injured in New Alipore on Monday evening after the bus crashed into a tree that was tilted towards the road. The branches protruded into the bus through its windows injuring passengers, police said. Police said the accident happened around 7.45pm when a bus of 1B route that was travelling from Tollygunge Phari towards New Alipore, crashed into the roadside tree. “It is still not clear what caused the crash. It could either be the driver’s fault who might have failed to notice the tree tilting towards the road or it could be a mechanical fault that he lost control over the steering and crashed into the tree,” a senior police officer said. “After the bus crashed into the tree its branches protruded into the bus through the windows injuring the passengers, specially those sitting by the window,” said an officer of New Alipore police station. Some of the passengers were treated at SSKM Hospital. Police said officers from the local police station and members of the disaster management group rescued the passengers while traffic cops managed the snarls caused by the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Rotary Club of Calcutta gifts prosthetic implants to 30 people||It was a different Independence Day for a nine-year-old-girl from Canning. “I am able to walk again. I will be able to play,” she said after she took a few steps with a prosthetic implant on Sunday after a gap of six months. The girl from South 24-Parganas district had lost her right leg in an accident. The Rotary Club of Calcutta handed over new limbs to 30 people on Sunday. As part of Project Akriti that was launched on Independence Day, the club aims to provide artificial limbs free of cost to 1,000 individuals by June next year. Besides the girl, a third-year college student in the city whose left hand had to be amputated when he was in Class IV because of an accident that had become “life threatening” also received a new limb. When a limb is taken away individuals become dependent on family members or people around them, said Sujata Pyne, the president of Rotary Club of Calcutta. “If we provide artificial limbs to 1,000 people we are not just supporting them but also their family members who have to help them with daily chores.” The girl recalled the accident that occurred while she was standing on the side of a road. A bicycle knocked her up and ran over her leg. “She was taken to a hospital but she was left unattended for some days because they were awaiting a Covid report. By the time the report arrived gangrene had developed and they had to amputate the leg,” said a family member. “It was the story of this girl that prompted me to take such a drive,” Pyne said. There are some like Soham Bhattacharya, the third-year college student who learnt to live with it.“Having lost my left hand when I was in Class IV, I had adapted to the constant stares,” he said. “An artificial limb ...if it provides 40 per cent support, it makes life easier.” The project will select beneficiaries on the basis of their economic condition. “One needs money to get a prosthetic implant. Many cannot afford it and many are not aware about it,” said Krishna Sen, a professor of English and member of the Rotary Club of Calcutta. To apply for prosthetic implants one could contact Anjan Behera at 8777858153  and 9831585865. Pyne said arrangements were made for life long maintenance of the prosthetic implants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Teenagers hold I-Day rally seeking freedom from abuse||A group of teenagers, mostly girls, walked in an Independence Day rally in a South 24-Parganas neighbourhood on Sunday, calling for freedom from ills they have been facing and witnessing every day. The teenagers wanted freedom from gender bias, domestic violence and teasing. The participants walked with colourful handwritten posters. “Women returning home late in the night have questions raised on their character. Why not the same with men returning home late?” asked one poster. “A baby is a baby. Why the urge to know the gender of a baby inside a womb,” asked another. The rally took place at Piyali, around 70km from Calcutta. The neighbourhood, and adjoining areas like Champahati, are home to thousands of people who comprise the workforce — from domestic help to AC mechanics to guards at malls — that keeps Calcutta running. “My mother beats up my younger brother regularly. We help her with daily chores, cooking, washing clothes and other things. But she often hits my brother if he refuses to do any work or is slow in getting a job done,” said a 19-year-old girl, who is pursuing a bachelor’s degree in arts from a college in Champahati. She had made a poster on child abuse. Her father has deserted the family. Her mother used to work at a leather bag manufacturing unit in Park Circus but lost her job because of the Covid pandemic. Another teenager, a Class XI student, is termed “effeminate” by his classmates and some members of his extended family. “I don’t like to play football and cricket like others of my age do. But is that a crime?” the boy asked. His mother has raised some chickens and ducks. She sells their eggs to eke out a living. Several girls had made posters calling out harassment and torture, faced by women in everyday lives. “I face catcalls and lewd comments regularly. People simply don’t react. It is as if harassing a woman is normal,” said another participant at the rally. A young woman was married into a house in her neighbourhood a year ago. Her in-laws allegedly torment her for dowry. “A couple of months ago, she had her elbow burnt by a spatula,” said the participant. The rally was organised by Ebong Alap (Conversations and More), a voluntary organisation of “writers, teachers, journalists, researchers and performance artists to focus on critical and gender-sensitive citizenship”. The organisation has been running a study centre at Natunpally, a neighbourhood in Piyali, since April last year. Scores of local teenagers come to the centre for learning sessions and workshops on several issues. Members of the organisation who have been mentoring these teenagers said the loss of income of their parents had worsened their conditions. “Many children said their fathers came home drunk and beat them up almost every day. Many men have deserted their families. The women, many of whom work as maids in Calcutta, have lost their jobs. During the initial workshops, the children would often break down while describing their plight,” said Abhijit Ray, a team member of Ebong Alap. Ray has been conducting the workshops at Natunpalli. In the run-up to the Independence Day rally, Ray had conducted a poster workshop with the children. On Sunday, the rally started around 9.30am. Alongside the posters of Gandhi and Subhas Chandra Bose, they held posters of Kalpana Datta, Bina Das and other female freedom fighters “who find little mention in history books”. The participants walked past multiple neighbourhoods and went up to a bustling market near Piyali station, in the Sealdah-Canning section. Short skits were enacted at the station before the rally came back to the Natunpally study centre to hoist the Tricolour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-15
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine doses outnumber recipients on Day 1 in Calcutta Municipal Corporation centres||The Covid vaccination centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had more doses than recipients on Monday, the first day of the new system that has reserved separate days for the first and second shots. The civic body had announced last week that all its Covid vaccination centres would administer only second doses on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and first doses on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The primary health centre at Ward 82 in Chetla, which has been among the most visited vaccination centres, received 500 doses on Monday. “But only 41 people turned up to get their second doses,” said a senior doctor of the CMC. At Ahindra Mancha in Chetla, only 110 people turned up. “Till last week, between 1,200 and 1,400 people were being vaccinated at Ahindra Mancha every day,” the doctor said. On average, all primary health centres — which are also working as Covid vaccination centres — received 150 doses on Monday, said civic doctors. But in almost all centres, the number of recipients ranged between 50 and 70. “Till Friday, we did not have to think whether we had enough people to open a vial. Each vial can vaccinate 10 or 11 people and there would always be a long queue of people waiting for the shot. On Monday, we had to tell five or six recipients to wait for four or five more. This was done to prevent wastage,” said a CMC doctor. Once a vial is opened, the unused doses cannot be taken back to the cold storage point and have to be discarded. Monday’s poor turnout for the second dose at the CMC centres was reflected in a sharp drop in the daily vaccination numbers in Calcutta. CoWIN, an online platform for Covid vaccination-related matters in India, showed that only 18,231 people got vaccinated till 7.40pm on Monday in the city. On Saturday, 43,717 people had received the shot in Calcutta. The counts for Friday and Thursday were 44,942 and 48,530, respectively. The reason behind reserving separate days for the first and second doses was to put an end to the daily chaos outside the centres. The areas in front of the gates of the vaccination centres of the CMC used to be crowded till Friday. Most of the centres had twice or thrice the number of people standing in the queue than the number of doses available with them. “The new system was a success as there was no chaos outside the centres on Monday. But we are worried about the people whose second dose is due. They seem to have disappeared. Over the past one or two weeks, nearly 80 per cent of those coming to our centres were first-dose recipients,” said a CMC doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||IIEST students’ senate writes to institute director about fee inaction||The students’ senate at IIEST has written to the director asking why the authorities had not yet approved a proposal to reduce the mess establishment fees and overhead charges. The senate, which represents all students of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, had in May sought relief because of the financial toll the pandemic has taken. A proposal passed by the senate on the relief was forwarded to the director in June for approval, said an office-bearer of the students’ body. Students are aggrieved because the institute had yet to call a meeting of the board of governors to consider the proposal. Repeated WhatsApp calls and text messages to director Parthasarthi Chakrabarti went unanswered. An IIEST official said the board could meet later this month. Metro had on July 3 reported about the fee reduction proposal. Director Chakrabarti had then said: “We want to give students relief on fees. The proposal on reduction has been sent to the institute’s board of governors for approval.” The students’ senate has written in its letter to the director, which was sent last week: “It's more than a year we are at home, learning through online resources only. No surveys for grievances confronting students during online semester (studies) were conducted.” The senate representatives told The Telegraph that unlike IIT Kharagpur, no survey was conducted at the Shibpur institute to identify the problems students might be facing while attending online classes. The institute has been holding online classes since March 2020 because of the Covid pandemic. According to the proposal, the mess fees should be reduced from Rs 5,000 to Rs 2,900 for fourth-year students and from Rs 6,200 to Rs 4,100 for third-year students.  The general secretary of the senate, Harshvardhan Singh, said it was not clear why the institute could not hold a meeting of the board of governors to discuss the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Online classes hamper kids’ communication||A four-year-old told her neighbour that she doesn’t talk to her friends in class, when asked about her classmates. Several teachers said this was a painful reality during the time of online classes, especially for the younger children. The limitation of the screen does not give the three, four, five or six-year-olds the time or scope to interact with their peers, open up to them and develop communication skills. In an online class, if they are allowed to unmute and speak, it will lead to “pandemonium” and no one will be able to hear, said a school head. Early Childhood Association (ECA), a forum of schools for pre-primary education, in its guidelines for home-based learning, has asked member schools to guide parents to make their children talk to their school friends over the phone and not just on video. “Children must be supported to communicate in all forms,” the guideline said. “Talking to friends would help them develop their conversation skills. Phone calls will help develop their listening skills,” said Suman Sood, national core committee member of ECA, and director, BD Memorial. The limitation of the screen is that each child is isolated and so, they miss the physical experience of being together in a classroom, said a teacher. “In a 20 or 30-minute class, if everyone was to unmute all at once, there would be no communication but only noise,” said Sood. At the pre-primary level, not all communication is verbal but also through gestures or just by being together. The screen does not allow the children to touch, share or observe each other. Being confined to the home with very limited association with the outside world is impacting the children’s pronunciation, enunciation and communication skills. “Children pick up what they hear. Right now, their environment is reduced to a bare minimum and their vocabulary is not expanding,” said Pooja Dugar, director, Leap Years Preschool. Children would spend two or three hours before the pandemic at school but now their interaction is limited to 30 minutes to an hour. It is much harder for teachers, too, to hold a child’s attention in an online class and communicate with them. “How to approach their peers is a learnt skill for this age group (pre-primary) and they are not getting the chance to acquire that skill,” said Sharmila Bose, director, Sushila Birla Girls’ School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||ABP Virtual Insights on Management Education and Acharya Bangalore B-School to conduct virtual session on career options in new normal||How to pick the right B-school? What are the career prospects for management trainees in the new normal? A virtual session helmed by industry leaders and management gurus will answer the queries of students and young professionals who want to pursue business management. ABP Virtual Insights on Management Education, in association with Acharya Bangalore B-School (ABBS), will be held from 4pm to 5.15pm on Wednesday on the Zoom platform. The topic — “Post-Pandemic Career Opportunities in Management”. The Covid-19 pandemic has had an unprecedented effect on how companies go about their business. The uncertainty in companies has cast doubts on thousands of young students who want a career in managerial roles in these companies. Their parents are also in two minds about investing money in a professional course. The constraints in conducting physical classes have only accentuated the crisis. Against such a backdrop, the interactive session will give direction to people who aspire a career in managerial roles across organisations and the relevance of the business management (MBA/PGDBM) degrees in post-pandemic times. It will dwell on: “Critical thinking, problem solving, creativity and digital literacy are the main skill sets required for the future of work,” said Ajitesh Basani, secretary, SSS Trust and executive director, Acharya Bangalore B-School. Basani will moderate the virtual session on Wednesday. The panel of speakers will include Bhaskar Roy, vice-president and global operations leader, Genpact Analytics and Data Science; Madhumita Chatterji, director, ABBS School of Management; Giri Balasubramaniam, educator, quizmaster; Harvard Alumni and Indian Administrative Fellow (IAF) at the department of education of the Karnataka government; and Praveen Kamath, general manager HR — global strategic hiring and redeployment, Wipro Ltd. “In the new normal, companies are looking for people with new skill sets. An MBA degree in finance is not enough on its own. The degree holder should be able to interpret the numbers of a company and provide futuristic insights. Expertise on market research and data science are going to be invaluable. So, students should look for an MBA college which focuses on what the industry wants. Colleges still stuck with traditional curriculum should be avoided,” said Roy. “The young workforce should see the new normal as a great opportunity. Good managers will have to be problem solvers. They will be in huge demand. Companies are going to invest in youth because they adapt better to changes. They are also seen as more tech-friendly,” said Balasubramaniam. People interested in participating in the session will have to register at:  https://bit.ly/VIwithABBS  What: ABP Virtual Insights on Management Education, in association with Acharya Bangalore B-School (ABBS) When: Wednesday, August 18, 4pm to 5.15pm Where: Zoom platform Registration link: https://bit.ly/VIwithABBS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Water treatment plant in New Town to increase supply to Sector V and Salt Lake||The water treatment plant in New Town will increase its supply to Sector V and Salt Lake by at least two million gallons per day (MGD) from this week, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. The plant — run by the NKDA and the public health engineering department — now supplies 4 MGD per day to Salt Lake and around 12 MGD to New Town. The boost in water supply is likely to ease Salt Lake’s dependence on groundwater and address water scarcity in Sector V and its adjoining areas, said an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA). But several blocks in Salt Lake still depend on groundwater as the pipelines from the New Town plant have not been laid,” an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. Salt Lake and Sector V, too, get water from the Tallah plant. According to a senior NDITA official, at least three new filter beds at the plant — where the water drawn from the Hooghly is allowed to settle as the first step of the filtration process — had been put on trial run. “This has added another 5 MGD capacity to this plant, which has been supplying around 20 MGD since it was commissioned.” Debashis Sen, the NKDA managing director, said: “The water from the New Town plant would help all stakeholders in Sector V. In Salt Lake, the treated water will have near zero iron content”. The iron content in water has been a key issue. Many Salt Lake residents said iron deposits often left stains and led to the development of rust in pipes. “We have installed a water softener in our house (to reduce iron content),” said Arindam Choudhary, a resident of IB Block. Kalyan Kar, the vice-president of the Sector V Stakeholders’ Association, said there was a “long-standing demand for treated surface water in Sector V”. “...We are happy that we will be getting treated water from the New Town plant.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||National Green Tribunal seeks status of Santragachhi jheel eviction||The eastern zonal branch of the National Green Tribunal has asked the state chief secretary and the district magistrate of Howrah to state by August 27 what actions have been taken to evict encroachers from around Santragachhi Jheel. “We direct the chief secretary of West Bengal as well as the district magistrate, How-rah, to file their affidavit… disclosing what action has been taken with regard to the eviction of the encroachers from Santragachhi Jheel by the next date fixed,” Justice B. Amit Sthalekar and expert member Saibal Dasgupta said in their order. The case will be heard again on August 27. The order, passed on August 13 but could be accessed on Monday. The order followed a petition related to the pollution of the pollution in the 14 lakh square feet water body, filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta in 2016. “The encroachers have to be evicted so that a drainage system may be installed to divert the sewage coming from surrounding locality that is now polluting the water body,” Datta said on Monday. A recent report of the state pollution control board confirmed that Santragachhi Jheel had become extremely polluted and was actually no longer fit to harbour any wildlife and fish. The order was passed after the South Eastern Railway, which owns the jheel, informed the tribunal that they had issued an eviction order against the encroachers after hearing the unauthorised occupants and informed the district magistrate for implementation of the eviction. “We have sent several letters to the district magistrate’s office requesting them to carry out the eviction but have received little response so far,” said a senior railway official. “We are yet to receive any directive (about the eviction); however now with chief secretary being asked to file affidavit, there may be some action,” said a district official. The state government has a policy of not enforcing any mass eviction without rehabilitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Calcutta||Nursing entrance tests to be held in two shifts on August 22 to maintain Covid norms||The entrance tests for nursing courses on August 22 will be held in two shifts to maintain the physical distancing norm as there are too many applicants. “Over 1.45 lakh candidates will write the exams,” said an official of the state joint entrance examination board, which conducts the tests. The in-person exams for admission into nursing and midwifery courses in various government and self-financed institutes will be held across 255 centres from 11am to 12.30pm and from 2pm to 3.30pm. The shift and timing will be printed on the admit cards of the candidates. A notice signed by JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha says: “A huge number of candidates have applied…. As such, to avoid any chance of crowding in examination centres, the examination will be conducted in two shifts.” When the information brochure for the exam was published in March, it was announced that the exam would be conducted in a single shift from 11am to 12.30pm. “We have taken a decision factoring in the circumstances. Amid the pandemic it was advisable that we split the exam into two shifts so that the Covid protocol could be maintained. This will reduce the scope of crowding,” Saha said. A JEE board official said the admission tests for the engineering, architecture and pharmacy courses, which were written by 70,000 candidates, were held across 274 centres. “For the nursing courses, as many as 1,45,474 candidates have applied, more than double the number of JEE candidates. It was necessary to split the exam into two shifts to avoid gatherings as much as possible,” he said. There will be a break of one-and-a-half hours between two shifts so that the dispersal of the crowd from the first slot can take place properly. If required, the centre-in-charge can get the venue sanitised during the break. Another JEE board official said if they were to hold the exams in a single shift for such a large number of candidates, as many as 550 centres would have been required. “Such a large number of centres would have posed challenges,” he said. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, will hold tests to screen students for admission to Class V at seven centres, in November, so that distancing norms can be maintained. Last year, the test was held at the two venues  — the Narendrapur school and Ramakrishna Mission School at Uripok Bachaspati Leikai in Imphal, Manipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-16
17-08-2021||Business||Inflation to be within target range in FY-2022: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said she expects inflation to remain in the prescribed range during the current fiscal and the government is regularly monitoring the price movement of essential items. The RBI has been mandated to keep inflation at 4 per cent, with a tolerance level of 2 per cent on either side. Speaking to media, she said the Group of Ministers is actively monitoring price movement of essential items like edible oil, pulses, fruits and vegetables, meat etc. She appreciated that states have been very cooperative in terms of going after hoarders and black marketeers. Various efforts taken by the government are expected to keep inflation benign, she said, adding it is expected to remain within the target. She expressed confidence that the revenue would be buoyant in the coming months. Both Goods and Services Tax (GST) and direct taxes have improved in the past few months, the minister said. The GST collection this year has improved substantially and as a result there are chances that the government may be able to pay compensation to states from revenue collected, she said. Asked about extending compensation beyond July 2022, she said the GST Council will decide about the issue. On the Indian investment in Afghanistan, she said it is too early for her to comment on that. Defending the controversial comment made by Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, she said, "He shared his anguish about small trader and small business." "It was with clear intention of wanting to appeal to industry to also help small industry," she said. Speaking at a CII plenary session, Goyal reportedly asserted that the business practices of Indian industry went against national interests. On the demand pick up, she said there is enough liquidity in the market and credit growth is expected to pick up in the coming festive season. She said she would meet the heads of public sector banks next week and review the progress made on implementation of various schemes announced by the government, including Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS). As a result of the government's strategy of recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms, NPAs have since declined to Rs 7,39,541 crore on March 31, 2019, Rs 6,78,317 crore on March 31, 2020 and further to Rs 6,16,616 crore as of March 31, 2021 (provisional data). At the same time comprehensive steps were taken to control and to effect recovery in NPAs, which enabled PSBs to recover Rs 5,01,479 crore over the last six financial years, the government informed Parliament recently. As far as credit growth of scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) is concerned, it has remained positive for 2020-21 despite contraction in GDP (-7.3 per cent) due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Gross loans and advances outstanding of SCBs increased from Rs 109.19 lakh crore as of March 31, 2020, to Rs 113.99 lakh crore as of March 31, 2021. Agriculture and allied activities, micro, small and medium enterprises, housing and auto have witnessed a year-on-year growth of 12.3 per cent, 8.5 per cent, 9.1 per cent and 9.5 per cent, respectively, during the year. Notwithstanding economic disruptions caused by the pandemic, PSBs have managed to raise a record Rs 58,700 crore from markets in 2020-21 through a mix of debt and equity to enhance capital base. As a result capital to risk weighted assets ratio rose to 14.04 per cent as of March 31, 2021, as against regulatory requirement of 10.875 per cent boosting the ability of PSBs to further increase lending. As a result, PSBs in aggregate recorded a profit of Rs 31,816 crore, the highest in five years, despite 7.3 per cent contraction in economy in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
17-08-2021||Business||Delhi HC to implement order barring Future Group from signing deal with Reliance||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said it will implement the single-judge order restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business, which was objected to by US-based e-commerce giant Amazon, in case no stay is obtained from the Supreme Court within four weeks. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait, hearing Amazon's plea for enforcement of the award by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal, said that in the absence of any stay from the apex court, he has no option but to enforce the order passed by Justice JR Midha on March 18. "Either get a stay within 2-3 weeks on March 18 order or comply with the order. This court has no third option," the judge said. Listing the matter for further hearing on September 17, the court said: "I make it clear that if before the next date of hearing the respondents fail to get any stay order, this court shall proceed with the matter for implementation of the order dated 18.03.2021." Senior advocate Parag Tripathi, representing Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and other related parties, said that a special leave petition against the March 18 order has already been filed before the Supreme Court by his clients. Senior advocate Darius Khambata, representing FRL, said that his client has moved an application before the arbitration tribunal and will also file an appeal before the apex court. Considering that the March 18 order on the legality of the emergency award was upheld by the Supreme Court on August 6, his clients still had time till August 20 to comply with the directions in terms of the order, he added. Simply filing SLP will not help you. You get the order of stay. I have only one option i.e to get the order implemented, the court observed. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, appearing for Amazon, argued that in view of the Supreme Court's decision, Justice Midha's order was effective and has to be complied with. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and FCPL have been embroiled in a series of litigations with Amazon, an investor in FCPL, over the deal with Reliance. On March 18, besides restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with Reliance Retail, Justice Midha had imposed costs of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group and others associated with it and ordered attachment of their properties. The court had asked the parties to file an affidavit detailing their assets within one month and show cause as to why they be not detained under civil prison for 3 months for violating the emergency arbitrator's order. It had also asked the Future Group to place on record the details of action taken by it in connection with the Reliance deal after the emergency arbitrator's order. Amazon and Future have been locked in a bitter legal tussle after the US e-commerce giant dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. On August 6, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the EA award and also set aside the two orders of stay passed by the division bench of the high court against the single-judge's orders staying the FRL-RRL merger. A bench of Justices R F Nariman dealt with the larger question and held that an award of an EA of a foreign country is enforceable under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
17-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 210 points to end at new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 210 points to end at a fresh peak on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, TCS, HUL and Tech Mahindra. After scaling a fresh lifetime high of 55,854.88 during the day, the 30-share index settled 209.69 points or 0.38 per cent higher at 55,792.27, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 51.55 points or 0.31 per cent to 16,614.60. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by TCS, Nestle India, Titan, Infosys and HUL. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel and L&T were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained volatile amid weak global cues. Midcap and smallcap stocks remain under pressure today, while volatility index softened marginally, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Visibility of sustained earnings recovery in IT stocks in the backdrop of strong deal wins and encouraging guidance shared by managements in 1QFY22 made investors to lap-up IT stocks, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant losses. Equities in Europe were also largely trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.24 per cent to USD 69.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on choppy note on weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Tuesday, tracking weak cues from global markets.  After dropping over 100 points in the opening session, the 30-share index turned positive to trade 64.21 points or 0.12 per cent higher at 55,646.79, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 14.95 points or 0.09 per cent to 16,578.  Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Sun Pharma and Nestle India.  On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank, Maruti and ICICI Bank were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 145.29 points or 0.26 per cent higher at a new peak of 55,582.58, and Nifty advanced 33.95 points or 0.21 per cent to a fresh high of 16,563.05.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,088.32 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the market is slowly moving into a consolidation phase with strong support coming from largecaps. The current trend of largecap outperformance is likely to continue in the very short term.  "Presently, there are no major global cues that can sway the market trend. But domestic cues like the sustained decline in COVID cases and economic activity returning back to normal are positives," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was positive.  Equities in the US largely ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.03 per cent to USD 69.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Bengal introduces online facility for three services required to start ventures||In a landmark reform for ease of doing business, the Bengal government on Monday introduced an online facility for three services required to start a venture. Majority of the urban local bodies (ULBs) of the state will offer the online service. A common cloud-based integrated portal, which will sanction building plans online and issue trade licences and mutation certificates, was launched by finance minister Amit Mitra. If implemented efficiently and successfully, these initiatives will allow entrepreneurs to start a business significantly faster than before by reducing the long winding approval processes often fraught with rent seeking officialdom and also help the common man to get municipal services without much hassles. “We want to bring transparency and honesty in the system, apart from cutting down on time taken to get these approvals. Human interventions have been reduced to the minimum extent,” Mitra said after launching the system this afternoon, claiming it to be the first in the country to extend these services to such a grassroots level. Mitra said the single-window building plan approval will benefit 1.5 crore people. Around 2 crore will benefit from the trade licence issuance service. While the majority of the 123 ULBs present in Bengal have already plugged in, the rest will be integrated in the next three months. Chandrima Bhattacharya, minister for urban development and municipal affairs, who was present at the formal launch along with chief secretary Hari Krishna Dwivedi and other departmental secretaries, said an applicant should get the approval within 15 days of submitting the application, failing which the officer concerned can be hauled up under the right to service act. Bhattacharya said the Calcutta and Howrah municipal corporations will not be part of it as they have already introduced these services. Dwivedi hailed the launch as a landmark step in urban governance and a major intervention in ease of doing business. “Now with the centralised system, centrally monitoring will be possible to see if cases are being disposed of within the time frame,” he said. Representatives from the industry welcomed the steps. “We hope the system will work according to the plan,” they said. Only human interaction in the system will be a site visit by engineers as per statutory requirement. However, the officers will be selected on a randomised basis and they would not know priorly. The inspection will be done jointly with the applicant and the comments have to be uploaded from the site of inspection. Fees will also be calculated by the system. While issuing building permits, fire department, national monument authority, airport authority of India, power department has been integrated into the portal. Previously, applicants had to go to all these places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Four firms make their debut on the bourses ||The week began with a listing boom with four firms making their debut on the bourses on Monday. Of the four listings, Ravi Jaipuria-owned Devyani International — which holds the franchises for KFC, Pizza Hut, and Costa Coffee — stole the show. The shares got listed at Rs 141, a jump of 56.66 per cent over the issue price on the BSE. The shares later closed at Rs 123.35, a gain of 37.05 per cent. The IPO was subscribed 116.7 times —  the eighth best IPO in terms of demand for its shares while going public. However, the other three IPOs — Windlas Biotech, Krsnaa Diagnostics and Exxaro Tiles — made a tepid debut. Windlas Biotech’s shares closed at a discount of over 11 per cent against the issue price of Rs 460. The shares of the company listed at Rs 439, down 4.56 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. It further tumbled 11.95 per cent to hit a low of Rs 405. The stock ended at Rs 406.70, lower by 11.58 per cent. Shares of Krsnaa Diagnostics closed with a marginal gain of around 4 per cent against the issue price of Rs 954. The stock got listed at Rs 1,025, a jump of 7.44 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. It zoomed 15.25 per cent to Rs 1,099.50 during the trade before closing at Rs 990.75, up 3.85 per cent. Shares of Exxaro Tiles made their debut at Rs 126, a marginal gain of 5 per cent over the issue price on the BSE. As the trade progressed, the shares jumped 10.25 per cent to Rs 132.30 on both the exchanges. The stock closed at Rs 132.25, a gain of 10.20 per cent on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||HDFC to raise capital by additional tier-I bonds in overseas market||HDFC Bank on Monday said the bank plans to raise capital by additional tier- I (AT1) bonds in the overseas market to fund its business growth. The bank is expected to raise up to $1 billion from these dollar denominated bonds. “We hereby inform you that the bank had approved the issuing of debt instruments in the form of the notes, subject to market conditions,” HDFC Bank said in a regulatory filing. An offering memorandum (OM) has been prepared and shall be made available to the prospective investors in relation to the contemplated issue of notes, it said. The notes will not be offered or sold in India under the applicable laws, including the Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time, it added. Earlier in April, the bank had informed that it is planning to raise up to Rs 50,000 crore during the next 12 months through issuing bonds. SBI offer The State Bank of India on Monday announced a slew of offers for its retail customers ahead of the festive season. The bank has announced a 100 per cent waiver on processing fees for its car loan customers across all channels, a release said, adding that customers can get the facility of up to 90 per cent on-road financing for their car loans. The lender is also offering a special interest concession of 25 basis points (bps) to a customer applying for a car loan through the YONO app. YONO users can avail of car loans at an interest rate starting at 7.5 per cent per annum, the release said. The bank is offering a reduction of 75 bps in the interest rates for customers availing of gold loans. They can avail of gold loans from across all channels of the bank at 7.5 per cent per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea Limited reports consolidated loss of Rs 7,319 crore||A slew of brokerages on Monday have sounded the warning gong over Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL) after the company reported a consolidated loss of Rs 7,319 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal. ICICI Securities said it sees “high risk and huge concern for VIL” and that in the wake of growing uncertainties, it has put VIL’s estimates, rating and target price under-review until further clarity. “We believe the existing operation is unlikely to meet upcoming payouts, and risk of default cannot be ruled out, the much anticipated tariff hike/s and capital infusion have been insufficient,” it said. VIL has upcoming payment commitments towards existing debt repayments, spectrum payment installment and annual AGR payments. The results indicate that Vodafone Idea continues to face structural headwinds, BofA Securities said. “Unless the government steps in to aid, we see risks of India turning to be a two player market,” it said. On the possibility of a revival package for VIL, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, “Lots of officials are talking to each other... (but) nothing has come to me.” She did not mention whether the talks were between government officials or the lenders were talking to Vodafone Idea. “While the company had started showing signs of stability in previous quarters, especially on the 4G front, this was reversed during the quarter as a result of the impact of the second wave of Covid,” UBS said. “We note that the company has large repayments due starting December 2021, and at the current EBITDA, we estimate Vodafone Idea could have a Rs 23,800 crore ($3.2 billion) cash shortfall until April 2022,” Goldman Sachs said, Vodafone Idea CEO Ravinder Takkar on Monday said at the company’s earnings call that tariff hikes and floor pricing remain critical for the sector’s revival. Takkar said although Kumar Mangalam Birla recently stepped down as chairman of Vodafone Idea, “he as well as Aditya Birla Group (ABG) and the Vodafone group are committing to providing support and guidance to the company, in line with the stated positions of both the groups”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation softens for second straight month ||The wholesale price-based inflation softened for the second straight month to 11.16 per cent in July on cheaper food items even as the prices of manufactured goods and crude oil rose. Inflation in crude petroleum and natural gas was 40.28 per cent in July against 36.34 per cent in June. In manufactured products, inflation stood at 11.20 per cent in July against 10.88 per cent in the previous month. “Supply side disruptions may have had some impact on prices, but as manufacturers are increasingly passing on the rising input costs to their output prices, both wholesale manufacturing and core inflation is showing sustained high inflation,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings & Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Coal India discusses price hike with stakeholders||Coal India’s rising expenses have prompted market analysts to ask the management about the possibility of a rise in coal prices. Coal India chairman Pramod Agrawal responding to analysts at the first quarter earnings call said that discussions were on with stakeholders on the issue. “We are in discussions with all the stakeholders... our costs have increased and, therefore, there is no reason that CIL should not increase its prices,” he said. Agrawal said the base price of auctions which were lowered to facilitate coal supply in a challenging market has been restored in most cases. “We are providing some premium right at the beginning... we are adding some premium at the best price only and there is no opposition from any quarter, whatever opposition is there we are tackling that,” Agrawal said. The chairman said that the first quarter was a particularly difficult one for Coal India as the second wave of the Covid pandemic affected various stages of operations. “Despite that our production was almost the same as it was last year and dispatches were substantially higher compared with last year and it was even higher than 2019-2020,” he said. Coal India accounts for over 80 per cent of the domestic coal output. The company is eyeing one billion tonnes of production by 2023-24. Coal India has set a capital expenditure target of Rs 17,000 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal, which is around Rs 4,000 crore more than its spending last year, an official said on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business||Rules on retro tax to be framed soon: Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the rules that will lead to the scrapping of the retrospective tax demands will be framed soon. Parliament earlier this month had passed The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that scrapped all tax demands made before May 28, 2012. Now the rules for the same have to be framed, Sitharaman told reporters here. “Rules will be framed soon.” Noted tax expert Narayan Jain said: “Parliament has already passed the law and the rules cannot supersede them. The rules, therefore, would lay down the modalities to be followed for the implementation of the legislation.” The government has to refund about Rs 8,100 crore that it had collected using the retro tax law. The bulk of this — Rs 7,900 crore — is to Cairn Energy alone. Crypto bill Sitharaman said she is awaiting an approval from the Cabinet on a bill on cryptocurrency. The inter-ministerial panel on cryptocurrency set up under the chairmanship of  the secretary (economic affairs) to study the issues related to virtual currencies and propose specific actions has already submitted its report. It has recommended that all private cryptocurrencies, except any virtual currencies issued by the state, will be prohibited in India. “A cabinet note is ready on cryptocurrency (Bill). I am awaiting cabinet to clear that,” she said. Activity improves Business activity rose for the second consecutive week, a Japanese brokerage said . The Nomura India Business Resumption Index,  which measures the activity on a weekly basis with the pre-pandemic levels being the base, rose to 101.2 for the week ended August 15, from 99.6 last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||Business|| Saudi Aramco to acquire roughly 20% stake in Reliance O2C business||Saudi Aramco is in advanced talks to acquire a roughly 20 per cent stake in Reliance Industries’ oil refining and chemicals business for about $20 billion to $25 billion in Aramco’s shares, Bloomberg News reported on Monday. An agreement could be reached as soon as the coming weeks, according to the report, which cited people with knowledge of the matter. Aramco and Reliance declined to comment. Reliance announced a sale of a 20 per cent stake in its oil-to-chemicals business to Aramco for $15 billion in 2019, but the deal stalled after oil prices and demand crashed last year because of the pandemic. During Aramco’s earnings briefing earlier in August, chief executive officer Amin Nasser said the company was still doing due diligence on the deal. In late June, at the company’s AGM, Reliance’s billionaire chairman Mukesh Ambani said RIL hopes to formalise its partnership with Aramco this year and its chairman Yasir Al-Rumayyan will join the Indian conglomerate’s board as an independent director. Reliance shares were up 2 per cent at Rs 2,187.80 on Monday on the NSE. On the BSE, the share closed at Rs 2172.45, up Rs 27.70  or 1.29 per cent. Reliance’s oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business comprises its twin refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat and petrochemical assets. “Despite several challenges due to Covid-19, we have made substantial progress in the past in our discussions (with Saudi Aramco)... This continued engagement and resolve from both sides, even during this pandemic, is a testimony of strong relationship between Saudi Aramco and Reliance,” Ambani said. Aramco on August 8 announced its results. Aramco earned a net income of around $47 billion for the first half of the year, double of what it earned over the same period last year when the coronavirus grounded travel and pummeled global demand for oil. This puts Aramco back squarely where it was before the pandemic struck and sunk earnings to $23.3 billion in the first six months of 2020. CEO Nasser said the company’s second quarter (April-June) results “reflect a strong rebound in worldwide energy demand”. “While there is still some uncertainty around the challenges posed by Covid-19 variants, we have shown that we can adapt swiftly and effectively to changing market conditions,” he said. Reliance has now made an ambitious foray into solar energy. At the June AGM, Ambani said Reliance would invest Rs 75,000 crore in solar, batteries, fuel cells and hydrogen. Wall Street brokerage Bernstein said the business could create a valuation of $36 billion (Rs 2.6 lakh crore). Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
17-08-2021||India||UP: Draft population control bill submitted to Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission has submitted to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath the draft population control bill and made a slew of recommendations, including additional incentives to public servants for adopting the one-child norm and banning those who violate the two-child policy from contesting local bodies polls. The recommendations were made in the 19th report on Population Control, Stabilisation and Welfare which, along with the draft of The Uttar Pradesh Population Control, Stabilisation and Welfare Bill, 2021, was handed over by Uttar Pradesh Law Commission chairperson Justice (retd) AN Mittal to the chief minister. "The report was submitted yesterday (to the UP Chief Minister)," Mittal told PTI on Tuesday. However, it is still unclear whether the Bill will be tabled in the current Monsoon session of the state legislature. When contacted by PTI, UP Legislative and Justice minister Brijesh Pathak refused to comment on this issue. According to the salient features of the report, the Commission recommended that a specific card should be issued to the person adopting two-child or one-child norm that should be valid proof to obtain the incentives so that the beneficiary is not required to run from pillar to post to prove eligibility. Specific law should be enacted regarding control and stabilisation of population in Uttar Pradesh, the report said, adding that the proposed legislation should have an overriding effect on other laws that are in force in the state. It is also proposed that the subject of population control be included in the school curriculum so that proper education, as well as guidance, may be provided at the school age. The success of any policy depends upon incentives and disincentives. Therefore, to control the population certain incentives to public servants who adopt the two-child norm and additional incentives to those who adopt the one-child policy should be provided, according to the report. Special benefits should be provided to married couples having only one child in the shape of a one-time lump sum amount as may be notified by the state government, it said. There should also be a provision for revocation of benefits and disincentives for those who do not follow the two-child norm. There should be a provision for bar on contesting election to local bodies on who-so-ever breaches the two-child norm or has children in excess of the two-child norm and they shall be ineligible for being chosen as, or for being a member of any elective office under any local authority or public corporation, according to the report. In the proposed law, various incentives and disincentives and bars are being provided, which may be in contravention of some laws in force in Uttar Pradesh. Therefore, in the opinion of the Commission, the provisions of this proposed law should have an overriding effect, the report said. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh's move for a population control law has reignited the debate on the issue in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
17-08-2021||India||Special panel to decide on penalty for Parliament chaos: Sources||A committee of parliamentarians, from the ruling alliance and the opposition, can be formed to take action against members who create a ruckus in Rajya Sabha, sources told NDTV. Seven or nine senior members can be part of this committee. They may be asked to submit their report and recommendations within a month. Sources said the government is determined to make an example of the MPs who created ruckus in parliament during the monsoon session, leading to non-stop disruption. Towards the end of the session, the government pushed through 22 bills. During the session, sources had said the disruptions had led to the loss of more than ₹ 130 crore in public money. On Sunday, the government sent a written complaint to Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chairman of the Rajya Sabha, naming the MPs. A delegation of seven Union ministers met Naidu and gave him the complaint, which contains the names of more than 15 MPs from the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, the Left parties and the Aam Aadmi Party. The names were the Congress’s Deepinder Hooda, Rajmani Patel, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Pratap Singh Bajwa, Ripun Bora, Syed Nasir Hussain, Phoolo Devi and Chhaya Verma. From the Trinamool Congress, the government named Abir Ranjan Biswas, Dola Sen, Arpita Ghosh, Shanta Chhetri and Mausam Noor. Shiv Sena’s Anil Desai and Priyanka Chaturvedi, Ilamaram Karim of Left parties and Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party have been named in the complaint as well. Similar written complaint will also be lodged by allies of BJP like JD(U), AIADMK, RPI, NPP, AGP etc. According to the government, they climbed on the table and shoved the female marshal during the proceedings. The opposition has repeatedly slammed the government over its reluctance to discuss the Pegasus spyware issue in parliament and a tug-of-war over issue had marred the session. Amid the acrimonious stand-off, Rajya Sabha saw chaotic scenes on August 11 when the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill was passed despite demands to refer it to a select committee. CCTV footage of the proceedings showed opposition members jostling security personnel inside the Rajya Sabha. While the government accused the opposition of manhandling women marshals, the opposition, in a joint statement, said, “Outsiders, who were not part of Parliament security, were brought in to manhandle opposition leaders and members, including women MPs who were only protesting the government's conduct, highhandedness and muzzling of their voice.” The joint statement was handed to Mr Naidu on August 12, and the opposition members, including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi, held a protest outside parliament. According to sources, the government wants such strict action against the MPs who created ruckus so that it can become an example. Some leaders have even cited the case of the 2005 cash for questions scam, in which the MPs who took bribe to ask questions in parliament had their membership terminated. According to sources, the Rajya Sabha Chairman is not in favor of such extreme action. The penalty, however, will be strict and for this reason, the committee is being formed, they said. The opposition has blamed the government for the ruckus, pointing to its “authoritarian attitude and undemocratic actions”. The government, it said, “deliberately” derailed the monsoon session even though the opposition “unanimously conveyed (the need) to discuss important national issues” like the Pegasus scandal, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
17-08-2021||India||Facebook asks Rahul Gandhi to remove photos of Dalit girl's parents||Facebook has asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to remove his post from Instagram where identity was revealed of the family of a nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, apex child rights organisation NCPCR said. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights shared with PTI copies of the letter that Facebook forwarded to it in response to its summon to the social media giant. In the letter to Gandhi, Facebook said, "A post you uploaded through your Instagram account is unlawful under Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015; Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012; and Section 288A of the Indian Penal Code. In accordance with NCPCR's Notice, you are requested to remove this post expeditiously." Following the communication from Facebook, the NCPCR withdrew its direction to the company to appear before the commission with an explanation over non-action over Gandhi's post. Instagram, a photo and video sharing social networking platform, is owned by Facebook. The NCPCR had last week asked Facebook to take appropriate action against Gandhi's Instagram profile over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Instagram. The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
17-08-2021||India||Not feasible to have national-level security  guards for judges, Centre tells SC||The Centre Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it may not be feasible and advisable to have a national level security force like CISF to guard judges across the country. Irked over non-filing of responses by various states, the top court said the reply affidavits can be filed within 10 days subject to deposit of fine of Rs one lakh each with the Supreme Court Bar Association Welfare Fund and failing which the chief secretaries will have to appear before it. Counsel appearing for Kerala prays for and is granted 10 days' time from today to file counter affidavit, subject to the condition that the said State shall pay costs of Rs 1,00,000/ to be deposited with the Supreme Court Bar Association Advocates' Welfare Fund. The remaining States which have not filed their counter affidavits so far shall also file the same within a period of 10 days from today, subject to deposit of costs of Rs 1,00,000/ with the SCBA Welfare Fund, failing which we would be compelled to seek the presence of the Chief Secretaries of the concerned States, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said in the order. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, was hearing a suo motu case relating to safety and security of judges and lawyers across the country in the wake of mowing down of a judicial officer at Dhanbad and has sought the information from states on steps taken to ensure the safety. The top court also permitted the apex bar body, the Bar Council of India, to be a party to the matter and also file its response and listed it for hearing after 10 days. At the outset, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the issue concerning safety of judges is a serious matter . Referring to the reply of the Centre, he said a mechanism has been there and the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, in 2007, had issued the guidelines saying that there should be special units for looking after the security of judges. Terming the issue as an administrative one, the bench asked whether the Centre was willing to raise a force like CISF or Railways Protection Force for judges and judicial officers in the country. "We have said it may not be advisable or feasible to have a national level security force like CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) for judges," the law officer said. "We have issued guidelines and they are placed on record. Instead of creating a specialised or dedicated police force there is a need to ensure fuller implementation of the guidelines of the MHA by states and union territories (UTs)," he said. The bench asked the law officer to call a meeting of all the states and take a decision to solve the problem. The Solicitor General said that the meeting of either home secretaries or state police chiefs may be called on the issue. "You (Centre) are the best person to get this done. States are now saying they do not have funds for CCTVs. These issues you have to resolve between you and the states. We don't want to call these excuses," the bench said. Earlier, noting the gravity of the matter, the apex court had asked the Jharkhand High Court Chief Justice to monitor weekly the CBI probe into the alleged mowing down of District and Sessions Judge-8 of Dhanbad court, Uttam Anand by a vehicle on July 28. The apex court also referred to the alarming situation in the country where judicial officers and lawyers are being pressurized and intimidated, and had said there was an institutional need to create an environment where judicial officers feel safe and secure. CCTV footage showed that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad early on July 28 when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. He was declared dead by the hospital. The Jharkhand government has transferred the probe to the CBI. The bench had also said: "Apart from the specific incident in question, this Court had also taken up this matter to take note of attempt(s) to resolve the alarming situation in the country where judicial officers and lawyers are being pressurized and intimidated by threats of, and/or actual violence." "There is, therefore, an institutional need to create an environment where judicial officers feel safe and secure . On August 6, the CJI-led bench had expressed concern over the incidents of judges getting threats and abusive messages and had said that Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the CBI are not helping the judiciary at all and there is no freedom to a judicial officer to even make such complaints. It said there are several criminal cases involving gangsters and high-profile persons and at some places, judges of the trial courts as well as high courts are being threatened not only physically but also mentally through abusive messages on Whatsapp or Facebook. Prior to this, the top court had on July 30 taken suo motu cognizance of the unfortunate sad demise of the judge in a gruesome incident and had sought a status report within a week from Jharkhand's Chief Secretary and the DGP on probe. The Jharkhand High Court had also ordered an SIT probe into the death of Anand, under the leadership of Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar. The Jharkhand police had arrested two persons, auto driver Lakhan Verma and his helper Rahul Verma, in connection with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Modi directs refuge to Sikhs, Hindus at high-level meet on Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday directed officials to ensure safe evacuation of all Indian citizens from Afghanistan and to provide refuge to Sikhs and Hindus wanting to come to India from there, as he chaired a crucial high-level meeting in the backdrop of the Taliban takeover of the war-torn country, sources said. Chairing a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security, Modi also said India must provide all possible help to its Afghan brothers and sisters who are looking towards India for assistance, official sources said. Modi directed officials concerned to undertake all necessary measures to ensure safe evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan in the coming days. The Cabinet Committee on Security is the apex government body that deals with the issues of national security. Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman attended the meeting, besides senior officials, including NSA Ajit Doval, Cabinet Secretary Rajeev Gauba, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and India's Ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon. Tandon was on the evacuation flight from Kabul that landed in Jamnagar earlier on Tuesday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar could not attend the meeting as he is not in the country. According to sources, the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) was briefed in detail on the current and evolving security and political situation in Afghanistan. The CCS was also briefed on the recent evacuations of Indian Embassy officials and some members of the Indian community, as well as some members of Indian media. India has brought back the Indian ambassador Tandon and all staff members from its embassy in Kabul in two military transport aircraft in the wake of escalating tension and deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital after its takeover by the Taliban. A military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force brought back from Kabul around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians on Tuesday. Another flight had evacuated around 40 staffers from Kabul on Monday. Earlier on Tuesday, the MEA said that the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. Soon after the second military aircraft landed in Hindon completing a two-phase evacuation mission, Jaishankar, who is in New York on a four-day visit, said the evacuation of the Indian embassy staff from Kabul was a "difficult and complicated" exercise. While Jaishankar spoke to his American counterpart Antony Blinken, NSA Doval had a conversation with President Joe Biden's National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan on Monday evening on the evacuation of the Indian staff, people familiar with the matter said. In a tweet, Jaishankar said he thanked his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian for evacuating 21 Indian nationals from Kabul to Paris. Sources said that both Jaishankar and Doval were involved in ensuring the smooth evacuation of around 190 Indian diplomats, officials and security personnel from the embassy in Kabul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir cops beat up journalists for covering Muharram procession||Police on Tuesday lathicharged and thrashed a group of journalists covering a Muharram procession in Srinagar, evoking criticism from various quarters. Police also detained a few Shia mourners at Jehangir Chowk in the city as they tried to take out a procession to mark the eighth day of the 10-day Muharram mourning period. The traditional Muharram procession used to pass through the areas of Abi Guzar, Lal Chowk and Dalgate areas, but has been banned since the eruption of militancy in 1990 as authorities maintain that the religious gathering has been used for propagating separatist politics. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said police respects the religious sentiments of the public, but at the same time, it is their joint responsibility to defeat the ill designs of vested interests who try to disturb the peaceful atmosphere. As the media personnel, mostly photo and video journalists, were discharging their professional duties, police swung into action and lathicharged them, the scribes said. They said the policemen, armed with batons, also thrashed some of the journalists and caused damage to their equipment. The pictures and the videos of the incident were uploaded on various social media forums as the journalists protested the police action. A senior police officer reached the spot and assured the journalists that he we will look into matter. Kashmir Press Photographers Association (KPPA) condemned the use of force by police. KPPA terms the action unjustified and uncalled for. It is highly unfortunate that the police was thrashing the photojournalists (and stopping them) from performing their professional duties, a statement from the photojournalist body said. Meanwhile, National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said the police action was unfortunate and expressed hope that Jammu and Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha will ensure such incidents are not repeated. "Very unfortunate to see J&K police personnel mercilessly thrashing journalists in Srinagar. These people were simply doing their jobs - reporting the news. They don't make the news & they don't engineer events to create the story. I hope @OfficeOfLGJandK will ensure no repeat," Abdullah said on Twitter. He also demanded that an independent photojournalist be compensated for the loss as his equipment was damaged allegedly in the police action. He's an independent photo-journalist. His camera is his livelihood. The administration owes it to Sajad to compensate him for the loss he has suffered while working, the NC leader said. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also took to Twitter to highlight the issue. Media is spending hours debating the human tragedy & unfolding crisis in Afghanistan but will they speak up for their own community in Kashmir who were beaten to pulp today by security forces for doing their job? Mufti tweeted. The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) termed the thrashing of media persons as unfortunate . Media is fourth pillar of democracy and the routine coverage as part of its professional obligation must be allowed, they should not be intimated while performing their duties, the party said in a statement. JKPCC feels disappointed over the thrashing of mediapersons, who were covering Muharram procession and expresses its full solidarity with the media fraternity, it said. The party urges the government to ensure that mediapersons are allowed to perform their duties, without any fear, it added. The Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Conference (JKPC) led by Sajad Lone too condemned the police action. Merciless beating of journalists is highly condemnable. We express serious concern over such repeated acts of use of force on the media fraternity without any accountability. Surprisingly, the upholders of the law are out to demolish the founding principles of law, the JKPC said in a tweet. Apni Party senior vice president Ghulam Hassan Mir termed the thrashing of mediapersons as undemocratic. In a statement issued here, Mir said media is the fourth pillar of democracy and the coverage of routine happenings is a part of their professional obligation that must not be dissuaded with the use of force or any sort of intimidation. Today's incident in which journalists allege that they were thrashed by police while doing their duty is extremely unwarranted. These journalists were performing their usual professional duties. These kinds of occurrences need to be stopped as it taints democratic ethos of our country, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Elgaar-accused Hany Babu to return to jail from hospital tomorrow||Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here since May, will be discharged and sent back to the Taloja prison on Wednesday, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar took on record Babu's medical report submitted by the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai, and accepted the state government's submission that he will be "transferred back to the Taloja prison on Wednesday." Babu's counsels, senior advocate Yug Chaudhry, and advocate Payoshi Roy, told the HC that as per the private hospital, Babu was fit to be discharged. Roy said as per the hospital, the professor is ready for discharge, but there is still some swelling in his eye and he should be taken for regular follow-ups to the medical centre in south Mumbai. Babu was sent to the private hospital in May this year following an order of the high court. At the hospital, he had been undergoing treatment for an eye infection that he had developed while in the Taloja prison. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 while at the prison in Navi Mumbai. Following a plea filed by Babu's wife Jenny Rowena, seeking immediate medical aid for the academic, the HC had directed that he be treated at the private hospital and the medical bills be borne by him and his family. On Tuesday, the bench led by Justice Shinde directed that after Babu was back in prison he must be provided with medical care whenever required. Justice Shinde said that the academician must be taken to state- run JJ Hospital in the city for follow-up check-ups for his eye, and if required, he be taken to the Breach Candy Hospital as well. The Maharashtra government's chief public prosecutor, Aruna Pai, told the HC that if Babu is taken to the private hospital for consultations in the future, he must bear the medical cost himself. The HC, however, said such medical consultation costs must be borne by the state authorities. "Supposing some treatment is not available (at JJ Hospital), you (prison authorities) can take him to Breach Candy for consultation," the bench said. "Article 21 of the Constitution (dealing with protection of life and personal liberty) applies to all equally. There are various judgements (of the Supreme Court) that say treatment (of undertrials) is the state's responsibility," it said. "Only thing is, he (Babu) should get timely treatment," the HC observed. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made at a conclave, Elgaar Parishad, held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on the city's outskirts. The Pune Police claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. Later, the case was taken over by the NIA. Several activists have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||India has not abandoned people in Afghanistan, says envoy upon return||Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon on Tuesday asserted India has not abandoned the people of the war-ravaged country with whom New Delhi forged longstanding ties and which is now under the Taliban control. Maintaining that welfare of the Afghan people and "our relationship with them is very much in our mind", the envoy expressed happiness over the safe return of Indians from Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover of that country whose citizens now face an uncertain future. "We are happy that it's finally over and we are back home safely and securely without any accidents. We were a very large mission of 192 personnel, who were evacuated from Afghanistan within a period of three days in a very orderly fashion in two phases," Tandon told reporters at Jamnagar. An Indian Air Force plane with 120 people on-board, including Tandon, landed on Tuesday at the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat from Kabul in Afghanistan. The aircraft had taken off from Kabul carrying Indian personnel as part of an emergency evacuation that was undertaken amid rapidly worsening security situation in Afghanistan. The aircraft then left for New Delhi from Jamnagar after refueling. In addition to the mission personnel, those who were evacuated from Afghanistan included people working in public sector companies such as Air India and other Indian citizens who found themselves "in distress due to the fast changing situation", Tandon said. Speaking about Afghanistan post the Taliban's violent takeover, the envoy said welfare of the people of the war-torn country was still on India's mind. "It's not that we have abandoned the people of Afghanistan. Their welfare and our relationship with them is very much in our mind. We will, going forward, try and continue our interaction with them, of course I can't exactly say in what form or manner, as the situation is changing so much," he said. About the safe return of Indians, Tandon said the Indian embassy had adopted a policy wherein "anyone who reached the embassy was taken inside the premises to ensure their safety and an avenue for an exit". "We are still monitoring the situation as there are some Indians there, that is why Air India will continue its commercial service till Kabul, as long as the airport there is functional. The Ministry of External Affairs has opened a help desk there so that anyone who is stuck there is somehow brought here," he said. According to Tandon, though some Indians contacted the embassy for evacuation, they could not be brought back yet as they were "too far away and were in areas that were no longer possible to access". Moreover, there are many others who had earlier chosen to stay back in Kabul but later on "changed their mind", he said, adding that such people will also be brought back once the commercial service begins. When asked about the exact number of Indians still stranded in Afghanistan, Tandon said the figure could be 40 to 50. He, however, highlighted the fact that many Indians had not registered themselves with the embassy, making it difficult for the mission authorities to contact them in the prevailing situation. "(Some of the) Indian nationals, unfortunately, do not register themselves with Indian embassies, though we keep sending them advisories...There are some individuals there, I know personally of, at least 5 to 6. "But, as per the figures quoted to us, it could be 40 to 50, But, that (figure) is not something that I stand by officially," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Pakhtoons across India worried about kin in Afghanistan, says great-granddaughter of 'Frontier Gandhi'||Yasmin Nigar Khan, the Calcutta-based great-granddaughter of 'Frontier Gandhi' Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, on Tuesday said that she has been receiving SOS calls from Pakhtoons across India, urging her to request the Ministry of External Affairs to ensure the safety of their kin after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Khan (50), who has been living in central Calcutta for generations, is the president of the All India Pakhtoon Jirga-e-Hind, the apex body of the community in the country. "We are in constant touch with the central and West Bengal governments, but the situation is fluid and very little information is trickling in from Afghanistan. Phone lines are jammed and visuals from Kabul are disturbing. Those living in India are distraught," Khan, who has barely slept in the last two nights, told PTI. She said that the 1,000-odd Pakhtoons in the state and lakhs living in other parts of the country for generations have no chance of returning to their native place but almost everyone has relatives in Afghanistan or north-western Pakistan. "They regularly spoke with their relatives in Afghanistan even a few months back but are not able to contact them now. Whatever little information they are getting is through those living in Pakistan. Many of the kin have been killed in the aggression of Taliban, which is a monstrous force with no respect for liberty, dignity and freedom of women," Khan said. "During the previous Taliban rule, they abducted young widows to marry them off to their members. They don't want girls to study or go to school. What they describe as Islamic law is in fact a travesty of the religion. Don't girls study in madrassas? Even in Islamic countries, women are encouraged to get modern education and work alongside men. The Taliban wants to take women back to medieval ages," she said. Her great-grandfather had set up a school for girls in the present-day Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan in 1921. "The school has been closed now. I don't know what will happen to it later," she said. Khan said that her organisation will approach the United Nations to intervene in the humanitarian crisis. The outfit was formed by Frontier Gandhi's adopted grandson Lala Jaan Khan in 1949 and Yasmin Nigar Khan became its head in 1996.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Protective gear for Sahiyas who spread Covid awareness in Jharkhand villages ||Over 42,000 Sahiyas in Jharkhand are being provided protective gear, including PPE kits, oximeters, face shields and thermal scanners, to prevent coronavirus infections among the frontline workers who are in the line of duty, health officials said on Tuesday. Amid the fear of a third wave of Covid-19, it was imperative to ensure safety of Sahiyas as they are the ones who visit patients in the interiors and create awareness about various health issues, including Covid-19, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. “We want to ensure the safety of our Sahiyas, so they do not contract the viral infection while performing their duty. The protective gear is being distributed among the Sahiyas with the help of several NGOs and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) teams of companies,” said the NHM director, Umashankar Singh. “They (Sahiyas) visit the interiors and come in contact with villagers on a regular basis. They have done a commendable job so far, and it is our responsibility to ensure that they do not fall ill while they continue to perform their duties relentlessly,” added Singh. Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiative (APPI), Tata Steel Trust and OXFAM India are among the organisations helping the government provide protective gear to the Sahiyas, officials said. The Sahiyas of Jharkhand have been actively involved in delivering healthcare services in the rural areas for several years. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, they played a crucial role in spreading awareness about the disease and the need for adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour in  far-flung villages of the state, where a majority of the population is poor and unlettered. The Sahiyas also played an important role in the Integrated Public Health Survey (IPHS) conducted by the Hemant Soren-led government in rural areas of the state from June 18 to June 25. During the survey, the Sahiyas went door-to-door and sought details of the health condition and existing ailments of members of all the rural households. In the coming days, the state health department will be relying heavily on the Sahiyas for testing, tracking and preventing the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, sources said. Their interpersonal connection with the rural masses will be used in encouraging vaccination and ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour in villages. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently lauded the efforts of Sahiyas in states' fight against Covid-19, claiming that these Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers did a commendable job in identifying cases of Covid-19 since March 2000 despite widespread resistance to Covid tests among the rural masses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||India should respond to Afghan developments in ‘humane manner’, says former PM Deve Gowda||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Tuesday said India will have to respond to the developments in Afghanistan in a ‘humane manner’, besides developing an independent policy of fostering friendship and peace in our neighbourhood. “Reports from Afghanistan show how fear and uncertainty have gripped the country. It is a difficult moment for India and the entire region. We have to respond in a humane manner besides developing an independent policy of fostering friendship and peace in our neighbourhood,” Gowda tweeted. India on Tuesday brought back home the Indian ambassador and its staff at the embassy in Kabul in a heavy-lift military transport aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital, two days after its takeover by the Taliban. Hours after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani fled Afghanistan on Sunday, the Taliban took control of Kabul, capturing power nearly 20 years after a US-led military invasion ousted it in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||HP landslide: three more bodies found, death toll climbs to 28||With the recovery of three more bodies on Tuesday, the death toll in the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district climbed to 28, a senior official said. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said according to the information provided by the Bhawanagar DSP, three bodies have been found in Chaura village on National Highway 5 in Nichar tehsil. He said search and rescue operations, which were suspended on Monday night, resumed this morning. The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and police and home guard personnel. The landslide occurred on August 11 near Chaura village. A Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, an SUV and other vehicles were trapped under the debris. On the day of the incident, 10 bodies were recovered and 13 people were rescued. Fifteen more bodies had been found till Monday. The SUV and its passengers feared buried under the rubble have not been found so far, Mokhta said, adding that it is possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris. The HRTC bus was found in a badly damaged condition on Thursday. A truck, which had rolled down towards a riverside due to stones falling down a mountainside, was also found and the driver's body was recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||BJP accuses Rahul Gandhi of politicising Dalit girl's rape||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday took on senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for tweeting pictures of the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi and said such issues should not be politicised for petty political interests. The BJP also demanded that Twitter should again lock Gandhi's account as the victim's family has denied his claim that he took their consent before posting the pictures. "Rahul Gandhi has lost credibility and is a habitual liar. The public has locked his political account, now Twitter should also lock his account," party spokesperson Sambit Patra said. Speaking at the virtual inauguration of the BJP office in Kozhikode in Kerala, Nadda said, "Rahul Gandhi's political tourism is also happening here in Kerala. He lost in Amethi, so he ran to Wayanad." Changing states doesn't change someone's behavioural patterns, intentions and the approach to serve people, the BJP chief said, referring to Gandhi. Nadda also took on the LDF government in Kerala over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, saying nearly 20,000 cases are being reported in the state on average. Currently, there are 1.08 lakh cases in Kerala and it is contributing almost 50 per cent to the total burden of Covid-19 cases in the country. "This is gross management. It is a model of mismanagement," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Union minister Shantanu Thakur claims arrest, police say himself boarded van||Union Minister Shantanu Thakur on Tuesday claimed that he was arrested at Birati in North 24 Parganas district even as the police said that he himself boarded a police vehicle. BJP workers had assembled at Birati as part of the party's "Shahid Samman Yatra" in Bengal. Thakur, who is a member of the Lok Sabha from Bongaon constituency in North 24 Parganas, claimed that he was arrested by the police when he went to a temple there to offer puja. A police official said that while BJP workers were arrested for illegally assembling there, Thakur had boarded the police vehicle on his own. Thakur and other BJP leaders, including Jay Prakash Majumdar and Archana Majumdar, along with party workers and supporters were taken to the Airport police station. "I came to offer puja and was arrested by the police," the Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways told reporters. On the claim of the police that he was not apprehended and that he himself boarded the police vehicle, Thakur said, "If I had got arrested on my own, why will so many others be there with me here." Thakur alleged that the police told him that he was doing "illegal work" by being at that place. "I believe that democracy and 'adhyatma bad' (spiritualism) has been finished in Bengal," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Modi virtually interacts with Paralympic bound athletes||"You are all winners and role models," Prime Minister Narendra Modi told India's top para athletes, who are set to compete in the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics. Modi virtually interacted with 10 athletes, including 2016 Rio edition gold winners Devendra Jhajharia and Mariyappan Thangavelu, and urged them to compete without pressure. The Paralympics will be held between August 24 to September 5. "In spite of all the difficulties in your lives, you did not lose heart and kept on fighting. By your hard work and strong will, you have reached this stage against all odds. You are going the represent the country in the biggest sporting stage," Modi said. "You all are winners and role models. You should not play with pressure. I hope you all will give your best and medals will follow. You will make the country proud." India is sending a 54-member team -- the largest ever -- in the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics with hopes that the country will produce its best ever performance. The team has some of the brightest medal prospects like Jhajharia, seeking his third Paralympics gold (after 2004 and 2016) in F-46 javelin throw, Mariyappan (T-63 high jump) and world champion Sandeep Choudhary (F-64 javelin throw). India will compete in nine sports. Mariyappan, who had won a gold in the last edition in Rio, will be the flag bearer of the Indian contingent during the opening ceremony. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur wished the athletes good luck, noting that para-athletes have performed impressively in the international events in the last few years. "We have won 12 medals so far in the Paralympics. Our athletes have done very well in the international events in the last few years. "I hope they will give their best and win laurels for the country." India will start its campaign on August 27, with men's and women's archery events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Delhi HC seeks police report on alleged rape and murder of Dalit girl||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought a report from the police on the status of investigation into the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl here even as it was informed that an SIT has been set up to probe the case. Justice Yogesh Khanna, who was hearing a plea by the parents of the deceased girl for constituting a special investigation team (SIT) for a court-monitored probe, directed the police to file the status report before the next of hearing on November 8. "Status report be filed so as to know the stage of the investigation," the judge said. Standing counsel Sanjay Lao, appearing for State, said that an SIT has already been constituted after the case was transferred from the local police station to Crime Branch. "DCP, Crime Branch has constituted the SIT. There are two ACPs. The prayer has been fulfilled, Lao said as he informed the probe was being monitored by the high-ranking officials of Delhi Police. He added that two accused persons have admitted to the crime and provisions for alleged commission of offences of murder and rape under the Indian Penal Code, section 6 under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 have been added to the FIR. Round-the-clock security has also been provided to the parents, Lao informed the court. With regards the parents' prayer to initiate a judicial inquiry into the administrative lapses in the case, Lao contended that the same could be considered only after the conclusion of the investigation. The court observed that in view of the State's stand, the prayers in the petition seemed to have been answered. The investigation is at a nascent stage. We can't direct judicial inquiry at this stage, the judge stated. "When they have constituted the SIT, let them do their work. You can't presuppose (the outcome)," the court observed during the hearing. The court nonetheless directed that a status report be filed before the disposal of the petition. In their plea, the parents of the deceased child have stated that they have no faith in the present investigation which has now been transferred to the crime branch of the Delhi Police. "What type of SIT has been constituted? Nine days after the incident, police moved the application of custodial interrogation of the accused. What is this type of investigation by the so-called SIT," questioned advocate Jitendra Kumar Jha, appearing for the parents. The plea further sought adequate safety and security to them as well as the other witnesses in the case along with judicial inquiry into the lapses on the administrative front in the case in order to reveal the reason behind the delay in police response and "why no vital evidence was preserved". They alleged that the total focus of the police was to hush up/sabotage the case and that the parents were tortured and pressurised by the police and its agent to compromise the case . The delay in registration of FIR that too under diluted offences itself indicates the police did not want to give justice, said the petition. The parents have submitted that they belong to the poorest section of society and are illiterate and are under the force and influence of various groups with vested interest. The minor Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped, murdered and cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Centre need not disclose information compromising national interest, says SC on Pegasus ||The Supreme Court Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a batch of pleas seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter, making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which might compromise national security. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said this after the government maintained that divulging information on affidavit would involve aspect of national security. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said it had thought that government would file a comprehensive affidavit but only a limited affidavit was filed in the matter. The apex court said it will take up the pleas for hearing after 10 days and will see what course of action should be adopted in the matter. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the Centre, told the bench that government had made its stand clear in the affidavit which was filed on Monday. "Our considered response is what we have respectfully stated in our last affidavit. Kindly examine the issue from our point of view as our affidavit is sufficient," Mehta told the bench, adding, "The Government of India is before the highest court of the country." He said the government has said in its affidavit that it will constitute a committee of experts to examine all the aspect and the panel will submit its report before the top court. "There is nothing to hide," he said, adding that aspect of national security is involved in the matter. Mehta said this cannot be a "matter of public debate" and the committee of experts will report to the apex court. "This is a sensitive matter and this has to be dealt with sensitivity," he said, adding that government cannot divulge information in public domain on security apparatus being used. The bench told Mehta that it does not want anything which would compromise the national security. "What is the problem if the competent authority files an affidavit before us," the bench observed, adding, "We do not want any word about national security." Mehta said he is not saying that government will not tell anything to anyone and his argument is that they do not wish to say this publicly. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for veteran journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar who have filed a petition in the matter, said they does not want the state to divulge any information which may have bearing on national security. The bench said it is issuing notice to the government and the matter would be heard after 10 days. The court is hearing a batch of pleas, including the one filed by Editors Guild of India, seeking independent probe into the matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. The apex court had said on Monday that it cannot compel the reluctant Centre to file a detailed affidavit on pleas seeking information if Pegasus spyware was used to snoop on certain citizens and steps it took to probe the allegations amid vehement claims that there was nothing to hide and it will set up a panel to examine all aspects related to the issue. The Centre had on Monday filed a limited affidavit in the court and said the pleas were based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material . The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology in a two-page affidavit had told the court that to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, the Centre will constitute a committee of experts in the field which will go in to all aspects of the issue. Sibal had argued that the Centre should file an affidavit stating whether the government or its agencies have used Pegasus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Freedom  of woman to decide whether to carry on with pregnancy  can't be taken away: Kerala HC||The freedom of a woman to decide whether to continue with pregnancy cannot be taken away, the Kerala High Court has said while allowing a mildly mentally challenged mother to abort her more than a 22-week-old abnormal foetus. The high court said that the right of a mother to terminate her pregnancy, if there was a substantial risk that after birth the child could suffer from abnormalities which could seriously handicap him or her, has been recognised by the courts. In the instant case, the woman was mildly mentally challenged and according to the report of a medical team that examined her, the foetus was suffering from Klinefelter syndrome -- a genetic condition in which a male is born with an extra copy of the X chromosome. The syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly associated with variable mental sub-normality, endocrine problems and psychological issues in later life, the court noted in its order. According to the medical report, besides mild mental disabilities, the woman also suffers from visual disturbances, seizures and weaknesses of the left lower limb with a permanent disability of 55 per cent. The report said that while Klinefelter syndrome was not life-threatening, since the mother has a mild mental disability and impaired adaptive skills, "she might find it difficult to cope with the child-rearing demands of a baby with disability". "For the above mentioned reasons, medical termination of pregnancy is recommended," the report said. After perusing the report, the high court said, "The freedom of a pregnant woman in making a choice as to whether the pregnancy should be continued cannot be taken away. Likewise, the right of the mother to terminate the pregnancy medically even after the permissible period in terms of the provisions of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, has been recognised by the courts, if there is substantial risk that if the child were born, it would suffer from abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped." "In the result, the writ petition is allowed and the first petitioner (mother) is permitted to undergo the procedure for termination of the pregnancy. The respondents concerned would be free to undertake the said procedure at the risk of the first petitioner," the court added. The order came on a plea moved by the woman and her husband seeking to medically terminate the over 22-week-old pregnancy on the ground that continuing with it would pose a risk to the mother's life and the baby would suffer from physical and mental abnormalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Amway India ropes in Mirabai Chanu as their brand ambassador||Direct selling major Amway India has signed Olympic silver medalist Saikhom Mirabai Chanu as brand ambassador for Amway and its Nutrilite range of products. Chanu will appear in Amway's campaigns focused on its foundation range such as Nutrilite Daily, Omega and All Plant Protein amongst others, across platforms. The association with Chanu is in line with Amway's focus on consolidating its health and nutrition category, especially targeting women and youth in the country, the company said on Tuesday. "Our association with Mirabai Chanu is a natural choice. She exemplifies our values of hope, commitment, self-empowerment, healthy living; and her commitment to fitness is unparalleled. This makes her the perfect partner to further amplify our ethos of helping people live better, healthier lives," Amway India CEO Anshu Budhraja said. Over 60 per cent of Amway's direct sellers are women and youth, and the association with Chanu would help them to motivate and strengthen the brand Nutrilite. "Our association with Chanu is also a tribute to our incredible women leaders who have been leading from the front and re-imagining the future, for themselves, for their families and ultimately for the society at-large. "Comprising over 60 per cent direct sellers, women and youth are at the heart of this incredible organization and are the enablers in helping us drive the commitment towards entrepreneurship to empower the women and our women," he added. At the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics Games, the 26-year-old Chanu brought cheers to over a billion people as she clinched the silver medal with an effort of 204kg (87kg+115kg) in the women's 49kg category. "Nutrilite is an iconic brand, recognized globally for its plant-based approach to dietary supplements. As a professional athlete, I am always looking for ways to improve my fitness and thereby, my game. Hence, proper nutrition through a balanced diet is extremely important for me," Chanu said. Amway India Chief Marketing Officer Ajay Khanna said: "Her unmatched dedication to fitness and youth appeal resonates well with Nutrilite's world-class image offering the best of nature and the best of science for optimal health. With Ms. Chanu as our brand ambassador, we are confident of further strengthening our connect with young consumers across the country." After the pandemic, consumer trends are evolving towards the nutrition category. Amway has also extended its play into the nutrition portfolio by introducing Chyawanprash by Nutrilite and Nutrilite Vitamin C Cherry Plus. According to Amway, the nutrition category has registered immense growth with Nutrilite contributing over 61 per cent to the company's business revenue. The category is poised for tremendous growth with an increase in contribution to over 65 per cent (CAGR of 10 per cent) by 2024, which includes a significant contribution from the Nutrilite Traditional Herbal segment, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Documents sought by CBI not relevant to probe against Deshmukh, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that it was willing to cooperate with the CBI in its probe against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh but the documents sought by the central agency are "not relevant" to the case. The state government submitted its affidavit in response to an application filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) alleging the government was not cooperating by refusing to hand over certain documents in connection with a probe against Deshmukh. The CBI had last month filed an application stating the government was acting contrary to an order passed by the HC which allowed the Central agency to inquire into allegations of corruption in police transfers and reinstatement of Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze, now dismissed. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh when he was home minister, had instructed Waze and other police officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month from bars in Mumbai.Deshmukh had denied these allegations. The state government claimed in the affidavit that the HC had said the CBI didn't have "unfettered authority" to probe police transfers that have "no nexus to Deshmukh". "Applicant (CBI) is demanding documents and/or information which are not at all relevant in terms of relevancy to the case it is probing," the affidavit said. "The documents and/or material so demanded by the applicant has no nexus whatsoever even either with the then Hon'ble Home Minister (Deshmukh) and his associates and/or any of the allegations made against him and resultantly has no connection and therefore not needed by the applicant for the purpose of carrying out investigation," it said. The government said the CBI was "overstepping its authority, jurisdiction and power in demanding the documents and/or information". The matter came up for hearing on Tuesday before a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar which posted it for further hearing on Friday (August 20). "We will consider the stand of the state government then. But we are putting the state to notice...if we feel that our orders are not being followed...we reserve our comments for now," Justice Shinde said. The affidavit filed by Kailas Gaikwad, Joint Secretary, Home Department, added that the Maharashtra government and its officials are duty-bound to cooperate in the investigation being carried out by the CBI pursuant to the conditional order passed by the HC. "The State Government and its officials are ready and willing to fully cooperate with the applicant (CBI) in its investigation, provided the investigation is done strictly within the four corners of orders passed by this Hon'ble Court," the affidavit said. It added the state government has no malafide intentions to defy the orders of the high court. The government said the documents sought by the CBI is part of another investigation initiated by the police's cyber cell concerning leakage of confidential information and data theft. By demanding documents and/or information that is a subject matter of this alleged crime, the CBI is interfering with the investigation that is being carried out legally by the cyber cell, the affidavit said. In an application filed last month, the CBI said it had written a letter to the State Intelligence Department seeking details of a communication sent by senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla on the issue of corruption in police transfers and postings, but the SID refused to provide them claiming it was part of an ongoing investigation. The high court on July 22 held that the CBI can inquire the allegations of corruption in transfers and postings of police personnel and dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking that some parts of the Central agency's FIR against Deshmukh be quashed. The CBI on April 21 registered an FIR against Deshmukh on the charges of corruption and misuse of the official position. The FIR was lodged after the agency conducted a preliminary enquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5. Deshmukh is also facing a probe by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). On Monday, the Supreme Court refused interim protection to the 71-year-old NCP politician from any coercive action by the federal agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||ED issues fresh summons to Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||The ED has issued fresh summons to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to appear before it on Wednesday in connection with a money laundering case probe against him and others, official sources said on Tuesday. The development comes a day after the Supreme Court refused interim protection to the 71-year-old NCP politician from any coercive action by the federal agency. Deshmukh, sources said, had been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case on August 18 at the ED office located in south Mumbai. This is the fifth such summon notice to Deshmukh. It has been issued under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as the agency wants to further record his statement in this case, the sources said. Deshmukh had skipped the last such appearances for questioning in the case, calling the ED action unjustified. His son Hrishikesh and wife too were summoned and they also did not appear. Deshmukh has last month issued a video statement stating that he would appear before the ED "after" the apex court's decision on his petition. "I had received ED's summons after which I filed a petition in the Supreme Court. I will go to the ED to record my statement after the SC's decision on my petition," Deshmukh had said. The summonses were issued in connection with the criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||India achieves highest ever Covid vaccination in single day||India has administered more than 88.13 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, "India achieves the highest single-day record in #COVID19 vaccine doses.Yesterday will go down in the history of the world's #LargestVaccineDrive.Congratulations." Cumulatively, 55,47,30,609 vaccine doses have been administered through 62,12,108 sessions across India, as per the provisional report till 7 am. Besides, the ministry said more than 56.81 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 1,09,32,960 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 55,11,51,992 doses, according to the data available at 8 AM. More than 2.25 crore balance and unutilised COVID vaccine doses are still available with states,UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the ministry stated. The new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||MP asks PM to stop Covid tests of fully vaccinated in Assam||A Rajya Sabha member on Tuesday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop COVID-19 tests of fully vaccinated travellers in Assam, saying such a step is nothing but a "wastage of resources" and "harassment of people" and may arise questions on the credibility of the vaccination programme. Congress MP Ripun Bora also said that by making rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests mandatory for fully vaccinated travellers visiting Assam, the state government is following a contradictory policy. Bora said the prime minister and the Union health ministry have been emphasising that people who have been administered the second dose are almost immune from further Covid infection and it is substantiated to be a generally accepted scientific opinion. "But, contrary to this in Assam, the state government has been following a contradictory policy in this regard," he said. The MP said all travellers who are fully vaccinated and coming to Assam from different parts of the country are subjected to rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests at all airports, railway stations of Assam, "resulting in heavy loss of time, wastage of resource and work power, in addition to facing harassment". Even the repeated travellers to Assam are also not exempted and they are required to undergo tests on each and every journey entering in Assam, he said. "This system has put a question mark in public perception in Assam on the credibility of the second dose of vaccine. Apart from this, we should be aware of the need of preventing any kind of wastage in public facilitations," he said. Bora said every test kit is precious because they are provided to public at the cost of public money and therefore, these could not be wasted on the fully vaccinated people. "Under this backdrop, I urge upon you to intervene into the matter and advise the Hon'ble chief minister of Assam to stop such wastage by testing people who have the due certificate of two doses of Covid vaccination and restore the confidence of the people on your massive campaign of double dose vaccination to protect people from the infection," the MP said in his letter to Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||India announces new category of visa for Afghans||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday announced a new category of visa to fast-tack the applications of Afghans who want to come to India in view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. The announcement came two days after the Taliban captured power in Afghanistan. "The MHA reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan. A new category of electronic visa called 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India," a home ministry spokesperson said. Thousands of Afghans rushed into Kabul's main airport on Monday, some so desperate to escape the Taliban that they held onto a military jet as it took off and plunged to their deaths. At least seven people died in the chaos, US officials said, as America's longest war ended with its enemy the victor. The crowds came while the Taliban enforced their rule over the capital of five million people after a lightning advance across the country that took just over a week to dethrone the country's Western-backed government. There were no major reports of abuses or fighting, but many residents stayed home and remained fearful after the insurgents' advance saw prisons emptied and armories looted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||India records over 25,000 fresh Covid cases, 437 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 25,166 new COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 154 days, taking the tally to 3,22,50,679, while the national recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,32,079 with 437 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,69,846, the lowest in 146 days. It comprises 1.15 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A reduction of 12,101 cases has been recorded in the total number of active COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,63,985 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 49,66,29,524. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.61 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 22 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.98 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 53 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,14,48,754, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 55.47 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far with more than 88.13 lakh doses being administered in the last 24 hours, which is the highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 437 new fatalities include 142 from Kerala and 100 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,32,079 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,35,139 from Maharashtra, 37,007 from Karnataka, 34,547 from Tamil Nadu 25,069 from Delhi, 22,785 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,743 from Kerala and 18,312 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Afghanistan: India brings back envoy, staff home from Kabul||An Indian Air Force plane with over 100 persons on board landed on Tuesday at Jamnagar in Gujarat from Kabul in Afghanistan, an official said. The C-17 aircraft touched down at the IAF air base at Jamnagar shortly before noon, the official said. The aircraft had left Kabul carrying Indian personnel as part of the emergency evacuation in view of the prevailing situation in the Afghan capital following its takeover by the Taliban. Immediately after passengers on board the C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft deplaned, they were greeted by people present on the tarmac, the official said. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had earlier said it was decided that the ambassador and his Indian staff will move to India immediately considering the current circumstances in Kabul. "In view of the prevailing circumstances, it has been decided that our Ambassador in Kabul and his Indian staff will move to India immediately," Bagchi tweeted. The people cited above said the IAF transport aircraft left for India this morning with over 120 people including officials and security personnel from the embassy.Some Indian nationals are also learnt to have been returning home on board the aircraft. It is the second evacuation flight. On Monday, another C-17 aircraft had evacuated around 40 people including a number of Indian embassy staff from Kabul before the operations at the airport in the city were suspended. The two military aircraft flew into Kabul using the Iranian airspace while avoiding the route through Pakistani airspace, the people cited above said. The return of all diplomatic staff means that the Indian diplomatic mission in Afghanistan is at least, temporarily, closed. Prior to this India had closed missions in Jalalabad and Herat last year and consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif in the last month. The government will now have to decide on the nature of relations with the Taliban government in Kabul, once it is formally announced. The government will also have to decide how to help any Indians still stranded in Kabul as no commercial aircraft were allowed to land after chaos on the tarmac on August 16 that left at least five Afghans dead. In addition, Afghans wanting to flee to India and were able to receive visas in the last few days would also have to be considered. On August 16, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said it would facilitate “Hindus and Sikhs” and would “stand by” India's Afghan partners who worked on projects with India. Earlier, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who is in New York on a four-day visit, spoke to US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan. "Discussed latest developments in Afghanistan with @SecBlinken. Underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard," he tweeted at around 3 am. It is learnt that Jaishankar was also involved in hectic discussions including with US officials on the evacuation of the Indian officials from Kabul. The US military had taken control of the security at the airport on Monday after thousands of desperate people converged there in the hope of getting on an evacuation flight and leave the country. Hours after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani fled Afghanistan on Sunday, the Taliban took control of Kabul, capturing power nearly 20 years after a US-led military invasion ousted it in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. In a series of tweets, Jaishankar also said that India is monitoring the situation in Kabul continuously. "Monitoring the situation in Kabul continuously. Understand the anxiety of those seeking to return to India. Airport operations are the main challenge. Discussions on with partners in that regard," he tweeted. "Significant UN Security Council discussions today on developments in Afghanistan. Expressed the concerns of the international community. Expect to discuss these during my engagements at the UN," he added. In another tweet, he said the government is in constant touch with the Sikh and Hindu community leaders in Kabul, adding their welfare will get its priority attention. "Given the Kabul situation, important we have accurate information about Indians there. Urge that this be provided by all concerned to the MEA Special Afghanistan Cell," he said. The contact details of the Cell are phone number: +919717785379, Email:MEAHelpdeskIndia@gmail.com, Jaishankar said. Afghanistan is witnessing its worst political crisis in two decades as Taliban returned to power on Sunday evening, months after the US withdrawal of troops from the South Asian country. Shocking visuals showed the terrorists inside the Presidential Palace, shortly after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country. Tragic scenes from Kabul Airport on Monday captured the plight of locals as wells as foreigners stuck in the country. A video that has caught global attention shows three persons falling to death from a plane as they try to escape the Taliban rule. At least five people were killed in chaos, witnesses told news agency Reuters, as U.S. troops guarded the evacuation of embassy staff a day after the Taliban seized the Afghan capital and declared the war was over and peace prevailed. It was not immediately clear how the victims died. A U.S. official said troops had fired in the air to deter people trying to force their way onto a military flight that was set to take U.S diplomats and embassy staff out of the fallen city. One witness, waiting for a flight out for more than 20 hours, had said it was unclear if the five had been shot or killed in a stampede. U.S. officials at the airport were not immediately available for a comment. Three bodies could be seen on the ground near what appeared to be an airport side entrance, in video posted on social media. Reuters could not verify the footage. Another witness said he had also seen five bodies. Earlier, the US said it would deploy 6,000 troops at the vital airport to ensure the safe departure of American citizens and its allies from Afghanistan which has been taken over by the Taliban, in a sudden and unprecedented collapse of the elected regime led by embattled President Ashraf Ghani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Bihar primary and middle school teachers step up sack sale agitation||Primary and middle school teachers in Bihar pushed ahead with their ‘sack-sale agitation’ on Monday by holding demonstrations at all 38 district headquarters in the state and selling empty jute bags in which mid-day meal food grains are supplied to the schools. They also threatened to intensify their agitation and demonstrate in front of chief minister Nitish Kumar if their demands were not met. Several groups of teachers  marched with banners, placards and bundles of sacks and converged at their respective district headquarters. They demanded the revocation of the government’s order to sell sacks and the suspension of Muhammad Tamizuddin, principal of a primary school in Katihar’s Kadwa block. The teachers were protesting the Nitish government’s July 22 order asking them to sell the sacks in which food grains for midday meal scheme were supplied to the schools during the financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16, and the suspension of fellow primary school principal Tamizuddin for hawking the sacks in the local market place. Tamizuddin was suspended on Sunday for “tarnishing the image of the government” by carrying a stack of sacks on his head and trying to sell them at the local market, a video of which went viral on the social media. The July 22 order was issued after the office of the comptroller and auditor general raised the spectre of revenue loss in its reports relating to 2014-15 and 2015-16 fiscals. Around 1.27 crore jute bags had reached the schools under the midday meal scheme in those two years. With the teachers asked to sell them at Rs 10 apiece, the government is expecting to rake in Rs 12.7 crore. “The government is behaving like a dictator and issuing illogical directions. All the teachers are opposing them in a united manner. It should take back its order to sell sacks and revoke the suspension of Tamizuddin. Taking action against an innocent teacher is extremely unfortunate for the educational system in the state,” Bihar Rajya Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh (an association of primary teachers) president Pradeep Kumar Pappu told The Telegraph. Pradeep added that the “teachers would intensify the agitation and stage a demonstration in front of chief minister Nitish Kumar very soon if the state government did not meet their demands.” The state government, including the education department, has overtly ignored the ongoing agitation and has not tried to hold talks with the teachers. However, it has issued instructions to district magistrates and superintendents of police to take precautionary measures in the wake of the protests. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary did not take the calls made by this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Pegasus: SC seeks fresh affidavit from Centre on spyware scandal||The Supreme Court on Monday suggested the Centre file a fresh affidavit on the Pegasus controversy after the petitioners seeking a probe rejected  the government’s two-page affidavit that denied the allegations of illegal surveillance as “conjectures and surmises”. The apex court and the batch of petitioners were also unwilling to accept the Centre’s plea for having the allegations probed by an expert committee, whose members the government offered to appoint. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana wondered how such a committee could go into the various constitutional and legal issues the petitioners had raised. He noted that the petitioners wanted to know whether the Centre had ever bought or used Pegasus and, if not, what steps it had taken to inquire into the allegations of illegal snooping with the Israeli spyware that is sold only to governments and government agencies. The petitioners underlined that the affidavit had sidestepped these key issues. “If you (the government) want to file a detailed affidavit, you can take time and do so,” Justice Ramana said. The bench, which included Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, heard the matter for over an hour and posted the next hearing to Tuesday. By then, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the government, has to specify whether the Centre would file a new and detailed affidavit. Justice Ramana told senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi and others appearing for the batch of petitioners that the court cannot compel the government to file a fresh affidavit but would certainly pass orders on the petitions. On the proposed expert committee, the Chief Justice said: “There are two issues. Experts can go into the angle of software being used or not. Other issues of permission, procurement has to be examined too. Who will examine?” Mehta replied that the experts’ body could look into both issues, and suggested the court give the panel the necessary powers and decide its terms of reference. Justice Ramana replied: “We are not saying anything against the government.... There are areas which the committee can go into while some they can’t.” The affidavit An international media investigation has suggested that many Indians, including judges, politicians, rights activists and journalists, were potential or actual targets of Pegasus-enabled snooping. The report has prompted a batch of petitions seeking a Supreme Court-monitored probe. The Centre’s affidavit, filed through Rajendra Kumar, an additional secretary with the IT ministry, said: “I hereby unequivocally deny any and all of the allegations made against the respondents... (which) are based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material. It is submitted that the same cannot be the basis for invoking the writ jurisdiction of this hon'ble court. “It is submitted that this question stands already clarified on the floor of the Parliament by the hon’ble minister of railways, communications and electronics and information technology of India, Government of India…. “It is, however, submitted that with a view to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, the Union of India will constitute a committee of experts in the field which will go into all aspects of the issue.” Senior advocates Sibal and Dwivedi, representing different petitioners, said there was no question of accepting any inquiry committee whose members had been handpicked by the government. “The questions raised in all these petitions are against the government. So the government forming a committee will not create any confidence in people,” Dwivedi argued. Sibal said the Centre had to declare on oath whether it or any of its agencies had used Pegasus. If the government said they had not, the petitioners had different arguments to raise. Also, he said, the government needed to clarify whether Pegasus had been used on earlier occasions. He said that when Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi had raised the issue of Pegasus-enabled snooping in Parliament in 2019, the government had said there were 121 users of the spyware in India. “This was in 2019. What have they done till then? That’s why they don’t want to respond on facts. This is a serious question, as many people have said their phones were infiltrated,” Sibal said. He added: “I’m more concerned with institutions. Two institutions that protect democracy are journalism and the judiciary. They have been infiltrated. These institutions cannot be allowed to be infiltrated.” Divan said: “I have my fundamental rights violated by the State.... It isn’t a matter which should be allowed to be torched by the Union of India by filing this two-page affidavit.” Justice Bose remarked: “This is your allegation; we don’t have material to support that there’s been violation by the State.” However, Justice Ramana told Mehta the government must address the concerns raised by the petitioners. The arguments will resume on Tuesday. Cut and thrust The proceedings saw some verbal jousting between Mehta and Sibal who represents journalists N. Ram and Shashi Kumar. Mehta taunted Sibal, reminding him of his tenure as Union IT minister (2011-14) and suggesting that the IT Act 2000 was a “beautiful piece of legislation” except for Section 66A. This section, introduced by the UPA government in 2008, allowed the police to arrest any netizen for posting content officers deemed “offensive”. State governments were widely accused of abusing the section to target critics, and the apex court struck the section down as “unconstitutional” in 2015. Sibal responded: “See Mr Mehta, beauty over the years is no longer beautiful. It was beautiful; over the years it lost its beauty, the way you are using it. So let’s not talk about it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||India decides to provide shelter to Afghan Hindus and Sikhs||India’s repatriation plans from Afghanistan had to be put on hold on Monday following the closure of Kabul airport for commercial services. The Centre has decided to provide shelter to Afghan Hindus and Sikhs — besides the Afghans who partnered India on various projects — now living in the newly named Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. There was no official word on how many Afghans India plans to provide refuge to. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We are in constant touch with the representatives of Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities. We will facilitate repatriation to India of those who wish to leave Afghanistan. There are also a number of Afghans who have been our partners in the promotion of our mutual developmental, educational and people-to-people endeavours. We will stand by them.” On the repatriation/ evacuation of Indians, including media personnel, stranded in Afghanistan, Bagchi said: “Commercial operations from Kabul airport have been suspended today. This has forced a pause in our repatriation efforts. We are awaiting the resumption of flights to restart the process.” There is no official word whether India plans to shut down the Kabul embassy although sources said the Indian Air Force’s C-17 Globemaster — a large military transport aircraft — is on standby for the evacuation of diplomats and mission staffers. An Air India flight was scheduled to leave for Kabul on Monday but was delayed initially, and then cancelled, because of the chaos at the airport. The crisis in Afghanistan has resulted in the re-routing of several India-bound flights, including those of Virgin Atlantic, Emirates and Air India, with the airlines deciding to avoid the Afghan airspace. At the UN, the Security Council held an emergency meeting on Afghanistan. Afghan envoy Ghulam Isaczai urged the UN to set up a humanitarian corridor for those facing possible Taliban ire and asked neighbouring countries to facilitate the exit of those who fear for their lives. Pakistan has offered to help foreign nationals — diplomats, staff, representatives of international organisations and the media — stranded in Afghanistan to leave the country via Pakistani territory. There was no word whether anyone from the Indian mission in Islamabad had been invited to the briefing on this at the Pakistani foreign office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||SC chides govt for passing tribunal reform bill without debate||The Supreme Court on Monday chided the government for pushing through a tribunal reforms bill without a proper debate in Parliament. The Opposition has been complaining that bills were being passed  without discussion. “We have not seen any discussion in Parliament. Of course, Parliament has power to make laws. We must at least know what is the reason for the government introducing the bill even after this court striking it (the corresponding ordinance) down (in April),” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. On Sunday, Justice Ramana had regretted that bills were being passed in Parliament and state legislatures without quality discussions, and cited how every piece of legislation was once debated thoroughly in the Houses. The government passed 19 bills in the just-ended monsoon session of Parliament, mostly without any debate, as the Opposition stalled proceedings seeking discussions on the Pegasus allegations and other issues. The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Services) Bill, 2021, vests the Centre with the power to appoint and remove the quasi-judicial members of the various tribunals. Some in the legal fraternity see this as part of a government bid to control the tribunals and erode their independence. Tribunals such as the National Green Tribunal, Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal are set up with retired judges to deal with specialised issues and decongest the regular courts. In 2019, a five-judge constitution bench had struck down an amendment to the appointment and removal process that the government had made under the 2017 Finance Act. Undeterred, the NDA government brought in a fresh ordinance with similar provisions, which the court quashed in April this year on a petition from the Madras Bar Association. The Centre then got the corresponding bill passed in both Houses of Parliament recently, earning a rebuke from the bench of Justices Ramana, V. Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose on Monday. The bench, hearing a public interest plea moved by advocate Amit Sahni for a National and Regional GST Tribunal, asked Mehta whether the government wanted the tribunals to wind up. Justice Ramana underlined that during the introduction of the bill, the minister concerned had merely stated in one sentence that the apex court had not struck down the ordinance on grounds of unconstitutionality. The bench asked Mehta to place on record the note the government had prepared before introducing the bill in Parliament. Mehta argued: “Until the bill has matured into an act, it may not be appropriate on my part to respond. So far as since validity is not in question, I’m not right now in a position,” he said. The bench also expressed displeasure that the government had, despite earlier assurances, not taken any step to fill the 240-odd vacancies in the various tribunals. “Show us one appointment you have made. Whenever we ask the ministry about tribunal appointments, you say it is ‘under process’,” Justice Ramana said. “If you want to make appointments, nothing prevents you from making appointments.” Justice Ramana then repeated a question he had asked at the last hearing too. “Mr Mehta, we have a simple question for you. Are you planning to continue with the tribunals or close them down? Everything comes down to this question,” he said. “So tell us clearly, are you going to make appointments to the tribunals, which are almost on the verge of becoming defunct?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Afghanistan: Intelligence officer escapes 'certain death' on last commercial flight to Delhi||A 41-year-old Afghan intelligence officer took the last commercial flight from Kabul to Delhi on Sunday to escape “certain death”, leaving behind his mother, wife and eight-year-old son. “I had to run, else the Taliban would have killed me. I could not bring my family along,” Asif said in broken Hindi, his eyes welling up. A compatriot helped Asif find accommodation for Rs 500 a day. “I will try if I can get a room for Rs 200-300,” he said. Asked if he had food, the officer of the National Directorate of Security, Afghanistan’s national intelligence service, broke down. “Sab khatam. There is no chance we will return to our country ever,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Retired bureaucrats call for axe on ‘draconian’ UAPA||Over a 100 retired bureaucrats on Monday penned an open letter to fellow Indians making out a case for replacing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act with a legislation that fights terrorism while safeguarding personal liberties. They urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be true to his comments on democracy at the G7 summit and initiate the process of replacing the draconian law that has no place in a civilised society; that, too, in the world’s largest democracy. “Though this law has been in existence in India’s statute books for over five decades, the harsh amendments it has gone through in recent years has made it draconian, repressive, and amenable to gross misuse at the hands of ruling politicians and the police,’’ the signatories to the letter said, citing the cases of the three anti-CAA student protesters — Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha — who were arrested under the UAPA and secured bail only recently after over a year behind bars. Referring to a reply given by the junior home minister in Parliament wherein the data show a 72 per cent increase in the number of persons arrested under the UAPA since 2015, the retired bureaucrats, who penned the letter jointly under the banner of their apolitical collective Constitutional Conduct, said: “We may conclude that the vast majority of the arrests under UAPA were made on specious grounds just to spread fear and muzzle dissent.’’ Tracing the “chequered history’’ of UAPA since it was first enacted in 1967, the open letter said the Government of India “seriously departed from the principles of criminal jurisprudence and from the provisions of the Constitution when the UAPA (Amendment) Act, 2008, was codified after the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack’’. Flagging the fact that this was done by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, they said successive governments at the Centre from across the political spectrum are equally responsible for the “extreme stringency’’ of the UAPA, referring to the amendments brought in by the NDA in 2019 with the help of most political parties. “For the UPA members or any other party to act outraged now is, therefore, disingenuous,’’ the letter said. Listing some of the prominent persons imprisoned under the UAPA — Sudha Bhardwaj, Rona Wilson, Gautam Navlakha, Anand Teltumbde, Arun Ferreira and Varavara Rao besides late Stan Swamy — the letter quotes former judge of Patna High Court, Justice Anjana Prakash, stating that 66 per cent of the total number of persons booked under this law were charged for conspiracy without any allegations of accompanying acts of violence. “She (Justice Prakash) also revealed that out of the total number of 386 cases being investigated by the NIA, 74 cases were for non-UAPA offences while 312 pertained to UAPA offences. She added that NIA has not been able to submit chargesheets in 56 per cent of these cases, meaning that the accused in these cases still remain in custody. These figures definitely point to an unhealthy practice of ‘governance by fear’ which has no legitimate place in a democracy,’’ it said.The signatories to the letter include former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, former foreign secretaries Shyam Saran and Sujatha Singh and several retired IPS officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Congress seeks Centre's response on the developments in Afghanistan||The Congress on Monday expressed shock at the Narendra Modi government’s silence on the developments in Afghanistan, wondering if something was being hidden about India’s role in the Doha agreement. In the evening, the government issued a statement on Afghanistan. Earlier, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The stunning silence of the Narendra Modi government is deeply disturbing, highly intriguing and beyond any reasonable understanding. The unexplained silence at this extremely critical juncture gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the Modi government is hiding something from the country. We are still in the dark over the Modi government’s role in Doha talks.” At Doha in 2020, the then Donald Trump government had agreed with the Taliban that US troops would be withdrawn from Afghanistan. The Biden administration executed that agreement. Surjewala said: “The safety and security of our embassy and its personnel as also that of the Indian citizens are at stake. The Congress expects a mature political and diplomatic response from our government over the complete collapse of the government in Afghanistan and the Taliban takeover. The Modi government’s refusal to set in motion a well thought-out plan to evacuate our citizens is a gross abdication of its duty and totally unacceptable.” Surjewala also pointed to Taliban and Haqqani Network’s connections with Pakistan’s ISI and Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jamaat-ud-Dawah and asked the government to revisit our geo-political interests in this background and the impact on Jammu and Kashmir. “The Prime Minister and external affairs minister need to come out and clearly spell out our policy for the safe return of our citizens, embassy personnel as also our future relationship. The need of the hour is that the Modi government wakes up from its slumber and protects Indian citizens in Afghanistan and tells the country how it will tackle the dangerous situation in the immediate neighbourhood,” he said. Asked about the external affairs ministry’s statement that Indians in Afghanistan will plan their return on their own, Surjewala said: “What can be more shameful than this? We have heard that the government said they don’t take responsibility of Indians living there. Whose responsibility is this? Other countries are evacuating their citizens and the embassy staff. We are witnessing dreadful scenes at Kabul airport. We ask the government to wake up and take care of Indians.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Valley braces for Taliban insurgency spillover||The Taliban takeover of Kabul has triggered fears of an Afghan spillover in the Valley, with a propaganda blitz on Jammu and Kashmir by India’s diplomatic mission in Mazar-i-Sharif seen as evidence of how the country is preparing to prevent a possible upheaval. Kashmir was on the lips of India’s consulate in Mazar-i-Sharif as it was winding up its mission in the largest city in northern Afghanistan last week. India pulled out of Mazar on August 11. Three days later, it fell to the Taliban. India in Mazar, the Twitter account of the Indian consulate general in the city, began showcasing the so-called development work undertaken by the administration in Jammu and Kashmir, unusually re-tweeting the statements of Twitter handles of the J&K administration. The consulate posted content mostly on Kashmir from August 1 to 10, highlighting the tweets of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to the district information centres of Udhampur, Anantnag, Kathua, Budgam and Kupwara. In one tweet, Sinha expresses gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his “vision of building quality infrastructure in J&K for the coming generations”. “The UT has recently witnessed a phase of unprecedented progress in road connectivity projects among others,” he said, suggesting that Jammu and Kashmir was on the path to development after the scrapping of its special status in 2019. Noor Ahmad Baba, former head of the political science department of Kashmir University, said the Indian consulate is apparently trying to “mollify” Taliban by playing the Kashmir development card so that they do not get involved here. RSS veteran Ram Madhav, who was the BJP’s in-charge for Jammu and Kashmir for years, publicly expressed his fears of a spillover and asked the country to brace for any challenge. “Taliban has over 30K (30,000) mercenaries trained in Pak by ISI. In power in Kabul, Taliban leadership wl (will) now deploy them ‘elsewhere’ wid d (with the) help of mentor Pak. India shud (should) brace up for serious security challenges. Taliban may eventually consume Pak n China 2 (too), but immediate threat is 4 (for) India,” Madhav tweeted. Kashmir experts are calling for caution but claim the past experience is unpleasant. “Taliban were in power from 1996 to 2001. It was when you had all foreign terrorists entering India. Kargil war, Parliament attack, Assembly attack and major suicide attacks happened then. The past experience has not been very good,” former J&K police chief S.P. Vaid said. “It was during that period training camps for militants (for Kashmir) were established in Afghanistan.” Vaid, however, said some people claim that “Taliban 2” is different from “Taliban 1” and time only will tell whether the takeover will have any impact here. Baba said many people in Kashmir are waiting for the Taliban to cross over and fight here. “There will be encouragement. If Pakistan is willing to invest, it can have more focus on Kashmir (after neutralising its Afghan front). That part will have consequences. There can be more involvement of non-state actors who were previously involved in Afghanistan,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Separate ‘North Bengal’ voice of the people of the region, says John Barla||Union Minister John Barla said on Tuesday that the creation of a separate state of 'North Bengal' is the voice of the people of the region. Addressing a press conference in Siliguri as part of the BJP's ‘Shahid Samman Yatra’, Barla said he would discuss the issue at the appropriate level to bring to fruition for creating a separate state. “Creation of a separate state of North Bengal is the voice of the people of the region. I will raise the issue at the appropriate level,” the minister said. Barla, a BJP MP from Alipurduar who is at present the Minister of State for Minority Affairs, said the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal did nothing for the minority population of the state and used them for getting votes. "What work has the TMC government done for the minorities? You have taken their votes for your political advantage," he claimed. In the name of development, TMC is resorting to terror tactics and torture, Barla alleged. "See how post-poll violence erupted in West Bengal," he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to work along with the state government but the TMC government was always fighting with the Centre, he alleged. Referring to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's efforts to unite the opposition, Barla said, "Didi is dreaming to become the prime minister. It will never happen." In 2024, BJP will wrest all the 42 Lok Sabha seats from West Bengal and by good margins, he claimed. Raju Bista, the BJP's Darjeeling MP, alleged that more than 150 party workers were killed in "post-poll violence" across West Bengal and the 'Shahid Samman Yatra' was undertaken to remember them. "West Bengal is racing towards President's Rule and we urge the President, the prime minister and the home minister to save us from Mamata Banerjee's rule of oppression," he said. Meanwhile, several BJP workers, including party MLA Sankar Ghosh, were detained by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police for gathering without permission amid the COVID-restrictions, officials said. Bista said they gathered for taking part in the "Yuva Sankalp Yatra" to mark the 75th year of Independence. Union minister Subhas Sarkar, who was scheduled to lead one part of the 'Shahid Samman Yatra' from the BJP's state headquarters in Kolkata to Burdwan city, claimed he was stopped by police from travelling with party supporters. The Minister of State for Education continued his journey in his car and visited Belur Math on the way. "We were not violating COVID protocols. As the police did not allow BJP supporters to accompany me, I can only say that they are scared of democratic protests. We will continue to raise voice against atrocities by Trinamool," he said. Earlier, the police detained BJP workers at Birati in North 24 Parganas where they gathered to take part in another leg of the 'Shahid Samman Yatra', officials said. Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Shantanu Thakur alleged that he was also detained by the police at Birati even though he was in the area to offer puja at a temple. Police claimed that the BJP leader himself boarded a police van. Speaking to reporters, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said one leg of the Yatra was scheduled in north Bengal, another at Birati and the third from the state party headquarters in Kolkata. "The Shahid Samman Yatra was aimed at letting the world know what was happening in West Bengal," Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Sushmita Dev ready to take on any responsibility given by Mamata||Former Congress leader Sushmita Dev on Tuesday said her joining the Trinamool Congress is unconditional and she will take any responsibility given to her by party president and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Dev, who was the chief of the women's wing of the Congress, joined the TMC in the presence of senior party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien in Calcutta on Monday. "I don't think I have compromised my ideology in joining the TMC My joining the TMC is unconditional and I will take any responsibility given to me by Mamata Banerjee, Dev told reporters here. "In my 30 years in politics, I haven't demanded anything from the Congress high command," Dev said. A former MP, Dev was the national spokesperson of the grand old party and the chief of the All India Mahila Congress. She sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, sources said, but offered no reason for her quitting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Residents fear loss of homes, farms as Ganga gobbles up land of entire panchayat in Malda||Residents of nearly 40 localities in all 12 villages under Birnagar-I panchayat of Kaliachak-III block in Malda are fearing the loss of their homes and farms as the Ganga is fast gobbling up land of the entire panchayat. Students and teachers of the local high school and the attached primary school are also afraid that both educational institutions would be swallowed by the river. In all, around 70,000-odd residents of the panchayat, some of them homeless, are fearful that the entire panchayat area would be wiped off the map of Malda district. Residents said for the past five years, erosion has been a major threat for the panchayat, but the severity is more these past couple of years. “Residents of Lalutola, Hochatola, Bhimagram, Sarkartola, Chinabazar, Durgaramtola, Hatichapa and other villages can’t sleep at night as any time their houses might be swallowed by the mighty river. Some 14,000 families live in this panchayat and over the past few years, erosion has affected around 3,000 families,” said Rajib Sheikh, a local youth Trinamul leader. Rajib believes that the existence of all 12 villages of the panchayat area is at stake. “The way the Ganga is advancing, it seems that today or tomorrow, the entire Birnagar-I panchayat would disappear. All residents are now desperate to find safer places,” he said. “Most are marginal farmers or daily wage earners.” Villagers have sent requests to the administration and state government for initiatives to save land and homes. Jiaul Haque, the headmaster of the primary school, said the situation was critical. “In past two-and-a-half months, the river has devoured at least 250 houses. We are now concerned over the fate of the local high and primary schools as the Ganga is 100 metres away from the buildings,” he said. The primary school, set up before Independence, has 609 students now. The high school, set up in 1955, has around 4,000 students. The teachers, he said, have written to the state education department for alternative land for new buildings. Erosion has forced around 1,000 people to live in relief camps or makeshift shanties. District administration officials said they were aware of the situation. “The issue has been taken up with the Farakka Barrage Project Authority entrusted with anti-erosion work,” said a source. “Unless water recedes, no major anti-erosion work can be done.” Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, said even last year, land was given to erosion victims. “We are in search of alternative land to be given for accommodation of those who recently lost their homes in erosion,” the DM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid death prompts 'double suicide’ in Kalyani town||The death of a man suffering from Covid-19 on Sunday evening allegedly led his wife and daughter to end their lives in Nadia's Kalyani town late in the night. Bablu Das, 65, a retired Sahara India employee, had tested Covid positive and was admitted to Kalyani’s JNM hospital, where he died on Sunday evening. Police sources said Dipa Das, 59, and Swagata Das, 26, apparently hanged themselves with saris from separate ceiling fans in the bedroom a little after their relatives and neighbours left for the last rites of Das arranged by civic authorities. Dipa and Swagata were apparently unable to bear the pain of Das’s demise. The deaths came to light when relatives and neighbours returned after Das’s cremation and got no response on knocking on the door. They called up the police who broke open the door. The bodies were taken to the hospital where doctors declared them dead. Bimal Dutta, a neighbour, said: “Ever since Bablubabu was admitted to the hospital, the mother and the daughter went into depression.” A police officer said they recovered a suicide note apparently penned by Dipa on her fears of life as a widow. “Still, we are examining all possible aspects and waiting for autopsy reports,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 502 new cases, 691 recoveries and nine deaths||Bengal on Monday achieved its goal, in the wake of the devastating second wave, of getting its total number of active Covid-19 cases back to below 10,000, for the first time since April 3, 135 days ago. The state reported 57 straight days of a fall in active cases, by 198 to reach 9,832 on Monday. The state logged 502 new infections, 691 recoveries and nine deaths. A minister called this a major, much-awaited milestone. “We have covered a lot of ground from the peak of over 1.32 lakh active cases on May 21, the direct result of the eight-phase polls across two months thrust upon us by the Election Commission in collaboration with the Curbs imposed since mid-May played a crucial role (in reducing Covid spread),” he added. Bengal now has 2.68 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 62 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas logged 74 new cases. So Monday was the 11th straight day when no Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new cases. Fourteen of 23 Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. The state’s recovery rate was 98.17 per cent, its highest this pandemic and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.48. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.92 per cent on Monday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday, while Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Calcutta reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.39 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.11 lakh recoveries and 18,312 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh and Suvendu Adhikari arrested on charges of violating Covid protocol ||State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari were arrested on charges of violating Covid-19 protocol while staging a demonstration here on Monday to protest against the detention of party functionaries and workers during “Save Bengal Day” event earlier in the day. A few BJP leaders, including Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan and Shilbhadra Dutta, and party workers had gathered at Rani Rashmoni Avenue in Calcutta to march to the Raj Bhavan as part of their programme to observe “Save Bengal Day”. However, the leaders were taken into custody on charges of violating pandemic protocol. Angry with the detention of Khan and Dutta, the state BJP chief, along with Adhikari and former Union minister Debasree Chaudhuri, sat on a dharna near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Mayo Road. The police asked them to lift the agitation because of existing Covid protocol and when the leaders refused to oblige, they were arrested and taken to Lalbazar. Accusing the police of bias, BJP leaders said while Trinamul Congress workers were allowed to organise ‘Khela Hobey Day’ across the state, the same rule was not applicable for Opposition parties. According to the BJP, 150 party leaders and workers were arrested from various parts of Calcutta on Monday. They all were later released on bail. After his release, Adhikari accompanied BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh to meet party worker Sajal Ghosh who had been arrested last week by the police on charges of assaulting a man with deadly weapons and committing theft. He was released on bail on Monday. BJP’s ‘Save Bengal Day’ was held on the day which the state government celebrated as ‘Khela Hobey Day’ in all blocks and wards across Bengal. On July 21, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had declared that August 16 would be observed as ‘Khela Hobey Day’ in the state. To celebrate the occasion, the government distributed footballs to a large number of clubs and sports organisations, while the Trinamul Congress organised soccer matches at several places in the state. Trinamul claimed the event was observed in 12 states, including Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Taliban takeover dismays Afghanis in Bengal||Tayyeb (name changed), in his 20s and from the Paktia province in eastern Afghanistan, cut a forlorn figure in central Calcutta on Monday, hours after his homeland fell to the Taliban. “I have a father, step-mother and nine siblings (in Afghanistan). When the war began, all were spending sleepless nights amid the bombing and shelling. Nobody trusts the Taliban despite their assurances of ceasing torture. I don’t know if I will meet them again,” he said . He said after a lot of effort, he could connect to someone over phone back home to learn his family was safe. “But I don’t know what lies ahead for them or my country,” he said, referring to the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan. Tayyeb felt a knot in the pit of his stomach on Sunday when news emerged that even the country’s president Ashraf Ghani left the country with thousands of diplomats and the well-heeled. There were images of clogged roads to the Kabul airport and a frenzy among people to get on the last departing aircraft. In Calcutta, home to hundreds of Afghans, many for generations, Tayyeb said he didn’t know whether to be happy with his privilege of being away from  it all or sad about the turn of events. Tayyeb came to India around five years ago and stayed on. “My family of farmers can’t go to the fields anymore, and the price of land fell drastically as soon as the Taliban started capturing the country. I am afraid for my two sisters who are schoolgirls…. Despite the Taliban’s assurance of not harming children and women, I can’t trust them,” he said, staring at his phone's news feed. Afghanistan has a special link with Bengal. For most Bengalis, the word Kabuliwala brings to mind the 1957 Tapan Sinha film based on a beloved short story by Rabindranath Tagore in 1892. Chhabi Biswas played a hawker of Afghani origin, who endears himself to a little Bengali girl who reminds him of his daughter back in Afghanistan. In Birbhum, real-life kabuliwala Rahaman Khan, 35, was in tears on Monday. With phones unreachable, he was clueless about his loved ones. Rahaman’s mother is Bengali. His grandfather came to India and chose to settle in Bolpur. “This state has always given us love since Tagore’s story Kabuliwala,” he added. Calcutta-based Yasmin Nigar Khan, president of the All India Pakhtoon Jirga-e-Hind, an association of Afghani citizens in India, and the great-granddaughter of Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, also known as Frontier Gandhi, said the plight of simple Afghanis at the hands of zealots pained her. “My great-grandfather stood for women's education and empowerment, and humanity over religion. The Taliban are against all essential human values,” she said. “:I wonder how long the people of Afghanistan will have to bear their atrocities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Rumblings in Kabul cause sleepless nights to Afghan families in hills||Rumblings in Kabul are causing sleepless nights to many families in Darjeeling hills and neighbouring region with their near and dear ones stuck in this Afghanistan capital. The Taliban have taken over the country following President Ashraf Ghani’s departure from the country on Sunday. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista wrote to India’s external affairs minister S. Jaishankar about the “SOS call from Kabul” on Monday. “I am writing to you regarding an SOS call I received from Kabul in Afghanistan requesting for evacuation of stranded Indians in the wake of the ongoing violence and political turmoil. Many of the workers there are retired Indian Army personnel,” Bista wrote. In his letter, the Darjeeling MP has provided information about two persons from the region who are stuck in Kabul. Family members are worried for many residents of Darjeeling who are posted in Kabul but not working with the Indian embassy, fearing their return would be delayed. A relative of a person stuck in Kabul spoke about their fears. “My brother-in-law is in Kabul and on Sunday they were taken to the airport in a helicopter but their group could not board the flight,” said a relative of an ex-serviceman stuck in Kabul. The Indian passport holder used to work in the Indian Army and after retirement had gone to Kabul to work in an embassy, not Indian. “Given the nature of his job and his contract we cannot identify him or our family,” said the relative while talking to this paper. The ex-serviceman is in contact with the family at regular intervals. “However, you can imagine the anxiety that the family is going through right now. I know for certain that in his group there are a lot of people from Darjeeling, Northeast and even Dehradun,” the relative said. The relative said that the former army jawan had joined the posting in Kabul around a year back. “They can get leave once in a year and he had come here and returned to Kabul in March this year,” the relative added. “We have learnt that their embassy (where the jawan is working) did evacuate some employees on Sunday who were then reportedly flown to the United Kingdom and Qatar,” said the relative. The jawan in Kabul had reportedly told his family members that they were taken to the airport in a helicopter on Sunday. “However, we are worried by reports that the airport might be closed for a few days,” the relative added. Bista in his letter to the external affairs minister added “as informed to me, there are many Indians working in Kabul, including many from Darjeeling Hills, Terai, and Dooars, and are worried about their safety in the city”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Thousands of women queue up to register names under Lakshmir Bhandar scheme||Government officials across the state faced a challenge on Monday — the first day of the second session of Duare Sarkar camps — as thousands of women began to queue up from early morning to register their names under the Lakshmir Bhandar (Lakshmi’s treasure) scheme. A monthly assistance of Rs 1,000 each will be given to women of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families and Rs 500 each to women of general categories under the scheme. In Nadia’s Kalyani, the rush led to a stampede-like situation at a camp and six women had to be admitted to the JNM Hospital after they fell ill. “We apprehended there would be a rush as around 1,500 women were there in the queue outside a camp as early as 4am on Monday. It is 7pm now and the women are still in the queue. We need at least two hours more to wrap up work,” said a senior official in Bolpur and added that of all those who had turned up at the camp, over 70 per cent were women. Though the Lakshmir Bhandar beneficiaries, who have to be in the age group of 25 to 60 and do not get any other government dole, struggled in the sultry August weather to get themselves enrolled, Trinamul leaders saw in the rush a dividend that the party would reap in the polls to come. “There has been a huge rush at Duare Sarkar camps and most of them are women who want to register themselves for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. The rush proves that our chief minister Mamata Banerjee understands the needs of women. We are sure women voters will remember this when they vote next time,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Birbhum. He added it was Mamata’s way of paying back women voters who had played a major role in ensuring her become the chief minister for the third consecutive time. “We were not prepared to face such a crowd on the first day. At a few camps we had to open additional windows to handle the rush for the Laxmir Bhandar scheme,” said a senior official in East Burdwan. Mita Biswas, 30, a resident of Bolpur said she had joined the queue at 7.30am on Monday and found herself behind at least a thousand women. “When I came here, I found the queue was too long. I managed to submit my form with all relevant documents at around 2.30pm,” said Biswas. The picture was the same in other districts like Nadia, East Burdwan or Hooghly and officials said the registration process was on even late Monday evening. Moumita Biswas Burman, a homemaker in Chakdah, said: “The Lakshmir Bhandar scheme is a kind of social recognition of homemakers that no other government had imagined to offer. I had joined the queue around 6am, and around 100 women were already ahead of me.” “We had 26 camps in the district and around 56,000 people visited those camps till 6pm. Around 38,000 of these registrations were for Lakshmir Bhandar scheme,” said Bidhan Ray, Birbhum district magistrate. Hooghly district magistrate Deepap Priya P echoed Ray and said around 70 per cent of the registrations were for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. “We had 35 camps across the district and received around 75,000 applications. Till 6pm, over 50,000 applications were only for Lakshmir Bhandar and the count is increasing,” the Hooghly district magistrate said. To control the rush, government officials tried to reason with the women that the camp would continue for a month but they were not ready to listen. “I will get Rs 1,000 a month and it will help me buy books and other necessary things for my children. I didn't want to miss the chance and joined the queue at around 4am,” said Sumitra Kisku, a woman from Nanoor. Local people in many areas of Nadia and North 24-Parganas have, however, accused the administration of misleading campaigning about the camps. “During public campaign the local administration did not specify the areas or civic wards where the camps would be organised. Camps were organised only for four wards today, but people from other wards had arrived leading to the chaos,” said a Trinamul worker in Kalyani. Nadia district magistrate Shashank Sethi said: “People, particularly women, visited the Duare Sarkar camp in large numbers and the Lakshmir Bhandar counter drew the maximum interest. I don’t have the exact figure but the turnout was huge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||New industrial promotion board to ease hurdles to investment projects ||The state cabinet on Monday approved an industrial promotion board, to be headed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, to expedite the implementation of investment proposals in Bengal. “The cabinet today (Monday) approved a decision to set up the West Bengal Industrial Promotion Board to expedite implementation of investment proposals. The chief minister will head the 16-member board,” said state industries minister Partha Chatterjee. The board will have ministers and secretaries of departments such as finance, land and land reforms, industries, IT, MSME, tourism, and chairpersons of the WBIDC and WBIIDC. Chatterjee said though there is a one-window system in industries and MSME departments to handle investment proposals, implementing projects got delayed at times. “The problem is that even if the departments such as industries, IT or tourism clear investment proposals, they have to depend on several other departments such as land and land reforms, fire or finance departments to implement projects on the ground. This board will help us implement proposals on time as issues related to any proposal would be cleared at the board where (representatives of)  all related departments will be present,” said Chatterjee. Sources said there is a cabinet sub-committee where investment proposals are approved. “The cabinet sub-committee is basically a body that takes policy-related decisions. But this board will clear all hurdles in implementing investment proposals,” said a senior official. Sources in Nabanna said the board was started as Mamata wanted investment proposals to be implemented without much delay. “Ahead of 2021 Assembly polls, she promised 1.5 crore jobs. Now is the time to deliver. So she has taken it on herself to implement investment proposals on time to generate jobs,” a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Toy train services of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway resume after three months||Toy train services of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) resumed in the Darjeeling hills on Monday, after a gap of three-and-half months. Authorities of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said that only joy ride services of the DHR has commenced from Monday. “We have started the joy ride services along the Darjeeling- Ghoom- Darjeeling route from today (Monday) morning. Passengers can avail the ride in first class and vistadome coaches and will also have the option to choose a train that is hauled by steam or a diesel loco,” said A.K Mishra, the DHR director. The joy ride also includes a stop at Batasia Loop and a visit to the railway museum in Ghoom. In December last year, the joy rides had resumed but were stopped in April 2021, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “There will be one first class coach and a general coach in a train. Passengers can enjoy the ride in vistadome coaches which will be run by steam locos,” said a source. Every day, the service will begin from Darjeeling at 9.25am and the final ride of the day at 2.20pm. “Enthusiasts can book tickets through IRCTC counters and website and the fare is around Rs 1,500 per head. Altogether, 37 passengers can board at toy train a time,” the source added. The DHR, however, are yet to resume the regular services — between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling stations — which was halted in March last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, along with the joy rides. Earlier, officials of the NFR had hinted that if there was no further surge in Covid-19 cases, they would resume the regular services ahead of the Durga Puja season. “It is good that the toy train services have started. Over the past few years, the joy rides have gained huge popularity among tourists and hundreds turn up at the Darjeeling station to take a ride. It will help in boosting the inflow of tourists in the hill town,” said a hotelier based in the hill town. On June 25 this year, there was a massive landslide near Tindharia. It had damaged a portion of the highway and also a portion of the DHR track. “The road has been restored and the track is also ready now. We are in e contact with the district administration. If the situation improves and the state gives us a go-ahead, we can also resume the regular services ahead of the upcoming festive season,” said an official of the NFR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul announces organisational changes in line with party’s 'one person, one post' policy ||The Trinamul Congress on Monday announced a slew of organisational changes in line with the party’s newly-adopted “one person, one post” policy and as a part of its bid to further consolidate its position in Bengal. The overall pattern of the changes, said several seniors in the party, has a discernible imprint of the party’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee, whose appointment to the post took place on June 5, the same day the policy was adopted. Attention, said sources, was paid to rewarding performers in the Assembly elections and sidelining of those who could not deliver even amid such a historic mandate in Trinamul’s favour. They said changes were also made to minimise conflict, a priority area for the supreme leadership. “This was easier said than done, which is why it took nearly two-and-a-half months,” said a Trinamul vice-president. “Inputs from Abhishek’s office were given importance in many of the changes,” he added. Several seniors in the party such as Jyotipriya Mullick, Malay Ghatak, Soumen Mahapatra, Pulok Ray, Arup Roy, Tapan Dasgupta, Gautam Deb, Akhil Giri, Mohammad Ghulam Rabbani and Biplab Mitra were excluded from key organisational posts in their districts or regions. Among the Young Turks, the likes of Mahua Moitra, Mausam Benazir Noor and Partha Pratim Roy were conspicuous by their exclusion from the list of organisational appointments. “Winning back most of the 18 Lok Sabha seats lost to the BJP in 2019, in the general election of 2024, is of foremost priority for the party. That was given pre-eminence in the decision-making,” said the party vice-president, attributing to that intent the division of the 23-district state into 35 organisational units for Trinamul, more in line with the 42 Lok Sabha constituencies. Ten new names were added to the state committee, with Subhasish Batabyal and Mohammed Sohrab being elevated as state vice-presidents, and the likes of Saokat Molla and Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury appointed as state general-secretaries. “The focus was on decentralisation, on appointing people who can devote more time to the party organisation. Increased focus on districts was part of the strategy,” said Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee in the evening. The party implemented Mamata’s plan for dividing 11 districts — mostly those of south and central Bengal, where the party performed very well — into smaller organisational units. The small district of Kalimpong was included in the Darjeeling hills unit. North 24-Parganas is the only district that was divided into more than two units, under Dum Dum-Barrackpore, Barasat, Basirhat and Bongaon. The district is the state’s most populous, with 33 Assembly seats and five Lok Sabha constituencies. “In the new structure, every district got one chairman, one parent party president, one women’s wing president, one youth wing president and one labour wing president. Additionally, every major town of the district got a town president, and every key block got a block president,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. “To occupy these posts, a lot of new faces were brought forward. The young were also given importance. All the youth wing appointees are less than 40 years old,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Young faces appointed in important posts of Trinamul in north Bengal ||Fresh and young faces were appointed in different important posts of the Trinamul Congress in north Bengal as the party made sweeping organisational changes across the state on Monday. The changes hinted that Trinamul wanted to bank on communities like Rajbanshis, adivasis and Muslims in north Bengal. In north Bengal, the most discernible selections were of new district presidents of Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling (plains). While Mohua Gope, who hails from the small hamlet of Lataguri, was elevated as the Jalpaiguri district chief, Papiya Ghosh, the daughter of former minister Rabindranath Ghosh (who is based in Cooch Behar), will head Trinamul in the plains of Darjeeling. Papiya, who is in her mid-thirties, is a homemaker and stays in Bagdogra. Alok Chakraborty, a veteran trade union leader who had quit the Congress and joined Trinamul ahead of the Assembly elections, is now the Darjeeling (plains) district chairman. Only Kanhaialal Agarwala, the district president of North Dinajpur, could save his post. In Cooch Behar, the party has brought in Girindranath Barman, a researcher who has worked a lot on Panchanan Burma — the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshis — in the district president’s post. Partha Pratim Roy, who was removed from the post, has been made the chairman of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation, which is headquartered in Cooch Behar. “The selection of new office-bearers in Cooch Behar district clearly shows that the party is keen on reviving the support of Rajbanshis, whose support decides the results in around 20 of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal,” said a political observer. In Alipurduar district, the party has appointed Prakash Chik Baraik, a youth from Kumargram, in the president’s post, while Mridul Goswami, who was in the post, has been made the new district chairman. Also, youths like Louis Kuzur and Pasang Lama have been made presidents of different blocks in the district which has a sizeable tribal and Gorkha population. In the hills, however, the “one person one post” policy has not been applied. This is because Shanta Chhetri, who is a Rajya Sabha MP from the hills, has been made the new Darjeeling (hills) president. In South Dinajpur, Ujwal Basak, a retired schoolteacher, has been made the new district president. In Malda, Abdur Rahim Boxi, the Trinamul MLA of Malatipur, has replaced Mausam Benazir Noor as the district president. The party has also brought in Chandana Sarkar, a young MLA of Baishnabnagar, in the post of party’s youth president in the district. Additional reporting by Main Uddin Chisti in Cooch Behar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
17-08-2021||North East||Curfew to be lifted for daylight hours on August 18: Sangma||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Tuesday said curfew, which has been clamped here following unrest, will be lifted for daylight hours on August 18 as there were no untoward incidents in the last 24 hours. Easing of the restrictions will continue till Wednesday evening, he said. The curfew has been imposed in Shillong till 5 am of August 18 and mobile internet services withdrawn in at least four districts as vandalism and arson rocked the state capital and nearby areas on Independence Day during the funeral procession of a former militant, who was killed in a recent police encounter. The CM said mobile internet services will also be restored by Wednesday evening. “There were no untoward incidents reported in the state capital in the past 24 hours. We are positive that normalcy will return. We will ease curfew till Wednesday evening. Mobile internet services will also be restored by tomorrow evening,” Sangma said. Violence erupted in Mawlai and Jaiaw areas of Shillong following the death of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, the former self-styled general secretary of the outlawed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC), in an encounter when the police raided his home in the early hours of August 13. Thangkhiew, who had surrendered in 2018, was shot dead when he allegedly tried to attack a police team with a knife during the raid in connection with a series of IED blasts in the state. "In Shillong, two persons were injured on August 10 after IED blasts occurred. Following this, an investigation was initiated, and based on the inputs, the raid was conducted," the chief minister said. Unidentified miscreants hurled petrol bombs at the residence of Sangma late on Sunday. A vehicle carrying CRPF personnel was attacked by protesters in Mawlai area here during curfew hours. The state government launched a police helpline for people in need of evacuation. “The Meghalaya Police has set up a helpline number for citizens stranded in the state capital. While there were no untoward incidents, those who wish to get evacuated will be assisted,” a senior home department official told PTI. He said three control rooms being handled by the state police are tasked with responding to evacuation calls from anyone and anywhere in the city. Meghalaya Home Minister Lahkmen Rymbui had resigned on Sunday amid violence in the city over the police shooting of the former militant. The Meghalaya Human Rights Commission has also taken suo moto cognisance of the encounter and asked Chief Secretary MS Rao to provide a report on the incident within 15 days. Sangma had on Monday announced a judicial investigation into the encounter killing of the former militant. The Assam government has also issued an advisory, asking people not to travel to Shillong in the wake of the law and order situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
17-08-2021||North East||Assam exempts fully vaccinated travellers from mandatory Covid testing||The Assam government on Tuesday exempted fully vaccinated incoming people carrying the latest COVID-19 negative report from mandatory testing for the virus on arrival in the state. The order will come into immediate effect, but the exemption will not be applicable for symptomatic passengers, a notification issued by the Health and Family Welfare department said. All incoming passengers who have been vaccinated with two doses of COVID-19 vaccine will be exempted from mandatory testing on arrival at airports, railway stations, road border points, etc, it said. The passengers must possess a negative COVID test report taken within 72 hours of their arrival in Assam, it added. However, passengers who are symptomatic shall have to undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing at their own cost on arrival at airports, railway stations, etc. in Assam," the notification. The exemption has been given in view of decreasing number of new COVID-19 positive cases in the country as well as the state and growing number of fully vaccinated people, it added. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Health and Family Welfare Minister Keshab Mahanta said there has been some requests regarding COVID-19 testing at airports and it was decided to do away with the mandatory test for fully vaccinated travellers. The Assam government had on June 25 this year also issued an order exempting air and train passengers from mandatory testing if they were fully vaccinated. But the order was withdrawn on July 15 in view of detection of COVID-19 cases among fully vaccinated people and testing was made compulsory once again. Continuous screening of all incoming passengers at airports and railway stations is being conducted in the state since the first wave of COVID-19 last year. Altogether 758 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the state on Monday, pushing the total number of infections to 5,79,899, while the death toll has reached 5,502 with 10 deaths in the last 24 hours. The COVID-19 recovery rate in the state stands at 97.49 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
17-08-2021||North East||State announces judicial probe into ex-HNLC leader encounter||The Meghalaya government on Monday announced a judicial probe into the death of a former rebel leader in an encounter to stem the tide of resentment against the ruling dispensation that led to the imposition of curfew in Shillong and its adjoining areas on Sunday night. The government initially imposed curfew till Tuesday, which has since been extended till Wednesday, and banned Internet services in four of its 11 districts following the breakdown in law and order, the trigger being the simmering tension in the Mehalaya capital since the death of former Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in an encounter with the police at his residence on August 13. The Meghalaya cabinet met under chief minister Conrad Sangma on Monday in the wake of the “ current law and order situation “ in Shillong and took the following decisions: ⚫ Constitution of a judicial inquiry under the Commission of Inquiry Act to look into the events that took place on August 13 morning resulting in the death of the former HNLC leader. ⚫Setting up a peace committee, which will be chaired by deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong and have cabinet ministers Hamletson Dohling and Renikton Tongkhar Lyngdoh as members. The committee will co-opt other members from the civil society, including religious organisations and other stakeholders. ⚫Constitution of a sub-committee for security and law and order to be headed by the chief minister, deputy chief minister and home minister. This committee will look into the different aspects of law and order. ⚫ Extension of curfew till 5am on Wednesday keeping in mind the overall situation in Shillong city. The curfew was to end at 5am on Tuesday. Ban on mobile Internet service in East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hills and Ri Bhoi districts to be extended for the next 24 hours. Though no untoward incident was reported during the day, tension is palpable in and around Shillong, sources said, something which might have influenced the decision to extend the curfew at one of the popular tourist destinations of the Northeast. Five additional companies of BSF and CRPF are being deployed in the city to ensure order. Assam police have advised people from the state not to travel to Shillong till the curfew remains in force. Incidents of arson, stone-pelting and theft were reported on Sunday and there was the possibility of things getting worse leading to the imposition of curfew at 8pm. Sources said four unidentified men seized a police vehicle from the Mawlai area and drove it in the city brandishing weapons left behind by fleeing cops before setting it ablaze in the Jaiaw area in the afternoon. Three constables were suspended on Monday for leaving their arms behind in the vehicle. Thousands attended Thangkhiew’s funeral on Sunday. His family claims the encounter was staged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
17-08-2021||North East||Mahila Congress chief joins TMC||Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, who was known for her proximity to Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, joined the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta on Monday. A former MP from Assam, Dev had written to Sonia on Sunday, informing the Congress president of her resignation from the party. Trinamul announced Dev’s induction in a tweet which had pictures of her with the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and MP Derek O’ Brien. “I had the opportunity to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee... She has an excellent future vision of the party and I hope to be helpful in that regard,” Dev said. In her letter to Sonia, Dev did not cite any reason for her leaving a party her family had become synonymous with. Dev’s father and former Union minister the late Santosh Mohan Dev was a seven-time Congress MP, while her mother Bithika was an MLA of the party from Silchar. The 1972-born Dev had represented Silchar both in the Lok Sabha and the Assembly but lost the 2019 general election. She has had differences with the Assam Congress leadership over its stand on the Citizenship Amendment Act and the alliance with the AIUDF in the recent Assembly polls. Sources said, those difference were the main reason behind her decision to snap her ties with the Congress. Most were under the impression that she would be joining the ruling BJP given her proximity to incumbent Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma but her departure for Calcutta on Monday morning left none in doubt about her future political address. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said the party was moving on with its “eyes wide shut” in an apparent criticism of Dev leaving the party. Assam PCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah said though Dev’s departure was a loss, the party would be able to unearth another Dev very soon. Describing his ties with Dev as that of “a brother and sister”, Borah said she was frustrated after her electoral reverse. Dev is the third prominent Assam Congress leader to leave the party since the BJP came to power for the second consecutive time in May. Two sitting MLAs, Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain, had resigned from the Assembly last month to join the BJP. A senior PCC member said: “Dev joining Trinamul is not a setback. Both Trinamul and the Congress are fighting the BJP. Dev has only changed her home. Instead of Sonia Gandhi, she will now be fighting under Mamata Banerjee. It would have been a setback had she joined the BJP.” The mood in Tripura’s Trinamul unit was upbeat as Dev’s induction is seen as a part of the party’s plan to boost its prospects in the state it is trying to win from the BJP-IPFT alliance in the 2023 Assembly polls. “I would be most happy if Dev is made in charge of the Tripura unit because she and her father shared very close ties with our state. Dev knows Tripura quite well given her frequent visits. I feel she will be an asset,” state Trinamul leader Ashish Lal Singh told The Telegraph. Ashish’s father — Sachindra Lal Singh — had been Tripura’s first chief minister from 1963 to 1971. Echoing Singh, another Tripura Trinamul leader said as the Mahila Congress president, Dev had frequently visited the northeastern state. “She used to mostly stay at former Congress MLA Gopal Roy’s house and carry out her party activities. Her father — Santosh Mohan Dev — was quite popular. She too knows the lay of the land — and its politics — much better than some of the visiting party leaders. Her joining will surely give a big boost to the party,” he said. Santosh Mohan Dev passed away in 2017. Trinamul leaders in Assam’s Barak Valley that borders Tripura were also upbeat about the development because Dev is seen as a proactive politician. She hails from Silchar in Cachar district. Political observers said Dev did not join the BJP because Barak Valley, which has 15 Assembly seats and two Lok Sabha constituencies, has “almost 50:50 Hindu-Muslim population”. “The BJP is largely seen as an anti-Muslim party. This would have stifled Dev’s activities and progress,” one of them said. Assam Trinamul functionaries said more Congress leaders were in touch with them to switch sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
17-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Class for all||When two sets of well-intentioned legal or constitutional provisions come into conflict, it is usually the most vulnerable who suffer. A study conducted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights investigated, from 2015-16, how children in minority communities have fared under the exemption of minority community institutions from the requirements of the Right to Education Act and the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The exemption went through a few stages, including constitutional amendments in 2006 and 2012 and a Supreme Court ruling in 2014. It was ultimately based on Article 30 of the Constitution, which states the right of minority groups to establish and administer educational institutions for children from  religious and linguistic minorities. Meanwhile the RTE Act emphasized inclusive education, and laid down that even unaided schools would have to reserve a fixed percentage of seats for children from underprivileged sections, while the SSA ensured that schools would offer free midday meals, uniforms, textbooks, learning material, library, computers and so on. The NCPCR report shows that the exemption has had deeply disturbing results. Paradoxically, over 60 per cent of pupils in minority institutions across the board are from non-minority groups. Christian institutions, which far exceed in proportion the percentage of Christians in the population, have around 74 per cent non-minority students. Since reservations are not mandatory, some of these schools are ‘elite’ ones, while all minority institutions together serve only 8.76 per cent of students from socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Thus the positive goals of the RTE Act and of the right of minorities to run their own institutions are frustrated: protecting the second from the first denies numerous underprivileged children benefits under the SSA and the right to learn. Accommodating non-minority students in large numbers means leaving out children from the target groups: in 2016, of 3.8 crore Muslim children of 6-14 years of age, 1.1 crore were out of school. Muslim minority institutions — excluding government-recognized madrasas — differ greatly from Christian schools. Students, taught religious courses only and deprived of ‘mainstream’ subjects and trained teachers, suffer from feelings of inferiority. The exemption needs to be reviewed and a minimum percentage set for students from target groups to be admitted to minority institutions. The best rules will fail until the weakest segments of India’s children can enjoy their rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
17-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Criminalization of politics||Follow the order Sir — Politics and crime are entangled to such an extent in India that the Supreme Court has been forced to repeatedly appeal to political parties to take steps to curb the criminalization of politics (“Blood ties”, Aug 12). In a welcome ruling, the apex court had held several political parties, including the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Communist Party of India (Marxist), guilty of contempt for violating an earlier order to notify the Election Commission of the criminal antecedents of candidates within a stipulated time. The number of elected policymakers who have pending criminal cases against them is staggering. The Supreme Court has rightly observed that there is much room for intervention and has directed the EC to create a dedicated mobile application that lists the pending criminal cases against public representatives so that voters can make an informed choice. But considering the low literacy rate in rural India, will it be possible for a vast majority of voters to access this information? S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is alarming that according to a survey done two years ago, nearly half of the members of the 17th Lok Sabha had criminal cases against them. The Supreme Court must be lauded for proactively trying to weed out this malaise from the system. It is crucial that political parties, too, take strict measures against party members guilty of criminal conduct. At present, there is a symbiotic relationship between criminals and political parties; this link needs to be broken. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — It is unfortunate that the Supreme Court had to pull up nine political parties for failing to adhere to its earlier directive of declaring the criminal antecedents of candidates. No one can deny that a large number of elected representatives are facing serious criminal accusations. But rather than holding party members accountable, state governments often withdraw pending cases against parliamentarians. How long must the people of India wait before Indian politics is purged of criminals? Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The directive by the Supreme Court prohibiting state governments from withdrawing criminal cases against party members without the express approval of the high courts is welcome. All political parties must strictly adhere to this ruling. Amitava Sinha,Calcutta  Vanishing act Sir — The Delhi High Court has directed the Animal Welfare Board of India to file an affidavit disclosing the status of animals from circuses that have closed down. Last year, the court was informed by the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations that although 740 animals are registered with the AWBI, only 28 had been found. This is shocking. Most circus animals are kept in inhumane conditions; the AWBI should have strictly monitored their well-being. There is no point in passing laws regarding the welfare of animals if the latter seem to have disappeared as if by magic from under the AWBI’s nose. Sharanya Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
17-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Memory games||The prime minister’s address on Independence Day may have been colourless but he did make a singular announcement a day before. August 14, Narendra Modi declared, would be remembered as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’. Mr Modi’s epiphanies are not known to be independent of political imperatives. There is no denying the fact that the subcontinent experienced an unprecedented humanitarian tragedy brought about by a combination of factors — a complicit colonial government, communal fault lines and political opportunism. But Mr Modi’s invocation of the Partition, critics allege, is consistent with his polarizing politics. India’s western neighbour — August 14 happens to be Pakistan’s Independence Day — is a handy political tool for Mr Modi to deflect public attention from the failures of his own government. His utterance assumes significance because the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, supposedly a barometer of the national mood, are not too far away. There is, however, a broader ethical quandary that must not go uncommented. Trauma, history shows, is synonymous with nationhood. India and Pakistan were nations forged in the fire of conflict. The flames had different kinds of impact on them. Pakistan emerged by embracing its founder’s bitterly divisive ‘two-nation theory’. India rejected religious exclusivity, striving, not without difficulties, to honour the vision of a democratic, inclusive, secular republic as envisaged by the founders of its Constitution. This willingness to rise together from the ashes of discrimination, to heal and be healed — there could not have been a more unambiguous denouncement of the horrors of Partition that Mr Modi now wants the nation to commemorate. Without being in denial of the trauma, as was the case with post-War Germany, India and its leadership chose to look the toxic legacy of Partition in the eye so as not to repeat its folly. Pakistan’s dismemberment — Bangladesh was born amidst blood, sweat and tears — validated India’s tryst with accommodation. There is a case to argue that under Mr Modi’s stewardship, India seems to have lost much of its faith in its self-fashioned model of a pluralist republic. New India could well become a pale ghost of the constitutional vision if the prime minister reneges — has he not already? — on his pledge of collective welfare. Instead of reminiscing on past wounds, India must expend its energy to ensure that they are not opened up, once again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
17-08-2021||Opinion||Wet and dry||Bhattijam is a 100-household village in the Chandrapur district of Maharashtra surrounded by small paddy fields interspersed with forest patches. The village belongs to the Dhivars, a fishing community with small land-holdings. For three decades, farmers here have been waiting for the waters from a big irrigation project to flow into their fields. The project falls under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana, or the erstwhile Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme of the Central government. Distributaries are being laid at a sluggish pace — a pan-India problem with all major dams — and the community village tank is struggling with a burgeoning population, reducing its capacity. While people desperately wait for surface water to come to their fields and improve their options of having two, possibly three, crops around the year, they must till their lands with rainwaters that are becoming increasingly moody and erratic. We are in mid-August and Bhattijam and its surrounding villages are edgy. Not because of the looming fear of the third Covid-19 wave, but because the rains have been elusive, the weather hot and dam waters are taking forever to reach their fields. Bhattijam is in a region that gets 1,200 mm of rains annually, conducive for paddy and fish cultivation, which require lots of water. By this time, sowing is over, fish seeds are released in the community tanks, tillers begin to grow taller and paint the large swathes of land yellow and green. Not this time around. Sowing is incomplete owing to the lack of rain. Where it was done in June-July, the tillers are wilting, fields cracking and the soil turning harder. Bhattijam — and much of this region — is staring at a loss of the kharif paddy crop. If that happens, migrating out for work and livelihood post Diwali will be the only option. Farmers are desperate for good monsoon rains. Contrast this with western Maharashtra, or West Bengal, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, where floods, following heavy rainfall, have wreaked havoc and caused massive loss of lives and livelihoods. People will migrate from there too. It’s a paradox that afflicts state after state, but there’s no reflection on what might be the single-biggest concern for rural economies in the sessions of Parliament or the state legislatures. It is as if the law-makers don’t know and won’t care. Climate change is a calamity that is building up. There is a palpable shift in the rainfall patterns all over the country —floods and meteorological droughts are occurring in the same regions. Long dry spells and extreme rainfall events, all happen in one season. Bhattijam, for instance, got mild showers some 20 days ago, but no rains since then. It may so happen, as it has in the last few years, that the village would receive heavy rains in quick span and make up for the deficit. Long dry spells and extreme events don’t augur well for farming. It’s a trend that has been captured in many studies. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in its voluminous report, has predicted more intense and frequent heat-waves, increased incidents of extreme rainfall, dangerous rise in sea-levels, prolonged droughts, and melting glaciers. If that’s the macro-picture, the micro-picture shows massive human pain and anguish, exacerbated by wrong or no policies to mitigate climate shocks and aberrations, unbridled and mindless infrastructure projects tampering with local ecologies, and lack of governance among other factors. We can’t deal with it unless we prepare. The only way is to draw carefully thought-out, meaningful contingency plans. Dry spells and extreme rainfall events, for instance, must inform cropping patterns, inform the Centre-state crop insurance mechanisms, even our investments. Private and government extension systems must plan for climate contingencies. States must have climate funds to meet aberrations and extreme weather events and communities must be drafted into planning and deploying a sustainable and sustained response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
17-08-2021||Opinion||A national grand alliance||The results of the assembly elections held in the first half of 2021, which reinforced the view that the balance of power in the Opposition has shifted from the Congress to the regional forces, have revitalized India’s regional political outfits. While chief ministers like Hemant Soren, Pinarayi Vijayan, M.K. Stalin, Arvind Kejriwal, Uddhav Thackeray and Mamata Banerjee are growing increasingly vocal and combative against the Union government’s unilateral approach, the idea of a federal front floated by the regional satraps to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2024 has been gaining currency. Several events in the last couple of months, including a series of meetings between Sharad Pawar and Prashant Kishor and the meeting of the Rashtriya Manch at Pawar’s Delhi residence, have fuelled talks of a federal front of regional parties. Conspicuous by its absence in the meeting was the Congress. The absence of the grand old party along with the venue chosen — Pawar’s Delhi residence — heightened speculations about the Congress being left out of the proposed front. After the heavy defeat it faced in the 2019 parliamentary polls, the Congress has been in a state of inertia showing no signs of urgency to set its house in order to take on the Narendra Modi-led BJP. To make matters worse, the faction-ridden party has suffered a series of electoral reverses since 2019 and is yet to elect a full-time working president. It has also received flak for being the weak link in alliances and dragging down its allies in assembly elections in the recent past. The Congress may be looking like an electoral liability, making non-BJP parties wary of allying with it. But is it really weak enough to be left out of a front that can seriously challenge the BJP in 2024? Despite its far-from-impressive electoral record in recent times and the episodic, erratic and lethargic brand of leadership of its top brass, the Congress continues to be the only pan-India party after the BJP. In 2019, the Congress won 52 seats. But it still managed to garner about 12 crore votes, capturing almost 20 per cent of the total votes polled. In over 200 seats, the Congress occupied the second position. As things stand today, the nature of political competition in at least 10 states — Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and a few in the Northeast — is bipolar. In 117 Lok Sabha seats in these states, the Congress and the BJP are engaged in a direct contest. In four more states — Maharashtra, Assam, Karnataka and Haryana — accounting for 100 seats, the Congress remains the principal Opposition to the BJP despite the presence of regional forces. South of the Vindhyas, the Congress has its pockets of influence even as the BJP continues to struggle to gain a toehold barring Karnataka. Simply put, the Congress remains the best bet to take on the BJP in 250-300 odd seats. The party is undoubtedly too weak to challenge the BJP on its own but it is not weak enough to be left out of any political formation that aims to take the battle to the BJP in 2024. It must be added here that Pawar, Kishor and even leaders of other Opposition parties have been quick to dismiss the idea of a third front minus the Congress, calling it a futile and an unfeasible exercise. But nothing happens in politics without a reason. By taking the lead in the efforts to prop up a united front of anti-BJP forces almost three years before the general elections, the regional parties are probably sending the following message to the Congress: the task of forging a front to take on the BJP cannot be delayed on account of the Congress’s inability to sort out its internal mess. Ambitious, regional satraps are also flexing their muscles to let the party know that a weakened Congress would not be allowed to assume to be the leader of the proposed front. Only regional parties, it is being said, can break the BJP’s hegemony. Such an interpretation is erroneous. The most pragmatic approach would be to invest in a ‘horses for courses’ strategy and fully back the strongest contender to dethrone the BJP in a particular state or region. This would mean that the Congress would become an indispensable component of the anti-BJP front and, at the same time, be forced to give up seats in many states where it is not the strongest contender to fight the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
17-08-2021||Opinion||Challenges ahead||At the start of its 75th year, India’s economy is confronted with one of its most challenging times. Economic growth, which was slowing down from 2017-18, slipped into its deepest-ever trough last year. It is a misfortune that the once-in-a-century pandemic struck when the economy was already too weak — before the pandemic, in 2019-20, it grew 4 per cent, a rate reminiscent of the early decades after Independence. The celebration of 75 years of the economy is sobering: growth is struggling to emerge from the virus’s second onslaught in the last quarter, while rising prices and high unemployment push daily lives to the brink economically. It is reassuring that India’s economic base has come a long way since 1947: its size of Rs 203 trillion does not make economic distresses as visible as back then, and it is better equipped to handle shocks. There are other economic achievements too. But conditions surrounding the 75th birthday reinforce thoughts about what India has not achieved till now since 1947, namely an increase in the manufacturing sector share for the mass absorption of its surplus agricultural labour. This is a path well-trodden by most developing countries to provide employment to the unskilled population in the course of development. But India has never been able to achieve this. In spite of decades of reforms, the share of manufacturing in the gross domestic product has stagnated at around 15-16 per cent. The economy has been powered on the strength of the expansion of services; this has underpinned much of its high growth rates; the segment was able to import foreign demand equally and fortify India’s external balances. Services have also generated employment but can never match the scales possible by mass industrial production that serves both domestic and foreign markets. The reason for this failure, or being a global outlier in this regard, is a separate matter. What is significant is that the missing stage of manufacturing extension in India’s development has kept disproportionately high numbers of its labour force engaged in agriculture (or ‘disguised’ unemployed because this remains unobserved) as employment growth has been too slow. Weaker growth for several years, aggravated by the pandemic, has compounded unemployment. For example, the national unemployment rate has persisted at 8.8 per cent since 2017-18 according to the aggregate employment profile captured by the Periodic Labour Force Survey for July 2019-June 2020; this is under the ‘current weekly status’ category that asks if adequate employment was available in the week before the survey. However, because the economic base is very large, this distress has not been so perceptible. For the first time, though, there are noticeable signs of the unemployment stress. These can be observed in a change in the sectoral employment shares that the PLFS has uncovered. The survey, which includes only one quarter of the pandemic, shows that the fraction of the labour force employed in agriculture increased 3.1 percentage points to 45.6 per cent from 42.5 per cent in the previous corresponding period (July 2018-June 2019). Above half of this displacement appears to be from ‘other’ services (1.9 points), a segment formed by education and health activities/services, recreation, cultural and sporting activities, salons, personal services and employment with private households. The shift from manufacturing employment is 0.9 points; here, the proportions employed decreased to 11.2 per cent of total workers from a stagnant 12.1 per cent in the two previous matching survey years. These could be early signs of de-industrialization, though a longer watch is needed to confirm if the changes are temporary or permanent. The slide back to agriculture, a twist of irony as it were in the 75th year, represents higher ‘disguised unemployment’, the scourge of the formative years of economic development. This typically follows the reverse course, that is, towards manufacturing and services. Today, this probable degeneration is not merely a reminder of what hasn’t been achieved till now. Rather, it escalates anxieties about the outstanding challenge of employment that lies ahead. There’s optimism that a vigorous return to sustained, high growth rates ahead will lift employment rates. This is built upon the 9.5 per cent uplift in GDP growth expected this year, with subsequent stabilization at 7-8 per cent or pre-pandemic highs. The locomotives are public infrastructure spending, exports and consumption demand. However, these can only drive a cyclical recovery but not over a longer period, where structural concerns remain. Enduring weaknesses of the past bear upon medium-term growth, where sustenance has few forces available with a diminished potential output. Illustratively, the fiscal arms are bound with public debt at 90 per cent of GDP, a level that India will struggle to lower in forthcoming years. Export prospects are presently sound, but medium-term sustenance of advanced countries’ growth is an open question. While India’s own competitiveness, steadily eroding for decades, faces formidable and tenacious competitors, to what extent the production-linked incentive schemes promote export-oriented manufacturing awaits assessment. The consumption engine can, of course, be fired up only with a strengthening of incomes and employment leading to a critical mass of demand that then prompts private investment, which hasn’t been revived for a decade. Income shocks have been severe and frequent since 2016-17, with two successive ones delivered by as many infection waves in the last year alone. The 9.5 per cent rebound this year will raise aggregate real income (that is, adjusted for inflation) only 0.5 per cent over 2019-20 level, too feeble an impulse for meaningful demand acceleration. We must care about the effects of this prolonged fall in incomes upon consumption because households begin to perceive the decline as no longer temporary but permanent, and begin to adjust consumption expenditures accordingly. It is hard to ascertain if such changes have set in owing to the lack of a fresh consumer expenditure survey after 2011-12. But a permanent decline in consumption is not altogether dismissible given the stretching falls of incomes and employments. In the pandemic’s wake, there’s ebullience about swelling technological unicorns, a booming IT sector and the underpinnings of personal incomes and corporate profits. The endurance and magnitude of the real economic effects of these factors are yet to be seen, while the pandemic’s fallout has further enlarged the gap between upper and bottom-income percentiles by all accounts. Can the winners provide a sufficient counter impulse to the depressing forces? Numbers in the bottom-earners’ cohort are way bigger. Perhaps it’s time to recognize that the high growth rates of the new century will elude us in the foreseeable future. A sober pace is more probable, a lasting sprint less likely. Let’s hope that future celebrations of our independent economy happen in more favourable circumstances. Renu Kohli is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-50
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand State Digest: Dhanbad traders take on e-Rickshaw menace||Dhanbad: Fed up of the congestion that they have to face due to e-rickshaws entering the narrow streets of Purana Bazar, the traders carried out a joint inspection of the traffic jam site along with the traffic police, under the leadership of Traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar. The inspection was to impose ‘no entry’ of auto rickshaw in the market area. The two-hour long inspection conducted between 12.30 pm to 2.30 pm, the office bearers of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce led by its president, Ajay Narayan Lal and secretary, Srikant Agarwal were present. They also decided on the new route of the e rickshaw and auto rickshaw movement from outside the market. Immediately after the demarcation of route chart, the traffic DSP ordered for the preparation and installation of signboards at the entry and exit point of the market to apprise the e rickshaw and auto rickshaw operators as well as common people about the new traffic arrangement. The new regulation will come into effect within two to three days. The traffic police held a meeting with the e- rickshaw and auto rickshaw unions. Talking to The Telegraph Online Agarwal said, “Ours is the most congested market in the district. We have around 1000 shops situated along the narrow streets. We perpetually face traffic congestion. However, with the e-rickshaw replacing the auto rickshaw in Joraphatak Barmasia route, the situation has only aggravated.” When Traffic DSP was contacted, he said, “Purana Bazar market in quite congested. e-rickshaws have further added on to the woes of the common people. Hence we have decided on a new route for e rickshaw movement. They won’t be allowed to enter the market area.” Praduman Choubey Bokaro: The police department of Bokara district is all set to upgrade its patrol vehicles with GPS. This move (mobile phone apps with GPS) will allow senior officials to keep track of the patrolling vehicles using GPS technology, besides monitoring its movements from Control Room. This will keep the During duty hours, police patrolling parties will be on their toes. Officials will now be able to easily observe the delay in reaching the place of occurrence even after receiving information about it. SP Chandan Kumar Jha said, “GPS is being fitted in all 24 patrol vehicles of the district and they will be directly connected to the control room. Tracking the location of the vehicles will be done by the officers sitting there. In addition, we will be able to track patrolling vehicles in real time through the mobile application. The people will be able to get police service on time and crime can be controlled.” Jha said that the installation of GPS tracking software has begun in the Police Kendra today for 15 PCR and 9 highway patrolling vehicles. He also informed that all information received through Dial 112 and other means will now be transmitted without delay to the PCR/ Highway Patrol. The initiative of the Bokaro Police will prove to be a landmark in realising the concept of Police Aapke Dwar in the coming days Our Correspondent Daltonganj: Cyber police of Daltonganj arrested 22-year-old Mukesh Kumar on charges of fraudulently creating voter identity cards, informed SP Palamau Chandan Kumar Sinha. According to Sinha the youth who hails from Karso village which falls under Chainpur police station was arrested by the police. They have also lodged a case against him. “The youth has been remanded in judicial custody,” said the police. According to the SP said the youth was involved in creating fake voter identity cards by using online tools. He said, “However, the official website of the election commission of India was never tampered with. It was neither invaded or hacked.” He said, “The youth had developed some mechanism to fraudulently download voter identity cards illegally.” According to police sources the youth was first doing creating fake PAN card but then he switched over to producing fake voter identity card, which eventually made the election commission of India take note of the scam. Following the alert, police sprang into action and nabbed the youth. Our Correspondent Jamshedpur: A 32-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant in Jharkhand's Seraikela-Kharsawan district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place in Kasidih village which falls under Kharsawan police station area. “The man was returning home on his motorcycle, when he accidently came before the herd and was crushed to death by a pachyderm,” said officer-in-charge Prakash Kumar Rajak said. Forest officials were engaged in driving the herd back into a nearby forest. Our Correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand board mulls school syllabus cut across classes ||The state education department is considering a reduction in school syllabus from classes 1 to 12 for the second consecutive year in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic with Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) forming a committee to look into it. On Monday, JEPC director Shailesh Chaurasia hinted about expected cuts in syllabus, but clarified that a final decision would be taken by the state government in September. “An expert committee for different classes has again been asked to evaluate the situation to modify the syllabus according to the evolving situation," he said. "The last time the syllabus was reduced by 40 per cent. This time, however, the cuts will not be that much. It is expected to be in the range of 20-25 per cent,” he added. Chaurasia said he expected the committe to submit its detailed report by this month after which it would be forwarded to the state education department for a final nod. Earlier this month, the state government allowed schools to hold on-campus classes for seniors in addition to online lessons. But schools have been told to call students only after ensuring parents' consent. For junior classes, online teaching will continue, the state government has said. “But for those studying in government schools, since most of them are from poor families, online lessons are a challenge for want of internet-enabled devices. But even though the government is trying to ensure teaching through different interventions, like live classes on DD, nothing can replace on-campus classes,” admitted an education department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-70
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||‘Taliban will enact strict Shariah rules sooner or later’||Ali Shah is safe in the confines of his Jamshedpur home, which is 2,100 kms away from his hamlet in Kabul but he is worried sick about what the Taliban government has in store for the members of his family back home. Shah is not the only Afghan living at various localities of Jamshedpur, who is wary of the unknown danger looming large over their families residing in troubled Afghanistan. Shah who stays at a rented accommodation at Bistupur’s Dhatkidih area had returned to Jamshedpur in the month of April after having spent a year in Kabul. Giving an account of the quality of life in Kabul, the 48-year-old Shah said, “Everything was normal for him in Kabul where he used to work for a living, till four months back.” While talking to The Telegraph Online, he said, “I am worried about my younger brother’s widow and her four daughters, who are now having to live under the Taliban regime, which will enact the harsh Sharia laws sooner or later.” Shah, a bachelor, like many Afghans in India is a money lender. He said that his family owns a house at Arzan Qimat in Kabul. “I had talked to my brother’s family a fortnight ago, but after the Taliban took over, we have not been able to communicate with my kin, despite my frantic efforts. God knows what will happen to the children,” he said in a nervous tone. Like Shah, another Afghan, who requested to be identified with his first name Gul only, also was vocal about his concern about the uncertain future of his family in Afghanistan. Apprehensive about the life in store for the women of the country, Gul said, “The most painful part of the Talibani regime is the impact it will have on the lives of the girls. I may have to bear the brunt as I have two school-going daughters in Kabul.” Gul who also refused to pose for a photograph despite residing in a safe place like Jamshedpur. He maintained that he was disturbed due to the situation in his homeland where people’s life is bound to be turned into a living hell. At least 100 Afghans, known as Kabuliwala have been residing in the steel city, but their number has now reduced to a single digit as rest of them have returned to their country due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archers Komalika and Ankita in India squad for World Meet ||Jharkhand archers Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat will be a part of the three-member India women's recurve squad for the Senior Archery World Championship to be held from September 19 to 26 at Yankton, South Dakota, USA. The other member of the squad is Ridhi Phor from Haryana. The in-form Komalika, who won the junior world title in the youth championship at Wroclaw in Poland on Sunday, is expected to perform as per potential. The 19-year-old, who is considered by Jharkhand archery coaches as the next Deepika Kumari in the making, is taking long strides in the game with some quality shooting. The win has put the bespectacled Komalika at par with world number 1 and Jharkhand compatriot Deepika Kumari as the second recurve archer from India to hold the under-18 and under-21 world titles. Komalika is a cadet of the elite Tata Archery Academy while Ankita (23) is employed (on contract) with Tata Steel in Jamshedpur. The two archers, along with Deepika, claimed the team gold medal at the recently concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris. The Jharkhand trio also achieved a similar feat at the World Cup Stage 1 in Guatemala earlier this year. Significantly, Indian archers, Deepika, her husband Atanu Das, Tarundeep Rai and Pravin Jadhav, who returned empty handed from the recently concluded Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, are not in the national squad for the senior world meet in USA. The four failed to finish in the top three during the selection trials held at Sonepat, Haryana earlier this month. Only the best three from each category (recurve and compound men and women) were chosen. The Indian contingent, comprising six recurve and six compound archers, will compete in 10 events at the world championship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s private banker narrates his Kabul experience||Satyendra Kumar, a 39-year-old private banker hailing from Dhanbad, is one of the few lucky Indians who managed to reach India well ahead of the Taliban taking over Afghanistan. Not willing to disclose the name of the bank that he worked for in Kabul for security reasons, Kumar revealed that he had worked at Kabul for over 2 years and had returned back to Jharkhand on August 12, just 3 days ahead of the Taliban takeover. Summing up his experience of working in Afghanistan as - having to work under constant death threat. A native resident of Bihar’s Bhojpur district of Bihar, Kumar completed his education (schooling and college) from Dhanbad, and pursued Post Graduate Diploma in IT from Triveni Devi Bhalotia College, Raniganj. Currently stationed at his native place in Bhojpur after returning to Ranchi on August 12, he said, “We were working amidst continuous fear of life ever since we moved to Afghanistan in 2019; over 33 blasts took place in the capital city alone, during our stay in the country,”  while talking to The Telegraph Online over the phone. “Our concern however increased with the US government announcing the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan on April 14 this year followed by increased aggressive posturing of Taliban from May 4 by launching a fight against the government forces in Southern province of Helmand,” said Kumar, father of two school going children. Both his children are enrolled at private school in Ranchi. “As the Taliban forces started capturing different provinces one by one including the Niruz province capital, Zaranj on August 6 my family members began building pressure on me to return back as they were concerned about my safety,” said Kumar. “Though the foreign consulates of different western countries in other provinces have been issuing advisories since August and we decided to pack off when the Indian Embassy in Kabul started issuing advisories, since June 29 followed by advisories of July 23, August 10 and also on August 12,” said Kumar. “I boarded the Air India flight at around 2.40  pm on August 12 and reached at Delhi at around 5 pm and from there reached to Ranchi through another flight next day and later moved to my native place at Bhojpur along with my family as my parents were waiting eagerly for me there” said Kumar. “Ten Indians including me were living at a house together at Kabul majority of whom from the Banking sector and I was the only person from Jharkhand among them and we hired a local cook who used to cook vegetarian food for us in Kabul and as Indian food was available there,” said Kumar, who used to travel between his home at Ranchi and Kabul every three months and would carry back Indian food grains for his Kabul stay. “The people at Kabul are very good and friendly to us and all the Indian experts used to enjoy a lot of respect among the local people and as majority of software experts in Banking sector including me are also from India we too enjoyed similar respect among local colleagues there” said Kumar and added the life was not as easy as India in Afghanistan and there perpetual threat of attack in form of blasts and they can’t move along even to market and had to accompanied by the security provided by the Bank. “As I have reached my home everyone in my family including my parents, siblings, wife and children expressed happiness after witnessing the images and video coming from Afghanistan,” said Kumar. However, he added that he is willing to return when the situation improves as his three contracts have been renewed recently with the bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Around 1.4 lakh residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand in a day||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated around 1.4 lakh residents against Covid-19 as more than 1,300 session sites, including at least 23 private facilities, remained operational throughout the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional vaccination data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccines to as many as 1,05,749 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 32,372 beneficiaries. More than 1 lakh residents inoculated were between 18  and 44 years. Figures available on the Co-Win platform highlighted that at least 1,349 session sites remained operational across the state with each site administering 100 doses on an average. At least 77 session sites opened their doors for eligible vaccine beneficiaries in Ranchi and administered jabs to almost 17,000 residents. In East Singhbhum, around 10,000 residents were inoculated at 56 session sites across the district, while 51 session sites administered jabs to about 9,000 residents in Dhanbad, as per the Co-Win dashboard at 10pm. As per data shared by the health department on Monday evening, the state has so far administered the first dose of vaccines to over 88 lakh residents and more than 21 lakh of them have also received the second dose. While the government did not release details of vaccine doses available in stock, an official involved in the immunisation drive said that around 5 lakh doses, mostly Covishield, were available in the state by Monday night. The active caseload of Covid-19 again witnessed a spike on Monday as fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection outnumbered Covid recoveries. As per NHM, at least 35 fresh cases of infection against only 13 recoveries took the active caseload of Covid-19 to 236 on Monday in Jharkhand. The number of Covid patients in Ranchi shot up to 105 as the district reported 11 fresh cases against seven recoveries, while the active caseload in Dhanbad reached 29 as three people were found infected there and one patient recovered. Jamtara, which had zero active cases of Covid-19 until Monday, reported at least 11 fresh cases of infection, which took the active caseload there to 11. At least nine Jharkhand districts, including Bokaro, Hazaribag, East Singhbhum and Dumka, did not report fresh Covid cases on Monday. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 40,217 residents and 0.08 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on the day. So far, Jharkhand has reported over 3.47 lakh Covid cases and 98.45 per cent of the patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive, highlights government data. Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis for the third day in a row on Monday and the black fungus toll also remained 31. So far, the state has reported 106 confirmed and 61 suspected cases of black fungus, as per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). At least 115 people have recovered from the fungal infection in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister Annapurna Devi gets grand welcome in tribal belt of state||Annapurna Devi, union minister of state for education, while addressing a gathering in Koderma and Barhi during Jan Ashirwad Yatra said current expansion of the Modi government is all inclusive due to proper representation in the present cabinet of ministers. The event was organised by the BJP to welcome her for her maiden visit to the state after becoming a union minister. The yatra will pass through different districts of the state. Devi said the Modi cabinet has 27 ministers from other backward class, 12 from scheduled caste and 8 from scheduled tribe. Devi said Prime Minister Narenda Modi has given place to youths and women in the cabinet with the aim to give a voice to downtrodden community of the society. “Even by inducting me, he gave respect to a woman and for the first time, Koderma got its representation in the union cabinet,” she said. She said despite Opposition disturbance in the parliament, twenty bills were passed which will benefit people. “In medical entrance examination, government has given 27 per cent reservation to OBC, which will give opportunity to 5500 students of this section to become doctors,” she said. Her yatra reached Hazaribagh town on Monday evening where it got a grand welcome. Annapurna reached Koderma on Sunday by Delhi-Bhuvneshwar Rajdhani express where BJP leaders gathered in large numbers and welcomed her. This yatra will end on August 19 and pass through Hazaribagh, Ramgarh, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Giridih where OBC are in sizeable numbers. Sources in the BJP said the way Annapurna was welcomed in the state has send signals about her growing stature in the party. They said even when veteran leader and tribal face of the state Arjun Munda became a cabinet minister in the Modi government, no such welcome was given to him. However, the Oopposition blamed BJP for playing the OBC card in Annapurna’s name. According to party insiders, Annapurna is not only a face of OBC coming from Yadav community but also a woman which the party wants to use in upcoming elections. However a senior party leader of the state set aside all such claims and said they only want to thank Modi for passing the OBC bill as well as inducting Annapurna in his ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Daily wage earners vow to follow Father Stan Swamy’s ideals||Daily wage earners in one of the urban slums in the steel city took a resolve to follow the ideals of Father Stan Swamy on the country’s 75th Independence Day on Sunday. The spontaneous decision was taken during a resolution meeting organised by Jharkhand Krantikari Mazdoor Union (JKMU) at Adivasi Basti in Green Park, Kadma. Most of the daily wage earners work for petty contractors and live below the poverty line. JKMU is among the over 160 organisations who, as part of a nationwide campaign, read out the pledge to defend the legacy of the freedom movement, the spirit of the Preamble and values of the Constitution on Independence Day. “The campaign also sought to strengthen the agitation for the repeal of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and other draconian laws. It also sought justice for Father Stan Swamy, whose death in judicial custody is considered by us as an institutional murder. We had put up a poster of Father Stan on a display board. When we started informing the masses about his work and life as a background for the campaign, some of the tribal workers started paying floral obeisance before the poster on their own. It was not planned. We also informed them about Baba Ambedkar and Jaipal Singh Munda who had ensured the rights of the poor, tribals and Dalits in the Constitution,” said Gautam Bose, one of the conveners of JKMU and an active member of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL). The Adivasi Basti comprises 80 rickety houses on encroached plots inhabited mostly by Bhumij, Ho and Santhals. There are nearly 16 such urban slums dotting the 11-km four-lane Marine Drive that connects the city to the industrial areas of Adityapur and Gamharia. “We had only read about Father Stan on a few occasions recently. But when we were told about his struggles for the rights of the poor Adivasis and Dalits and his agitation against the suffering of undertrials, we could not help but worship him. We face this humiliation often when the police raid our localities after every incident of chain snatching and theft, beat up youths and minors and take them to police stations for questioning. At times, they are detained for days. We want more of our people to know about Father Stan and resist the atrocities committed by the security personnel or contractors,” said Dharma Raj Hembrom, 55, a resident of the basti who works under a contractor in Tata Steel. Phulo Soy, 36, a woman worker at a canteen of a private company in Adityapur, paid floral tributes to Father Stan. “At least we know that there are some people who are prepared to sacrifice their lives for our cause. We face exploitation and sexual harassment at work places and have taken a pledge to stand up for our rights come what may,” she said. The residents have decided to conduct awareness campaigns about their rights in various urban slums dotting the Marine Drive. “We want other contract workers to know that people have sacrificed their lives for our rights. We will spread this awareness on a regular in other bastis,” said Binde Soren, 56. Over 160 organisations, comprising civil society outfits, trade unions, and farmers’ organisations, also took the pledge as part of the National Campaign to Defend Democracy across Jharkhand on Sunday. The movement spearheaded by PUCL, Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and trade union bodies in the state saw members reading out: “We pledge to campaign for repealing all draconian laws and assert the right to bail of every citizen. We believe that the right to question and the right to dissent are the foundation of our democratic, secular and socialist republic. We commit to campaign against all ideologies, laws, and state actions that deprive us of the freedoms of speech and opinion, conscience, association, and to non-violent opposition.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren pledge on rights and holistic development||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has assured the people of the state that his government is committed to protecting their rights while ushering in holistic development on all fronts. Addressing the 75th Independence Day event at the Morabadi ground in Ranchi on Sunday, Soren said: “I want to assure the simple-hearted people of Jharkhand that this government is committed to protect their rights, cultural identity and also ensure their participation in the development on all fronts.” He said that new policies and amendments are being made to speed up development keeping democracy as the foundation stone. Citing the Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, Soren said: “This policy will prove to be a milestone in creating more and more employment opportunities for the poor people in this state which is rich in natural resources and rich in minerals.” He also spoke about the amendments of various recruitment and examination conduct rules to safeguard the interests of local students. Soren said the government, which was battling the Covid-19 pandemic for over a year, is striving to bring the state back on the track of development on the basis of life and livelihood. Since 75 per cent of the state’s population is reliant on agriculture, the government is focussed on rural development, he said. “The government has made a budgetary provision of Rs 7,644 crore for this sector, giving priority to rural development in this year’s budget. A provision of Rs 3,189 crore has been made for agriculture sector and Rs 2,623 crore for panchayati raj,” said Soren, adding that several initiatives have been undertaken to strengthen and provide employment to villagers with convergence of the MGNREGA and other schemes. “The Jharkhand State Agricultural Debt Waiver Scheme has been implemented to provide relief to the small and marginal farmers who are burdened with agricultural debt. Under this scheme, Rs 750 crore has been transferred to the loan account of 182,561 farmers. The Jharkhand State Crop Relief Scheme has been started in the financial year 2021-22 to compensate farmers for the economic loss,” said Soren. He also said the government had set a target of increasing the contribution of agriculture in the state’s GDP from 12 per cent to 20 per cent, for which it is preparing an action plan. “This year we have started the integrated Birsa Gram Vikas Yojana-cum-Krishak Pathshala scheme. In the first phase, one farm in each district will be developed as a farmers’ school by developing various aspects of agriculture such as advanced farming techniques, cultivation of horticultural crops, animal husbandry, fisheries, and improved irrigation systems. While developing the capacity of local farmers in Krishak Pathshala, their income will be increased by making them skilled and employment-oriented in agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries, pig farming, etc,” he said. Apart from this, a 5,000 metric tonnes capacity model cold storage is being constructed in all districts for better storage and marketing of agricultural and vegetable products, he added. “To ensure the participation of all sections in the development of the state, the Chief Minister's Employment Generation Scheme has been started to provide self-employment to the SC/ST (Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes), minorities and backward class youths in rural and urban areas through easy and cheap loans. Under this scheme, there is a provision to give a maximum loan of Rs 25 lakh to the beneficiaries, in which the loan subsidy will be given at the rate of 40 per cent or maximum Rs 5 lakh, whichever is less,” said Soren. Stressing on quality higher education as a priority of the government, Soren said: “Eighty schools of excellence and 325 block-level leader schools along with 4,091 panchayat-level model schools have been envisaged by the state government. In the first phase, work has been started to develop 80 schools at the district level as Schools of Excellence at a cost of about Rs 290 crore with modern infrastructure. The efforts of the government has led to gross enrolment ratio increasing to 20.9 per cent in Jharkhand. Action has begun to establish the Jharkhand Open University and Jharkhand Tribal University with an aim to increase the gross enrolment ratio further.” “Improvement of infrastructure in hospitals and upgrade of road networks is also the priority of the state government. We are also eyeing to make Jharkhand a power surplus state with power generation stations at Patratu and North Karanpura,” the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
17-08-2021||Jharkhand||Congress leader dies of suspected cardiac arrest at flag hoisting||A Congress leader died of suspected cardiac arrest immediately after hoisting the Tricolour on Independence Day in Dhanbad district of Jharkhand. Anwar Hussain Ansari, in his early 50s and a former president of Chirkunda town committee of the party, had hoisted the national flag along with two others at Shaheed Chowk on Sunday before he suffered a massive cardiac arrest and slumped to the ground. “We all had also gone for flag hoisting at the local police station earlier and then walked to the nearby Shaheed Chowk,” said JMM town committee president Manik Lal Gorai who witnessed Ansari collapsing after the flag-hoisting at Shaheed Chowk. A video clip being circulated on social media shows Ansari wave at someone when “Sare jahan se achcha” was being played and hold the flagpole after that, following which he suddenly slumps to the ground on his left where a woman party colleague was standing. “It all happened too quickly and he suddenly slumped to the ground before we could realise anything,” Gorai said, adding that Ansari was immediately rushed to a nearby medical facility. “I also reached there without losing any time but learnt he had already died of a heart attack,” he further said, adding that it was “really difficult to believe that someone who stood beside us a few minutes ago was no more”. “It’s really very sad that such a tragedy struck our party and we lost a dedicated colleague when people were celebrating the 75th Independence Day of the country,” state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon and finance minister, said in Ranchi. “Ansariji was associated with the party for about three decades,” said state Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey, adding that it was a rare incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-71
