20-08-2021||Calcutta||Sold-out stall at I-Day show||At an Independence Day plantation programme in Action Area IIB, a counter at a side of the stage manned by teenagers saw a lot of footfall early in the day but soon wore a deserted look. The reason was simple: all the products were sold out. Children from underprivileged families, who are being tutored by volunteers from the New Town Forum and News, a social welfare group comprising local residents, made rakhis which were put on sale at the event at Rs 30 a piece. “We got the children to man the counter alongside us so that the interactions with visitors would boost their confidence. With a few rakhis left unsold, they had gone to watch tree plantation taking place. When they came back and found the table empty, they were thrilled to bits,” smiled Susmita Dasgupta, co-convenor of the NTFN education tower. The children started getting tutored from the start of the year. “They are the children of our domestic helps, washermen, caretakers etc for whom schooling has stopped as most do not have smart phones. We teach them basic lessons in a fun way without conforming to a syllabus,” said Dasgupta, a resident of Alaktika. The idea of making rakhis came to Tultul Banerji, a retired teacher of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan. “I love to make craft items out of discarded stuff and used to gift them penstands, bookmarks etc as prize when they did well in lessons. They expressed interest to learn. The first thing I got the girls to make was dupattas for their own use by cutting a sari of mine. They did such nice stitchwork. Two weeks before rakhi, I thought of getting them to make some,” Banerji said. The seven children who stepped up are mostly from Muslim families. “So I told them about Tagore’s rakhibandhan initiative to stop the Partition of Bengal in 1905. So rakhi can be tied on anyone as a mark of friendship or communal harmony, and is not just an occasion for brother and sister,” Banerji added. Manjura Khatun, 14, and Mamtana Parveen, 15, are two of the seven who created the 67 rakhis sold on Sunday. “Wish we had made more. One person did not have cash and asked if we took digital payment. When we said no, he borrowed money and paid!” said Manjura excitedly. Both walk to Banerji’s Greenfield Ambition apartment from Dashadrone, in Rajarhat, half an hour away on foot. While Mamtana’s father drives a toto, Manjura’s father plies a van rickshaw and her grandmother is a cook. “We sold the rakhis instead of gifting them to guests to show the kids that they can contribute to the family if they pick up such skills,” said Banerji. The work had been divided. Some cut cloth to size, some stitched, some pasted stones, some created strings while some made paper bags to pack the rakhis in. “After (Banerji) aunty showed us, we took the work home. My sister and mother helped with my share of work,” Manjura said. Mamtana’s brothers, two and four years younger to her, too now want to learn the work. The seven have their hands full. “We had to return several customers empty-handed on Sunday. We plan to make more rakhis by Saturday for them,” Mamtana said. Ask them if they took the money home and they respond in the negative. “We will use the cash to buy materials for more such craft items,” they say. Kenya designs on bands Designs from Kenya are on offer on Rakhi this year, thanks to the initiative of two young women — one from Mahisbathan and another from Duttabad. They run an used-clothes upcycling programme of Prayasam, a CG-Block based NGO. “I used to make bands ever since I came back from an exchange programme in Kenya in 2019. These were used to tie on hands of colleagues in office and in our community on Rakhi. This year, we decided to sell them for Rs 25 apiece,” said Rupa Biswas, who is now employed at Prayasam as a junior research associate. Beads and wool are used to make colourful bands in Kenya. “These are unisex. So they can be tied on anyone’s hands,” says the Mahisbathan girl, who has taught rakhi-making to Sangita Das of Duttabad. The two run the Duoranir Sansar shop in Nehru Colony, Dakshindari where Prayasam has rented a house. “We are there from 10am to 5pm. About 150 rakhis have been sold. Many orders are coming over Facebook,” says Rupa. Another 100 are being sent pasted on cards to regular patrons in Salt Lake who gift used clothes round the year to upcycle and sell at the shop for Rs 10 apiece. “We had created and uploaded a video of them crafting rakhis which found good response. This is a part of our earn-while-you-learn initiative,” said Amlan Ganguly, founder, Prayasam. Pictures by Aman Mukhiya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Duare Sarkar service camps being held across Salt Lake and New Town||Duare Sarkar service camps are taking place across Salt Lake and New Town as elsewhere in the state. Each venue in New Town will receive applications for Duare Sarkar till September 15 except on Sunday, Saturday and public holidays. In Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation areas, it is happening in all 41 wards seven days a week except on Janmastami and Muharram in local community halls or municipal schools. The most number of applications are reportedly being received for Lakshmir Bhandar (Rs 500 a month for all women except government employees, their family members and pensioners) and Students Credit Card under the new schemes announced by the government and for Swasthya Sathi among the continuing schemes. Complaints under Paray Samadhan, like blocked water pipes and malfunctioning streetlights, are also being received.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Hidco inaugurates smart art gallery for free displays||An art gallery to showcase one’s work. That too free of cost. The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has gifted artists and photographers a space to exhibit their work without pinching their pockets. The Smart Art Gallery was inaugurated on August 6 by housing and transport minister Firhad Hakim. The 450sq.ft. floor area may be small but is prominently located — on the Major Arterial Road, right opposite City Centre 2. “The plot was getting encroached upon and overtaken by weeds and parthenium bushes. We erected a boundary wall around the plot and constructed a house which we thought would have a high commercial prospect because of its prominent location. An e-auction for rent did elicit a lot of response but we kept one room in the building for an art gallery,” said Hidco managing director Debashis Sen. The space will be on offer free of cost for art and photography exhibitions for a week. The inaugural event was an exhibition by artist Ashoke Mullick, a New Town resident. Local residents will be given priority, Sen pointed out. Commenting on the name, Sen said the gallery was smart as alongside fixed panels, it also had mobile panels which can also be rearranged as per the requirement of the exhibitor. The removable panels can display the exhibit frames from both sides. The gallery will harness the power of technology to display digital and online art as well. “We may be starting with a physical exhibition but we will move to augmented reality by using a projector. That way we can display even 400-500 exhibits even in limited physical space,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Foreign mail counter after philately park||“As a lot of relatives of residents of Salt Lake stay abroad, we are getting a high volume of parcel bookings. We are starting a separate counter for international mail and parcels so that the customers do not have to stand long in the queue,” said Pandurang Chormale, senior superintendent, East Calcutta division of the department of posts. Counter for stamp lovers A philately counter was also inaugurated on the day where commemorative stamps and philatelic articles like masks, bags, T-shirts and caps bearing the India Post logo would be sold. Even rakhi envelopes are being sold for Rs 10 anticipating bookings for rakhi delivery ahead of the festival. The counter would also offer the My Stamp facility, a popular initiative to sell individualised stamps in which a person’s photo would be clicked and printed next to an actual stamp. Mail as outdoor theme Tulsi Sinha Roy, civic co-ordinator for Ward 40, was also taken on a tour of the Philately Park that has come up inside the post office complex. “It was the idea of our post master general, Calcutta, Niraj Kumar,” Chormale said. Kaushik Kumar Mallik, system administrator, East Calcutta division was in charge of the planning and execution, along with his colleague Tapabrata Mandal. The park, spread over about 1,200sq ft, took about four months to beautify according to the theme and was completed on April 22. “We used 80-85 stamps, mostly on nature and birds. To lend a natural feel, we added a wooden mini decorative bridge over a waterbody and used bamboo slices for a small gate. A birdhouse has been installed for winged creatures to perch on. Three colourful mailboxes and a traditional red mail box stand sentinel around the central showpiece of a tree with concentric circular steps at its base for people to sit on,” an official explained. Sinha Roy recalled the hobby of stamp collection and letter-writing prevalent in her childhood days. A similar international mail counter was also opened on the day at the Beleghata head post office. saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Happy Works inaugurated, offers free wi-fi opens||The fluorescent yellow single-storeyed structure that caught the eye to the right of the Major Arterial Road on entering New Town from Sector V is now ready to welcome people looking for a change of setting after a year of working from home. The workspace, christened Happy Works, was inaugurated last Friday. As reported in the cover story of The Telegraph Salt Lake on December 4, 2020,. The other two are coming up opposite Eco Park, this is the first of three working pods planned in each of the three action areas in New Town and is located next to the old NKDA office near the Owl crossing, and near Sankalpa 4 housing complex. The 20 work stations are desks separated by wooden partitions at the sides and glass partitions in front. “The transparency will work as vigilance by fellow users against objectionable websites being accessed,” said a Hidco official. One has to bring one’s own laptop or device. The ground floor is air-conditioned and wi-fi connectivity is being offered free in the initial weeks. The first hour and half will cost Rs 30 and Rs 20 for each hour thereafter. One can even rent a seat for a monthly fee for Rs 3,999, plus GST. Twelve women from the women’s self-help group Jagarani have been given six days’ training to run the working pod and sell hot beverage.  There is also a photocopying facility. A corner has books ranging from Shirshendu Mukherjee in Bengali to Agatha Christie in English. Next to it, two sofas have been placed for people wanting to read books in comfort. “The books have been brought over from New Town Library at Nazrul Tirtha across the road and will be changed from time to time,” an official said. Housing and transport minister Firhad Hakim who inaugurated the workpod also left word to keep some of the chief minister’s works there. “The township is home to youth working in the IT sector, three or four of whom often share a room on rent. They can come over here to work comfortably in their own space,” said Hakim. As chairman of the board of administrators of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, he would try to replicate the idea in Calcutta as well, he said. The Happy Works working pod is designed on 836sq. ft. of space by Abin Design Studio. Above the single storey are a flight of steel steps which test one’s knees being double the usual height of steps. They are not meant to take one up to the roof but sit those who want to work outdoors in the winter months. “The increased height of the steps makes it comfortable for tall people to sit on them,” an employee of the design studio explained. “They are reminiscent of the steps we sat on at Presidency College,” said Hidco managing director Debashis Sen, whose brainchild the work pods are. He pointed out that the facility was meant for the use of the immediate neighbourhood from where people can walk up. “The target customers are those who need space to work, not so much for watching films,” Sen added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
20-08-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir Awards||The award ceremony of The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir 2020 took place last week and like most events during the pandemic, it was online. The contest awards the Durga Puja souvenirs that are published by committees in Salt Lake, New Town and neighbouring areas. Prize winners young and old logged in, interacted with one another and delivered their acceptance speeches over their computers and phones. Certificates had been sent to the winners beforehand. The date of the ceremony was carefully chosen too — August 12 marked the 16th anniversary of The Telegraph Salt Lake. Joining the show as chief guest was Debashis Sen, managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “Whenever I read The Telegraph Salt Lake I mentally calculate how many pages are devoted to Salt Lake and New Town. You see, my work entails New Town but I am a resident of CE Block in Salt Lake. So actually it’s a win-win for me either way,” he shared with the audience. “We are all interested in local news and this supplement informs us about our neighbours. It unites the twin townships.” Also joining the meeting was Dhruba Mukherjee, CEO of ABP. “This is the first digital meet for a physical award by The Telegraph Salt Lake,” he noted. “This contest has been going strong over the years because of the robust participation it gets and the enthusiasm of residents to keep literature alive.” Amitabha Dutta, director, Calcutta Media Institute, an ABP initiative and a resident of FE Block, congratulated the winners and hoped it would be possible to organise an in-person ceremony next year. saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Swimming pools: Some open, some not||The new relaxations have also allowed swimming pools to open, although not many in our area have done so. The pool at New Town Business Club opened from Tuesday. “There is much excitement among swimmers about getting back into the water and we had started receiving queries from members even before we got permission to open,” said Debashis Sen, managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), that is in charge of the club. The pool is allowing only those members who have received both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine and the time slots are being divided in a way to ensure not more than 50 per cent occupancy at any time. The pool had opened earlier this year for a short while before it was forced to shut again for the restrictions. So there are people who had paid membership fees for the entire swimming season till around the Pujas but lost out on some months. “We shall look into the issue and adjust it as per the situation,” said Sen. BF Block Salt Lake’s oldest pool reopened on Thursday. The pool had been maintained and the water kept chlorinated all through the period of restriction since May 1 so the authorities say they did not have to prepare much for the re-opening. Existing members can start swimming right away as can the seasonal members who had enrolled in April. A decision will be taken on whether more seasonal membership forms will be given out or not, given far fewer than the usual numbers have registered. The season usually ends on September 30. Since the pool had to be shut for so long in between, a decision will also be taken on whether the season will be extended into October till the start of the Pujas. Bad news In Salt Lake, however, the two swimming pools run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation are likely to remain shut till the end of the year, an official of the civic body said. The corporation has a pool near Bidhannagar Municipal Sports Complex opposite Mayukh Bhavan and one in CJ Block opposite their ward office. The one opposite Mayukh Bhavan has been functioning as a Covid testing centre since the last lockdown. “There are still beds, an observation centre and oxygen cylinders on the pool’s premises and we have not received orders from the health department to move them out,” said the official. According to him, the entire pool complex needs to get sanitised before it can be opened to the public and no such thing has been done. “We have not received any instruction to open the pools yet. As it is, the pools shut down by October-end and it makes little sense to open them now as people too would be wary to step into the water,” another official said. Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's board of administrators, said that they would hold a meeting and decide whether to open the pools this year. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Movie halls bank on Akshay new film to pull viewers back in crucial weekend||They got permission to reopen a fortnight back but it’s the coming weekend that movie halls are claiming will be the make or break for them. Bell Bottom, the big ticket Akshay Kumar film, released on August 19 and hall owners are hoping it will lure film-goers back to theatres. Till Wednesday, only one out of the three screens at Nazrul Tirtha was screening films. Show timings were 2pm and 5pm. “This is because only 15 to 20 people were coming for each show. Even in the Independence Day weekend numbers did not rise to more than 20 people per show,” said Pijush Pal, who manages the ticket counter at the theatre. Multiplexes are praying that the festive weekend pays dividends. “Two big releases — Bell Bottom and Mukhosh — are due and we are sure footfall will rise. We got good footfall in the Independence Day weekend and the one before that too,” said Amitava Guha Thakurta, regional director, Inox Leisure. Sameer Shrivastava, regional manager of Miraj Cinemas, says Bell Bottom is their last hope. “Ours is a new hall; we opened in March but had to close due to the lockdown in April. In the short span that we were in business the only new release was Saina, that sank without a trace. We are now screening The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It but this isn’t doing well either.” Miraj Cinemas is in New Town’s Terminus Building, that also houses Pride Hotel. “With Bell Bottom, we shall get some clarity about what film-goers are thinking. Have they been staying away from halls due to Covid or was it because there wasn’t any exciting film to watch?” Shrivastava said. “The response this film gets will help us plan ahead.” Single-screen saga Single-screen owners aren’t the least bit sanguine. Some are not even ready to reopen. “At a time when even multiplexes are suffering losses, how can I think of reopening my halls?” asks owner of Arati Cinema in Baguiati, Srivash Ghosh. “With paying staff salaries and maintenance work, it became increasingly difficult to make ends meet. We had reopened after the first lockdown but when the second one was announced we simply ran out of funds. I cannot afford to reopen till the market stabilises again,” he rued. Jaya Cinema hasn’t reopened either. “A fire had broken out on our premises and repair work is still underway. So we cannot open immediately,” says Monojit Banik, owner of Jaya Cinema. “But our multiplexes in Barasat and Cooch Behar have reopened and the numbers look good. Hopefully big stars will attract big crowds.” Movie nostalgia Film-goers are eager to hit the theatres but apprehensive. “I am a movie buff and used to watch a film every Friday before the pandemic,” said FD Block’s Deepen Bhunia, walking out of Inox after watching The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It. “It’s almost a year since I watched a film in a multiplex and it feels great. I hope the halls stay open now.” But those like Naresh Dutta of BD Block are taking no chances. “The pandemic isn’t over and experts have warned of an impending third wave. I don’t want to risk going to a theatre any time soon,” he said. Additional reporting by Brinda Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta issues code of conduct for teachers and officials||IIM Calcutta has circulated among teachers and officials a code of conduct that says “members of the institute are not expected to publish anonymously, pseudonymously or in the name of any other person or organisation, materials that may bring disrepute to the institute”. According to the code, the teachers of the institute will try to “avoid criticism of the institute in any media (print, audio, TV, social etc) that may bring disrepute to the institute”. The code, which was approved last month at a meeting of the board of governors, the institute’s highest decision-making body, says: “No member of the institute community shall engage or participate in any demonstration which is prejudicial to the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of state, public order or decency.” In April, the B-school had circulated among teachers a draft code of conduct that articulated the institute’s resolve to gag dissent. Teachers had then written back to the institute about their opposition to the draft code, citing examples of universities abroad that encouraged freedom of expression. “The approval of the code suggests that apart from undertaking a few modifications or tweaking a few words, the institute has stuck to its resolve,” said a teacher. The clause pertaining to “unauthorised communication of sensitive information” says no member of the institute will, “except in accordance with general or specific order of the competent authority… communicate directly or indirectly any official documents or information with any person with whom he or she is not authorised to communicate such documents or information”. As many as 60 of the 76 teachers of IIM-C had written to the Union education ministry in December, expressing the fear that the board was mulling restrictions on their freedom of expression. Teachers at the B-school said the final code did not deviate much from the draft and was in sync with recent efforts to destroy the atmosphere of plurality on campuses. The draft had said, among other things: “No member shall in any Radio/TV broadcast, social media, electronic media, print media or in any document published anonymously, pseudonymously or in his/her own name or in the name of any other person… which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the institute.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Over 2,000 pool car owners seek all-Bengal permit from state govt||Around 2,000 pool car owners, who together own around 3,500 vehicles, have appealed to the state government to give them road permits so they can travel to all districts of Bengal. Out of business since schools shut down in March 2020 as a precaution against Covid-19, pool car operators said an all-Bengal permit would enable them to ferry people to tourist destinations such as Digha, Mandarmani, Bankura, Purulia, Santiniketan, Bakkhali and Diamond Harbour, and other places. Most pool car owners now have permits to ferry schoolchildren to two districts apart from Calcutta — Howrah and North or South 24-Parganas. In a letter to the transport secretary on Thursday, the pool car owners wrote that several thousands of families across parts of Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas and Howrah were dependent on this business, which has taken a beating with the closure of schools. Many have no other source of income. Since the permit allows them to run only in two districts other than Calcutta, they are unable to ferry passengers to far-off places. “We request you to please give us an All Bengal Operational Permit as this will help in engaging our inoperative cars in some meaningful economic activity and provide a source of income for us during these difficult times,” wrote Sudip Dutta, secretary, Pool Car Owners Welfare Association. The Telegraph has reported how a number of pool car owners have switched professions. Some now deliver eggs, rice and pulses to homes of parents who used to send their children to schools in their cars. A few others have sold their cars at throwaway prices. Some drivers have run out of savings and a few have taken up tailoring. On Thursday, some pool car owners said they were getting contracts to ferry tourists for day trips or weekend trips. “In June and July, there were many offers for trips to places like Santiniketan or Taki (in North 24-Parganas),” said Chiranjit Roy, a pool car operator. “I had to turn them down because of the permit. If prosecuted, the fine can be as high as Rs 10,000. I can’t risk it,” Roy said. Senior officials in the transport department said they were yet to decide on how an all-Bengal permit could be issued to pool car operators. It will require clearance from the state cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Fake call centres busted in Baguiati, 12 held||Twelve persons, including “directors” of three call centres in Baguiati that were allegedly duping people, were arrested after Salt Lake police conducted raids on Wednesday night. The arrested persons would allegedly promise people high returns if they let them use their land or rooftops to erect cellphone towers of reputable network providers, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. According to the officer, they had received specific information that at least three call centres were operating from separate houses in Baguiati. “The persons were posing as representatives of mobile network service providers. They would call people and say their terrace had been chosen to set up a mobile tower, for which they would get Rs 20 lakh and a monthly rent of Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000,” said the officer. Those who agreed to let out their roofs or land would then be asked to pay a processing fee ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000, the officer said. “Once the victims paid the initial amount, they would be asked to deposit another Rs 50,000 as licence fee,” the officer said. As soon as the payment was made, the callers would snap all ties with the owners or occupants of the premises, the officer said. “We first raided a call centre in Prafulla Kanan AB Block in Baguiati. There we found two men and a woman placing calls. All three were arrested,” said the officer. Two more houses in the area were raided, from where nine men were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||CMDA floats tender for wetlands flyover consultant||The CMDA has started the process of hiring a consultant who will prepare a report on the possible impact of a proposed flyover on the ecologically fragile East Calcutta Wetlands. A tender inviting applications from agencies interested in preparing the environment impact assessment (EIA) report was floated recently, said a CMDA official. The state government is planning to build a flyover connecting EM Bypass and New Town’s Biswa Bangla Gate, whose pillars will come up on the banks of the wetlands. “The flyover’s initial alignment, prepared in 2018, had to be cancelled following an order from the Union environment ministry,” said an engineer of the CMDA who is involved in the planning of the flyover. Originally, the flyover was to pass over the core area of the wetlands. “According to the new alignment, prepared on the basis of the recommendation of the Union ministry, the piers of the flyovers will come up on the banks of the wetlands,” the engineers. The East Calcutta Wetlands, protected under the Ramsar convention, is regarded as the city’s kidneys because of their role in the natural recycling of effluents. Once the EIA report is ready, the CMDA will send it to the ministry, through the state government, for approval. Since India is a signatory to the Ramsar convention, any proposed construction over a Ramsar site in the country has to be approved by the environment ministry. The website of the Centre for Science and Environment says an EIA “examines both beneficial and adverse consequences of the project and ensures that these effects are taken into account during project design.” The EIA, it says, “helps to identify possible environmental effects of the proposed project, proposes measures to mitigate adverse effects and predicts whether there will be significant adverse environmental effects, even after the mitigation is implemented”. The proposed flyover will be 7.1-km long and its civil construction is estimated to cost Rs 600 crore. Bonani Kakkar, an environmental activist who had gone to court against the previous alignment of the flyover, said: “The authorities must understand that a flyover will... have bright lights. The wetlands are also a habitat for thousands of birds. Bright lights cause difficulties for birds and they may shy away from the area. That is one reason why games under floodlights were stopped at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Trader from Calcutta found dead in Jharkhand||A man who ran a construction business near New Market, and was possibly last seen in Calcutta by a friend on Ripon Street on Tuesday evening, was found dead with his throat slit around 250km away in Jharkhand’s Jamtara on Wednesday. The deceased man’s family said Jamtara police contacted them on Wednesday afternoon on a phone number that was printed on a key-ring the victim, Saif Khan, 37, was carrying. “Police said they did not find anything on my brother except the key-ring. The key-ring had the phone number of our shop where the police called and informed us about my brother. They sent us a photograph of a body and we identified it as Saif’s,” said elder brother Qais on Thursday. The family went to Jamtara on Wednesday to claim the body, which was handed over to them after a post-mortem. According to the family, Saif had left their Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road home around 6pm on Tuesday. When he did not return home till around 11pm, the family tried to contact him but found his phone switched off. “We were not too alarmed even when we found his phone switched off because we thought his phone had run out of charge. It was only very late at night that we started worrying. We started calling his friends to inquire,” Qais told The Telegraph. From one of Saif’s friends, the family learned that he was last seen near Mezban restaurant on Ripon Street around 7.30pm on Tuesday. “We found my brother’s scooter parked in the same area on Wednesday but no one could say who he had left the spot with,” Qais said. He said when they went to Jamtara to claim the body, the police told them that Saif’s phone was last active in the Kidderpore area around 9.30pm on Tuesday. “We went to New Market police station on Wednesday night but were told that since my brother’s body was found in Jharkhand, they (Jamtara police) will investigate the case,” a family member of Saif’s said. A senior officer of New Market police station said: “There was no missing diary from the family before his body was found in Jharkhand. They informed us only after Jharkhand police contacted them. It is apparent the incident happened in Jharkhand and they have started investigating. We will provide any type of assistance they need from here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Cable risk unchecked across roads and pavements in Calcutta and Salt Lake||Mazes of cables, spilled across roads and pavements in parts of the city and in Salt Lake, continue to be potential death traps for two-wheeler riders and pedestrians. A week has passed since a young biker died after the front wheel of his motorcycle got caught in a mesh of cables lying on the road in Salt Lake and a water tanker ran over him. On Thursday, The Telegraph saw bundles of snipped and dud cables strewn across roads and on median dividers and pavements in many places, including Camac Street, Gurusaday Road, Ballygunge, several stretches of EM Bypass, Sector V and other places in Salt Lake. A 1km-long stretch from Vardaan Market till the Camac Street intersection had rolls of cables tied around lamp posts and tree trunks. Some snipped wires were lying across the road as well. The cables were not visible from a distance and most two-wheeler riders were spotted swerving at the last minute to avoid riding over them. On the Gariahat flyover, several loops of cables were jutting out onto the road and snipped wires were poking out at regular intervals. The situation was similar in front of the Lalit Great Eastern, where clumps of wires looped around lamp posts were jutting out into the main thoroughfare. In Salt Lake, too, bundles of snipped wires were spotted lying across the streets in all three sectors of the township. Last week, a 26-year-old biker riding home suffered fatal head injuries after the front wheel of his motorcycle got caught in a mesh of cables lying on the road near Salt Lake’s Baisakhi island and a water tanker ran over him. Subham Dhar, a resident of Canal East Road in Ultadanga, was riding along the Ultadanga-bound flank of First Avenue when the accident occurred around 6pm. Dhar, a medical representative, was wearing a helmet but it had come off under the impact of the crash. In July, Priyam Majhi, 38, a resident of HC Block, fell off his two-wheeler after the bike’s front wheel got entangled with a dangling cable on an unlit stretch of Canalside Road, along the eastern drainage canal, in front of Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex. In January 2018, a teenager from Beniapukur’s Kasaipara had died after his bike’s wheels got entangled in a mesh of cables dumped on the road near the Park Circus bridge. Multiple accidents have taken place across the city over the past couple of years because of the mess of cables lying on main roads but multi-service operators continue to tie cables on street furniture. Several drives have been undertaken by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, but they have yielded little result. In June, the CMC made tunnels on either side of a 3km-stretch of Harish Mukherjee Road. Cable TV operators and internet service providers have been asked to lay cables through these tunnels and clear the overhead mess on the stretch. In Sector V, too, the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) is making such tunnels. However, NDITA and CMC officials said that there was “stiff resistance from the cable operators and MSOs” as they do not want to incur extra expenses by way of fees for using the tunnels to channel the wires. Tapash Das, the joint convenor of All Bengal Cable and Broadband Operators United Forum, said that they had started clearing unused and defunct cables. “We have already removed the dead cables from many places like the Kasba connector. The work is taking time since we have to cover very large areas,” he said. Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said they had started a drive to remove cables but it was getting held up because of rain. “Our teams are working but it is difficult to snip wires as we need to identify which ones don’t work,” said Chakraborty. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the chairman of the CMC board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, have requested and warned cable operators to remove the maze of overhead cables and the ones tied around street furniture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||The reopening: Restaurants and bars heave a sigh of relief||Restaurants and bars are breathing a sigh of relief now that they are allowed to stay open till 10.30pm. The new rule came into force from Monday and even though footfall was not bumper across the board the first couple of days, the industry expects a turn of fortunes from this weekend. Oudh 1590 was almost full on Day One. “We did great business between 8pm and 10.30pm as the new timings are convenient,” said founder-director Shiladitya Chaudhury. So optimistic are they that they have even announced their annual Awadhi biriyani festival now. “It’s Rakhi this Sunday, the Puja shopping season is starting and dinner timings are finally fitting into people’s schedules. I just wish we could have got the Independence Day weekend too. We’d have done bumper business.” Ankit Agarwal, who runs two eateries in Salt Lake, rues the same. “Such was the excitement in the Independence Day weekend that customers cited the 10.30pm order and demanded we stay open till then. We had to patiently explain to them that the order would only come into force on August 16 and that till then 8pm was closing time. People were in a mood to celebrate last weekend and it was a lost opportunity for our industry,” said the man who runs Le Coffee Creme opposite City Centre and Tango Chutney in the swimming pool area. Cafe Ekante has got positive feedback too. “Monday is our off day so we could only start the extended hours from Tuesday. Compared to last Tuesday, this Tuesday saw a 12 per cent increase in guests,” said Debashis Sen, managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco). “We also opened Eco Park on the day and had a footfall of 1,381. The figure is modest compared to pre-Covid times but significant nonetheless. Mother’s Wax Museum, Eco Urban Village have opened too and so the restaurants will naturally do well now.” Thank god it’s Friday Sector V’s Opium bar and restaurant recorded 20 per cent hike in sales on Monday. “And this was on a weekday. The nature of our IT hub has changed during the pandemic as most people are working from home. So it’s weekends that are drawing more crowds,” said partner Moloy Dutta, expecting great business from tonight onwards. At Country Roads, the micro brewery and restaurant at New Town’s DLF Galleria, eight or nine tables were occupied on Monday night. “Footfall would have been higher but it was the last Monday of the Sravan month and many people had rituals to follow,” says manager Rajdeep Shil. “We’ll know the real effect of the 10.30pm relaxation between Friday and Sunday. We expect great response.” Many restaurants cited Sravan for inadequate footfall on Monday. At Sector V’s Miam, partner Moumita Ghosh said customers were playing it safe. “We reminded customers on Monday that they can stay on till 10.30 but many were sceptical. They said since the rule was newly implemented the police might still harass them on their way home. It would take till the weekend for customers to gain confidence and party till late,” said Ghosh. Changing habits Samiran Mitra, manager of Abcos Food Plaza, says in the pre-Covid era customers would linger till 11.30pm. “But 10.30pm is good enough for now. Anything is better than 8pm, which was neither here nor there. People could barely enjoy a peg before it was time to leave. We would have to parcel their dinner,” he says. “Others would alter their plans and come for lunch instead of dinner.” Agarwal says they would mostly get customers for snacks in the early evenings. “Large orders were not happening as people had to leave before they got hungry. And that’s a pity as traditionally we would get more customers for dinner than lunch. And south and north Indian cuisine, that as we serve at Tango Chutney, isn’t as appetising at home as it is piping hot from the kitchen.” Chaudhury of Oudh 1590 agrees. “Our restaurant is a destination. Its drama and decor are part of this dining experience which one is missing by eating out of a box at home,” he says. Write to us at saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-12
20-08-2021||Calcutta||State higher secondary council announces evaluation process for Class XI students||The state higher secondary council has announced that the students of Class XI will be evaluated on the basis of their performance in Madhyamik 2020. The Class XI annual exams were scrapped because of the Covid pandemic and all students have been promoted to Class XII. The evaluation will not lead to the annulment of the promotion of any student, council officials said. A notice uploaded on the council’s website on Wednesday says the average score of the best four subjects in Madhyamik will constitute the basis of evaluation in theory papers in Class XI. If the average score is 80 per cent in Madhyamik, the percentage will be weighted on 70 marks of the theory papers in science subjects in Class XI. The weighted score will be 56, said an official. “The percentage in Madhyamik will be weighted on 80 marks for theory papers in humanities and commerce. The weighted score will be 64”. In the 30-mark practicals in lab-based subjects and 20-mark projects in the other subjects, the schools will evaluate students on the basis of activity task or online assessment. Some members of Collegium of Assistant Headmasters and Assistant Headmistresses met the president of the HS council, Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, on Thursday and said the evaluation system was flawed. Bhattacharya said they will go through the complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Managers needed for post-Covid solutions, says industry veterans and experts||Managers are more relevant than ever in the post-pandemic period, a panel of industry veterans and management experts asserted at a virtual session on Wednesday. The ABP Virtual Insights on Management Education, in association with Acharya Bangalore B-School (ABBS), dealt with “Post-Pandemic Career Opportunities in Management”. “Managers are more relevant now than they were ever before. The Covid-19 pandemic has shown that uncertainty and unpredictability can be a global problem which cannot be solved with tried and tested templates. Therefore, the need for people who can produce solutions. That is the core of management,” said Giri Balasubramaniam, educator, quizmaster, Harvard alumnus and Indian Administrative Fellow (IAF) in the department of education of the Karnataka government and one of the speakers at Wednesday’s session. The other speakers were Bhaskar Roy, vice-president and global operations leader, Genpact Analytics and Data Science; Madhumita Chatterji, director, ABBS School of Management; and Praveen Kamath, general manager HR — global strategic hiring and redeployment, Wipro Ltd. The session was moderated by Ajitesh Basani, secretary, SSS Trust and executive director, Acharya Bangalore B-School. Excerpts from the interactive session, held on Zoom platform. Importance of research Stressing the importance of research and analytics, Roy of Genpact said research was not just about doing a PhD or a post-doctoral degree. “It is an advanced mindset and discipline that transforms one’s professional DNA,” he said. Roy felt students should focus on “being curious, willingness to experiment, skills to solve problems, imbibing the learning culture and giving edge over the others”. They should focus on a range of subjects like economics, data science and digital healthcare and “develop a habit of writing white papers, reading research papers and presenting their works in various forums”, Roy said. Job security The moderator asked about job security in the present “hyper-responsive” world, when businesses are fraught with uncertainties. “Job security is a myth created by us, a notional feeling. Lord Rama lost his job and was banished. If the epitome of righteousness can lose his job, who are we?” said Giri. With many companies going for project-based recruitments, there are ample opportunities for “candidates with good skill sets” to work with multiple clients and earn more than a fixed salary, he said. Fresh graduates Kamath, who the moderator said was “at the forefront of hiring” at Wipro, was asked about the competencies that he looked out for in fresh management graduates. The “basic sense of understanding of what you have learnt and the ability to have the latest skill to complement your existing skill set which came from academia” were the two things that recruiters looked out for on B-school campuses, said Kamath. “For example, if I am a management graduate, do I know about analytics, data science? These are questions that have become normal for a student passing out of a B-school,” he said. Industry connect Alignment to the industry was imperative for any B-school, said Chatterji. “B-schools have to be aligned to the corporate, no two ways about it. While students are taught marketing, finance and HR, we have to see what is required in today’s world,” she said. “Today’s marketing will require framing new principles of marketing and sales based on the new data that is coming in,” Chatterji said. Analytics Analytics is going to play the key role in decision making in industries across different sectors, said Roy. “The industry will focus on developing sophisticated and autonomous systems that get tasks done with greater precision, speed and efficiency than their human counterparts. Machines and technology can solve, automate and digitise. But people will add value,” said Roy. Understanding analytics as a domain and data science as a domain will be key to the industry’s growth, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Mamata to visit SSKM every fortnight to monitor various work||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday went to SSKM Hospital and said she would be there every fortnight to monitor various work related to hospitals. “I will have a small office here (at SSKM) along with a conference room. The health secretary and the chief secretary will remain with me at times,” she said. “We are setting up two cancer hospitals, one here and another in Siliguri.” The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will administer first doses of Covid vaccines between 10am and 3pm and second doses between 3pm and 4pm from Monday. The routine will apply on all six days of the week, till further changes are announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
20-08-2021||Calcutta||Afghan nationals in Calcutta stand by ‘national flag’||A group of Afghan nationals and others who were born in India but have their roots in Afghanistan celebrated the country’s independence day in the city on Thursday. The women and men have been living in Calcutta for years but never felt the urge to come together this way. This year they decided to assemble as a mark of protest against the Taliban’s sweep across the country. Yasmin Jigar Khan, a leader of the group that had assembled at a Park Circus address, said they were angry at the way the Taliban flag was put up in public spaces in Afghanistan. “Our allegiance is to the national flag. We respect only one flag, which is the national flag of Afghanistan. The Taliban has insulted the national flag and hence we have assembled here with the flag to celebrate the independence day,” said Yasmin, who was born in India. Her parents had come over to India from Afghanistan in 1949. Yasmin’s father was a close associate of Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, lovingly called Frontier Gandhi. She said Abdul Gaffar Khan described her father as his grandson. “The Taliban tried to remove the Afghan national flag and replace it with their flag. This is an insult to the nation and its people,” said Yasmin, who is also the president of the All India Pakhtun e Hind, an association of Pakhtuns living in India. There were some in the assembly who were born in Afghanistan but moved to India in the past few years. A 61-year-old man who had left Afghanistan in 1996, the year the Taliban wrested power for the first time, said even the early days of Taliban curbed many freedoms. A 32-year-old man who had arrived in India five years back remembered how people would earlier pour into the streets on August 19 to celebrate their independence day, without fear of repercussions. “People carried the national flag, some painted the colours of the national flag on their faces. There was no fear in coming out on the streets and celebrating. All of that has changed now. People are now concerned about their safety and security and they do not have the time or luxury to celebrate independence day,” said the young man, who is into trading. Reports on Thursday said there were clashes between the Taliban and ordinary Afghan citizens who tried to remove the Taliban’s white flag and install the national flag in their place. Kingshuk Chatterjee, a professor of history at Calcutta University, said August 19 is observed as Afghanistan’s National Day to commemorate the signing of the Anglo-Afghan treaty in August 1919. By this treaty, the British withdrew from Afghanistan. “August 19 is observed as the Afghan National Day. It is observed to commemorate the treaty that led to the complete withdrawal of the British from Afghanistan. Since 1878, Afghanistan was a British protectorate but after the treaty of 1919, the British terminated the arrangement,” said Chatterjee. August 19 had been acknowledged as the National Day by the subsequent monarchs, those who helmed the Republic of Afghanistan, or those who were leaders of the socialist Afghanistan. The West-backed governments between 2001 and 2021 also observed the day. But he was not sure whether the Taliban rule of 1996-2001 had acknowledged this day as the National Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-13
20-08-2021||Business||Forex reserves decline $2.10 billion to $619.365 billion||India's foreign exchange reserves decreased by $2.099 billion to stand at $619.365 billion for the week ended August 13 due to a fall in core currency assets and gold, RBI data showed on Friday. The forex kitty had increased by $889 million to a lifetime high of $621.464 billion in the previous reporting week. Foreign currency assets (FCAs), a major component of the overall reserves, decreased by $1.358 billion to $576.374 billion in the reporting week, as per the weekly data by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Expressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves. Value of the gold reserves declined for the second consecutive week, dropping $720 million to $36.336 billion, the data showed. The special drawing rights (SDRs) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) dipped by $7 million to $1.544 billion. The country's reserve position with the IMF also fell by $14 million to $5.111 billion, as per the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 300 points to close at 55,329||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped 300 points on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Tata Steel, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank amid a heavy sell-off in global equities. The 30-share index ended 300.17 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 55,329.32, while the broader NSE Nifty declined 118.35 points or 0.71 per cent to 16,450.50. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, plunging over 8 per cent, followed by SBI, Dr Reddy's, Kotak Bank, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto and L&T. On the other hand, HUL, Asian Paints, Nestle India and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. "Domestic equities witnessed high volatility with selling pressure across the counters. Notably, barring FMCG, most sectoral indices traded in red with Nifty metal witnessing steepest decline followed by realty, PSU banks, and pharma," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Rise in Delta variant cases in various parts of the world and increasing concern about sustainability of ongoing economic recovery globally led to heavy profit-booking in metal stocks, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with heavy losses. Equities in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.59 per cent to USD 66.06 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Coal India's capital expenditure jumps more than twofold in first quarter of FY22||State-owned CIL on Friday said its capital expenditure jumped more than twofold to Rs 1,840 crore in the first quarter of 2021-22 compared to Rs 844 crore in the year-ago quarter. Coal India in a statement said the capital expenditure rose twofold in the first quarter of FY22 as it continues to step up investments in evacuation infrastructure, land acquisition and procurement of heavy equipment. CIL has achieved 94 per cent of the progressive target of Rs 1,960 crore, set for April-June quarter of the ongoing fiscal. Underscoring the intent on strengthening evacuation infrastructure like setting up rail sidings and corridors, coal handling plants, (CHP), silos and haul roads CIL's capex has risen to Rs 504 crore on this account, the second highest among all capex heads. This is a quantum leap of 109 per cent over the first quarter of FY21 when the capex spend on these infra projects was Rs 241 crore. "Our focus is to have a seamless coal evacuation process in future when production increases. We are gearing ahead for that. CHP/Silo loading will save us considerable expenses apart from having environment benefits," the company said. "Rail sidings and lines are being dovetailed with CHPs and silos," he added. CIL's aims to move around 415 MT of coal through mechanised means through 35 first mile connectivity projects by FY'24. Procurement of heavy earth moving machinery, plant and other machinery that would help in ramping up output through opencast (OC) mines continued to top the capex list at Rs 670 crore during April-June 2021. Land acquisition accounted for Rs 268 crore. CIL has pegged its capex target at Rs 17,000 crore for FY'22 which is a 28 per cent increase over the actual capital expenditure of Rs 13,284 during 2020-21. During FY'21 CIL has exceeded even its revised capex target of Rs 13,000 crore despite pandemic induced downward spiral, making it one of the few CPSUs of the country to have done so. Of the entire targeted capex of FY'22, evacuation infrastructure leads the list with more than one-third at nearly Rs 5,950 crore. Other major heads are HEMM, plant and machinery with Rs 3,560 crore. Joint Venture projects including Talcher Fertilizers Ltd and Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd, solar and others will make up around Rs 3,200 crore. Land acquisition will take up around Rs 2,700 crore. "CIL's capex will be contingent on the demand for coal and production needs. The investments will be made accordingly," the company said. CIL accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic coal output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Jewellers to go on token strike on August 23 against gold hallmarking||Jewellers across the country will go on a 'token strike' on August 23 against the "arbitrary implementation" of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery, All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) said on Friday. The strike will be supported by 350 associations and federations from all four zones of the entire gems and jewellery industry, the GJC claimed. Mandatory gold hallmarking has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and union territories for the phase-1 implementation. Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature so far. "The one-day token strike is our peaceful protest against arbitrary implementation of HUID (hallmark unique identification number), which is impractical and unimplementable," Ashok Minawala, past Chairman of GJC, said in a statement. Minawala is a jewellers' representative on government-appointed committees and Director of Danabhai Jewellers Group. He said jewellers cannot accept the new HUID as it has nothing to do with the purity of gold. The BIS feels the new HUID will improve gold purity but jewellers think it is just a tracking mechanism. Stating that the HUID system is extremely time consuming, GJC Director Dinesh Jain said the current speed and capacity of hallmarking centres is about two lakh pieces per day. At this speed, it will take 3-4 years to hallmark this years' production. "Currently, the new HUID system is taking almost 5 to 10 days to hallmark the products, resulting in a complete bottleneck and the industry is on standstill. ...Tonnes of jewellery is lying idle due to delays in the existing hallmarking process and BIS is simply adding fire to our anxiety instead of resolving issues," he said. It is estimated that yearly almost 10-12 crore gold jewellery pieces are manufactured in India. In addition, existing stock of almost 6-7 crore pieces are yet to be hallmarked. This takes the total count of pieces to be hallmarked in a year to almost 16-18 crore pieces, he added. That apart, HUID is not fool-proof as there have been lots of issues such as double HUID on the same piece, same HUID on multiple jewellery etc, he said, adding that these are already brought to the notice of the BIS. Mumbai Wholesale Gold Jewellery Association President Prakash Kagrecha said jewellers have welcomed the hallmarking and the growth in registration has risen from 34,000 to 88,000 jewellers, which shows the jewellers commitment towards consumers. "However, the hallmarking centres have been reduced as 83 centres have been either suspended or cancelled. The new HUID process involves cutting, melting, and scraping of jewellery, which is intended to sell. The entire process of hallmarking is defeated when a jewellery has been damaged," he said. Further, this process eliminates instant consumer-friendly services, which is the biggest USP of this sector. Removal of the jeweller's name from the jewellery will be detrimental to the interest of consumers when they wish to sell or exchange, he added. According to the Council, the penal and criminal consequences on the jewellers -- who have not manufactured or hallmarked the jewellery and sold it like a trader -- will eventually result in winding up of businesses in fear of 'Inspector Raaj' which has already begun. The draconian provisions of cancellation of registration for a civil offence is imposed on this trade, where just by a stroke of a BIS officer, resulting in loss of livelihood of millions of employees, artisans and their dependents, it said. Despite the jewellery industry's continuous demand to consider the NITI Aayog's report on hallmarking to be a benchmark while framing the BIS Act has not been taken into consideration, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 400 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a selloff in other Asian equities.  The 30-share index was trading 445.02 points or 0.80 per cent lower at 55,184.47, while the broader NSE Nifty slumped 147.10 points or 0.89 per cent to 16,421.75.  Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, Dr Reddy's, SBI, L&T, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints, Infosys and Maruti were among the gainers.  In the previous session, Sensex closed 162.78 points or 0.29 per cent lower at 55,629.49, and Nifty declined 45.75 points or 0.28 per cent to 16,568.85.  The stock market was closed on Thursday on account of Muharram'.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 595.32 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "Taper rumours have again started impacting markets. Minutes of the latest US Fed meet indicate that tapering of bond purchases may start later this year. This triggered a risk-off in markets with the Dow and S&P 500 correcting by 1.1 per cent each on the 18th," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  Tapering is negative news for markets since it will eventually reduce the liquidity available in the financial system, he noted.  "But the positive dimension is that the Fed is indicating tapering since economic growth revival is strong. If growth and earnings recovery is strong, markets are likely to stage a rebound after the initial jitters," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals amid mounting worries of the spread of delta variant of coronavirus in the region.  However, equities in the US largely ended on a positive note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.42 per cent to USD 66.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Power ministry circulates draft rules for allowing gencos to sell electricity to third party||The ministry of power has proposed to amend rules to help electricity producers sell power to a third party, which can reduce fixed costs and cut retail tariff for end consumers. The ministry on Thursday circulated the draft Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge) Amendment Rules, 2021 seeking comments from stakeholders The rules were uploaded on the ministry’s website. The ministry proposes to take one more step towards reducing the burden of the distribution licensee (discoms) to help reduce the retail tariff for electricity consumers, a statement said. It added that the generating companies were being given an option to sell power to third parties and recover their costs. If a distribution licensee has any payment, including late payment surcharge, outstanding after the expiry of seven months from the due date as prescribed in the PPA (power purchase agreement), the generating company may sell the power to any consumer or any other licensee or power exchanges for the period of such a default, the statement said. The claim will be retained on payment of fixed charges or capacity charges from the distribution licensee, after giving a notice of at least 15 days to the distribution licensee. “The claim, if any, shall be reconciled on an annual basis and shall be limited to only under recovery of the fixed charges or capacity charges.” The statement added that due to non-payment of outstanding dues, the distribution licensees are burdened with the increase in the late payment surcharge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Five Bengal firms in preparatory stages of launching IPO||The year 2021 may go down in the history books for harvesting the highest capital through initial public offerings in India. And this time, Bengal is also joining the party. The 36 issues till date have raised Rs 60,298 crore, and there are indications the number will easily overhaul the record of Rs 75,279 crore in 2017 from 38 issues as liquidity pumped in by various central banks fires stock markets across the globe. Closer home, only one Bengal-based company has made it to the list but what’s in store looks far more promising. At least five firms are in the preparatory stages of launching an IPO and if all goes well, they will raise more capital together than what was accumulated from this state over the entire last decade. According to Pranav Haldea, managing director of Prime Database Group, a company that tracks the primary market in India, 54 companies are expected to come out with an IPO in India. “There are about 13 companies which have Sebi approval and another 41 which are awaiting approval with a total estimated issue size of close to Rs 1 lakh crore. However, all of them shall not launch their IPOs in this calendar year,” Haldea said. And the mind-boggling number does not even include the proposed mega issue of Life Insurance Corporation, for which the government has started preparatory work. Sudip Bandyopadhyay, group chairman of Inditrade Capital, said it was structurally good that more companies were joining the stock market, providing more options to investors. But he also cautioned about the soaring valuation, which at times is reaching unreasonable levels. “Liquidity is driving the secondary markets worldwide and in India despite the economies being in trouble due to the pandemic. The liquidity is now flowing into the primary market from the secondary market,” he said. Bengal blooms Four companies have filed papers with Sebi while one more is likely to do so within the next month. Shyam Metaliks raised Rs 908.8 crore in June. These six public issues together are likely to raise anything between Rs 6,700 crore and Rs 7,200 crore depending on the market condition. Compared to this, only eight companies had hit the stock market between 2011 and 2020 raising Rs 6,487 crore (See chart). “If you look at the number of publicly listed companies, they are mostly from the west and the south while some firms are based in Delhi, NCR. The share of the east has been low but it is good to see that it is changing,” said Rajiv Singh, director-general of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC). He says IPOs are catching the fancy of Calcutta’s corporate circle. “I am hearing about it all too often nowadays,” Singh observed. While the disconnect between a sagging economy and soaring stock markets is the talking point of many debates, primary issues do signal that companies have reached a certain scale and they plan to build on the growth rapidly by accessing capital. The point was brought about by Upendra Kumar Sinha in 2015. During a visit to the city, the then Sebi chairman pointed out there was no participation from the east even though the IPO market was sizzling nationwide. “When I was doing a regional analysis of the money raised I found that there is not a single proposal from the eastern zone. Nobody in this region has any investment optimism...any investment plan. We have delegated the sanctioning or approval of red herring prospectus to the zonal offices up to an amount of Rs 500 crore, they also do not have a single interest pending with them,” Sinha had said. While an IPO adds to the perception of a state, Bandyopadhyay has a different take on it. “Look at Nuvoco Vista, a company registered in Mumbai. Its cement business is located mainly in the east. It is a good sign that not only firms based out of the east but also those having business in the east are hitting the market,” he said. Will the battered brand Bengal finally get a leg up?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||ONGC seeks partners to raise output from 43 oil and gas fields||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation on Thursday invited bids from private companies to hand over the operations of 43 small and marginal oil and gas fields in a bid to maximise production. The 43 onland fields have been clustered into 11 contract areas that will be bid out to companies offering the highest oil and gas output on top of a pre-decided baseline, the company said in a statement. In June 2019, ONGC had invited similar bids for 64 fields that were clustered into 17 contract areas. The bid round did not generate much interest. “ONGC announces notice inviting offer (NIO) seeking partners to enhance production from its marginal nomination fields in line with its goal of maximising recovery from its producing fields,” the statement said. The fields on offer have a total in-place oil and oil equivalent gas volume of about 160 million tonnes. “These contract areas are spread across  Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh,” it said. The 64 fields offered in 2019 held a cumulative 300 million tonnes of oil and oil equivalent natural gas reserves. “Eligible companies (Indian or foreign), either alone or in consortium with other companies, may bid for one or more contract areas,” the statement said, adding the bidders are required to fulfill the requisite technical and financial criteria. The last date for bidding is December 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Telecom industry body COAI seeks cut in levies, other relief measures from govt||Telecom industry body Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) has sought major incentives from the government such as a reduction in levies, doubling the tenure of auctioned radio wave holdings along with a 7-10 year moratorium for spectrum payments. “The Indian telecom sector remains one of the most heavily taxed sectors. The government needs to recognise that the current revenue sharing regime of around 32 per cent of revenue outgo as taxes and levies is unsustainable and will always be detrimental to growth of the industry due to perennial lack of surplus cash to reinvest,” S.P. Kochhar, director-general, COAI, said in a letter dated August 17 to telecom secretary Anshu Prakash. The latest plea to the government comes amid analyst warnings of the sector heading for a duopoly in the absence of any relief measures that could help crisis-hit Vodafone India . The industry also wants a reduction in the interest rate for deferred payment liability, the review of the definition of adjusted gross revenues (AGR), the fixing of a floor price and the waiver of financial and performance bank guarantees. “Ensure reasonable reserve prices, easier payment terms in the form of doubling the tenure of all auctioned spectrum holdings both existing and future from 20 years to 40 years, without any additional amounts and also consider 7- to 10-year moratorium for present and future spectrum payments,” said the COAI whose members include Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea. Other suggestions include lowering cumulative regulatory taxes and levies by reducing the licence fee, the Universal Service Obligation (USO) levy and spectrum usage charges (SUC). The licence fee should be reduced to 1 per cent of adjusted gross revenue from 3 per cent, while the USO levy meant for rural rollouts be also brought down to 1 per cent from 5 per cent. The COAI has suggested the implementation of a “progressive” AGR definition to include only telecom revenue and redefine deductions. It has also underlined the need to review and “reduce to bare minimum” the compliance, approval and audit requirements by replacing the same with self-certification or exceptional audits and rationalised penalties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank managing director and CEO Nitin Chugh resigns||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank on Thursday said its managing director and CEO Nitin Chugh has resigned citing personal reasons. “The bank has received a letter dated August 18, 2021 from Nitin Chugh, tendering his resignation from the position of managing director and CEO of the bank w.e.f. close of business hours on September 30, 2021,” Ujjivan Small Finance Bank said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange. Chugh has confirmed in his letter that he is resigning due to personal reasons and “there are no material reasons”, the bank said. His tenure as a director of the bank, which is co-terminus with his tenure as managing director and CEO, would also end after his resignation comes into effect, the bank added. Board rejig The bank said it has been working for several months to strengthen its board and has appointed four individuals to that effect. B.A. Prabhakar, ex-CMD of Andhra Bank and chairman of NSDL, has joined the board as an independent director and is being considered as a part-time chairman of the bank. Ujjivan founder Samit Ghosh comes on board as a non-executive and non-independent director to provide insight and facilitate the reverse merger. Sudha Suresh, who has been associated with Ujjivan for 14 years, has been appointed non-executive director and Ravichandran Venkataraman has joined as an independent director. “The bank has recently witnessed several challenges on the business front  along with several resignations both at the board level and in senior management. The immediate task of the board in collaboration with the holding company would be to bring back stability,” the bank said. “Consequently, he shall also cease to be key managerial personnel of the bank in terms of Section 203 of the Companies Act, 2013,” the lender further noted. The bank also said that its board has taken note of Chugh's resignation letter and has "appreciated his valuable contribution" to the board and the bank during his association. According to Ujjivan Small Finance Bank’s 2019-20 annual report, Chug took up the role of MD and CEO from December 1, 2019 for a period of three years following the retirement of Ujjivan founder Samit Kumar Ghosh from the position of MD and CEO on November 30, 2019. The Bangalore headquartered small finance bank in July disclosed the resignation of chief financial officer Upma Goel effective from September 30, 2021. The bank had also disclosed that it plans to approach RBI in November with a proposal of reverse merger of the holding company with the bank to comply with the guidelines related to promoter shareholding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
20-08-2021||Business||Centre working on reducing tariff barriers in its trade negotiations with UK and Australia||The Centre is working on reducing tariff barriers on a limited range of items in its trade negotiations with the UK and Australia as the first step towards a broader free trade agreement — called an early harvest deal — and is at present exploring the possibilities of a greater market access in the US. “The trade talk with the UK is progressing well. Teams are talking to each other, scoping is being done, line ministries are identifying areas in which we can quickly close the deal, in terms of early harvest, if possible,” commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said here on Thursday. “Instead of trying to address 11,000 (tariff) lines, if we can look at their and our areas of interest and close an early harvest agreement and (then) negotiate on the rest of the agreement,” the minister told representatives of export promotion organisations. Australia has also shown the “highest level of engagement” and significant interest to do an early harvest agreement. The minister said India is at a “positive momentum” with respect to inking FTAs with the European Union (EU), UK, Australia, Canada, Bangladesh, the UAE and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations as well as Israel. “The US as of now has kind of indicated that they are not looking for new trade agreements, but we look at working with them for more market access issues on both sides and I think that would also be a big relief and a big opportunity opener for our export sector,” Goyal said. He said the Modi government had been more pro-active then its predecessors in seeking the views of the domestic stakeholders. “We are engaging with all of you and industry to ensure that FTAs are fairly and equitably crafted, bringing in more elements of reciprocity. ” He said an FTA cannot be a “one way traffic” and the country must open up its markets if the exporters want a larger market share overseas. “My appeal and request to all is to also identify areas where we have the confidence that we can withstand competition.” He urged the export promotion councils to study FTAs and see whether there are “hidden” opportunities in them as it will help India to set significantly higher export targets for 2022-23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
20-08-2021||India||Protesting farmers block highway seeking Rs 200cr dues in Jalandhar||Demanding that the state government clear their dues of over Rs200 crore and hike the State Assured Price (SAP) of sugarcane farmers from Rs310 a quintal to Rs358, farmers of 32 unions blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the national highway and rail tracks on Friday. Unions have also claimed that their protest will continue indefinitely. The protest started from Dhanowali village of Jalandhar district and by the late afternoon, the unions had also blocked the rail track near Dhanowali between Jalandhar - Chaheru section. They blocked the movement of trains on the Ludhiana Amritsar and Ludhiana-Jammu tracks. The Ferozepur railway division said movement of 31 trains were hit, with six being cancelled and nine diverted. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) president Manjit Singh Rai and general secretary, Satnam Singh Sahni, said, “The Capt government did not increase even a single penny for sugarcane crop over the past four years. We will continue to block the national highway and the tracks till the time the state government agrees to meet our demands.” On the national highway that connects major cities of Punjab and Jammu, traffic was badly hit, with the police resorting to diversions. “We have conveyed to the CM Capt Amarinder Singh and the cane commissioner of the state to hold meeting with us at the earliest,” said a farm leader. Later in the day, Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, and SSP Naveen Singla met farmers near Paragpur on the national highway itself. Then DC told the farmers that the state government had already increased the sugarcane crop SAP from Rs310 to Rs325; farmers, however, remained adamant on their demand for a higher increase. Farm leader Sahni said, “The Punjab government has forced farmers to block the national highway, which affects the common man. We are also helpless as the state government has left us with no other option.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||IAF on standby to bring home Indian nationals from Kabul ||A C-17 transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force is on standby to fly to Kabul and bring home Indian nationals who are stuck in the war-torn country after the Taliban takeover, sources have said. The IAF aircraft will go to Kabul as soon as enough Indian nationals are able to move to the airport in the Afghan capital, the sources said. India is working closely with the US government to facilitate movement of the IAF transport aircraft to Kabul, sources said. The government is hopeful up to 250 Indians can be evacuated in this C-17, but it depends on how many of them are able to reach the airport as the Taliban is in control of the city, controlling movement and checkpoints. Operating an Air India flight to Kabul has proven to be difficult, so the IAF remains on standby, sources said, adding over an estimated 400 Indians may need to be evacuated, but the exact figure is unclear at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||PV Narasimha Rao India's father of economic reforms, says CJI Ramana||Describing former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao as the father of economic reforms in the country, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Friday said that dispute resolution through negotiations and mediation is part of Indian culture. Speaking at the Registration of Trust Deeds of the International Arbitration and mediation Centre here, Justice Ramana said the city is well placed to have an international arbitration centre and the cost of dispute resolution through the centre would be much cheaper when compared to other countries. "You know the father of the economic reforms in the country is none other than P V Narsimha Rao, Telangana Bidda (son of Telangana). Under his leadership, in India for the first time economic reforms started," the CJI said. "This (arbitration and mediation) is not a new thing that we innovated. You know that in Indian culture we sort out all our disputes through mediation and negotiation and conciliation. Every day we negotiate with our children, brothers and friends," he said. Supreme Court judge Justice L Nageswara Rao and former SC Judge justice Ravindra will be the life Trustees of the Arbitration Centre here and they will co-opt some more members in future, Justice Ramana said. He said earlier foreign investors were apprehensive about the time taken for dispute resolution process in the Indian judiciary and added that after the Arbitration and Conciliation Act came into being in 1996, the momentum has started for out of court procedures. He asked the state government and Telangana High Court Chief Justice Hima Kohli to encourage companies to settle their disputes through arbitration and mediation. He said the centre here should become an internationally acclaimed one in dispute resolution. The CJI thanked Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao for acting quickly on his proposal and making necessary arrangements for starting the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh government transfers Rs 1522 crore to farmers' bank accounts on birth anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi||On the occasion of Rajiv Gandhi's 77th birth anniversary, the Chattisgarh government on Friday transferred Rs 1,522 to bank accounts of 21 lakh farmers farmers  cunder the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel also transferred online Rs. 3 crore 49 lakh for the cow dung purchased from cattle rearers and to the Gauthan committees and women self-help groups under the GodhanNyay Yojana. Baghel said that the government has adopted the vision of Rajiv Gandhi to eradicate poverty and build a self-reliant India in Chhattisgarh. "Following the path shown by him, the state government has started many welfare programs and schemes for all sections of the people including the poor, farmers, tribals. 'Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana' has been started to provide remunerative price to the farmers for their produce," he said. "The government has expanded the scope of this scheme from Kharif season 2021 to include paddy as well as other Kharif crops. Along with this, Rajiv Gandhi Grameen BhoomheenKrishi Mazdoor Nyay Yojana is being started to provide financial help to the landless agricultural laborers of rural areas of the state. Under this scheme, 6000 rupees will be given annually to such families of rural areas, who do not have agricultural land and are associated with MNREGA or agricultural wages," a press release from the state government read. Under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, in 2020-21, an amount of more than Rs 5,600 crore was given to about 21 lakh farmers in four installments as crop production incentive input assistance. More than Rs 1,525 crore was paid to the farmers as the first installment in their account, the government said. The scheme was implemented in 2020 with the objective of providing a fair price to the farmers for their produce, promoting the productivity of Kharif crops and crop diversification, but with a retrospective effect, its benefits from the Kharif marketing year. In 2019-20, provision was made to give to the farmers selling paddy on support price and Rs 5628 crore was given to the farmers. The number of farmers has increased from 15 lakh to 22 lakh and the area under paddy cultivation has increased from 22 lakh hectare to more than 27 lakh hectare. People who have turned away from agriculture have also started joining agriculture again. Under the GodhanNyay scheme, one crore rupees to the cattle owners, villagers as the 26th installment of the Chief Minister Shri Bhupesh Baghel on August 20, one crore 3 lakhs as dividend to the self-help groups and Gauthan committees. 1 crore 46 lakhs, thus paying a total of Rs 3 crore 49 lakhs. It is worth mentioning here that under the GodhanNyay Yojana started in the state from July 20, 2020, cow dung worth Rs.99 crore 8 lakh has been purchased so far. This amount is mostly contributed by cow dung sellers, cattle farmers, villagers, people belonging to backward classes, scheduled castes and tribes. About 45 percent of the benefitted cow dung sellers are women. Among the beneficiaries, more than 78 thousand people belong to landless families. directly transferred to the account of So far, Rs 18 crore 49 lakh has been paid to self-help groups associated with Gauthans and Rs 26 crore 75 lakhs to Gauthan committees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi calls for unity of Opposition in 2024 Lok Sabha elections||It is time to rise above political compulsions to realise the "ultimate goal" of winning the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, Congress president Sonia Gandhi told top Opposition leaders on Friday as she pitched for a broad unity of the anti-BJP forces. The Congress will not be found wanting while working towards this goal, she said at a virtual meeting of the leaders of 19 Opposition parties, adding that the 75th year of independence is an apt occasion "to reaffirm our individual and collective resolve". "Of course, the ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha election for which we have to begin to plan systematically with the single-minded objective of giving a government to our country that believes in the values of the freedom movement and in the principles and provisions of our Constitution," Gandhi said. "This is a challenge, but together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively. We all have our compulsions, but clearly, the time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above those," she added. Noting that the 75th anniversary of the country's independence is indeed the most appropriate occasion "to reaffirm our individual and collective resolve", Gandhi assured the Opposition leaders, saying "the Indian National Congress will not be found wanting". The virtual meeting -- one of the biggest gatherings of Opposition leaders in recent times -- was attended by NCP's Sharad Pawar, TMC's Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena's Uddhav Thackeray and DMK's M K Stalin among others. Mamata also urged the parties to keep their differences aside and work towards defeating the BJP in 2024. She proposed setting up of a core group to chalk out joint Opposition programmes. The meeting convened by Gandhi came after the washout of the recent Monsoon Session of Parliament due to a united Opposition's demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy, which the government declined. The Congress chief said the Monsoon Session of Parliament was a washout entirely due to the government's "obstinate and arrogant unwillingness to discuss and debate urgent issues of public importance" such as the Pegasus row, a repeal of three "anti-farmer" laws, price rise, the assault on federalism and the institutions of democracy that affect each and every citizen of the country. In spite of this, the session was marked by the determined unity that all the Opposition parties demonstrated for over 20 days in both the houses, she said. "We functioned in a coordinated manner with daily discussions among our floor leaders. "I am confident that this unity will be sustained in the future sessions of Parliament as well, but the larger political battle has to be fought outside it," Gandhi said. She claimed that it was entirely due to the Opposition parties that the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill was passed to restore the long-standing rights of the states to identify and notify the other backward classes (OBCs). The Congress chief blamed the government, saying the bill was required to rectify the mistake it committed three years ago and a subsequent ruling of the Supreme Court. She also said after their intervention, crucial changes were made in the policy of procurement of Covid vaccines, but as always, someone else has taken the credit. Gandhi said Pawar has raised with the government the issue of creation of the Ministry of Cooperation, which is a blatant interference in the constitutional rights and responsibilities of the states. The meeting was part of the Congress leadership's efforts to unite various Opposition parties on key issues before the country, including the upcoming Assembly elections in some states and the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI's D Raja and Sharad Yadav of the Loktantrik Janata Dal were also present at the meeting. In a joint statement issued after the meeting, the Opposition parties said they will jointly organise protests all over the country from September 20-30. "The forms of these public protest actions will be decided by the respective state units of our parties, depending on the concrete conditions of the Covid regulations and protocols existing in the states. These forms, amongst others, may include dharnas, protest demonstrations, hartals etc. "We, the leaders of 19 Opposition parties, call upon the people of India to rise to the occasion to defend our secular, democratic, republican order with all our might. Save India today, so that we can change it for a better tomorrow," they added. The leaders who took part in the meeting were from TMC, NCP, DMK, Shiv Sena, JMM, CPI, CPI(M), NC, RJD, AIUDF, VCK, Loktantrik Janata Dal, JD(S), RLD, RSP, Kerala Congress (Mani), PDP and IUML. Leaders of AAP, BSP and SP were not present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi's farsighted vision helped create modern India, says Rahul||The Congress on Friday paid rich tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on his 77th birth anniversary, with Rahul Gandhi saying that the former prime minister was a man with a tremendous vision, whose farsighted policies helped build modern India. Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to his father at the former prime minister's memorial, Vir Bhumi, and spent some time there. "Rajiv Gandhi ji was a man with tremendous vision, whose farsighted policies helped build modern India," the former Congress chief said in a Facebook post. "He was a wonderful father, a compassionate and loving human being. He will always stay alive in my heart. Paid my respects to him at Vir Bhumi," Rahul Gandhi said. Senior Congress leaders Pawan Kumar Bansal, K C Venugopal and Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chief Srinivas B V were among those who visited Vir Bhumi along with Rahul Gandhi. "A secular India alone is an India that can survive," Rahul Gandhi posted his father's quote on Facebook. "Remembering Shri Rajiv Gandhi ji on his birth anniversary," he said in a post. Congress president Sonia Gandhi paid tributes to the former prime minister at the Parliament House. Rahul Gandhi inaugurated a photo-exhibition dedicated to Rajiv Gandhi, and it was organised by the IYC. He also unveiled a bust of the former prime minister at the IYC headquarters here. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi posted a picture of hers with Rajiv Gandhi when she was a child along with a note which read, "The brave do not fall silent before injustice, they speak up for what is right and good, they do not cower when it is dark, they stand strong, they spread the light of truth across skies blackened by deceit. The brave never die." The Congress, from its official Twitter handle, tweeted, "India's youngest Prime Minister. The architect of 21st Century India. The visionary, the pioneer, the patriot. Today we pay homage to Bharat Ratna, Rajiv Gandhi and celebrate his immense contributions to the nation." Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hailed the former prime minister and recalled his contribution to the country. "Remembering Rajiv ji on his 77th birth anniversary - the visionary who shaped India's destiny for 21st century, who touched lives in every sphere, who translated dreams into reality, who empowered the young-women-backward classes an poor," Surjewala tweeted. Chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) paid rich tributes to the former prime minister. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal also remembered Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversary and said he was delighted that party chief Sonia Gandhi is set to meet Opposition leaders on this day to discuss issues that matter. Sonia Gandhi is holding a virtual meeting with opposition leaders on Friday. "Rajiv Gandhi ushered India's era of modernisation and launched the technology revolution," he tweeted. Senior party leaders Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Mallikarjun Kharge, Shashi Tharoor, Sachin Pilot, Salman Khurshid, among others, also paid tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on Twitter. Born in 1944, Rajiv Gandhi was prime minister from 1984 to 1989. He was assassinated in 1991.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||LG rejected Delhi govt's proposal to form panel to probe oxygen deaths, says Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has again rejected the Delhi government's proposal to form a panel to "investigate deaths due to oxygen shortage" in the national capital. "No one can deny that Delhi grappled with an oxygen crisis in April and May during the second Covid wave and also no one can deny that people died in the capital due to a shortage of oxygen," he said during an online press conference. "We had resubmitted a file for the constitution of a panel to probe deaths due to oxygen shortage. The LG (lieutenant governor) is saying that there is no need for that," Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister said that on one hand, the Centre has been asking states to tell how many people died due to oxygen shortage and on the other, "you have not been allowing us to investigate such deaths". "Then how will states tell?" he asked. "That means the Centre deliberately wants us to give in writing that no death occurred due to the shortage of oxygen in the entire country. It will be a big lie. It will be a cruel joke with the families who have lost their loved ones," Sisodia said. He claimed that the Centre was responsible for oxygen mismanagement in April and May and said whether it was deliberate or a mistake is a matter of investigation. The Centre will have to accept that it was responsible for the oxygen crisis. People across the entire country bore the brunt of it, Sisodia said. "People have died due to oxygen shortage in the 21st century, but the Centre is saying these fatalities should not be probed. Why?" he asked. Last week, the deputy chief minister had written to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya that it is difficult to ascertain without a probe if there were any oxygen-related deaths during the second Covid wave, and the Delhi government is seeking fresh approval from the LG to form an expert panel for it. In June, the Delhi government had formed a four-member expert committee to look into the deaths due to the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of COVID-19. The committee was rejected by the LG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Zydus vaccine gets DCGI nod for emergency use, to be given to people aged 12 years and above||Indigenously developed Zydus Cadila COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India and it will be administered to people 12 years and above, the Department of Biotechnology said on Friday.  With Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA), ZyCoV-D has also become the first vaccine to be administered to those in the age group of 12-18 years in the country.  Vaccines Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, which is three-dose, these are administered in two doses.  The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) said that ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA-based vaccine against the coronavirus and when injected produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance.  The "plug-and-play" technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring, it said.  "Zydus Cadila has received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for ZyCoV-D today i.e. 20/08/2021, the world's first and India's indigenously developed DNA-based vaccine for COVID-19 to be administered in humans including children and adults 12 years and above," the government department said.  ZyCoV-D is a needle-free vaccine administered using PharmaJet', an applicator that ensures painless intradermal vaccine delivery, Zydus Cadila has said.  The DBT said that Interim results from Phase-III clinical trials in over 28,000 volunteers, showed primary efficacy of 66.6 per cent for symptomatic RT-PCR positive cases.  This has been the largest vaccine trial so far in India for COVID-19, it said.  The vaccine had already exhibited robust immunogenicity and tolerability and safety profile in the adaptive Phase I/II clinical trials carried out earlier. Both Phase I/II and Phase III clinical trials have been monitored by an independent data safety monitoring board, the DBT added.  Till now, there were five EUA-granted vaccines -- Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian vaccine Sputnik V, the vaccines of Moderna, and Johnson and Johnson.  Of these, Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are in use in the country. ZyCoV-D will be the sixth to be added to the vaccine basket of the country.  In a Union health ministry briefing on May 13, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, V K Paul, had estimated that there would be 216 crore vaccines doses available for people in the country between August to December.  Of these, Zydus Cadila will provide five crore doses, he had said.  Zydus Cadila in a statement said it plans to manufacture 10-12 crore doses of ZyCoV-D annually.  The vaccine has been developed in partnership with the DBT under Mission COVID Suraksha, the department said.  "It has been implemented by the BIRAC (Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, a PSU of the DBT) and ZyCoV-D has been supported under the COVID-19 Research Consortia through National Biopharma Mission for preclinical studies, Phase I and Phase II clinical trials and under the Mission COVID Suraksha for Phase III Clinical Trial," the DBT said.  Vaccine Technology Centre, the vaccine research centre of the Zydus group, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, an autonomous body of the DBT and Interactive Research School for Health Affairs, Pune, GCLP Lab set up under the National Biopharma Mission (NBM) also played a vital role in this, the department added.  DBT Secretary and BIRAC Chairperson Renu Swarup said the development is an important milestone in the country's indigenous vaccine development mission and positions India on the global map for novel vaccine development.  It is a matter of great pride that today we have the EUA for the world's first DNA COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D by Zydus developed in partnership with the Department of Biotechnology and supported through Mission COVID Suraksha," the official said.  We are confident that this will be an important vaccine for both India and the world, Swarup said.  Speaking on the development, chairman Zydus Group Pankaj Patel said, We are extremely happy that our efforts to put out a safe, well tolerated and efficacious vaccine to fight COVID-19 has become a reality with ZyCoV-D.  To create the world's first DNA vaccine at such a crucial juncture and despite all the challenges, is a tribute to the Indian research scientists and their spirit of innovation, Patel added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Violence: CBI writes to Bengal top cop for providing details of rape, murder cases||The CBI has written to the Bengal director general of police to provide details of all cases of murder, attempt to murder and rape reported during post-poll violence in the state, officials said on Friday. The agency sought the details of such cases from the director general of police in line with a Calcutta High Court order that directed the CBI to take over cases related to murder, rape and atrocities against women during the violence. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has set up four teams, each headed by joint directors Ramnish, Anurag, Vineet Vinayak and Sampat Meena, to probe the political violence which ensued after the victory of the Trinamul Congress (TMC) on May 2 in a bitterly fought eight-phase assembly poll in Bengal. Each team will have about seven members, including a deputy inspector general and about four superintendents of police, called from across the country, the officials said. The overall probe will be supervised by Additional Director Ajay Bhatnagar. The Calcutta High Court on Thursday had ordered a CBI inquiry into alleged killings, rape and crimes against women during post-poll violence in West Bengal. A five-judge bench, passing a unanimous judgment on a batch of PILs seeking an independent probe into incidents of alleged violence after the polls which the ruling TMC won by an overwhelming majority, also ordered constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe all other cases. The SIT will include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the Bengal cadre. The bench will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT, and it has asked them to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation." The bench said the state failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder. "Rather the violence which erupted after polls and declaration of results was state-wide. Number of persons had died. The women were raped. The house of certain persons who had not supported the party in power were demolished. Their other properties were damaged. Their belongings were looted including the chattels," the court observed in its order. The bench said there are allegations that the complainants are being threatened to withdraw the cases and a number of cases of murder being claimed as natural death without recording FIRs and conducting investigation according to the procedure established by law. Noting that the Bengal Police has not properly responded to allegations of inaction and tried to downplay them, the bench said, "It certainly needs investigation by an independent agency." It said three months have lapsed since the matter was taken up by the court, but "no concrete action has been taken by the State, which could inspire confidence except filing affidavits and placing on record thousands of papers." The bench ordered the Bengal government to pay compensation to the victims of crimes in accordance with the policy of the State, after due verification. The compensation amount will be directly transferred to their bank accounts. The National Human Rights Commission committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Deshmukh: HC questions Maharashtra's refusal to share documents with CBI||The Bombay High Court on Friday questioned the Maharashtra government's refusal to share certain documents with the CBI for its probe against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, and said that unless the documents are seen how can the central agency decide if there was any nexus with him over alleged corruption in police transfers and postings. The state government had earlier claimed that the documents sought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) did not have any relevance with the agency's corruption probe against Deshmukh. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar was hearing an application filed by the CBI alleging that the government was not cooperating by refusing to hand over certain documents in connection with a probe against the NCP leader. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for the CBI, on Friday said the government by refusing to hand over the documents was acting in contempt to a July order passed by the high court, which said that the agency had the power to inquire into corruption in police transfers and the reinstatement of police officer Sachin Waze. The bench noted that earlier the state government had said that it was not averse to any investigation. "Now why is the state government averse? We don't have any words. Why should the state government do this?" Justice Shinde said. Senior counsel Rafiq Dada, appearing for the state government, argued that the HC had not said that the government was bound to give the documents and had in fact said that the CBI should investigate only those aspects that have a nexus with Deshmukh and his associates. "Unless the CBI sees the documents, how will they (CBI) decide if there is any nexus or not. We only said that the CBI does not have unfettered authority to probe into other transfers. But the documents they are seeking pertain to a report submitted by Rashmi Shukla (IPS officer) on the issue of corruption in police transfers," the court said. "These documents, we believe, you (government) cannot object to. Whatever period Anil Deshmukh was holding the portfolio of home minister, those documents may be needed," Justice Shinde said. The court directed Dada to take instructions from the government on what documents it was willing to share with the CBI. "Both are agencies of the state and the Centre. There are many occasions where information is shared. Tell us the list of documents you (state government) are willing to share. This will lead to a congenial and happy situation," the court said. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on August 24. The CBI, in its application filed last month, had said it had written a letter to the State Intelligence Department seeking details of a communication sent by senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla on the issue of corruption in police transfers and postings, but the SID refused to provide them claiming it was part of an ongoing investigation. The high court had on July 22 held that the CBI can inquire the allegations of corruption in transfers and postings of police personnel limited to its nexus with Deshmukh and had dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking that some parts of the central agency's FIR against the NCP leader be quashed. The CBI had on April 21 lodged an FIR against Deshmukh on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. The FIR was lodged after the agency conducted a preliminary inquiry against the state's former home minister following an order from the HC on April 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Quota benefit can be claimed in either Bihar or Jharkhand, but not both: SC||The Supreme Court has ruled that a person belonging to a reserved category is entitled to claim benefit of reservation in either of the successor States of Bihar or Jharkhand, but cannot claim benefit of the quota simultaneously in both the successor States upon their reorganisation in November, 2000. The top court also held that members of the reserved category, who are residents of the successor State of Bihar, while participating in open selection in Jharkhand shall be treated to be migrants and they can participate in the general category without claiming the benefit of reservation and vice-versa. A bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi decided the peculiar question after a resident of Jharkhand, Pankaj Kumar, a member of Scheduled Caste filed an appeal against the 2:1 majority High Court order denying him appointment in state civil service examination of 2007 on the ground that his address proof showed that he was a permanent resident of Patna, Bihar. It is made clear that person is entitled to claim benefit of reservation in either of the successor State of Bihar or State of Jharkhand, but will not be entitled to claim benefit of reservation simultaneously in both the successor States and those who are members of the reserved category and are resident of the successor State of Bihar, while participating in open selection in State of Jharkhand shall be treated to be migrants and it will be open to participate in general category without claiming the benefit of reservation and vice-versa, the bench said. The top court said it holds that the majority judgement of the High Court of February 24, 2020 is unsustainable in law and is hereby set aside. We are also not in agreement with the minority judgment on principle and clarify that the person is entitled to claim the benefit of reservation in either of the successor State of Bihar or State of Jharkhand but would not be entitled to claim the privileges and benefits of reservation simultaneously in both the States and if that is permitted, it will defeat the mandate of Articles 341(1) and 342(1) of the Constitution, the top court said. It directed that Pankaj Kumar shall be appointed pursuant to his selection in reference to advertisement number 11 of 2007 within six weeks and said that he is entitled for his seniority as per his placement in the order of merit with notional fixation of pay and allowances. The bench said that the collective readings of the provisions of the Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000, makes it apparent that such persons whose place of origin/domicile on or before the appointed day (November 15, 2000) was of Bihar now falling within the districts/regions which form a successor State, that is Jharkhand under Section 3 of the Act, 2000 became ordinary resident of the State of Jharkhand. The top court said that at the same time, so far as the employees who were in public employment in Bihar on or before November 15, 2000, apart from those who have domicile of either of the district which became part of Jharkhand, such employees who have exercised their option to serve in Jharkhand their existing service conditions shall stands protected by virtue of Section 73 of the Act, 2000. It will be highly unfair and pernicious to their interest if the benefits of reservation with privileges and benefits flowing thereof are not being protected in the State of Jharkhand after he is absorbed by virtue to Section 73 of the Act 2000 that clearly postulates not only to protect the existing service conditions but the benefit of reservation and privileges which they were enjoying on or before the appointed day, i.e. November 15, 2000 in the State of Bihar not to be varied to their disadvantage after they became a member of service in the State of Jharkhand, the top court said. The top court said that in its considered view, such of the employees who are members of the SC/ST/OBC whose caste/tribe has been notified by an amendment to the Constitution(SC)/(ST) Order 1950 or by the separate notification for members of OBC category, benefit of reservation shall remain protected by virtue of Section 73 of the Act, 2000 for all practical purposes which can be claimed (including by their wards) for participation in public employment. We are of the view that the present appellant Pankaj Kumar , being a serving employee (as an assistant teacher) in the State of Jharkhand by virtue of Section 73 of the Act 2000, would be entitled to claim the benefit of reservation including the privileges and benefits admissible to the members of SC category in Jharkhand for all practical purposes including participation in open competition seeking public employment, it said. Kumar was born in 1974 in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand, where his father, a permanent resident of Patna was posted and at the age of 15 in 1989, Kumar shifted to Ranchi, the state capital which came into effect after Bihar's reorganization on November 15, 2000. He was appointed as assistant teacher in a school in Ranchi from December 21, 1999 and continued his job as teacher till 2008 in the same school. In 2008, Kumar applied for the 3rd Combined Civil Services Exam in Jharkhand and was called for an interview. He has submitted his Caste Certificate dated January 12, 2007 showing him as resident of Ranchi along with his application for the Civil Services, which showed his original residence' as Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Facebook removes Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post for violation of policy||After Twitter, Facebook has removed a content posted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi that identified the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Northwest Delhi, saying it violated the social media platform's policies. According to sources, Facebook has informed Gandhi and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about the removal of the posts from Facebook and Instagram. Earlier this week, Facebook had written to Gandhi asking him to remove the said post from Instagram -- Facebook's photosharing platform. "We have taken action to remove the content as it was in violation of our policies," a Facebook spokesperson said in an emailed statement on Friday. Facebook takes action against a content if it violates its Community Standards or upon receiving a valid legal request as per Indian laws. Last week, NCPCR had asked Facebook to take appropriate action against Gandhi's Instagram profile over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Following the communication from Facebook to Gandhi earlier week, NCPCR withdrew its direction to the company to appear before the commission with an explanation over non-action regarding Gandhi's post. Earlier this month, Gandhi had met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Instagram. Similar posts were also shared on Twitter. The microblogging platform had locked accounts of Gandhi as well as many other Congress leaders who tweeted the controversial post. On August 14, Twitter restored Gandhi's account after the Congress leader submitted a consent letter from the family of the victim. Twitter, however, continues to withhold the tweets that contain the images saying they violate India's laws. "As part of the appeal process, @RahulGandhi (the official Twitter handle of Rahul Gandhi) has submitted a copy of the formal consent/authorisation letter to use the referenced image via our India Grievance Channel," Twitter spokesperson had said. The law provides that identity of a juvenile victim of sexual assault cannot be disclosed. Tweeting pictures of the family violated that and so the accounts were locked. During the period the accounts were locked, the owner could access the account but not allowed to send out new tweets. This was to allow them to delete the contentious tweets. But neither Gandhi nor Congress and its leaders did that. Instead, they submitted a consent letter from the family of the alleged rape victim for use of their images. "We have followed the necessary due diligence process to review the appeal in order to protect the safety and privacy of the affected individuals. We have updated our enforcement action based on the consent provided by the people depicted in the image," the Twitter spokesperson had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Delhi records zero Covid casualty, 57 fresh cases in 24 hours||No death due to COVID-19 was recorded in Delhi on Friday, while 57 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the eleventh time since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11 and August 12, August 13 and August 16 too, no death due to COVID-19 was recorded, according to official data. On March 2 this year, the city had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Friday, 57 fresh cases were recorded as the positivity rate rose to 0.08 per cent, according to the latest bulletin. Twenty-five fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest since April 15 last year, and two deaths due to the disease were recorded on Thursday, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.04 per cent, according to the official figures. On Wednesday, the city had registered 36 cases and four fatalities, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.05 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Delta variant of Covid-19 responsible for breakthrough infections, says govt consortium ||Breakthrough infections of coronavirus cases comprise a very high proportion of the Delta variant, the INSACOG, a genome sequencing government consortium of laboratories, has said. The continuing Covid-19 outbreaks across India are attributable to the Delta variant, a susceptible population and reduced vaccine effectiveness in blocking transmission, the INSACOG added. However, vaccination continues to be very effective in reducing severe disease and death, and public health measures to reduce transmission and inoculation remain critical, the INSACOG stressed in its latest bulletin dated August 16. "As of now, sequencing of vaccination breakthroughs in India is also showing a very high proportion of Delta variant. Investigations for any new variants are ongoing," the INSACOG said. Of the 30,230 samples of Variants of Concern and Variants of Interest sequenced by the INSACOG, 20,324 were of Delta, it said. The Delta variant is currently driving the pandemic across several countries with China and Korea seeing new highs. Korea has reported that the new surge is due to Delta plus K417N mutation. The Delta variant resulted in a deadly second wave in the country between March to May that wreaked havoc on the health infrastructure, overwhelming hospitals. It infected lakhs and killed thousands. In India, new cases of AY.1, AY.2, AY.3 (Delta Plus) are being seen in July samples from Maharashtra at a frequency of about 1 per cent. However, at this time none of these sub-lineages has been found to have a growth advantage over the Delta parent lineage, it noted. According to INSACOG (the Indian SARS-CoV2 Genomics Consortium), 61 samples of Delta Plus variants have been detected in the country so far. "Delta variant is the major VOC in India at this time. Continuing outbreaks across India are attributable to Delta, a susceptible population, reduced vaccine effectiveness in blocking transmission, and opportunities for transmission," the INSACOG said. Daily coronavirus cases have seen a significant plunge since the second wave which peaked in May. The active cases have declined to 3,63,605, the lowest in 150 days, and comprise 1.12 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 57 crore jabs have been administered in the country so far, the Health Ministry added. The R Value, or the Reproduction rate in the country has also dipped to 0.89 from August 14-16. But country continues to post over 25,000 cases everyday. There has been a concern whether an increasing vaccination breakthroughs in India are because of a new variant, the INSACOG said. It also cited an example of the UK. With a population of about 6.7 crore, the UK has reported about 18 lakh cases and 1.2 lakh vaccination breakthroughs with Delta since April 2021. "Thus, vaccination breakthroughs are common during Delta outbreaks and are expected in India as well," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson seeks India nod for jab trials for children||Johnson & Johnson (JNJ.N) has sought approval from Indian drug regulators to conduct a study of its COVID-19 vaccine among 12- to 17-year-olds, the company said on Friday. Conducting vaccine clinical trials among adolescents is imperative to achieve herd immunity against the coronavirus, J&J said in an emailed statement. The U.S. pharma giant had received emergency use approval for its single-dose vaccine in India earlier this month, making it the fifth authorised vaccine in the country. While J&J has a supply agreement with Indian vaccine maker Biological E Ltd to bring its shot to the country, the company had said that it was too early to give a delivery timeline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Deported Afghan from Nagpur has joined Taliban, say cops||An Afghan national, who was deported to his country from Nagpur in June this year after he was found staying here illegally, has apparently joined the Taliban and his picture holding a rifle has surfaced on social media, a senior police official said on Friday. The Taliban has seized power in Afghanistan as it swept into capital Kabul on Sunday after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country. "The man, Noor Mohammad Ajiz Mohammad, 30, was found staying in Nagpur since the last 10 years illegally. He was living in a rented place in Dighori area of the city. Acting on a tip-off, the police had started keeping a watch on his activities. He was finally nabbed and deported to Afghanistan on June 23," he said. "After his deportation, he seems to have joined the Taliban and his photo holding a gun has emerged on social media," he added. During the probe earlier, police had found that he had come to Nagpur in 2010 on a six-month tourist visa. Later, he had applied to the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) seeking refugee status for himself, but his application was rejected. His appeal was also turned down by the UNHRC. Since then, he stayed in Nagpur illegally, the official said. Another police official said that Noor Mohammad's original name is Abdul Haque and his brother was working with the Taliban. Last year, Noor had floated a video on social media with a sharp-edged weapon. After he was nabbed, police found that he had "entry and exit wounds" from a gunshot near his left shoulder, he said, adding that when his social media accounts were checked, it was found that he was following some terrorists whose videos of gun firing were available on social media. "He was in the business of selling blankets and was unmarried. Police conducted searches at his rented accommodation but did not find anything suspicious. His call details are also under the scanner of the police," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Amarinder, Sidhu agree to promote better coordination between party and government||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday agreed to set up a 10-member strategic policy group to ensure better coordination between the party and the state government and expedite implementation of various government programmes. The development is seen as a sign of thaw between Singh and Sidhu, amid the ongoing tussle between the two of them. In another development, the chief minister has deputed his ministers to sit at Congress Bhawan here for interacting with the party cadre and public. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had earlier advised that the Punjab government and the state unit of the party must work together. To be headed by the chief minister, the Group will have Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Social Security Minister Aruna Chaudhary as members along with Sidhu. The four state Congress working presidents, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Pawan Goel, and Pargat Singh will also be members. The decision was taken on Friday when Sidhu, along with Nagra and Pargat, called on the chief minister to discuss Punjab related issues and steps to strengthen party-government coordination, a statement here said. The Group will hold weekly meetings in consultation with other ministers and experts as may be required. It will discuss and review the progress of various state government initiatives already under implementation, and will also suggest measures to expedite the same, it said. In another decision, which came after Sidhu wrote a letter to the chief minister, Singh has also assigned his cabinet colleagues the task of being available in Punjab Congress Bhawan, the party's state headquarter here, every day, by rotation, for meetings with MLAs and other party functionaries to discuss issues relating to their constituencies or areas and address any grievances. One minister each will be available at the Congress Bhawan from Monday for three hours between 11 am and 2 pm, the roster for which has been put up by Sidhu on his Twitter handle, and in any case the minister deputed for a particular day is unable to make it for some reason, he or she shall arrange for a substitute in consultation with any other minister. The arrangement will be in place five days in a week, from Monday to Friday, said the chief minister, adding that this will help in better coordination between his government and party functionaries in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections. Sidhu, who released a photograph with the CM on his Twitter handle, said in a tweet, Highly positive Co-ordination meeting on proposal for roaster (sic) of Ministers to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan !! . In his letter to chief minister, Sidhu said Punjab Congress workers are the backbone of the party, whose persistence, hard work and dedication led us to a sweeping victory in 2017 elections. Ever since the esteemed Congress high command has given me the pivotal responsibility as President, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, I have been interacting with hundreds and thousands of our party colleagues on a daily basis and listening to their concerns. "I, along with PCC working presidents and senior state Congress leadership are of the opinion that there are issues of dire importance to the people of Punjab, which are brought to the notice of PCC on a daily basis, Sidhu wrote. The Punjab Congress chief said these can be effectively resolved if ministers of the state Cabinet sit in the Punjab Congress Bhawan, Chandigarh on basis of one minister a day . Ministers spending quality hours in PCC office for five days a week to hear concerns of Congress workers, Unions and people of Punjab, and taking immediate action will be a great way to discharge their duty, he said in the letter. Creating a roster for efficient management, giving turns to each minister to sit and hear issues related to different departments and areas of Punjab can be a crucial step towards hearing and resolving the issue of the people of Punjab, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand govt sends list of names of 110 natives stuck in Afghanistan to Centre||The names of 110 Uttarakhand natives stuck in Afghanistan have been sent to the Ministry of External Affairs by the state government, official sources here said on Friday. "On Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's direction the administration has sent a list of 110 names to the MEA on the basis of information available with it so far," they said. The list has been sent with a request that any information about them should also be shared with the state government, the sources said. The families of Uttarakhand natives stranded in Afghanistan since the Taliban takeover are worried and have been requesting the state government to facilitate their safe return. The chief minister has already spoken to National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and the MEA, urging them to take all steps necessary for their safe return. The state government has also asked people, whose kin are stuck in Afghanistan, to furnish the district administration with all relevant information about them like their names, passport details etc so that they can be passed on to the Centre for further action. The information can also be provided to the district administration on helpline no 112, an order issued by Additional Chief Secretary Anand Bardhan said. "The state government is making all efforts with help from the Centre to ensure safe return of the people from Uttarakhand stranded in Afghanistan," Dhami said. "We are in constant touch with the Centre. All steps are being taken to ensure that each Indian stranded in Afghanistan returns home safely," the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Centre prepared to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19, assures Anurag Thakur||The Centre is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of COVID-19 and a provision of Rs 23,123 has been made for this purpose, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said here on Friday. He said special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care amid apprehension that the third wave may affect children more than others. Thakur, who is on a five-day 'Jan Ashirwaad Yatra' in his home state Himachal Pradesh, was speaking to reporters here. This is his maiden visit to the state after being sworn-in as a Union Cabinet minister. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of COVID-19. A provision of Rs 23,123 has been made to deal with it, said Thakur, who is also the minister for youth affairs and sports. Special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care as experts fear that the third wave may affect children more than others, he said. Some experts have warned that the third wave of COVID-19 may affect children more while others have said there is little reason to believe this theory. However, experts concur that there is a need to improve paediatric Covid services in the country. So far, India has reported 3,23,58,829 COVID-19 cases and 4,33,589 deaths due to the disease, according to the Union health ministry. Thakur started his 'Jan Ashirwaad Yatra' from Parwanoo in Solan district on Thursday. He will cover a distance of 623 km across four Lok Sabha constituencies and 37 assembly segments in eight districts in the hill state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Terror forces can dominate for some time, but they are not permanent, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that destructive forces and people who follow the ideology of creating empires through terror can dominate for some time, but their existence is not permanent as they cannot suppress humanity forever. He was speaking while virtually inaugurating a few projects of the famous Somnath temple in Gujarat. "Somnath temple was destroyed many times, idols were desecrated many times and attempts were made to wipe out its existence. But it came up in its full glory after every destructive attack, which gives self-confidence to us," Modi said. "Forces that strive for destruction and those who follow the ideology of creating empires out of terror can dominate for some time, but their existence is never permanent as they cannot suppress humanity forever," he added. It was true when the Somnath temple was being destroyed in the past and it is true even today, the PM said. His remarks come in the wake of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Modi also said that India, which was at 65th position in 2013 in Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index, jumped to 34th position in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Three-member panel probing Vikas Dubey's encounter gives clean chit to police||A three-member commission probing the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey has given a clean chit to police, stating their version of events about his death were supported by evidence. The commission said that the Kanpur ambush in which eight cops were killed occurred because of "poor planning" by the police as it did not assess the situation correctly and there was "total failure" of Kanpur local intelligence. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Khanna tabled the report in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Thursday. "The evidence adduced in the (Dubey encounter) case supports police's version of the incident. The injuries suffered by policemen could not be self-inflicted or fabricated. Dr RS Mishra, who was on the panel of doctors, conducted the post-mortem and clarified that the injuries found on his person (Dubey) could be caused as per the version of police," the report said. "Nobody came forward from the public and media to controvert the police version and no evidence is filed in rebuttal. Richa Dubey, wife of Vikas, filed an affidavit calling the incident a fake encounter but she did not appear before the commission," it said, adding that in such eventuality, no suspicion or doubt arises about the police's version of the incident. A magisterial inquiry conducted by Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Kanpur Nagar has a similar finding. Eight police personnel, including deputy superintendent of police, were killed during a raid on Dubey's house at Bikru village in Kanpur district on the night of July 2-3, 2020. Later, Dubey was killed in an encounter when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from custody, the police had said. The commission comprised Justice (Retd) BS Chauhan, Justice (Retd) SK Agarwal and former UP director general of police KL Gupta. It had submitted a 824-page report to the state government on April 21. The commission said there is "sufficient material on record" to show that Vikas Dubey and his gang were patronised by the local police, revenue and administrative officials. "He (Vikas) and his associates had been in touch with such officials, and the officers were also communicating with them. If any person lodged any complaint against Vikas or his associates, the complainant was always humiliated by the police. Even if higher authorities gave directions to lodge a complaint, the local police dictated the terms," it said. Though his name appeared in the list of top 10 criminals in the circle, he did not feature among top 10 criminals of the district, it said, adding that the members of his gang were included in a peace committee to resolve communal disputes. "His wife was elected as a Zila Panchayat member and his brother's wife was elected as Bikru village's pradhan. They were both living in Lucknow. If any person of the area wanted help from them, he would contact Vikas Dubey and he would resolve their problem. The elected people never came into the picture," the report said. Most of his family members had arms licences, and recommendations for them had been made by competent authorities by concealing material facts of their involvement in criminal cases. Their position was the same when it came to issuance of passports in their favour and/or grant of fair price shop licences, the commission noted. "Investigation in any case lodged against them (Dubey's gang) was never impartial. Sections relating to serious offences were dropped before filing the charge sheet. During the trial, most of the witnesses turn hostile. Vikas Dubey and his associates got bail orders from courts easily and quickly as there was no serious opposition by state authorities or government advocates," it added. "He was involved in 64 criminal cases. State authorities never considered it appropriate to engage a special counsel for his prosecution," it said, adding the state never moved any application for cancellation of bail or approached a superior court for cancellation of any bail orders. In most of the cases, the high court had granted interim relief to Dubey, staying the proceedings before subordinate courts in criminal cases, and he remained under the protection of such orders for 13-14 years, it said. The commission said the HC granted bail to Dubey and his associates mainly on the ground that he had been acquitted in a large number of cases, without attempting to know under what circumstances he was acquitted and how and why the witnesses turned hostile in most of the cases. About the ambush, it said some police personnel posted in Chaubeypur police station had intimated Dubey about the impending raid which gave him an opportunity to call his associates with arms. "There was a total failure of intelligence unit in Kanpur in collecting information about criminal activities and possession of sophisticated weapons (legal and illegal) by Vikas Dubey and his gang. No proper caution was taken while preparing for the raid, as 38/40 police personnel reached village Bikru and none of them was wearing a bulletproof jacket. Only 18 of them had arms, the rest had gone empty-handed or with sticks," the report said. The incident occurred because of "poor planning" by the police as it did not assess the situation correctly. "In fact, it did never expect that Dubey would retaliate with sophisticated weapons and his associates would take positions on on the roofs of houses. They were unaware that some police officials of Chaubeypur had already informed Dubey about the raid," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Active Covid caseload lowest in 150 days||India logged 36,571 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,23,58,829, while the national recovery rate improved to 97.54 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,33,589 with 540 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,63,605, the lowest in 150 days, and comprise 1.12 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 524 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,86,271 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 50,26,99,702. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 25 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.93 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 56 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,15,61,635, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Cumulatively, 57.22 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Friday morning. The 540 new fatalities include 197 from Kerala and 154 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,33,589 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,35,567 from Maharashtra, 37,088 from Karnataka, 34,639 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,789 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,246 from Kerala and 18,337 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Taj Mahal to reopen for night viewing from Saturday||After remaining closed for over a year for night viewing, the Taj Mahal will open from August 21 for visitors who want to explore the marble monument under the moonlight, officials said on Friday. Night viewing of the monument had closed on March 17, 2020 during the first lockdown due to COVID-19. ASI Superintending Archaeologist (Agra Circle) Vasant Kumar Swarnkar told PTI that night viewing will be allowed on August 21, 23 and 24 as the monument is closed every week on Friday and the lockdown is in effect on Sunday. He said there are three time slots for visitors. From 8:30-9 pm, 9-9:30 pm and from 9:30-10 pm. "In every slot, 50 tourists would be allowed as per guidelines of the Supreme Court," he added. "The tickets can be booked a day in advance from ASI office's counter on 22 Mall Road in Agra," Kumar said. Rajeev Saxena, vice-president of the Tourism Guild of Agra, said it was a good step, but it would not attract weekend travellers until the restriction of lockdown on Sunday and curfew after 10 pm was not lifted. "Tourists want to enjoy nightlife of the city, they don't want to be packed in their hotels after 10 pm," he said. A government approved tour guide, Monika Sharma, appreciated the move and said it was a ray of hope for the revival of Agra's tourism sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||No tolerance for terrorism, says Jaishankar at UNSC briefing||The UNSC members endorsed in one voice a "zero tolerance" approach to terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday as the top UN body issued a strong statement under India's Presidency, underscoring the need to ensure a strict check on terror financing and bring perpetrators of terror attacks to justice. The powerful 15-nation Council, currently being presided over by India, issued a Press Statement on ISIL/Da'esh after Jaishankar chaired the Security Council briefing on 'Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts'. The UNSC briefing considered the 13th report of the Secretary General on the threat posed by ISIL (Da'esh) to international peace and security. Speaking to reporters after the briefing, Jaishankar said, "During our deliberations today, all Security Council members with one voice endorsed a zero-tolerance approach to terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We are clear that there cannot be double standards and distinctions are really made at our own peril. "We are happy to note that a very strong, substantive, clear Press Statement has been adopted by the Council today that outlines many of the key concerns, especially the need to ensure a strict check on terror financing and bringing the perpetrators of the terror attacks to justice," he said. The Press Statement, issued by Jaishankar in his capacity as the Council President, said members of the Security Council noted with deep concern that ISIL (Da'esh) and other terrorist groups continue to exploit, both online and offline, of the disruption, grievances and development setbacks linked to the COVID-19 pandemic, as reflected in the 13th report of the Secretary General on ISIL. The members of the Security Council reiterated that they condemn in the strongest terms all instances of terrorism, including the recent cowardly terrorist attacks, such as, the terrorist attack in Baghdad on July 19, 2021, and noted with concern that ISIL (Da'esh) could regain the ability to launch or orchestrate international terrorist attacks, the press statement said. The Council members, on the eve of the fourth commemoration of the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism on August 21, 2021, reiterated their unwavering commitment to strengthening international cooperation to prevent and combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. They also reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security, and that all acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed, the statement said. The UNSC briefing was the third signature event held under India's Presidency that has focussed on issues of maritime security and peacekeeping. Counter-terrorism was the third key focus area for India during its August Presidency of the Council and as a country which has borne the brunt of cross-border terrorism, this will be a priority issue for India during its remaining term in the Security Council as well. India will be Chairing the UNSC Counter Terror Committee (CTC), in 2022, taking over from Tunisia and Jaishankar said New Delhi hopes to build on the gains from Thursday's meeting during its chairmanship of the CTC. At the briefing, UNSC member states joined India's call for a zero-tolerance approach towards terrorism in all its forms and manifestation. In a serious cause of concern, various terror organisations like ISIL, al-Qaeda, Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad, Haqqani Network and their frontal organisations are growing in strength and gaining new grounds with impunity, encouragement and state sponsored hospitality. The Council members expressed concerns over the increasing use by ISIL and its financiers of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), including emerging technologies, such as virtual assets and other anonymous means of monetary or financial transactions. They also underscored the importance of international cooperation, effective governance in line with international law, and innovative partnerships with the private sector and civil society to prevent and counter the use of ICT for terrorist purposes. The UNSC Press Statement urged all member states to fulfil their obligations as set forth in relevant Council resolutions to criminalise the financing of terrorism, as well as to build further the capacity of their financial oversight and regulatory systems in order to deny ISIL (Da'esh) and its financiers the space to exploit and raise funds. This, the statement said, the member states should do so by including by cooperating with the private sector through public-private partnerships with financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions, and by taking into account the assessments thereof by relevant entities such as the Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate. The Security Council underscores the importance of a holistic approach to counter terrorism and violent extremism conducive to terrorism, conducted in accordance with applicable international law, as well as efforts to address the governance, security, human rights, humanitarian, development and socioeconomic dimensions of the challenge, including employment for the youth and the eradication of poverty, the statement said. The members of the Security Council further reaffirmed that member states must ensure that all measures, undertaken to counter the financing of terrorism, comply with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, international human rights law and international refugee law. The members of the Security Council expressed concern over the alarming expansion of ISIL (Da'esh) in many regions, including in Africa and acknowledged that the growing influence of ISIL (Da'esh) in Africa may have far-reaching implications for the peace, security and stability of the region. They recalled the Council's Presidential Statement issued in March last year that underscored the need for a coherent and effective regional approach and stressed the importance of an urgent global response to support African countries and regional organisations. The Council also deplored the continuous attacks on civilians, towns and military camps by ISIL's regional affiliates such as IS in West Africa Province (ISWAP), IS in Greater Sahara (ISGS) and ISIL in Central Africa, and expressed concern over the presence of, and threat from ISIL-Khorasan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in Pulwama||Two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Friday, officials said here. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Khrew in Pampore area of the district following information about the presence of militants there, the officials said. They said the search operation turned into an encounter after the ultras opened fire at the security forces which was retaliated. In the ensuing encounter, two militants were killed, the officials said. They said the identity and group affiliation of the slain ultras was being ascertained. Incriminating material including arms and ammunition have been recovered from the site of the encounter, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Tej Pratap Yadav, Bihar RJD chief trade barbs||Turbulence struck Bihar’s main Opposition party Rashtriya Janata Dal on Thursday after a simmering conflict between party chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tej Pratap Yadav and state unit president Jagadanand Singh exploded in the public with both sides attacking each other. The latest development has the potential of creating a rift in the largest party in the Bihar Assembly at a time when senior leaders are expecting new political equations to emerge in the state, which may give the RJD a fresh shot at power. Former Lok Sabha member and minister Jagadanand, 76, considered a loyal associate of Lalu, had been sulking for the past couple of months over the insults meted out to him by Tej Pratap, sources said. Jagadanand had stopped coming to the state party headquarters and had even tendered his resignation last month, but Lalu refused to accept it. Senior party leaders said that the immediate trigger for the rift spilling out in the open was Jagadanand removing Akash Yadav from the post of the president of the student wing of the RJD, and installing one Gagan Kumar in his place on Wednesday. Akash is said to be close to Tej Pratap. Stung by the move, Tej Pratap, who has always claimed to be a patron of the student wing (Chhatra RJD), chose to hit out at his brother Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s aide Sanjay Yadav without taking his name. Sanjay hails from Haryana. “The president (Jagadanand), while consulting the migrant consultant (read Sanjay), forgot that a party is run as per its constitution. The RJD’s constitution says that no office-bearer of the party could be relieved from his post without being served a notice. What happened is against the constitution of our party,” Tej Pratap said. He also asserted that those who worked hard in the party were not being rewarded while those who indulged in sycophancy were being handed plum posts. Several hours later, Tej Pratap attacked Sanjay again and said a “migrant consultant who cannot get any member of his family elected as sarpanch in Haryana cannot make my Arjun (read Tejashwi) a chief minister. He can only engineer friction in the Lalu family and the RJD”. The Mahua MLA also alleged that Jagadanand refused to accept the fact that he was the elder son of Lalu. However, his remarks pointed at Sanjay were seen as an indirect attack on Tejashwi and queered the pitch further. Jagadanand, who normally avoids getting into verbal duels or commenting on Tej Pratap’s barbs, chose to hit back this time. “I am not accountable to Tej Pratap. Who is he? I am accountable to Lalu Prasad,” an angry Jagadanand said on Thursday. “The post of the president of the student wing of our party was vacant. Hence I appointed a suitable leader. If anybody claims that he is the patron of the student wing and has appointed somebody as its president, he has no power to do so. He should first read the party’s constitution,” he said. The latest development seems to be an outcome of the silent power struggle among Lalu’s children, in which his younger son and leader of the Opposition Tejashwi has risen to prominence. Tejashwi led the party in the 2020 Assembly elections as the chief ministerial candidate of the Opposition Grand Alliance, winning 75 seats — more than the BJP (74) and the JDU (43) which are in power. He failed to come to power by just 12 seats. On the other hand, Tej Pratap and Lalu’s eldest daughter, Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, lost out in the race within the party. They have stayed sidelined for the past four years. Asked about the friction in the party, Tejashwi said: “Everybody has his own opinion. I am there, our national president (Lalu) is there. We will make everything all right. We are not worried.” The ruling JDU and BJP took the opportunity to attack the RJD over the friction among senior leaders and Lalu’s sons. Leaders from both the parties claimed that Tej Pratap was not getting his due as the elder son of Lalu. Reacting to their statements, Tejashwi asked them to “focus on the ongoing floods in the state in which lakhs of people were suffering immensely”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Bharatiya Kisan Sangh union plans protest  for minimum support price||The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) has decided to stage a nationwide agitation on September 8 for a law on minimum support price (MSP) in a bid to foreground this demand over the ongoing farmers’ agitation for the repeal of the three farm laws. A PTI report from Nagpur said the BKS also called for “improvement” in the three farm laws. Addressing a news conference on Thursday, BKS office-bearer Dinesh Kulkarni said the Centre should either bring a new legislation or make changes in the agri-marketing laws enacted last year to add a provision for the payment of MSP for major farm produce. BKS general secretary Badri Narayan Choudhary told this newspaper that they had essentially served an ultimatum to the government. BKS would organise district-level protests across the country on September 8 if the government does not give an assurance on enacting an MSP law by the end of this month, he said. On the farm laws, Choudhary said their implementation had been stayed by the Supreme Court. “The government has said it is willing to amend some of the provisions. We are in favour of reforms in the agriculture sector and have already suggested some changes. If the government repeals these laws, we will protest. When all other sectors are being reformed, why should agriculture be left behind?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Well-wishers of terrorists in UP should remember who is their PM and CM: Swatantra Dev||The rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan may pose a serious security threat to India but internally the ruling BJP appears to be happy, hoping the tragic developments could help the party. The BJP’s rise is centred on majoritarian and Hindutva politics and seeking to project Islam as against the “idea of Bharat”. Party insiders feel the images coming out after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan will help to strengthen its politics among the people. Though both the government and the party have been  guarded in their comments, leaders in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and the BJP ecosystem appear to have hurled themselves into the effort to exploit the situation in Afghanistan, eyeing electoral gains. “People who are well-wishers of terrorists in Uttar Pradesh should remember who is their Prime Minister and chief minister,” BJP’s Uttar Pradesh chief Swatantra Dev said on Wednesday. The comment was aimed at rival Samajwadi Party’s Sambhal MP Shafiqur Rahman Barq, who has been slapped with a sedition case for allegedly equating the struggle of India’s freedom fighters for Independence with the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The alleged comment from Barq, a Muslim, appears to have given a handle to BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh to go all out to play the Hindutva card. The Samajwadi MP has said he was misquoted. On Thursday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath too sought to play the Taliban issue while speaking in the Assembly, apparently eyeing the polls in February-March next year. “Despite the kind of cruelty being meted out to women and children some people here are shamelessly supporting the Taliban. The faces of all these leaders should be exposed,” Adityanath said, seeking to slam principal rival SP, which draws support mainly from Yadavs and Muslims. BJP managers feel the Taliban overrunning Afghanistan coinciding with the preparations for the Uttar Pradesh polls could divert attention from the failures of the Adityanath government by sharpening polarisation. The Adityanath government had faced widespread flak for his mishandling of the second Covid wave and recent surveys have shown a sharp dip in his popularity ratings. But party managers hope the polarisation card could wipe off the failures and sway the majority community. The top leadership of the BJP has maintained silence on the developments in Afghanistan given the sensitivity of the issue but some other key leaders are slowly seeking to use the Taliban to make political statements. Two former general secretaries of the BJP, Ram Madhav (now with the RSS) and P Muralidhar Rao, initially flagged the serious security threat to India due to the Taliban takeover but later gave comments seeking to obliquely play politics. “World over people are keenly watching about the developments happening in #Afghanistan. How women are treated under Taliban rule is the touchstone!” P Muralidhar Rao tweeted on Wednesday. “Hope, all Indians irrespective of denomination they belong to have consensus on this.” he added. Speaking at an event in Kozhikode on Thursday, Ram Madhav said the Moplah rebellion of 1921, also called the Mappila riots, was one of the first manifestations of the Talibani mindset in India and accused the Left of trying to whitewash it by celebrating it as a communist revolution. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Rakesh Sinha, who has been known as an RSS ideologue, has slammed those supporting the Taliban and said: “Taliban is an idea which must be opposed by Indian Muslims without if and but!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Lakshadweep administration withdraws master’s and undergraduate Arabic courses ||The Lakshadweep administration has withdrawn the master’s and undergraduate Arabic courses taught at the Union Territory at a time administrator Praful Khoda Patel has been accused of imposing a “saffron” agenda on the Muslim-majority archipelago. Kerala's state-run University of Calicut taught these courses at academic centres run by the Lakshadweep government. About a week ago, the Patel administration asked the university to stop all the master's courses it taught on the islands — MA Arabic, MCom, MA English and MSc aquaculture — as well as the BA Arabic course. The University of Calicut's syndicate on Wednesday ratified the cancellation of the courses, although the existing students will be allowed to complete their programmes. Syndicate member K.K. Haneefa told The Telegraph on Thursday that the Lakshadweep administration had cited a lack of demand for the master’s courses. “They apparently want to start job-oriented courses,” Haneefa said. University officials said the order did not say why the popular BA Arabic programme was being abolished. U.S. Afsal, who taught Arabic for five years until last month at Lakshadweep, expressed shock. “I just can’t believe this, since BA Arabic is a very popular course,” he told this newspaper. He acknowledged that MA Arabic attracted only a handful of students but underlined that the master's course was launched on the island only six years ago. BA Arabic was introduced 16 years ago. The University of Calicut taught BEd at a centre on Kavaratti Island and the other undergraduate and master's courses at centres on the Andrott and Kadmat Islands. The archipelago's students seeking degrees in Arabic will now have to travel to Kerala or elsewhere. While scrapping the Arabic courses, the Lakshadweep administration has signed an agreement with the Pondicherry Central University from NDA-ruled Puducherry to start diploma courses in travel and tourism, catering and hospitality, and technical education on the Kadmat and Minicoy islands. A senior official at the University of Calicut, located in Kerala's Malappuram district, said the BA Arabic course attracted about 30 students each year. He said it's mainly women who seek higher education in Lakshadweep. “There's no justification for pulling out the undergraduate (Arabic) course or the MA aquaculture course, which was specific to the ecology of Lakshadweep, whose people depend mainly on fishing,” said the official, declining to be named. He said the university had no choice but to accept the administration's directive. “The centres are run by the Lakshadweep administration while we provide the courses and teachers; so there was nothing we could do,” he said. A syndicate member, Rasheed Ahammed P, on Thursday wrote to the vice-chancellor of the University of Calicut demanding he mount pressure on the Lakshadweep administration to reinstate the BA and MA Arabic courses. “There was no shortage of students in BA Arabic all these years. Hence, such a move will not be in the interest of Lakshadweep's students,” the letter said. Ahammed said the master's course too should be allowed to continue and not judged solely in terms of enrolment figures. "It's a part of providing facilities to meritorious students... especially to poor girl students," the letter said. Afsal said: “We need to realise that Lakshadweep is a very backward area where the importance of higher education is just about getting accepted.” Patel, who took over as administrator last December, is a former BJP leader who was home minister of Gujarat for a while when Narendra Modi was chief minister. Several of his decisions have prompted protest in Lakshadweep and outside, among them his efforts to boost tourism and construction projects that many fear would harm the islands’ ecology. Patel has also been accused of trying to cut Lakshadweep's links with Kerala, with which the islanders share deep cultural, linguistic and marital ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Left Front asks Centre to work closely with major regional powers on Afghanistan||The CPM and the CPI have asked the Centre to “work closely with major regional powers” on Afghanistan and desist from “blindly following the US”. “Major regional powers” usually mean Russia, China and Iran. “The United States has suffered a humiliating defeat in Afghanistan. Twenty years after the toppling of the Taliban regime, the Taliban are back in power....,” the Left parties have said. They added that the “the Afghan policy of the Indian government had been to blindly follow the Americans. This had resulted in its isolation in the region and hence, it is left with few options...”. “India must work closely with major regional powers to see that the Afghan people are able to live in a peaceful and stable environment. The Indian government should immediately work towards the safe evacuation of all stranded Indian citizens in Afghanistan,” the Left parties said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Helping hand for Afghans||A woman JNU student is stuck at her home in central Afghanistan, watching Taliban gunmen roam the streets, as she awaits her visa to be able to study in India. An Afghan student of Punjab University in Chandigarh keenly follows every piece of credible news from home to try and gauge his future prospects, while his wallet grows lighter every day. Their futures caught in the quagmire of a coup in Afghanistan, these students, some of the brightest from their country, now depend on the support of friends and a few NGOs and student groups that have begun relief efforts ordinarily performed by governments. The JNU student, holder of a scholarship from the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR), had contacted her university several times since July 26 as the Taliban closed in. She had secured admission last year from Afghanistan and been attending online classes for the past year from home. By the time the university responded, the Taliban had taken control of Kabul and the airport was shut. “They (JNU) were ignoring what I was facing. Later they said that it’s not just the bona fide certificate, they also need to contact the ICCR,” the student told The Telegraph over the phone. A bona fide certificate is one a university issues declaring a person as its student. It helps in getting a visa. “They said it would take 15 days. Now they have finally said that nothing is required from me; they will internally process it. I’m waiting, but the situation at Kabul airport is bad.” In response to requests from several Afghan students and the JNU students’ union, university registrar Ravikesh had said last Saturday that “the matter is being looked into”. On Wednesday, the registrar said that bona fide certificates would be issued to those whose visas are due to expire soon. Delhi University and the IITs had proactively facilitated visas for their Afghan students as soon as the Taliban began their march on Kabul in July. Some of these students have arrived in India. “There are reports of firing by the Taliban to control crowds at the airport and some say there have been injuries and deaths. Only military aircraft are operating and we don’t have information on civil flights,” the JNU student said. “The Taliban search homes but don’t say anything to us. For now, they have just taken away cars from some. Many people fear that the moment they get international recognition and foreign troops leave the airport, they may target former government officials, journalists and women activists. They have reportedly killed civilians without warning in Jalalabad. My parents want me to escape anywhere possible.” The Punjab University student, Farhad Haqyar — a 25-year-old ICCR scholar who is about to complete a master’s in journalism and communication --- has appealed to the Indian government for extensions of scholarships to Afghan students like him. Else, he says the United Nations should provide a dole until Afghans studying overseas find their feet. “There are some Afghans in India, including girls, with just Rs 100 left…. There is no financial support from home now as many cannot go to work any more,” Haqyar said. “In a few months, we will know if we have a working government and whether we can go back or go elsewhere. But at least until then, the ICCR can support us with the funds that were to be given to scholarship winners who now cannot come to India.” Haqyar is from the Panjshir Valley, where the anti-Taliban resistance is based. He was brought up in Kabul. His father, a government employee who has now confined himself to his home, lived through the brutal Taliban takeover of 1996. “A couple of months ago I had planned to return home and start an advertising company. Suddenly everything has changed and I see my ambitions escaping from me,” Haqyar said. “If the Taliban and other parties form an inclusive government, it will be a big opportunity for us. I’m ready to work in any situation if such a government is in place irrespective of who the ruler is,” he added. “For 25 years I have just breathed and not lived. Here I see couples enjoying themselves and going to the cinema. Back home, women pray at home just for the men to come back home alive. I just want to live for 20 years in tranquillity. It’s easy to capture Afghanistan but hard to rule it.... If the Taliban change 10 per cent, we can restrict ourselves too.” Sarhad, an NGO, is able to offer some help to those like Haqyar, if not the JNU student. Its president Sanjay Nahar told this newspaper that the organisation had shortlisted 25 students whose savings had run out. “For now, we are going to give Rs 5,000 to each of them, which may not last long. We intend to do a survey of how many are in need. We have helped them during the pandemic too,” he said. Nahar has petitioned a university in Pune to allow three women Afghan students to write the entrance test for the PhD programme although their visas — for the master’s course -- are about to expire. CPM student arm SFI is trying to help Afghan students at varsities across India. Its general secretary, Mayukh Biswas, said his organisation had recently taken up the cause of a recently arrived Afghan student of Jadavpur University who has been unable to join his programme as the regime change has left some of his documents in limbo. “We ask institutions to extend all help to their Afghan students in getting visas and places to stay. IIT Bombay has been most forthcoming,” Biswas said. “We also plan to appeal to the public to help students who need housing or financial assistance. But in the long run, institutions must offer scholarships. We are writing to MPs to ask this of the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari describes Nehru and Vajpayee as two ideal leaders of Indian democracy||Road transport and highways minister and senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari has described Jawaharlal Nehru and Atal Bihari Vajpayee as two ideal leaders of Indian democracy, pointing out that both respected the Opposition. The statement, in reply to a question over the stalemate in Parliament, was seen as oblique criticism of the Narendra Modi government’s hostile attitude towards the Opposition. Gadkari said a “strong Opposition” was essential to keep a “check on the government” in a healthy democracy. The minister did not attack the Opposition for demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations, which the government had refused to concede, leading to the stalemate. “Atal Bihari Vajpayee aur Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, ye Hindustan ke loktantra ke do adarsh neta the (Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru were two ideal leaders of Indian democracy),” Gadakri told News Nation on Wednesday in reply to a question on the Opposition’s protests during the monsoon session of Parliament. “Dono kehte the, mai apni loktantrik maryada ka palan karoonga (Both used to say that they would abide by their democratic values),” he added. The showering of praise on Nehru, who the current leadership likes to blame for India’s problems, will not go down well with the party and the government. Officially, however, the party sought to ignore Gadkari’s remarks, with some party spokespersons saying they were not aware of what he said. During the interview, Gadkari hailed Nehru thrice, stressing that the first Prime Minister’s contribution towards India’s democracy was “very significant”. “Is desh ke loktantra ko yashasvi karne ke liye majboot vipaksh ki bhi awashyakta hai (For making the country’s democracy glorious, a strong Opposition is needed),” he said when asked about the Congress’s decline. Refraining from attacking the Congress like most BJP leaders, he said: “Pandit Nehru ji ne har samay Atal Bihari Vajpayee ka samman kiya tha, ki loktantra ke liye majboot vipaksh ka hona zaruri hai (Pandit Nehru had always respected Vajpayee because a strong Opposition was essential for democracy).” The senior leader extended his best wishes for the Congress to become a “strong and responsible Opposition”. On the washout of the monsoon session, he said it was “very unfortunate” and suggested that the government and the Opposition come together and introspect. “Vajpayee’s legacy is our inspiration... Pandit Nehru’s contribution towards India’s democracy is also a very significant,” he said. “All parties should introspect... because the Opposition of today is the ruling party of tomorrow and the ruling side today is tomorrow’s Opposition. Our roles keep changing.” The government continues to attack the Opposition, particularly the Congress, holding it responsible for the deadlock in Parliament. It has also pressed for “strong action” against Opposition members for “denigrating” Parliament. Gadkari made no mention of this “denigration” in his reply despite being asked about it. The minister, who represents the Nagpur constituency and is known to be close to the RSS, is regarded as one of the best performing ministers. He is known to speak his mind and in the process toe a line contrary to the top leadership. In the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gadkari had hit the headlines with his remarks aimed indirectly at the party leadership. He had suggested that the leadership should take responsibility for the defeat in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||All India Council of Technical Education allows 2nd BTech degree ||The All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has allowed BTech degree holders to pursue a second degree in another branch or discipline by taking fresh admission. Academicians supported the decision of the technical education regulator considering its intent but feared dilution in quality in implementation of this policy. Students seeking an additional BTech degree will get direct admission in second year through lateral entry, according to a circular issued last week by Dileep N. Malkhede, adviser-1, AICTE, to vice-chancellors of all technical universities and principals of all council-approved technical colleges. The executive committee of the AICTE approved the duration for completing the additional degree to be two years to three years without compromising on the credit requirements in the core discipline and attainment of learning outcomes of the new programme, the circular said. It asked the institutions to make necessary changes their statutes. The circular said a decision to this effect was taken in the executive committee meeting of the AICTE last month. AICTE chairman Anil Sahashrabudhe said the final decision to enrol students for the additional degree will depend on the respective institutions. “We received several requests from students for permission to study for an additional degree. No such provision was there. It was discussed in the executive committee meeting. The committee decided to create an enabling provision for such an additional degree. Now it is up to the universities and colleges to implement it,” Sahashrabudhe said. He said the first-year course is usually common across streams. Hence the BTech degree holders seeking an additional degree would directly get admission to second year. He said the additional degree will help students in professional development. Sunil Sarangi, former director of National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, said that the intention of the policy was welcome. “This is a well-intended policy. But it will be successful only if the students taking admission for a second degree attend classes and go through the academic rigour. I have doubts about that,” Sarangi said. He claimed that students of senior classes in Indian institutions feel “insulted” to sit with juniors in classrooms. “I have a feeling these students may not attend classes. They will try to manage attendance by manipulating the system,” he said. G.R.C. Reddy, former director of NIT Warangal, disapproved the concept of a second degree. “I find that 90 per cent of BTech degree holders in the country are poor in basic understanding of their subjects. They end up becoming glorified technicians. I would prefer the students to focus on the core areas of at least one subject. If they understood that well, they can do better and prosper in life,” Reddy said. Except IITs and some NITs, the quality of a majority of institutions is not good, he said. Another professor, who did not wish to be named, said that students would like to have two degrees in different branches only for the purpose of doing some mechanical or technical jobs. “People have done BTech in electrical (engineering). Later they may want to pursue computer science. Now computer science is the most sought after subject which has potential for technician kinds of jobs in American companies. So many people will take interest. This is not out of sincere interest for any subject. Such people are unlikely to contribute to the creation of new knowledge or bringing novelty in the preferred area,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Ramana orders 'discreet' inquiry into confidential information relating to SC collegium finding||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has ordered a “discreet” inquiry into confidential information relating to the Supreme Court collegium finding its way into the media as sources said he was deeply “upset, anguished” and seething with rage over the purported “betrayal”. Except the five-member collegium comprising CJI Ramana and the four seniormost judges of the apex court — Justices U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao — very senior unidentified registry officials are privy to its meetings. The development comes after Tuesday’s collegium meeting at Justice Ramana’s residence which was held till 9.20pm where the decision was taken to recommend the names of nine judges/chief justices of high courts for elevation to the Supreme Court. The nine names cleared included three women judges — Karnataka High Court judge Justice B.V. Nagarathna, who will eventually become the country’s first woman Chief Justice of India in October 2027, although for a brief period of 40 days, Justice Hima Kohli, Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, and Justice Bela Trivedi, judge of Gujarat High Court. The other names cleared for elevation are Karnataka High Court Chief Justice A.S. Oka, Gujarat High Court Chief Justice Vikram Nath, Sikkim High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari, Kerala High Court judge Justice C.T. Ravi Kumar, Madras High Court judge M.M. Sundresh and senior advocate P.S. Narasimha. Sources said it was preposterous to suggest that action was proposed to be taken for the leak of confidential discussions in the collegium meeting, despite the fact that the names discussed were not finalised on Tuesday. It was stated that a couple of loose ends were to be sorted out the next day before sending the list to the Union government for approval. Sources said CJI Ramana and some of the collegium members were shocked over the alleged leak of the list on Wednesday in a section of the media, which was inferred as a deliberate plant in certain quarters. As a convention it was pointed out that unless the resolution is signed, the names are not made public. Yet the names were leaked to the media, sources said. On Wednesday, a livid Justice Ramana is said to have summoned a number of registry officials and expressed his deep anguish, anger and frustration over the alleged leak, particularly when the resolution was not signed or uploaded, much less forwarded to the government. Hence he is said to have ordered a discreet inquiry to fix accountability for the alleged leak, sources said. Justice Ramana’s frustration was visible when he deviated from the customary farewell speech to retiring judge Justice Navin Sinha on Wednesday by raising the issue of alleged leak of collegium-related matters in the media. “….On this occasion I want to take the liberty to express my concern about certain speculations and reports in the media. You are all aware we need to appoint judges to this court. The process is ongoing. Meetings will be held and decisions will be taken. The process of appointment of judges is sacrosanct and has certain dignity attached to it. “My media friends must understand and recognise the sanctity of this process. As an institution we hold the freedom of media and the rights of individuals in high esteem. Today’s reflections in some sections of the media, pending the process, even before formalising the resolution is counter-productive. There were instances of deserving career progression of bright talents getting marred because of such irresponsible reporting and speculation. This is very unfortunate and I am extremely upset about it,” Justice Ramana said. He added: “I must also place on record (the) tremendous amount of maturity and responsibility displayed by majority of the senior journalists and media houses in showing restraint and not speculating on such a serious matter. Such professional journalists and ethical media are the real strength of the Supreme Court in particular and democracy in general. You are part of our system. I expect all the stakeholders to uphold the integrity and dignity of this institution.” The reference to “stakeholders” is being interpreted in legal circles as a reference to some collegium member/s themselves leaking the news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||School online, children risk lives to earn livelihood||Antara Nat, a 10-year-old Class III student from Chhattisgarh, spends her days doing acrobatic stunts to entertain young and old in coastal Odisha’s villages. Her brother Ashis, 7, enrolled in Class I, too chips in with tightrope-walking acts. Their father Shameylal plays popular Hindi and Odia songs on a portable music player while their mother keeps a protective eye on the children lest they fall and suffer injuries. In the middle of the show, Shameylal asks: “Why are you attempting this risky stunt?” Antara replies: “For food. Please pay us Rs 10 or Rs 20 or give us some rice.” Shameylal then asks the onlookers not to disappoint the child. Under the Child and Adolescent Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, employment of children below 14 years in any occupation — even if it’s a family vocation — is illegal. Those aged below 18 are banned from hazardous occupations. But Antara’s parents are happy. They say they earn about Rs 250 from a performance at a village. The family, from Chhattisgarh’s Janjgir district, spends the nights in a tent. “My children are enrolled in a government school but we have no money. There’s no work available back home. We came to Odisha two months ago to earn a livelihood,” Shameylal said. Antara and her brother know nothing about the government’s National Child Labour Project, which aims to rescue and rehabilitate working children. Under this programme, surveys to identify working children are to be conducted at the district level and the rescued children enrolled in training centres to be provided bridge education and vocational training. Nor has the education ministry’s offer of free education, school uniforms and a midday meal done anything for the two tribal children. The rural job programme, MGNREGA, has not prevented Shameylal from moving out with his family. “This is our family occupation. We can stop this if we get sustained work and liveable wages,” Shameylal said. Data provided by junior labour minister Rameswar Teli in the Lok Sabha on August 9 showed a rise in the number of rescued child labourers but did not provide an estimate of the number of working children. In a written reply to a question from Congress member Vishnu Prasad MK, the minister gave a year-wise breakup of children rescued from workplaces since the financial year 2017-18. Under the National Child Labour Project, 47,635 children were rescued and rehabilitated in 2017-18, the number rising to 50,284 in 2018-19, to 54,894 in 2019-20 and to 58,289 in 2020-21. Mitra Ranjan, coordinator of the Right to Education Forum which raises issues of access to education, said that according to the 2011 census, India had 1.01 crore child labourers. “There should be proper mapping of child labourers. Most of them are from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, backward classes and poor families and are likely to remain outside school. Their future is at risk,” Ranjan said. He said the RTE Act had not been implemented properly in the decade since its enactment. The shift to online education, necessitated by the pandemic, has further created a digital divide and made access to education more difficult for poor and rural children. “Such students are almost certain to be found working. During the period the schools remain closed, the government should provide them with digital devices and Internet facilities,” Ranjan said. “The best solution is for the schools to reopen at the earliest, with the observance of Covid protocols.” A report titled “Child labour: Global estimates 2020, trends and the road ahead”, release by the International Labour Organisation and Unicef in June, estimated that 16 crore children — 6.3 crore girls and 9.7 crore boys — were working globally at the beginning of 2020, accounting for almost 1 in 10 of all children worldwide. Nearly half of the child labourers — 7.9 crore — were in hazardous occupations. An analysis suggests that a further 89 lakh children will be in child labour by the end of 2022, as a result of rising poverty driven by the pandemic, unless urgent measures are taken, the report said. It recommended that governments help mitigate the poverty and economic uncertainty faced by these children’s families, and ensure free and quality schooling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath boasts of his 'excellent corona management'||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday boasted of his “excellent corona management” while comparing the situation in his state with other countries and states, failing to mention the bodies floating in the Ganga or buried in the sand on its banks or those queued up outside cremation grounds during the peak of the second wave in April and May. During the debate on the supplementary budget in the Assembly, the chief minister presented Covid-19 data of the UK and US as well as that of Maharashtra and Kerala to claim that his government had handled the pandemic well. He said: “While the population of Uttar Pradesh is 24 crore, there were 17.80 lakh Covid-19 cases and 22,783 people have died of the disease. The recovery rate in the state is 98.6 per cent. About 1.31 lakh Covid deaths were reported in Britain, which has a population of 6.60 crore, while about 18,000 people died of the disease in Kerala, which has a population of 3.45 crore.” The chief minister said he mentioned UK (also the US) because it was a developed country and Kerala because it had a high literacy rate. Senior Congress leader Dwijendra Tripathi said: “While the chief minister presented correct data of the countries of the world and states in India, he presented fake data about UP. There is not a single family in the state which has not lost a member to Covid-19. At least 100 bodies were brought every day to each cremation ground in the cities (75 cities). There is more than one cremation ground in each city. Starting from April 5, this influx of the dead continued till May 15. Adityanath should count this number in the cities, assuming that we will never be able to calculate the deaths in the rural areas of the state.” “The chief minister also didn’t mention the oxygen crisis, which had played a major role in deaths as a majority of the hospitals didn’t get enough of the life-saving gas to save the patients. The government took legal action against the hospitals instead of supplying oxygen to them,” he added. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party, said: “The state government boasts of its works on the basis of fake data. The BJP is known for doing so from the Centre to UP.” “The government didn’t want to save lives and didn’t feel the pain of 24 crore people of the state. These people are waiting eagerly to throw the BJP out of power in 2022,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Conversion law setback to Gujarat govt in high court||Gujarat High Court on Thursday stayed the operation of some sections of the state’s new anti-conversion law, in a setback to the BJP-led government. A division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav said the interim order has been passed to protect people from unnecessary harassment. While the state government has so far not made any public statement on the high court’s order, legal experts and social activists welcomed the interim stay, saying the “entire law is against the spirit of the Constitution” and liberty of citizens to choose their religion. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, which penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage, was notified by the state government on June 15. Similar laws have also been enacted by BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Last month, the Gujarat chapter of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind filed a petition, saying some sections of the new law were unconstitutional. On Thursday, Chief Justice Nath said: “We are of the opinion that pending further hearing, rigors of Section 3, 4, 4a to 4c, 5, 6, and 6a shall not operate merely because the marriage is solemnised by a person of one religion with another religion without force, allurement or fraudulent means and such marriages cannot be termed as marriage for the purpose of unlawful conversion.” “This interim order is to protect the parties which solemnised interfaith marriages from unnecessary harassment,” he said. The stay on these sections effectively means that an FIR under this law cannot be lodged merely on the basis of his or her interfaith marriage. When state advocate general Kamal Trivedi sought a clarification, saying what if a marriage results in forceful conversion, Chief Justice Nath said: “There has to be a basic element of force or allurement or fraud. Without that you will not (proceed), that’s all we have said in the order.” Section 3 of the state’s new law defines what is “forcible conversion”. It says “no person shall convert or attempt to convert any person from one religion to another by use of force, or by allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married, nor shall any person abet such conversion”. According to Section 4, people found guilty of violating the provisions of Section 3 will face up to three years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 50,000. If the victim is a minor, a woman or from a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe community, then the jail term will be four years with a fine of Rs 1 lakh. Section 4A specifically deals with “marriage by unlawful conversion” part of Section 3. It says “conversion by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married is concerned, shall be punished with imprisonment not less than three years, but may extend up to five years along with a fine of Rs 2 lakh”. According to Section 4B, any marriage that was done for the purpose of unlawful conversion “shall be declared void by family court”. Under Section 4C, institutions or organisations will be tried under this law if they are found involved in unlawful conversions, as defined under Section 3 of the law. Section 5 of the law mandates that religious priests must take permission from the district magistrate for converting any person from one religion to another. Moreover, the one who got converted also needs to “send an intimation” to the district magistrate in a prescribed form. According to Section 6, prior sanction of the district magistrate or a sub-divisional magistrate is necessary to start prosecution against the accused. However, according to Section 6A, the burden of proof is on the accused “who has caused the conversion”. Meanwhile, city-based legal expert Shamshad Pathan welcomed the high court’s order. “In my opinion, the high court should have taken up this issue suo motu (on its own) immediately after the original law was enacted in 2003. Not just the new sections, this entire Act is against the spirit of the Constitution and liberty of citizens to choose their religion. Law cannot decide which religion people should follow. I welcome today’s verdict,” the lawyer told PTI. Echoing similar views, social activist Dev Desai claimed the entire law was “unconstitutional” from the beginning. “Once a man and a woman attain adulthood, they are free to make decisions regarding their marriage or religion they want to follow. The government cannot have any role in it. Inter-caste or interfaith marriages are actually necessary to eliminate casteism from the society and create harmony among communities,” he said. “I believe the high court should scrap the entire law,” said Desai, who is associated with the NGO Act Now for Harmony and Democracy (Anhad), formed in the aftermath of the 2002 Gujarat riots. The BJP government had passed the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill in the Assembly during the budget session earlier this year, and governor Acharya Devvrat gave his assent to it on May 22. The Gujarat chapter of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind filed a petition against the law last month. During a previous hearing, the petitioner’s lawyer, Mihir Joshi, claimed the amended law had vague terms which were against the basic principles of marriage and right to propagate, profess and practice religion, as enshrined in Article 25 of the Constitution. Since the law says no person shall be converted by use of force, allurement, fraudulent means and by marriage, Joshi had contended that it becomes an offence if two persons of different faiths get married according to the new law. In his response, advocate-general Trivedi, on behalf of the Gujarat government, told the bench on August 17 that people should not have any fear about the law. “Why this fear? So long as genuine conversion is there, people need not worry. (Inter-faith) marriage per se is not prohibited in this law. It only prohibits forcible conversion by marriage. The law says no person shall be converted by use of force, allurement, fraudulent means or by marriage for the purpose of conversion,” Trivedi told the court two days back. He had also said no FIR was lodged merely on the ground of interfaith marriage under this law, as it does not prohibit such marriages per se. “This is not the usual IPC section. The law mandates that the case must be investigated by a deputy SP (superintendent of police) rank officer, not by any constable or PSI (police sub-inspector). Further, prosecution will not start without the sanction of the district magistrate or the sub-divisional magistrate. These are the safety valves given by the law,” Trivedi had argued. He had also said the focus of the law was unlawful conversion and not marriages, as stated by the petitioner. Trivedi had also informed the court that only three complaints were registered across the state under this law so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
20-08-2021||India||Delhi police identifies three policemen who forced five Muslim youths to sing national anthem||Delhi police on Thursday claimed to have identified the three policemen who allegedly brutalised five Muslim youths and forced them to sing the national anthem “properly” during the Delhi riots in February last year. One of the youths, Faizan, 23, later died in hospital. Thursday’s police move comes eight months after a prod from Delhi High Court. Officers, however, declined to name the three accused policemen. Video clips had shown five young men lying on a street, one of them bleeding, while three men in police uniform poked at them with batons and kicked them. As the youths were heard trying to sing lines from the national anthem, a voice —purportedly belonging to a policeman — said: “Achchhi tarah ga (Sing properly)”. “The three personnel, posted with Delhi Armed Police, have been identified and will be subjected to a lie-detector test. They have not been arrested yet,” a Delhi police officer said. He declined comment on the one-and-a-half-year delay in identifying the suspects. A retired police officer described the decision to conduct lie-detector test on the trio as “ridiculous”. “The police have arrested over 1,000 people in the riot case and no one was ever subjected to a lie-detector test. Why are they doing this test on their own men?” he said. The officer said the results of lie-detector tests were not admissible in court but could be used to corroborate other evidence. For months after the violence, the police had denied any beating by cops, instead portraying the five youths as victims of rioters. Senior officials had, however, conceded that the policemen on the video should not have forced the youths to sing. Last December, Delhi High Court issued a notice to the police seeking a status report on the investigation into Faizan's death after his mother Kismatun, 61, moved a petition alleging police beat her son on the street and then in custody. Kismatun has sought a court-monitored probe into Faizan’s death by a special investigation team. Her petition said the police probe into the murder case — registered against “unknown people” — was a sham, aimed at shielding the guilty cops. Faizan’s family alleges that after the street beating, the five injured youths were taken to a lockup and brutalised again. Released after a couple of days, a severely injured Faizan died in the hospital where his family had admitted him. Several videos that had emerged during the Delhi riots appeared to show the police standing and watching the mobs run amok. Union home minister Amit Shah had defended the Delhi police's role during a Parliament debate, claiming they had contained the violence within 36 hours. The Delhi minority commission has accused the police of “complicity” with the rioters and a proclivity to arrest victims rather than perpetrators. It has underlined the provocative speeches delivered by Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Delhi in the lead-up to the violence. Residents have asserted and journalists witnessed how the violence began on February 23 night last year after an inflammatory speech by BJP leader Kapil Mishra. Over the next 60 hours, 53 people were killed. A Delhi trial court had last month fined the police for their “callous and farcical” investigation into a riot case, saying the force had “miserably failed in their statutory duties”. A few months ago, a group of retired judges had castigated the police probe, noting it had “evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times”. Faizan’s family has suggested the police never recorded his detention. Elder brother Naeem said that when the police released Faizan, they neither asked the family to sign on a register nor issued a memo warning Faizan against repeating his alleged act, as is the usual practice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
20-08-2021||India||Puri to be connected with Vande Bharat Express soon||Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan kicked off BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Odisha on Thursday. Both the leaders visited Puri to pay obeisance to Lord Jagannath. Vaishnaw announced that Puri, which is one of the four holy places of Hindus and the spiritual centre of Odisha, would soon be connected with the Vande Bharat Express. Vaishnaw said: “Puri is one of the popular tourist and religious destinations in the world and has great cultural importance.  Work is on for the development of Puri railway station. Bringing Vande Bharat Express to Puri is on the cards and we hope it will materialise soon.” Puri remains a significant place in BJP’s roadmap to strengthen its base in the state. Though it won the Puri Assembly seat last time, the party failed to win the Puri Lok Sabha seat. The party had fielded its national spokesperson Sambit Patra from the Puri Lok Sabha seat. At Puri, a delegation led by Puri Vikash Parishad convenor Jagannath Bastia met the two Union ministers and demanded the construction of a 35km new railway line between Puri and Konark, where the Sun Temple is located. They pointed out that the East Coast Railway has already conducted the feasibility survey and chief minister Naveen Patnaik had earlier assured to bear 50 per cent of the cost of the new railway line. Vaishnaw and Pradhan will tour the state for three-days till August 22 covering about 420km. Both the ministers are scheduled to attend as many as 115 events in six Lok Sabha constituencies under seven districts. They will reach out to the public to create awareness on the various welfare schemes of the Centre. While Vaishnaw will attend 74 public meetings, Pradhan will address the remaining.  Vaishnaw, who had gone to the Rajya Sabha with the support of the BJD, would attend meetings at different places in Koraput,  Nabarangpur, Kalahandi, Bolangir and Raygada. He will travel by train to Raygada. Pradhan will address meetings in Khurda, Cuttack and Bhubaneswar. In order to connect with the masses, Vaishnaw tweeted: “Odisha is always my Karma Bhoomi.” The former IAS officer and private secretary to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Vaishnaw had served as district collectors in Odisha and also served the state in different capacities. Through the Jan Ashirwad Yatra, the BJP is making a desperate attempt to bolster its campaign ahead of the panchayat elections scheduled to be held in February next year. The ruling BJD is not leaving any stone unturned to ensure that its base in the state becomes stronger. Ahead of the panchayat elections both the BJP and BJD are making all out efforts to reach to the public and build up a strong public network. Naveen will launch the government's smart health card scheme for 3.5 crore economically vulnerable people from Malkangiri on Friday.  Hoardings of the events have been put up across the state in advance. However, Pradhan on Thursday urged the state to implement the Centre’s health programme Ayushman Bharat in Odisha. The Odisha government has so far declined to implement it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
20-08-2021||India||Jaishankar dodges questions on any contact with Taliban fighters||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Wednesday dodged questions on any contact with the Taliban while stating that India’s historical relationship with the Afghan people would continue and guide New Delhi’s approach in the coming days. At a media stakeout in the UN, Jaishankar was asked the direct question whether India had had any contact with the Taliban in recent days. The minister’s response was evasive: “I think at this point of time, we are looking at what is the evolving situation in Kabul. Obviously, the Taliban and its representatives have come to Kabul. So, I think we need to take it on from there.” Although there have been uncontested reports over the past couple of months about India having opened back channels with the Taliban in anticipation of the group becoming part of the governance structure in Kabul, New Delhi has never publicly acknowledged such contact. On Tuesday, sources did indicate that some of these back channels had come in handy in ensuring the safe passage for the cavalcade of cars ferrying Indian diplomats, embassy staff and other Indians from the mission to the Kabul airport for evacuation. Asked if India would remain engaged in Afghanistan if there was a Taliban government or a Taliban-dominated government in Kabul, Jaishankar said India’s considerable investment in Afghanistan reflected a historical relationship with the Afghan people. “I think that relationship with the Afghan people obviously continues and that will guide our approach to Afghanistan in the coming days,” he said. Jaishankar did not allow himself to be drawn into discussing the increased threat perception for India after the Taliban takeover, given the group’s links with Pakistan. Instead, he chose to focus on India’s stated priority at the moment -– bringing back the remaining Indians stranded in Afghanistan at a time commercial operations at the Kabul airport remain suspended and New Delhi lacks a diplomatic presence in that country. “At the moment we are – like everybody else—very carefully following developments in Afghanistan. I think our focus is on ensuring the security in Afghanistan and the safe return of Indian nationals who are there.” That, he added, had been the focus of his engagements in New York in conversations with the UN Secretary-General and during a telephone call with US secretary of state Antony Blinken. India has been in constant touch with the US and has indicated that it would decide its course of action relating to the Taliban in consultation with other democracies. With an estimated 500-plus Indians still stranded in different parts of Afghanistan, the decision to close the embassy is increasingly being questioned. Academic and foreign policy expert Happymon Jacob tweeted: “Senior Indian diplomats should be back at the Indian embassy in Kabul promoting India’s interests there. Having local staff in Kabul providing consular services is not good enough.” This was a position articulated by retired diplomat M.K. Bhadrakumar earlier this week, describing the decision to pull out diplomatic staff as a mistake. “A closure of the mission in Kabul will be a Himalayan blunder when the wheels of diplomacy & politics are set to accelerate. Normal politics is poised to grow a little each day. Retrenchment will only damage India’s interests and isolate it in the region.” At the cabinet committee on security (CCS) meeting on Tuesday after the evacuation flight landed near Delhi, the Prime Minister is said to have emphasised bringing back the remaining Indians. But there has been no indication over the past 48 hours of any evacuation being planned. The external affairs ministry had on Tuesday, before the CCS meeting, indicated that the remaining Indians would be brought back once commercial operations resumed at Kabul airport. The UK high commissioner in India, Alex Ellis, said India and the UK had a prominent role to play in the international community’s response to the situation in Afghanistan. Unlike many of the other western countries, the British high commissioner to Afghanistan is still in Kabul. The high commission is assisting in the evacuation, which had till Wednesday facilitated the departure of 306 British and 2,052 Afghan nationals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Allegation of bias against NHRC panel not material, says Calcutta HC judge||Two judges on the five-member bench of the Calcutta High Court, which ordered a CBI probe into alleged cases of rape and murder during the post-assembly poll violence in Bengal, termed as "uncalled for" an NHRC panel making recommendations and expressing opinion over the incidents but dismissed suggestions that some of its members were biased against the government. One of the judges also observed that the Election Commission should have played a more positive role in directing the administration to register the complaints made by the alleged victims, while another said inclusion of two members in the panel could have been avoided as "it might raise reasonable likelihood of bias". The two members of the NHRC committee--Rajul Desai and Atif Rasheed-- had links to the BJP. Observing that there are "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the Bengal Assembly polls were not even registered, the court had on Thursday ordered a CBI investigation in all alleged cases of heinous crimes like rape and murder, while accepting the recommendations of the NHRC panel. The five-judge bench while passing the order on a batch of PILs seeking an independent probe into incidents of alleged violence after the polls which the ruling TMC won by an overwhelming majority, also ordered constitution of an SIT to probe all other cases. Justices I P Mukerji and Soumen Sen concurred with the order pronounced by the bench but raised some objections about the actions of the NHRC's fact finding committee. Penning his observations, Justice Mukerji noted the allegation of bias against the NHRC committee was not material but said the panel only had powers to report on facts as gathered by them during the investigation. "The allegation of bias against the Committee is not material because this court has considered not only the report of the Committee but other materials as well and arguments of learned Counsel based thereon. Therefore the part of the report expressing opinion, making recommendations etc. is non-est (does not exist) in the eye of law," he wrote. Justice Mukerji said the submission of the Election Commission is absolutely right that the conduct of elections was its responsibility but the administration was with the government. The Mamata Banerjee government had repeatedly said that the EC was in charge of administration since the start of the election process and its conclusion on May 5. "The Election Commission, in my opinion, is theoretically correct. But, it is also true that the Election Commission had directed the administration to transfer officials with administrative duties and post them according to its direction at the time when it was in charge of the election. "If offences had occurred as a consequence of the polls, it was also the duty of the Election Commission at least to direct or advise the administration to register the complaints which it did not," Justice Mukerji observed. He noted that between the polls and assumption of office by the new government, the Election Commission should have played a more positive role in directing the administration to register the complaints. "If the offence is established, the wrongdoers have to be brought to justice. Only then will the entire system be seen as fair, just and transparent by the ordinary people," the judge said. Justice Soumen Sen, making his observations, said, "It would be unfair to impute biasness against the members of the fact finding committee who otherwise have done a commendable job in collecting and compiling complaints." He said that in his view the inclusion of Rajulben Desai, Atif Rasheed and Rajeev Jain in the committee does not vitiate its report. "Although I felt that having regard to the antecedents of Rajulben Desai and Atif Rashid the inclusion of the said two members could have been avoided as it might raise reasonable likelihood of bias," Justice Sen observed. "Although the fact finding committee has made scathing remarks and made recommendations against politicians and police officers I am of the view that such remarks and recommendations were uncalled for and to that extent the committee has transgressed its limits," he said. Opposing the findings and recommendations of the NHRC committee report, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the state's DGP, had claimed during submissions that it was erroneous and biased. Claiming that a few members of the seven-member committee had links with the BJP, he had prayed that the report should be rejected by the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Facebook disables online group that rallies people against BJP||Facebook has disabled an online group that rallies people against the BJP and had spearheaded an anti-BJP campaign by civil society in the run-up to the Bengal Assembly polls. The “No Vote to BJP” Facebook group has over 33,000 members. Credited with playing a key role in the BJP’s crushing Assembly election defeat, the campaign has stayed active, both online and offline, after the polls. “Your group has been disabled because it doesn’t follow our community standards on . An admin has requested that we review this decision and we’ll send you an update soon,” read a message on the group’s profile, visible only to the administrators. There’s a space between “on” and the full stop that follows at the end of the incomplete first sentence, as though an undecided writer had left room for an appropriate word to be put in later. Members alleged that the group was disabled around Wednesday-Thursday midnight, with the administrators receiving the notification that said the group had not followed Facebook “community standards”. Till Thursday night, there had been no update from Facebook, the administrators said. A Facebook spokesperson refused comment when The Telegraph sought a reaction. An email from this newspaper had not brought any response till Thursday night. Sources in the company said “investigating such a complaint takes time and has to go through a process that involves multiple teams”. Among the members of the disabled group are the young actors who had conceived the music video, Nijeder Mawte Nijeder Gaan, that assailed intolerance and bigotry and made a splash ahead of the Bengal elections. Facebook’s move has triggered a flurry of protests on social media, with messages pasted on the pages of individual users as well as on the page of the No Vote to BJP campaign, which is still operative. “Shame on FB. You are like BJP,” a comment said. Many others said the campaign would go on. “The group admins are entitled to know on what basis the suspension came. How did the group violate Facebook’s community standards? What are these standards? It seems as if the Facebook community standards align with the BJP standards,” said Sabyasachi Mukherjee, one of the group administrators. “Just before getting the notification of disablement, group admins got notifications regarding the deletion of several posts of the group on the ground of community standards violation,” he added. “Although we are not able to see the deleted posts now, it can be anticipated that those were posts regarding political programmes organised by the group. As the name suggests, this group was clearly political and endorsed a specific campaign.” While the campaign had organised meetings, performed skits, distributed pamphlets and put up posters asking people not to vote for the BJP, it did not ask them to vote for any particular party. “We strongly suspect that complaints from Facebook users who are BJP supporters and Right-wing sympathisers have had a role in this,” Mukherjee said. Facebook, which counts India among its largest markets with over 300 million users, has been repeatedly accused of following content policies that favoured the ruling BJP. In August 2020, a report in The Wall Street Journal alleged that Facebook — the world’s largest social media company and the owner of WhatsApp, the most popular social messaging app in India — had ignored hate speech by BJP leaders. The report had added that in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Ankhi Das, Facebook’s then public policy director for India, South and Central Asia, had kept it under wraps that Facebook had deleted fake news pages linked to the BJP. Das, who allegedly opposed the blocking of Right-wing hate content, quit the company in October last year. A member of the No Vote to BJP group said: “Aggressive comments from Right-wing sympathisers and fake posts abound on Facebook. The people behind them go scot-free but our voices get muffled.” Netizens and activists opposed to the BJP alleged that the disablement was not a one-off. Another group called the No NRC Movement — formed to “protest the Centre’s new citizenship thrust and expose and resist fascist forces” — was disabled by Facebook multiple times before and during the Bengal elections. “The No NRC Movement was disabled at least thrice on the same ground,” said Sagar Lahiri, an administrator of the group. “Each time, it was restored after many people protested on Facebook about the arbitrary action. The last time, the group was disabled for close to a month from the middle of May.” Lahiri added: “The curbs were lifted as Facebook could not provide a specific reason for disabling the group.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Verdict vindication of our stand: BJP||The BJP on Thursday said Calcutta High Court’s order to hand over probes into post-poll result violence to the CBI was a step towards the establishment of democracy again in Bengal. Barely an hour after the Calcutta High Court ruling,at least two Union ministers, three BJP MPs from Bengal, including state party chief Dilip Ghosh and leader of Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari hailed the judgment. They said the verdict was a vindication of the BJP’s stand that law and order was in a shambles in Bengal. Numerous other national and state functionaries of the BJP, including the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, his deputies Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya, and |the party’s national spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia followed suit. “We welcome the court’s decision. In a democracy, everyone has the right to spread their ideology but no one’s allowed to spread violence. There is no place for violence in democracy,” said Union minister Anurag Thakur, accused of fomenting tension through a hate speech during the campaign for the Delhi Assembly elections last year. Thakur’s cabinet colleague Smriti Irani said the judgment was “a concrete step on the path of justice”. “Despite everything that happened, the chief minister refused to accept the reality. We had no other option but to move court for justice…. The National Human Rights Commission’s team had submitted a 900page report…. They (Trinamul) questioned its veracity and accused the representatives in the team of being members of the BJP...,” said Ghosh. “There is no law and order in Bengal. Whenever we went to police to file complaints, they either refused to take our FIRs or said that they were helpless.…Today, with their judgement, the honourable high court has given a way out to establish democracy in the state again...” Trinamul turncoat Adhikari said the postresult incidents were in “gross violation of human rights” and were hitherto unforeseen in Independent India. Trinamul vicepresident Saugata Roy made no bones about his displeasure with the verdict. “Yes, of course, there is unhappiness with this verdict,” said Roy. “Law and order is fully a state subject. If, in that, the CBI keeps appearing repeatedly, that cannot be desirable,” added the Dum Dum MP. Sources in Trinamul said chief minister Mamata Banerjee was likely to end her public silence on the matter on Friday after a meeting of the national Opposition convened by UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi that the Trinamul chief will attend virtually. Roy said the state government would appeal against the verdict and attempts would be made to prevent its implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Five held for infiltration bid at Bangladesh border||The Border Security Force (BSF) intercepted five Bangladeshis, including a minor, in the past 48 hours from different locations of north Bengal while they were trying to infiltrate into India. The BSF said three had been sent back to their country through flag meetings held at the border with the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB). The other two have been handed over to police. On Wednesday, a team of 61 battalion of the BSF, posted in Hilli of South Dinajpur district, apprehended a couple along the banks of ChhotiJamuna river while they were trying to cross the internation¬al border. “Indian and Bangladeshi currencies were recovered from Kalipada Saha and his wife Maharani, who hail from Aruapara village located under Kustia district of Bangladesh. Later, they were handed over to the police,” said a BSF source. In another incident, the border guards intercepted a woman and her six-year-old son from near the banks of Punarbhaba river, also in South Dinajpur, on Wednesday. “The two are inhabitants of Mymensingh district in Bangladesh. Later, they were handed over to the BGB who sent them back home,” the source said. On Tuesday, another Bangla national was intercepted at the international border. The person intercepted was a resident of Nilphamari district of the neighbouring country. Later, the BGB sent him back to his country. Faction clash One Trinamul supporter sustained a bullet injury while two others were hit by arrows in a clash between two factions of the party at Gitaldaha in Cooch Behar district on Thursday. Among them, one has. All are under treatment. in Dinhata. During the clash, some motorcycles and houses have also been ransacked. Police forces have reached the spot and are patrolling in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers refuse to show jab proof, attack cops ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||CBI told to probe Bengal post-poll result crimes||Calcutta High Court on Thursday asked the Bengal government to hand over to the CBI investigations into alleged murders, unnatural deaths and rapes that had taken place following publication of Assembly poll results on May 2. The five-judge bench of the court also formed a three-member Special Investigating Team (SIT) to probe alleged post-May 2 incidents of violence — except murders, unnatural deaths and rapes. A retired Supreme Court judge will monitor the probe conducted by the SIT that will have Calcutta police commissioner Somen Mitra and two senior police officers — Suman Bala Sahoo and Ranabir Kumar. The division bench presided over by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and consisting of Justice I.P. Mukerji, Justice Harish Tandon, Justice Subrata Talukdar and Justice Soumen Sen delivered the 124-page unanimous order. The court directed the state government to immediately process applications for compensation to victims of the post-poll violence. The bench accepted the report of the committee the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had set up on the direction of the court to probe the post-poll violence. The committee had submitted the report to the court on July 13 directing that the probe be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Sources in the state legal team said the Bengal government would move a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court to challenge the high court order as it was based on the “biased report” of the NHRC panel. According to the NHRC committee, 1,979 cases of post-poll violence had taken place in Bengal and 124 of those incidents were “heinous” and included criminal acts like murder, unnatural death and rape. The report marked out 72 of the 124 cases as “heinous” crimes that included murders and unnatural deaths, while there were 52 cases of rape. Specifying the jurisdiction of the CBI’s probe, the court said the central agency would investigate 124 “heinous” cases, while the remaining 1,855 incidents would be looked into by the SIT. The bench asked both the CBI and the SIT to file status reports before the court on October 4. The court also made it clear that it would monitor the investigations. Thursday’s order has its genesis in two separate PILs moved by aggrieved parties before the high court in mid-May seeking judicial intervention in the post-poll violence. A couple of days after Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress had emerged winner for the third consecutive time, the BJP and other parties, including the CPM and the Congress, complained of their workers being attacked and properties destroyed at various places in the state. When the case came up for hearing before a larger bench of the high court, the state government had argued that the incidents of violence had taken place between May 2 and 5 when the administration was under the control of the Election Commission. It further argued that after Mamata had taken over as chief minister on May 5, things were brought under control. The petitioners, however, continued to claim that post-poll clashes were still on and thousands of workers of Opposition parties had been rendered homeless and properties looted. Following the prayer, the five-judge bench ordered the NHRC to constitute a committee and probe into the cases of violence. Accordingly, an eight-member committee was formed and it filed its report before the court on July 13. The Bengal government, in an affidavit submitted to the court, rejected the allegations made by the committee and described them as “sweeping homilies, absurd, and false”. The government also questioned the panel’s formation and accused it of being biased against Bengal’s ruling dispensation. “I state that the members of the Committee have close association with the Bhartiya Janta Party and/or the Central Government,” the affidavit filed on July 26 against the NHRC report said. Last month, the chief minister had termed the NHRC’s committee as “a great liar” and accused it of distorting facts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 731 new cases, 12 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday recorded 731 new Covid-19 infections, 781 recoveries and 12 deaths. The total number of active cases in Bengal fell by 62 to 9,653 on Thursday with a continuous slide for two months or 60 days on the trot. Bengal now has 2.69 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.18 per cent, its highest ever this pandemic, ahead of the national rate of 97.51. Calcutta reported 89 new infections and zero deaths on Thursday. Bengal’s daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate was 1.62 per cent on Thursday, compared to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave. With a weekly average of 1.6 per cent, Bengal is now 15th among states with the highest positive confirmation rate. With Calcutta logging 89 new infections and North 24-Parganas 79, Thursday was the 14th consecutive day again of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit caseload in one day. Seventeen of the 23 Bengal districts reported two-digit figures, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Purulia and West Burdwan single-digit ones. Fourteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Thursday. Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Murshidabad, East Midnapore, West Burdwan, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal is 24th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. Bengal currently has nearly 15.41 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes close to 15.13 lakh recoveries and 18,337 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Landslide blocks NH10 traffic||Traffic on NH10 that connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with the rest of the country was disrupted for around 14 hours on Thursday because of a landslide which brought debris and boulders on the road at 29th Mile. Heavy rain triggered landslides elsewhere in the Darjeeling hills also. The downpour led to the swelling of the Mahananda and some rivulets flowing through Siliguri and the suburbs. The landslide at 29th Mile occurred around 2am. Traffic came to a halt and four excavators were engaged to clear the debris from the highway. Around 4pm, vehicles were allowed to move in a single file. This is the third landslide to occur on NH10 in the past 10 days. “Rubble and boulders fell on the highway because of heavy rains. Initially, we managed to open the road for traffic around 6am. But just after an hour, more debris came down and the road was blocked again. One-way traffic was restored in the evening,” said Subodh Chhetri, the executive engineer of the public works department (NH IX division). A source in the disaster management section of the Darjeeling district administration said houses had been damaged in landslides at Bara Sittong, Bimiray Taar, St Mary’s, Selim Hill tea estate and at Tindharia tea estate in Kurseong. Homes were also damaged at Phuguri and Lepcha Hill of Mirik block as debris came down from the hills. Sources in the PWD said they were apprehensive of more landslides as the Met Office had forecast heavy showers in the next couple of days. Sources said it had rained around 196mm in Siliguri in a 24-hour period till 8.30am on Thursday. Kalimpong, Kurseong, Darjeeling and Mirik received showers of around 70mm, 62m, 50mm and 40mm, respectively. The downpour led to water-logging at Ashoknagar, Millanpally, Hyderpara, Champasari and Ektiasal in Siliguri. Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, held a meeting and said three control rooms would be set up to keep a tab on the situation. In Malda district, the Ganga continues to flow above the extreme danger level. Officials in the state irrigation department said the river was flowing 0.68 metres above the extreme danger level on Thursday evening. The Fulhar, another major river of the district, is flowing 0.89 metres above the danger level. The Malda division of the Eastern Railway cancelled as many as 13 local trains and diverted 16 long-distance trains. Most of the trains bound for Bihar and Jharkhand or those which run through those states have either been cancelled or diverted. “Train services along the Calcutta-Malda-NJP route have not been affected but at some places, the Ganga has spilled over its banks and is flowing under culverts which are along the tracks. As the water is flowing in full force, it has been decided to divert and cancel some trains,” said an official. Bodies of all three brothers, who had gone missing when their boat had capsized on the Ganga on Wednesday, were fished out on Thursday afternoon. Subrata Mandal, 22, Satyajit, 19, and Satyaban, 17, had drowned in the river at Krishnapur in Kaliachak 3 block, after which the state civil defence department and the NDRF launched an extensive search.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb nabs youth at Duare Sarkar camp||Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Thursday nabbed a youth from the premises of a high school where a Duare Sarkar camp was on and the youth was allegedly filling up forms for applicants against cash. The corporation has been organising the camp at Shiumangal Memorial High School at Ektiasal in ward 40. Deb reached the school to find the youth collecting cash from applicants, mostly from prospective beneficiaries of “Lakshmir Bhandar (a monthly cash benefit scheme for women)”, in lieu of filling up their forms. Deb nabbed him red-handed. His security men handed the youth over to the police. “I am personally monitoring all these camps running under the borough offices of the SMC. I caught the youth who was doing such an act,” Deb said. In a similar incident, a woman was arrested for collecting money from applicants at another camp at a school in Rajganj block of neighbouring Jalpaiguri. District magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said that at  the Rajganj Bandar Junior High School camp, the woman from Belakoba was filling up forms and asking for money in exchange. A Rajganj police team arrested her. Some residents of Phansidewa block of Siliguri subdivision on Thursday alleged that some youths were filling up forms at a Duare Sarkar” camp at Chathat High School against money. A police team reached the school but by then the youths had fled. Police seized some documents from the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||‘Too tense to eat’ on flight back from Kabul||Former Indian army jawan Amrit Gurung, 47, reached Darjeeling late on Wednesday night via Kathmandu in Nepal and was part of the first group from the hills to reach home from the strife-torn Afghanistan capital. Gurung along with eight people from the region, including four from the hills, three from Siliguri and one whose location he did not know entered India after landing in Kathmandu on Wednesday. Gurung said he could reach home because of the efforts of “the embassy (not Indian) I worked with as a security guard in Kabul”, the US forces and the private company that hired him in Afghanistan. “The evacuation started on August 15, we were flown out of Kabul at 6am on August 16. I cannot recollect the exact timeframe, but I know I had proper food after three days,” Gurung told this paper from his Darjeeling home. He said he was offered processed food during the journey but was too tense to eat till he reached Qatar. “From the embassy I worked at we were taken by road to the Australian embassy in Kabul and after that the US forces flew us to Kuwait to deposit our arms and then to Qatar,” said Gurung. “In between we were offered processed food, but I was in no mood for food till I reached Qatar, three days after the evacuation process started.” Gurung and his colleagues did not fly from the civil airport in Kabul but from the “US army air force base” near the civil airport. The Indian embassy made efforts to contact them when they were at the Australian embassy, he said, but by then he had been cleared to fly. “From Qatar we were flown to Kathmandu and to the Bhadrapur airport (also in Nepal). From Bhadrapur we took a vehicle to enter Siliguri through Panitanki,” said Gurung. “We paid for the travel from Bhadrapur onwards.” He added that his first feelings on coming back home was noticing “how cool it was in Darjeeling compared to Kabul”. He added he was not scared to hear that the Taliban had taken over the country and that he and the others had to be evacuated. “I have spent my life in the battlefield and honestly I was not scared,” said Gurung, who retired from the Indian Gorkha regiment in 2018. The Darjeeling resident, however, admitted that they thought the Taliban would reach Kabul only after “two to three months.” The Taliban’s swift takeover meant that Gurung returned to Darjeeling with only “two bags of documents and nothing else.” Many Gorkha ex-servicemen opt for security jobs in Afghanistan and Iraq for the lucrative financial package. However Gurung did not want to divulge the name of the embassy “for security reasons”. “Around 100-odd people, mostly from Nepal and Dehradun (India) were working in the same embassy I worked. Around 40-odd could not be evacuated on time as they were caught in the traffic jam,” said Gurung. Life in Kabul was never easy, the ex-jawan who was in Kabul for three years, said. “Bombings are common, bombs are easy to buy.” We weren’t allowed to leave our embassies. We’d get a one month’s leave every year when I would return to Darjeeling. However, all facilities were provided to us inside the complex” said Gurung. He said some people from Darjeeling were still working at the “UN embassy in Kabul”. “It seems the threat perception for UN employees is less.” Gurung’s wife Sangita said she passed a harrowing week. “I would hardly sleep, trying to get information about my husband’s whereabouts.” Gurung explained that Internet connection was poor in Afghanistan. “Whenever we checked into places with Wi-fi we would send voice messages home.” In Jalpaiguri district, another family is distressed. Amanullah Khan of Odlabari in Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri is praying to hear from his sister. Baso Khan, his sister and a doctor by profession, has been staying in Kabul for 18 years now with her husband Samar Gul and two sons. “I last spoke to her five days back and she sounded tense. She said her entire family intends to return home. She vouched that they will never go back to Afghanistan even if they face economic hardships here,” said Amanullah. The phone got disconnected and he heard “someone banging on the door”.“I can only pray for their well-being.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Military base chefs back from Afghanistan, jobless ||Ratan Sarkar, then 44, had dreams of a good life as a chef when he boarded a flight from Calcutta to Kabul in 2012 amid the assurance of a “stabilising Afghanistan”. Nine years later, a “strategic decision” by the US to withdraw troops from Afghanistan rendered Sarkar, a chef at one of five US Air Force dining facilities at the Bagram base, and many like him jobless. Sarkar and around 200 of his peers — most from South Asian countries — were sent home in May, well in advance of the final fall of Afghanistan. “I’ve been sitting idle and am drawing from my savings for three months. I don’t know what I will do once this money runs out,” Sarkar told this paper from his home in Nadia’s Bagula village where he returned on May 16. “The agency which sent us to Afghanistan hasn’t found me a replacement job. I do not have any farmland. How will I feed my family?” asked Sarkar, father of three. He says he earned about a lakh a month in Bagram. “I've earned well and saved too. But how long can I survive like this?” he asked, adding he was even considering if he should apply for a job under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, a move “unimaginable” a few months ago. Like Sarkar, another chef at a US military base now back home in Begopara, Ranaghat, 31-year-old Silvestor Supriyo Maitra is also jobless. “The sudden change (in Afghanistan) created a threat to the lives of about 60 Indian migrant workers like us who worked at army bases as chefs. Our sole aim was to return home. I returned on July 31 with three others. Some others returned by August 5,” said Maitra, who used to earn Rs 60,000 a month. His US-based employment agency has ruled out any possibility of a job now.  “It is difficult in India because of the pandemic. Most companies associated with food and catering have stopped hiring,” he added, adding that his father, a chef at a star hotel in Bihar, also lost his job during the lockdown. Maitra said he would look for work for some months and then set up a food joint by the NH12 in Ranaghat. He is grateful to be back home, but his tone belied disappointment at having to take a “step back” in his career. The geo-political developments of the past week, which Sarkar and Maitra watched keenly on television, evoked what Sarkar called “a mix of nostalgia and pathos”. He said differences in culture, language and rank never came in the way of cordial relationships the chefs shared with soldiers at the military base. “The military base was our world... I feel bad for Afghanistan and also for people like us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||A chance to offer a new future to children ||The Covid-19 pandemic ushered in a “new normal” — a world in which very little exists as we knew it just a year and a half ago. Experts warn us that the pandemic is far from over, and its impact on health, economies and societies around the world is yet to be evaluated. Empty classrooms bear witness to the loss of education to an entire generation of children. Yes, children incarcerated at home are learning. But only a privileged few, those with parents who have the time and means to support, supervise and supplement remote teaching. The digital divide has never been starker, the losses are incalculable, and the global community’s roadmap for humanity — Agenda 2020 and its Sustainable Development Goals — may have been set back by decades. Yet, the “new normal” lends itself to a ‘new future’. Co¬vid19 has forced us to think differently, to improvise, to break our entrenched patterns of thought and to do things differently, often with unexpected benefits.  One such innovation — in fact I will use the word “transformation” — is the Home based Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) programme implemented by the Department of Women and Child Development and Social Welfare, Government of West Bengal, through its 1.17 lakh anganwadi centres. The ECCE is not simply about teaching preschool children the 3R’s. It is a specialised playbased methodology through which children acquire emotional, cognitive, physical and social skills that ready them for entering primary school, and is considered to be a foundation for lifelong learning and wellbeing. According to Unesco, for disadvantaged children, the ECCE plays an important role in compensating for the disadvantages in the family and combating educational inequalities. In pre-pandemic times, the state’s anganwadi centres would be abuzz with activity, with children under the age of 6 and pregnant and lactating mothers receiving nutrition and other services in a safe space in the heart of communities. Like schools, anganwadi centres in Bengal have been closed since March 2020 for the safety of children. Since then, an army of anganwadi workers has provided doorstep delivery of a food basket of dry food rations to 73 lakh children and 15 lakh pregnant and lactating mothers, monthly, to compensate for the hot cooked meals they received daily at the centre. The numbers of the beneficiaries indicate the magnitude of the effort and coordination put into the exercise. The real challenge, however, was delivering the department’s ECCE curriculum, normally taught to groups of children between three and six years at the centres by trained anganwadi workers. Several questions arose while considering continuity of ECCE services to children locked in at home.  For one, although ECCE training materials are simple everyday objects, the training methodology is highly interactive. And second, how does one transmit this material to the families of over 35 lakh children, when many of these families don’t have basic mobile phones, let alone smart phones or other electronic appliances? Despite these barriers, on May, 11, 2020, just a few weeks into the lockdown, the department transformed its ECCE curriculum into a fullfledged home-based ECCE initiative and has been successfully delivering this to its beneficiaries. Weekly theme-based audio modules containing rhymes, stories, and activity calendars are provided to parents on their mobile phones (not necessarily smart phones), with instructions of how to use these materials with their chil¬dren. With positive parenting messages embedded in each activity, the programme has turned the challenge of lockdown into an opportunity. Not only parents, but all caregivers, including grandparents and older siblings, have involved themselves in the play-based activities, with the smaller children benefiting from the diverse bonding. The modules are available in the vernaculars, that is, Bengali and Hindi. All instructions are voice-based, ensuring that even parents/caregivers who are not literate can use it. The teaching/learning materials used are readily available in households — such as pots and pans from kitchens and twigs, stones and leaves from outdoors, with only 2030 minutes of a caregiver’s involvement each day. Till date, approximately 27.8 lakh children have received the homebased ECCE package, with the department increasing its coverage every month. Heartwarming stories abound about how neighbours, friends and employers have pitched in to ensure that all children receive their weekly inputs if their parents are technologically challenged. Community radio and cable TV have been commandeered in several areas to broadcast the weekly learning sessions. It truly does take a village to raise a child, and the silver lining in this pandemic cloud is perhaps the return to a time when learning was not bounded by physical walls and the written word, but the result of an organic exploration of life, relationships and the environment. This is as true for early childhood learning as it is for school and college education. Yes, children will return to the anganwadis one day, and they should, because homebased learning cannot provide that one critical ingredient, peer interaction that develops social and emotional skills. However, given the tremendous response of families and children, the new methods of communication between anganwadi workers and families will continue even when Anganwadi centres open, as will the content and method of teaching. To quote Amartya Sen, “Imparting education not only enlightens the receiver, but also broadens the giver — the teachers, the parents, the friends”. Anganwadi workers, the true heroes in this story, will remain a crucial link in the transmission of learning between parents, children and communities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||North East||Assam provides govt jobs to kin of police personnel killed in border firing||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Friday gave appointment letters to the kin of six police personnel killed in the gunfight at the interstate border with Mizoram on July 26. The chief minister handed the appointment letters prior to addressing a press conference here to mark the 100 days of the BJP government led by him since he took charge on May 10. The state government decided to appoint the next of kin of the deceased personnel to government jobs under an exceptional circumstance, not to be cited as an example, he said. The jobs were given to the wives of deceased sub-inspector Swapan Kumar Roy, constables Mazrul Haque Barbhuiya, Nazmul Hussain and Samsuz Zaman Barbhuiya, along with the sister of constable Liton Suklabaidya and the son of havildar Shyam Sundar Dusad. An amount of Rs 50 lakh as ex-gratia was immediately handed over to the families and to "honour the sacrifice made by all the six police martyrs", they were awarded posthumously with the 'Chief Minister's Special Service Medal in a crisis situation' on the 75th Independence Day. "This act of the government is bound to boost the morale of the police force for each member to act fearlessly, sincerely and with a sense of pride and dedication in the interest of defending the territorial integrity of the state and to ensure safety and security of the people," Sarma said. The government has provided an ex-gratia amount if Rs 1 lakh to those policemen who were injured in the attack. Addressing journalists at the venue later, the chief minister said that positive steps were taken in maintaining peace along the interstate borders and the state government has ensured complete security of its land with not an inch being encroached. He said that during the last month, the state government also held border talks with Nagaland and Meghalaya governments with steps initiated to resolve the dispute and maintain peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
20-08-2021||North East||Tripura BJP MLA asks party workers to attack visiting TMC leaders in 'Talibani-style' ||A ruling BJP MLA in Tripura asked party workers to attack visiting Trinamul Congress leaders in “Talibani-style”. First-time BJP legislator Arun Chandra Bhowmik made the comment at a party function held to felicitate Pratima Bhowmik, new Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment, on Wednesday evening. “I appeal to you all to attack them (Trinamul leaders) in Talibani-style. If they land at the airport here (Agartala), we need to attack them in Talibani-style. We will protect our government (in Tripura) with every drop of blood,” Bhowmik said. The 1.02 minute video clip of Bhowmik’s speech, in which he was heard suggesting Taliban-style attack on Trinamul, circulated widely in social media. Trinamul uploaded the video in social media. The BJP, however, distanced itself from Bhowmik’s remark. A BJP spokesperson underscored that the party was not in favour of violence and would never allow its cadres to take law into their own hands. Asked what had prompted him to bring the Taliban reference, Bhowmik said: “The BJP ended the 25-year misrule of the Left Front in 2018 and our chief minister is doing a good job. I used the Talibani-style expression to motivate our party members to politically fight Trinamul … It was not meant to incite anybody. We do not have guns and tanks like the Taliban. We have to fight politically.” The Trinamul leadership in Tripura has demanded the arrest of the BJP MLA. “We will file a police complaint against the MLA,” said senior Trinamul leader Subal Bhowmik. Trinamul leaders also alleged that the ruling BJP was “unleashing” terror on them to prevent them from making inroads into Tripura before the 2023 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
20-08-2021||Opinion||A moral car crash||On YouTube, you can watch a video clip of Volkswagen’s chief executive, Herbert Diess, denying that he knows what’s going on in Xinjiang. When the BBC correspondent helpfully spells it out — so-called ‘re-education camps’ for one million Uighurs — the VW boss says, “I’m not aware of that.” Either he was culpably ignorant about a region where VW has a factory or he was lying. This was in spring 2019, and a company spokesman soon declared that Diess was “of course aware” of the situation in Xinjiang. The case is particularly sensitive because Volkswagen was originally set up by the Nazis and its use of forced labour during the Third Reich has been scrupulously documented by German historians. It is interesting to compare his response with a statement made earlier this year by the president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews to coincide with Holocaust Memorial Day. “As a community, we are always extremely hesitant to consider comparisons with the Holocaust,” Marie van der Zyl wrote in a letter to the British prime minister. But, she went on, there are similarities between what is reported to be happening in China and what happened in Nazi Germany in the 1930s and the 1940s. The violations of the human rights of the Uighurs are “shaping up to be the most serious outrage of our time”. Volkswagen is also significant in another way. It is an example of a Western company that has become so dependent on the Chinese market that it can hardly do without it. China accounts for more than 40 per cent of Volkswagen’s global car sales. Whatever the exact calculations that led VW to open its relatively small plant in Xinjiang in 2013, it seems clear that to close it down now would negatively impact its whole relationship with the Chinese regime on which its entire business in the country depends. The company has got itself stuck between the rock of Xi Jinping and the hard place of an increasingly outraged Western public opinion. The result could be a moral car crash. Behind this leading Western company that is too dependent on China is a leading Western country that is at risk of becoming too dependent on China. Under the chancellor, Angela Merkel, China has risen to be Germany’s largest single trading partner. Her likely successor, Armin Laschet, the Christian Democrat candidate for chancellor, currently heads a federal state, North Rhine-Westphalia, which has a large stake in economic relations with the East Asian dictatorship. Every week, many giant container trains pull into the city of Duisburg, which bills itself as the Western land terminus of Beijing’s Belt and Road Initiative. Despite pressure on Berlin from the Joe Biden administration in Washington, everything Laschet has said so far in the German election campaign suggests the continuation of a soft, business-first German-China policy. Without a change in German-China policy, there will be no coherent European-China policy. To be clear: this is not just about Germany. Coca Cola also has a factory in Xinjiang. Wall Street firms are piling into Chinese markets wherever they can. British bankers, lawyers and estate agents have for years been falling over themselves to service Russian oligarchs, Chinese apparatchiks and Central Asian tyrants. France would love a larger slice of the action. In the original Cold War, the West was never economically dependent on the East (then meaning the Soviet bloc). On the contrary, in the later years of the East-West conflict, several East European states became heavily indebted to the West. That hastened their downfall. In this new Cold War — or Hot Peace, if you would rather — the West is already economically dependent on the East (now meaning China). In the 2000s, it was still just possible to believe in the possibility of ‘Wandel durch Handel’ (Change through Trade). But when the German economics minister, Peter Altmaier, said last year, “I still believe that change can be achieved through trade,” it sounded like the ideological platitude of a bygone era. In the last decade, China has done more trade, become more repressive and acquired more leverage over the West. So who has changed whom? Although it is a dangerous illusion to believe that economic interdependence necessarily prevents international conflict, we certainly do not want a world of competitive autarkies. Western democracies do, however, need to ensure that they are not strategically dependent on China. We had a taste of such dependency in the early months of the Covid pandemic when we discovered just how much of our personal protection equipment came from China. If Huawei were to dominate our 5G networks, that would be a deep strategic vulnerability. Our businesses must also accept the ultimate primacy of politics in a democracy. In the German Ostpolitik of the 1970s and 1980s, German trade and investment in the Soviet bloc served the country’s larger foreign policy goals. In Germany’s recent China policy, by contrast, the commercial tail has wagged the political dog. As individual investors and consumers, we should include a broader concern about violations of human rights in our ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) criteria for assessing companies. The German Parliament recently passed an admirable Supply Chain Act, which requires German companies to monitor human rights standards wherever they produce. It will be fascinating to see how VW responds to this. Last year, the chief executive of Volkswagen Group China, Stephan Wöllenstein, said he is aware of the “allegations” in relation to Xinjiang (what a great leap forward in executive knowledge!) but that no forced labour is used in its factory or its local supply chains. Diess repeated this assertion in an interview earlier this year: “Neither we nor our suppliers employ forced labo[u]rers.” As it happens, I drive a Volkswagen. It’s a perfectly good car, but I need to change it soon for one with a climate-friendly electric engine and there are plenty of other good makes. I am realistic. I don’t expect the boss of VW to speak out like some fiery human rights advocate. Back home in Europe, jobs, prosperity and the sustainability of our social model depend on those earnings from abroad. But next time a Volkswagen executive is asked about the Chinese camps, he or she could at least say something like this: ‘As a citizen, I am deeply concerned whenever I hear credible reports of human rights violations in areas where we do business. As a company, especially having in mind the early history of Volkswagen, our specific duty is to ensure that no violations of human rights are to be found in our supply chain.’ And then a group of reporters experienced in Chinese affairs should be invited to visit the VW factory in Xinjiang, talk to its employees and look in detail at its supply chain. History and conscience demand nothing less. Timothy Garton Ash is Professor of European Studies at Oxford University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: In place||The lack of an adequate number of judges in Indian courts has become a matter of great urgency. The years seem to be deepening the lack: reportedly, 454 vacancies remained in the high courts and the Supreme Court in July 2021 after 66 judges were appointed in 2020, fewer than 81 in 2019 and 108 in 2018. Perhaps this urgency prompted the Supreme Court Bar Association to propose that high court judges be chosen from advocates practising in the Supreme Court. The SCBA reportedly formed a ‘search committee’ that sent to the Chief Justice of India 48 names for elevation to indicated high courts. Reports that the CJI had ‘acceded’ to the proposal, however, have not been welcomed by high courts although the CJI’s office has reportedly not made any comment. While deploring the media’s haste in reporting that nine new Supreme Court judges have been listed, the CJI reportedly said that the appointment of judges is sacrosanct. Besides, there is a long-felt need for transparency and merit; these principles can minimize political interference. These would also apply to high court judges. The high courts’ objections to the SCBA’s list spring from its apparent overriding of the constitutionally and legally approved system. The chief justice of a high court, in consultation with two of the court’s seniormost judges, and sometimes with a suggestion from the state’s chief minister, sends up the names for judges’ appointments to the CJI. Lawyers who have practised for 10 years in a high court, or consecutively in two, would be eligible. The CJI, with the two seniormost Supreme Court judges, approves or rejects the list, or defers approval. Once approved, the names go up to the government. High court bar associations reportedly objected to what seems a flouting of this system, and to the SCBA’s description of Supreme Court advocates as more meritorious than those in the high courts. Also, they felt, practising in the Supreme Court is not the same as 10 years of high court practice. The problem seems to lie in the perception of a hierarchy, and the suggestion that the power of high courts and states is being infringed. But an urgent need should not fall prey to conflicting perceptions tinged with suspicions of intra-institutional politics. Perhaps this will spur high courts to make their choices soon and frequently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Opinion||Northeast: Gird the borders||Border disputes in the northeastern states are so commonplace that they seldom grab headlines unless the violence takes a toll on lives. And now, with the Taliban taking news centre stage, this little corner has receded further from our minds. The boundary between Assam and Mizoram turned into a festering hotbed of violence since July 26, when six policemen from Assam were killed at a disputed site. Over the next fortnight, the incident steamrolled into retaliatory moves, with trucks headed for Mizoram along National Highway 306 being attacked in Assam and the landlocked Mizos staring at an acute shortage of essential commodities, including medicines. It was only earlier this month that the two states managed to sign a truce. As per a Union home ministry directive, neutral forces will remain in charge of disputed zones straddling the three Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi in Assam, and Mamit and Kolasib in Mizoram. On August 12, the advocate-general of Assam and his Mizoram counterpart informed the Gauhati High Court that there was no longer any blockade on the Assam-Mizoram border. The court said that although it could not go into the inter-state dispute in view of Article 131 of the Constitution, it could look into the law and order concern. Article 131 of 1949 states: “...Supreme Court shall, to the exclusion of any other court, have original jurisdiction in any dispute between the a) Government of India and one or more states; or b) between the Government of India and any state or states on one side and one or more other states on the other; or c) between two or more states.” Since the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Mizoram were carved out of Assam, the boundaries have been a bone of contention. Mizoram was a part of Assam until 1972, when it became a Union territory and later, the 23rd state of India on February 20, 1987 after the Mizoram Accord was signed in June 1986. Much earlier, the British had taken over the land the Mizos used for jhum (shifting) cultivation to plant tea bushes and resented the hunting ritual of the Mizos that was impeding the tea plantation drive by the British in Assam’s Barak Valley district. So in 1875, the British made a demarcation between the plains of Assam and the hills where the Mizos lived. In 1933, another boundary demarcation was made, separating Assam’s Cachar district from Manipur and Mizoram. While the Mizos follow the 1875 demarcation line, Assam goes by the 1933 decision. When Mizoram became a state, a no-man’s land stretch was marked out on either side of the boundary, but it has remained a festering zone. Assam’s border with Meghalaya, too, is contentious in 12 areas. The problem owes its genesis to Meghalaya challenging the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971, which gave Blocks I and II in Karbi Anglong district to Assam. Meghalaya claims these blocks formed part of the erstwhile Khasi and Jaintia Hills district when it was notified in 1835. Meghalaya cites survey maps of 1872 and 1929 as well as notifications of 1878 and 1951 while Assam proffers the recommendations of the Churachand Committee. This month, the chief ministers of the two states decided to look into these disputes and have formed three committees to obtain the views of local residents. Similarly, Arunachal Pradesh contends that its forest tracts were given to Assam. After it achieved statehood in 1987, a tripartite committee recommended that certain territories be transferred from Assam to Arunachal but Assam contested this. The case is still in the Supreme Court. The longest-running border dispute, however, is between Assam and Nagaland, which began soon after Nagaland became a state in 1963. The State of Nagaland Act, 1962, had defined the borders according to a 1925 notification when Naga Hills and Tuensang Area were made a new administrative unit. Nagaland does not accept the present boundary delineation. Now it all borders on a thrust-and-parry mechanism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Strange unity||Dissent lies at the heart of the democratic project. A principal — political — manifestation of the difference in opinion is the Opposition, which, ideally, is meant to function as a bulwark against the dominance of and excesses by an elected government. Nagaland, however, has come up with an alternative model: an Opposition-mukt legislature. This has come to pass with the People’s Democratic Alliance, the coalition comprises the Bharatiya Janata Party and independent legislators, deciding to join hands with the Naga People’s Front, formerly the chief Opposition force, to carve out the Nagaland United Government. Incidentally, this is the second time that the Opposition has gone extinct in the state: in 2015, Congress legislators had joined hands with the NPF, the then party in power. The agenda for ‘unity’, on this occasion, has been spelt out by the foes-turned-friends: a resolution to the Naga peace talks. The intent may be pious but the intervention is radical. This is because the health of a democracy is inevitably impaired when dispensations are allowed to rise above accountability. Nagaland needs a robust Opposition to voice people’s concerns given the unprecedented challenges of the time: a health emergency, hurdles on the path of development and economic prosperity and, as always, the lingering shadow of militancy. The absence of an Opposition undermines the sanctity of the legislature and, in turn, the model of democracy. There is legitimate concern that a polity that is willing to speak in one voice may not be entirely representative. There are also whispers of the NUG being reduced to an instrumental arm of the Centre. That cannot be a good advertisement for federalism. It remains to be seen how effective a force the NUG can be as a stakeholder in the floundering talks between the Centre and the National Socialist Council of Nagaland since states, by convention and law, have a nominal role when it comes to negotiations pertaining to sovereignty. The curious development of political consensus in Nagaland should not deflect attention from the sorry state of affairs as far as the peace deliberations are concerned. Formidable challenges have bedevilled the exchanges, with the NSCN expressing its refusal to accept the governor as the Centre’s interlocutor; it also remains inflexible on the issues of a separate flag and Constitution. The Narendra Modi government’s announcement of a Framework Agreement six years ago was hasty. Optics, at the Central level or in the state, is unlikely to enchant the people for long.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Nation thanks Supreme Court for eliminating gender bias in NDA exams||Sir — The entire nation is thankful to the Supreme Court for eliminating gender discrimination in the National Defence Academy examination (“SC allows women to take NDA exam”, Aug 19). With this decision, the fundamental rights guaranteed in Articles 14 and 15 of the Indian Constitution will finally be carried out. Patriotism does not have a gender; neither does it have a particular caste, colour or religion. Yet, women had thus far been deprived of the right to undertake defence training at par with their male counterparts. It is therefore a matter of pride for Indians that women will, from now on, be able to serve the nation on an equal footing in the army, navy, and air force. This is a basic aspect for an independent, democratic country. The judges who authorized permanent commission for women officers in the Indian army must also be thanked for upholding the true spirit of the Constitution. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — The apex court’s directive to the government to allow women to appear for NDA entrance examinations in order to pursue training in defence services is welcome. Women will now be able to enter the defence services at an earlier age. Having been granted permanent commission last year, they will also be able to hold top positions in Indian defence. These rights were thus far denied to them. It is highly unfair towards women to not appoint them in certain challenging jobs and sectors in a progressive society. They are entitled to have all opportunities on a par with men. The government should take initiative to correct the course and eliminate gender bias. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The Supreme Court has, once again, had to interfere in the policies of the Central government to allow women to participate in the NDA entrance exam. Even after 74 years of independence, women have to struggle to serve the nation as part of the defence forces at par with men. Such an outlook ignores the contribution of women in the building of our nation. The Centre’s objection — it filed an affidavit — against the plea stating that the exclusion of women from NDA exams is purely a policy decision that the court should not interfere with is ridiculous. If any policy deprives women of their lawful rights, then people are left with no choice but to look to the judiciary for redressal and justice. Abhijit Chakraborty,Howrah Sir — It is heartening to learn that the Supreme Court has allowed women to take the NDA examination. This is a great victory for women. Besides enabling many women to pursue their dreams of serving the nation, the apex court’s decision has reinforced the fundamental right to gender equality. After all, how can one forget the role of women in our freedom struggle? Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — The apex court’s decision to allow women to sit for the NDA exam is yet another laudable step in its catalogue of recent rulings that have promoted the empowerment of women in India. In February last year, a Supreme Court bench had quashed the Centre’s arguments for depriving women of permanent commission citing their physiological features and domestic obligations. Its rulings on sex-selection, adultery and inheritance laws have also been exemplary. The road to a society free of gender bias might yet be arduous, but such progressive decisions by the apex judicial body give citizens hope. Arpita Sharma,Delhi Sir — Drastic steps are often taken to defend India’s land borders against alleged mortal enemies. But little thought is given to the 7516.6 kilometres of its coastline, threatened by natural forces. The National Centre for Coastal Research recently revealed that nearly one-third of the country’s coastline was eroded between 1990 and 2018. This phenomenon was particularly pronounced in West Bengal — 60 per cent of its coastline suffered from erosion. Such change is severely detrimental for the coastal communities. The need of the hour is for the government to focus on building embankments to secure their homes and livelihoods. Priyam Basak, Calcutta Sir — On Wednesday, the Congress leader, Shashi Tharoor, was discharged by a sessions court in Delhi in connection with the sensationalized case of the death of his wife, Sunanda Pushkar (“Court clean chit to Tharoor”, Aug 19). Pushkar was found dead in a hotel room in January 2014. The medical report had indicated the presence of drugs in her system. While initial investigation pondered whether it was a murder, the police finally filed a charge-sheet for suicide, accusing the Kerala parliamentarian of offences under Sections 498A (marital cruelty) and 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. This vindication has dealt a big blow to government-friendly media that have been running parallel ‘investigations’ to tarnish the image of the Congress and its leaders. Bhagwan Thadani, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Foundation rolls out community vaccination programme||The Tata Steel Foundation in partnership with National Health Mission, Jharkhand and West Singhbhum administration has started a community vaccination programme in Noamundi from Friday in an attempt to mitigate the threat of Covid-19 and to extend support to local communities. The campaign was inaugurated at Tata Steel Hospital, Noamundi in presence of doctors and officials of Tata Steel Foundation. The vaccination drive, which is a joint venture between Tata Steel Foundation and Tata Medical Services, is an effort to support the nation’s campaign to alleviate the horrors of the pandemic through proper vaccination of citizens. On the first day of the drive, a total of 60 individuals were administered vaccinations at the Tata Steel Hospital, with an idea to eventually saturate the area with community vaccinations and then extend to the other areas of the state, covering villages and small hamlets. Currently three locations in Noamundi block - Kotgarh High School, CHC Barajamda and PHC Jetiya have been identified as vaccination points. “To enable equal opportunities and maintain the quality of life for the local communities lies at the core of the vision of Tata Steel Foundation. The vaccination programme will thereby ensure that in this age of a growing pandemic our local communities from marginalised areas are provided with timely intervention and the best possible protection from the disease,” said Sourav Roy, chief, Corporate Social Responsibility, Tata Steel. In the last two years, Tata Steel Foundation has been instrumental in mobilising communities for receiving vaccination and by May 2021, around 40,419 vaccinations had been enabled in several districts of Jharkhand through vaccination drives. Instituted on August 16, 2016 Tata Steel Foundation is a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Steel. With a vision to create an enlightened and equitable society, the foundation is committed towards playing a larger role in India’s sustainable development by embedding wider economic, social and environmental objectives through its various programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Climber Bachendri Pal  to lead trek team to Sham Valley in Ladakh||Legendary climber Bachendri Pal will lead a 15-member team for the Sham Valley trek in Ladakh from August 24 to 29. The team, including six women, will arrive in Leh on August 24 before driving to Likir located at an altitude of 11,548 ft the following day. The trek will start from Likir and head to Yangthang (12,073 ft) via Phobe La and Chagatse La (12,171 ft) by taking a 4-hour journey. The trek team will proceed to Hemis Shukpachan (11,909 ft) via Tsermangchan La (12,715 ft), Temisgam via Mebtak La (12,467 ft) before returning to Leh. “The participants from different parts of the country have been included in the team after they showed their Covid-19 test report and have taken one or two dose of vaccine,” said Hemant Gupta, head of Tata Steel Adventure Foundation. Each participant has paid Rs 25,000 for the trek. The 67-year-old Pal, a Padma Bhushan awardee and the first Indian woman to annex Mount Everest in 1984, will take the opportunity to prepare herself with the Ladakh trek before she leads the FIT@50+ Women's Trans Himalayan Expedition in March next year. This will be her first trek after the second wave of Covid. "Madam (Pal) will like to prepare herself for the arduous Trans Himalayan journey. She is expected to take further treks with the Trans Himalayan expedition team members in the months to come," a TSAF official said requesting anonymity. The 5-month-long expedition, being organised by TSAF in association with ministry of youth affairs and sports undfer the FIT India programme, involves traversing Himalayas from Arunachal Pradesh to Karakoram Range (east to west) covering around 4,500 km and cross 40 mountains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Highway near Jamshedpur's Dimna Chowk blocked over mishap death||The movement of vehicles on NH-33 was affected for about two hours on Friday, as local residents put up a blockade near the Big Bazaar store, about a km away from the Dimna Chowk, over the death of a 30-year old pedestrian. The accident took place when a speeding trailer hit the youth while he was crossing the highway. The driver of the erring vehicle fled the spot soon after the mishap. The mobile police of Mango thana reached the spot soon after getting the information and seized the vehicle. The police sent the body, whose identity could not be verified, to MGM Medical College for post-mortem. S.K. Singh, a sub-inspector of Mango thana said they were trying to identify the body of the mishap victim. Meanwhile, a section of residents led by local Congress activists reached the spot and put-up a road blockade in protest against rising cases of road mishaps on that stretch of NH-33. The blockade which was put up at around 1.15pm continued for two hours. With frequent mishaps, the 3km stretch of NH-33 between Dimna Chowk in Mango and Pardih has literally become the road to hell especially for pedestrians, cyclists and two-wheeler riders. The road widening work by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) which is in progress results in mishaps. With the height of the highway being raised at certain points, vehicles - from buses and trucks to cars, bikes and cycles - jostle for space often leading to accidents. In the last one month, two persons lost their lives after being hit by heavy vehicles between Dimna Chowk and Pardih. Several mishaps resulting in injuries to commuters were also reported in that stretch during the last couple of months. A local resident of Mango said, "Trailers and trucks ply violating the speed limit and  without caring commuters riding small vehicles like two-wheelers and auto-rickshaws which often fall victim of mishaps."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ticket vending machine coming up at Dhanbad station||The installation process of four new automatic ticket vending machines has started at Dhanbad railway station, an A1 category station of East Central Railway, which witnessed a daily footfall of more than 25 thousand passengers in the pre-pandemic period. Installation of the machines procured as per the Railway Ministry Plan to install 5000 automatic vending machines across the 16 zones of Indian Railway is being carried out with the aim of avoiding the huge rush at the ticket counters of major railway stations on the Dhanbad division. The pedestals for installation of the ticket vending machines have already been constructed at four different places in the concourse area of the station near the main gate of north side main campus of Dhanbad, including two on the left side of main gate and two near the unreserved ticketing system counter area. Besides the four automatic ticket vending machines at Dhanbad station, three ATM vending machines each would be also installed at two other important stations of Dhanbad Rail division including Koderma and Daltonganj Railway stations each. “The installation of automatic vending machines at three stations of Dhanbad division is being carried out for the passenger convenience as it would avoid overcrowding at the railway station,” said P.K. Mishra, Public Relation Officer of Dhanbad Division. A senior level source at Dhanbad division said part of the consignment of the Automatic Ticket Vending Machines has already arrived at Dhanbad Railway Station and the installation would begin soon after the arrival of other parts and machine and its configuration. Similar machines from Forbes Technosys Limited are already functional at Patliputra Junction of Danapur Division of East Central Railway and the four machines of the same company would be made operational after completing its configuration process. A total of 12 Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) counters are available at Dhanbad including 10 at the main station complex on the north side and two others at south side station complex towards Purana Bazar. These counters, however, witness long queues during the rush hours, particularly during morning hours when several trains depart and arrive at Dhanbad station. Welcoming the development, Pintu Singh, member of Zonal Railway Users Consultative committee of East Central Railway, said,“We welcome the railway decision to install Automatic Ticket Vending Machines at Dhanbad Railway Station and also two other stations of Dhanbad division as it would lessen the rush at the ticket counters of station and people would save their time also.” Notably, as per the Railway Ministry Plan to install 5000 ticket vending machines across the country 3000 coin operated machines are to be installed while 2000 smart card operated machines are to be installed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Khunti sets up football academies in 6 blocks ||Home to two-time hockey Olympian Nikki Pradhan, Khunti is now hoping to churn out competent footballers who can in the future represent the country. To promote the sport in the district that is otherwise known for being a hotbed of Maoist rebels,  the district administration, along with the local football association and an NGO, has set up as many as eight academies across six blocks to train youngsters. Deputy commissioner Sashi Ranjan, who  inaugurated the academies at a function at Kamta ground on Thursday evening, said the idea was to connect children with football as a way of staying motivated. “Sport is a great leveler and we are aiming to utilise this to shape our kids towards a better future," he said. Secretary of Khunti district football association Chandradeo Singh said  football academies were conceptualised with local NGO Bharatiya Lok Kalyan Sansthan. Gradually, the district administration also came on board and  promised  support. Singh said the plan was to set up football academies in over 80 panchayats. But to begin with, eight academies have been put in place in six blocks. The academies will cater to both boys and girls up to the age of 14. “Each academy will train at least 30 players daily for two hours. Coaching and training will be in accordance with  All India Football Federation (AIFF) standards. Students will be taught for free and coaches will be working on voluntary basis. As a token of acknowledgement, we have decided to give coaches Rs 1,000 per month with kits. Players have been gifted shoes. "So far, 200 children between six to 14  have already been enrolled,"  Singh said. Khunti is known for hockey, but Singh said  football was also popular among the youth as khasi-tournaments are often played in the interiors. “People mostly play football for joy to pass time. As a  football association, we are now trying to take this game to every household,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Maoist linked to deaths of 30 policemen arrested  ||Chatra police of Jharkhand arrested Maoist Kauleshwari regional commander Ramesh Ganjhu alias Azad on Thursday early morning. Ganjhu was arrested from a locality in the Lawalong thana area of the Chatra district. According to state police spokesperson and IG operations A.V. Homkar, more than 45 cases were registered against the  Maoist, who was involved in killing of 30 policemen in different areas of Jharkhand and Bihar and carried a reward of Rs 15 lakh. Chatra SP Rakesh Ranjan told The Telegraph that the police acted on tip-off that the Maoist was in the Lawalong thana area and was trying to extort opium traders in that region. “We got information that he was in Lawalong area and we had four separate teams which searched the area with help of our informers and found him from one of his hideouts in Barwadih in Lawalong with Rs 1.5 lakh cash in his possession. We could not find any of his accomplice during the time of arrest and despite searching could not find any weapons from the hideout,” the Chatra superintendent of police said. However, police sources revealed that the 45-year-old Ganjhu had been sidelined by the CPI-Maoist regional committee after being accused of molestation of a tribal woman a few months ago. “Since then, he had switched into opium trade and used to extort and threaten other opium traders in the region. This is the reason why no Maoist was accompanying him on Wednesday late night and there was no weapons or Maoist literature found from his possession as is usual for a Maoist of his stature,” said a senior police personnel who was involved in the raid. Ganjhu was a resident of Dungikocha under Sadar Police station area of Chatra. However, SP said that the Maoist was in the area to motivate youths to join Maoist outfits and had been sent to strengthen the organisation in the area. Police claimed that Ganjhu was active in the Maoist organisation for more than two decades and had been involved in terror activities at Chatra, Latehar districts of Jharkhand and in neighbouring Gaya and Aurangabad districts of Bihar. Villager dies in blast Budhu Nagesia, a villager of Judwani village in Kasmar block of Bishunpur area of Gumla district, died when an IED bomb planted by Maoists exploded on Wednesday while he had gone to graze his cattle. The IED was planted  for cover against combing operation of the  security personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas: Affected people yet to receive compensation in Jharkhand ||People affected by Cyclone Yaas in Jharkhand are yet to receive compensation nearly three months after the storm struck, officials said on Thursday. Sources in the disaster management department said the central government has allocated Rs 200 crore from the National Disaster Response Fund but it cannot be used till the state government submits a memorandum on damage assessment to the Union ministry of home affairs. “We are yet to receive the crop damage assessment due to Cyclone Yaas from a few districts in a proper format. Several departments (energy department for electricity distribution damages, road construction department for damages to roads and bridges, rural development department and water resources department) also are yet to submit their damage assessment report. We have to collate it and submit a memorandum to the Union home ministry. Only after a nod from the Union government can the NDRF money be disbursed to the victims,” said a senior official of the disaster management department. Cyclone Yaas which hit Jharkhand between May 26 and 27 had mostly affected East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Ranchi, Simdega and Gumla districts. Preliminary government figures put the number of cyclone deaths at four persons and three cattle, while crops in 74.94 hectares of land were damaged. Over a dozen roads and several electric poles, wires and a bridge in Tamar area were also damaged by Yaas. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal admitted to the delay in disbursement of compensation. “We have got the allocation under NDRF but we cannot use it till we submit a memorandum. We are trying to get the damage assessment reports from all sections at the earliest and submit it to the Union government as soon as possible,” he said. Kaushal and water resources secretary Prashant Kumar conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Sahebganj district on Tuesday. Chief minister Hemant Soren also undertook an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in Sahebganj on Wednesday and assured that the government would extend all help to the affected people. “Proper assessment of the damages due to flood would be done and the government would pay compensation at the earliest. We are actively working to provide food grains to the people, shifting them to safer locations and providing them with healthcare facilities,” Soren said at Barhait block of Sahebganj. Nearly 48,000 families residing in 132 villages in Sahebganj district have been affected due to the flooding caused by the Ganga. Nearly 2.5 lakh of the state have been affected in the floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
20-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Widows of Sindri Fertilizer Factory workers apply for quarter allotment||Dhanbad: Widows of 217 deceased employees of Sindri Fertilizer Factory, who are facing eviction notice by Fertilizer Corporation of India on Thursday, started submitting applications to FCI management seeking quarter allotment in their name. The applicants led by FCI VSS Employee’s Welfare Association, a union former employees association of  Sindri fertilizer factory also handed over a copy of application at the camp office of FCI VSS Employees Welfare Association in Sindri for further reference, including legal pursuance of the issue by the association. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar who conducted a review of preparation to cope with the third wave of pandemic in the district on Thursday expressed dissatisfaction over the preparations at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital and demanded a comprehensive report from Dr AK Burnwal, Superintendent of the hospital and  Dr Jyoti Ranjan, Principal of the College over the manpower requirement, work allotment to different officials, financial rights, appointment related rights and procurement rights. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: The anti-corruption bureau on Thursday caught an assistant sub-inspector Ranjeet Kumar Jha taking a bribe of Rs.10,000 from a man for helping him obtain bail.  Jha was posted in Domchach police station of Koderma district. According to bureau officials, Jha was demanding Rs.15,000 from a man named Nilesh Kumar who was facing a criminal case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-68
