21-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta health clinics to administer Covid jabs everyday||The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) will be holding COVID-19 inoculation drive at the city's health clinics all seven days a week, starting Monday, chairman of the civic body's board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, said, while also observing that the rush for the first jab is "far more" than that of the second. Hakim, who is also the state's transport minister, further said that the civic body has the infrastructure to vaccinate as many as one lakh people in a day. Earlier, the drive was held on specific days in a week. "The number of people visiting the health clinics to get the first dose is far more than what was coming for the second dose. We are unable to manage the rush for the first jab," Hakim told reporters here. The first dose would be administered in the morning and the second dose after 3pm, he added. At least 3,57,27,819 people in Bengal have been inoculated with COVID-19 vaccine thus far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Heritage steel plaque installed at PC Sorcar Senior’s house||A heritage steel plaque was installed at PC Sorcar Senior’s house at 227A Rashbehari Avenue on Friday in the presence of his son PC Sorcar Junior and his wife Jayashree. The illusionist had spent a number of years at this art deco house, where he would practise his skills and art. The heritage house had elephants and a lion among its residents. The animals featured at the magician’s shows. The heritage plaque, on the lines of London’s blue plaque, commemorates well-known city residents and the houses where they lived. It is an initiative of Intach, Calcutta chapter, and Rotary International District 3291.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||FB corrects ‘error’ on No Vote to BJP||The No Vote to BJP group had been disabled “in error”, Facebook said on Friday and restored it. “The group was temporarily blocked in error but has since been restored,” a Facebook spokesperson told The Telegraph in response to a question. Sources in the company said an investigation was under way to find out what kind of error, “algorithmic or otherwise”, had led to the axe on the group. Members of the group welcomed the restoration. “Because of a collective fight, the No Vote to BJP group is back. Greetings to all those who stood behind us. The fight against the BJP will continue,” said the group’s first post after the restoration. The disabling of the group had triggered protests on social media. The group members had said the disablement happened around Wednesday-Thursday midnight, with the administrators receiving a notification that alleged the group had not followed Facebook’s “community standards”. The group was restored around 2.45pm on Friday, the administrators said. “This group’s activity was reviewed by Facebook and the group was restored,” read a notification on the group’s activity log. “The group was disabled with a vague note about not following Facebook’s community standards. But we were not informed how (the group had violated these standards),” said Sabyasachi Mukherjee, one of the group administrators. “Even when the group was restored, there was no update on the specifics of the (purported) violation. This is exasperating.” Mukherjee said: “Freedom of speech and expression is the bulwark of any democratic space; whether real or virtual. We wish Facebook keeps this in mind.” The group, which had rallied people against the BJP in the run-up to the Bengal Assembly polls and was credited with a key role in the party’s crushing defeat, counts over 33,000 members. Just before receiving the notification of disablement, group administrators had received notifications about the deletion of several of the group’s posts on the ground of violation of community standards. Most of the notifications are now gone and the posts are back, the administrators said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||NIT smart classrooms for students from classes VIII-X||NIT Durgapur is setting up two virtual classrooms in Bankura and Purulia where teachers and students of the institute will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students from Classes VIII to X. The students have not been attending school since March 2020 because of the Covid pandemic. The National Institute of Technology (NIT) has started a centre for digital learning on the campus that will develop course material and interactive sessions for science subjects based on the school syllabi. An orphanage in Barjora, Bankura, has been identified for a virtual classroom facility that NIT will equip with a smart TV, microphones, computers and other accessories. NIT is in talks with an NGO to identify a place for a similar classroom in Purulia. Classes will start in September. Anupam Basu, director, NIT Durgapur, said school students from underprivileged families in rural areas have been the worst affected because of the digital divide. “They lack devices like smartphones and laptops required to attend classes over digital platforms. Their foundation is weakening because of the lack of access to studies. This led to the start of virtual classrooms,” Basu told Metro. The institute will contribute Rs 4 lakh to set up the two virtual classrooms. The local panchayats will identify the schools whose students will benefit from the project. An NIT official said scores of virtual classrooms across the districts must be set up to meet the demand. “We have taken to crowdfunding for the project. The state government will also be approached. NIT will provide full technical support,” he said. As part of activity-based learning, teachers and students will conduct experiments in the labs on the NIT campus and these will be telecast in the virtual classrooms, the official said. “Theory classes combined with experiments make the subjects more interesting,” a teacher said. While NIT will leave it to the residents of the areas to maintain the facilities, the cost for internet will initially be borne by the institute, said Basu. Unlike neighbouring Odisha, where schools have opened recently, Bengal is yet to decide on the resumption of in-person classes. Schools in Bengal had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes had to be suspended on April 21 because of a renewed surge in Covid cases. Students of Classes III to VIII have been away from schools since March 2020. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had recently said the state government would try to open schools and colleges after Puja in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid curbs hit mental health of the aged in Calcutta||Before Covid struck, Samar Banerjee, 78, would go out for a walk every morning and spend hours chatting with friends sitting on benches on the lawn of his housing complex. For more than a year, he has been mostly confined to home, only stepping out early in the morning for shopping. An 83-year-old man would go to a neighbourhood market in the morning and visit a tea stall. In the afternoon, he would call on friends and relatives. Since April last year, his family had not allowed him to step out. The family members now want him to gradually return to the old routine but he is not getting his confidence back. Covid has claimed the lives of many elderly people across the world, and changed the lives of many who have survived the pandemic. The fear of contracting Covid after seeing so many of their peers succumb to the disease, the ordeal of being confined to home for months on end and loss of self-confidence have brought about a change in the lives of many elderly people that they are unable to accept. The change in social lives has led many people to slip into depression. “Before Covid arrived, I would barely be at home in the morning. After the morning walk, I would visit the market and then go to a senior citizens’ park in our residential complex to chat with friends and neighbours,” said Samar Banerjee, who was a cricketer in his younger days. “During the first wave of Covid last year, the doctor advised me to stop going out for walks because there were too many people around. He also asked me to stay away from our club’s adda,” said Banerjee, who lives on the southern fringes of the city. He has been confined to home for more than a year. Banerjee is fully vaccinated. That, and the fact that the number of Covid cases has come down, have prompted Banerjee’s doctor to advise him to go for his regular walk and join the adda after taking proper precautions. Many of Banerjee’s friends in the senior citizens’ club have died of Covid. “Having lost seven of my friends to Covid, I no longer feel the urge to socialise. Fear and depression are preventing me from venturing out,” said Banerjee. His only outdoor activity now is visiting a market opposite his housing complex early in the morning, when only a handful of people are around. Banerjee would often visit his son in Bangalore. “He has since moved to Singapore. I haven’t seen him since the outbreak of Covid. I don’t know when again I will meet my son,” the former cricketer said. The 83-year-old man would go out several times a day and visit friends and relatives. “My father used to be socially active. In the initial months of Covid, we had to almost forcibly keep him home. But now, after months of staying home, he lacks the will to go out. This is affecting his mental and physical health,” said the man’s son. “My father tells us that he does not have the courage and confidence to step out.” Several psychiatrists said they were getting phone calls from elderly people and their family members seeking help. “The most critical part of the problem is uncertainty about when the pandemic will finally end. No one knows when this is going to end,” said psychiatrist Ranadip Ghosh Roy. The doctor said since the Covid numbers started going down, he has been getting four to five phone calls a week from elderly people and their family members. The aged have been suffering from fear and depression. “The only solution is to overcome the fear of Covid. We have to take necessary precautions like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and getting fully vaccinated. We should accept the new normal and continue with our lives,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Minimally invasive heart’s aortic valve procedure becoming popular in Calcutta||A minimally invasive procedure to replace the heart’s aortic valve is becoming popular and cardiologists in Calcutta said elderly people scared to undergo high-risk surgeries are living longer because of the latest technique. The procedure, called transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), involves inserting a catheter into a blood vessel in the upper leg or chest to replace the defective aortic valve. An aortic valve can develop problems with age. It can become diseased because of normal wear and tear. Calcium deposits on the walls can also make a valve defunct, doctors said. “Earlier, the only way to replace a diseased valve was open heart surgery. But it was risky for many patients, especially the aged and those with comorbidities,” said Debdatta Bhattacharyya, an interventional cardiologist and the clinical director of the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Bhattacharyya recently conducted the procedure on a 75-year-old woman, whose aortic valve had become defective because of calcium deposits. “The minimally invasive procedure usually requires a patient to stay at the hospital for about two days. An open heart surgery, on the other hand, requires 10 to 14 days’ hospitalisation,” Bhattacharya said. “Patients always prefer a shorter stay at the hospital, especially so during a pandemic. That is another reason why patients in need of valve replacement are opting for this procedure.” Cardiologist Rabin Chakraborty said many elderly patients or those with medical conditions could not undergo surgery because of the risks associated with anaesthesia. “The only way to treat them was with medicines but the prognosis is not good. TAVI provides longer life for such patients,” he said. Doctors, however, said the procedure was effective for people above 65. They said the tissue valve used for the procedure has a lifespan of about 10 years. The metallic valve used during the open heart surgery has a longer lifespan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid night curfew: Teenage biker critically injured in Calcutta||An 18-year-old motorcyclist travelling with two of his friends was critically injured when the two-wheeler collided with a motorcycle from the opposite direction early on Friday. The accident, at the crossing of Circular Garden Reach Road and Brooklyn Road, happened around 1.50am, when no one is supposed to be outdoors except those in medical emergencies or involved in essential services. As ordered by the state government, night curfew kicks in at 11pm and continues till 5am as a precaution against Covid. Police said none of the men on the bike was involved in any essential services. “Both motorcycles were moving at a high speed. The 18-year-old who was seriously injured was travelling with two pillion riders. The other bike had one pillion rider,” said an officer of the traffic department. The critically injured teenager has been identified as Mohammad Danish, a resident of Nadial. The two friends with him were Sohail Siddique, 22, and Mohammad Manajir, 19, both residents of Watgunge. The riders of the other bike were Mohammad Parwez, 21, from Garden Reach, and Sheikh Kausar,18, from Metiabruz. Danish, who suffered multiple injuries, has been admitted in the intensive care unit of SSKM Hospital, the police said. The remaining four were discharged after treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Undergraduate application form date deferred to August 27||The higher education department has deferred the last date for submission of applications for admission to undergraduate courses from August 20 to 27. Many applicants are still awaiting the higher secondary review results and are not willing to apply till they get the updated marks. So, the deadline had to be extended, said an official of the department. Many students applied for a review of marks after it became known that the number of top scorers in this year’s school-leaving exams had fallen compared with last year. The need for a review, in the hope that marks will increase, became all the more crucial after the state government announced that colleges and universities could not conduct admission tests because of Covid-19 and would have to screen students for admission to undergraduate courses based on marks. Colleges and universities started accepting applications on August 2. A notice uploaded on Calcutta University’s website reads: “Considering various representations received requesting extension of the last date of application, on the online portal for admission to UG courses (2021-22) and the interest of the students, the competent authority of the state government… has decided, to extend the last date of application up to 27th August.” The state council of higher secondary education published review results in four phases till August 11. Several more phases are awaited. Council president Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya said: “We hope the remaining review results will be published in the next few days.” “Since all review results have not been published by Friday, the state government thought it prudent to extend the deadline by a week to enable more aspirants to apply,” said Joydeep Sarangi, the principal of New Alipore College. Another principal said an assessment of this year’s HS results would justify such huge numbers of review applications. The HS results, published on July 22, showed a significant rise in the pass percentage, along with a sharp drop in the number of top graders. The number of candidates with the O grade — between 90 and 100 marks — came down from 30,220 in 2020 to 9,013. The number of A+ grade (between 80 and 89) recipients dropped to 49,370 from 84,746 last year. The number of A graders (70-79) came down from 96,825 last year to 95,758. “This is in contrast to the CBSE Class XII and ISC results, which saw a jump in the number of top scorers. Realising that they will lag behind in the competition for undergraduate seats, state board students applied for a review of marks,” the principal said. Jadavpur University and Presidency University this year sought to admit students on the basis of an admission test but were denied permission on grounds of the pandemic and digital divide. Teachers of JU had said in an email to the education minister Bratya Basu on July 20 that in a year when plus-II students could not write their school-leaving exams because of the pandemic, assessment through an admission test “is vital for determining whether or not a candidate ought to take a particular field of study at the higher levels”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Calcutta||NGO counselling for Calcutta slum-dwelling parents||Parents of children living in slums are being counselled by a city NGO so that their girls and boys continue with their studies and do not give up midway. The counselling also includes an effort to minimise the gender divide that exists in most families where the boys and their demands are prioritised over the girls’. The sessions have yielded early results and in some cases, the mothers are speaking up for their girls, said a counsellor of Calcutta Rescue, the NGO that started the initiative. Teachers have noticed a change in the attitude of the parents. Earlier, the parents would not be keen on online classes but now, when they step out, they leave their phones behind so the children can attend classes, the head of the NGO’s education wing said. “Most of the children are first generation learners and some of the mothers have been subjected to violence at home. We ask them if they would want the same plight for their daughters or if they want them to become financially independent and not be subjected to any atrocity,” said counsellor Suchandra Chatterjee. The counselling is mostly for mothers but the NGO tries to include fathers, too. “The gender sensitisation has worked in some cases. We have seen mothers telling their sons not to take the phone with them when going out because their sister has a class,” Suchandra said. She said that while the mothers have been able to change their attitudes, the resistance comes from the grandparents whose thinking is still “primitive”. The counselling started some time back but because of the need for it and the results it has yielded, Calcutta Rescue has decided to make it more regular and rigorous. Counsellors also orient the mothers to look for signs of disturbance among their children, which could be due to abuse, and report it to the teachers. “We have to keep in mind the mental health of our children and for that it is essential to orient the parents. Many of these children are exposed to abuse and need to make their mothers aware of it,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator at Calcutta Rescue. “The best part is we have been able to retain our children. They have not dropped out, barring a few exceptional cases who have migrated to their native places,” she said. The counsellors also ask parents to ensure regular attendance among the children. The adolescents sometimes use phones to play games or watch videos instead of attending classes. “Despite the phones being recharged by us, the children are not attending classes while their parents think they are because they are sitting with the device. These are also issues we have to address,” said Ananya. Suchandra said there was a need to build confidence in the parents’ because there was a tendency among the children to take them for a ride since they do not know how to read or write.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Arrested for railway job fraud in Calcutta||A man has been arrested for allegedly posing as a railway engineer and cheating at least one person by making a false promise of getting him a job in the railways. Dipak Singh has been booked under IPC charges related to cheating, fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy based on a complaint, which said he had taken Rs 3 lakh from Arup Kumar Baidya for getting him a job in the railways. “The accused had been taking money from the complainant in phases since 2019. First, he took a processing fee, then medical test charges,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The fraud came to light when Singh snapped contacts with Baidya. The accused, originally from Jalpaiguri, was arrested from an address in north Calcutta on Thursday night. Police said they were looking for a man named Subir Das, who had allegedly introduced Baidya to Singh in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Calcutta||Nasa link cooked up to cast dupe net||A woman has been arrested by Bidhannagar police for allegedly posing as a “super antique metal delivery agent” attached to Nasa and duping people with false claims of supplying the metal to the American space agency. Police said Madhumita Saha, the accused, was allegedly collecting money from people in the city and elsewhere with the promise of lucrative returns on investments in the “antique metal” business. Saha, a resident of the airport police station area, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by a resident of Haryana. Narendra Singh wrote in his complaint lodged with Narayanpur police station, in the Bidhannagar commissionerate area, that Saha had swindled him out of more than Rs 1 lakh by convincing him to invest in a business of supplying a “super antique metal” to Nasa. “According to the complainant, he met Madhumita Saha through a social media network,” an officer said. Saha had purportedly convinced Singh that people who were investing in the business were getting back double the amount in return, the officer said. Singh had paid Saha thinking he was investing in the project to supply metal to Nasa. “He said he realised only recently that he had been duped, after the woman stopped answering his calls,” an officer said. Saha has been remanded in police custody for 12 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-11
21-08-2021||Business||Government urges jewellers to reconsider strike on August 23||Asserting that the mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery in 50 days of its first phase of implementation has been a "grand success", the government on Saturday urged jewellery body GJC to reconsider its decision to go on strike on August 23. The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) has called a nationwide 'token strike' on August 23, against the government's arbitrary implementation of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery with HUID (hallmark unique identification number). Mandatory gold hallmarking has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and union territories for the phase-1 implementation. Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature prior to June 16. "I heard that some associations have given a call for strike. Strike for what? The government is listening to every issue raised by stakeholders. The idea of strike is uncalled for," the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) Director General Pramod Kumar Tiwari said in a virtual press conference. In a recent meeting held on August 19 with industry stakeholders, Tiwari said many jewellers' associations had opposed the strike and said they support the new HUID system as it has become a brand name for small and medium jewellers in the country. "If some people (jewellers) have problems, there is no basis for that. Those who are thinking about strike, I want to appeal to them that they will not get a more sensitive and responsive government than the current one," he said. Tiwari asked the jewellery body GJC to reconsider its decision and take back the call for strike. "We will regularly have dialogue with you. HUID is in the interest of the country and consumers. This is a big initiative," he said, adding that the government is always ready to address the concerns of jewellers. Sharing the progress made during the implementation of the first phase of mandatory gold hallmarking, Tiwari said, "It's a grand success. We could not have imagined a better outcome. In 50 days of implementation, more than 1 crore jewellery pieces have been hallmarked. He also ruled out extending the implementation of this new initiative. "The country does not have the stomach for hallmarking more than 10 crore pieces a year. At this rate, we will be able to hallmark all jewellery. There is no question of extension. What is the need for that?" he said. The number of jewellers registered for gold hallmarking has increased to 91,603 now, from 35,000 jewellers when the mandatory hallmarking came into force, he said. When the HUID was implemented, 1.17 crore pieces of jewelleries were received between July 1 and August 20 at assaying centers. Out of which, more than 1 crore pieces were hallmarked with HUID. Even the number of pieces jewellers sent for assaying and hallmarking has increased from 5,135 pieces in the first fortnight of July, to 14,349 pieces in the first fortnight of August, he said. Allaying fears that delay in gold hallmarking will impact jewellers' business during festival and marriage season, the BIS Chief said, "When a new system is implemented, initially one faces problems. And those are resolved gradually." As a result, the number of jewellery items hallmarked increased from 14.28 lakh pieces during July 1-15 to 41.81 lakh pieces during August 1-15 of this year. On August 20, 3.90 lakh pieces were hallmarked in one single day, he said. Tiwari further said the World Gold Council and other similar associations have estimated that the requirement of hallmarking is for only 10-12 crore jewellery pieces in a year even if mandatory hallmarking is implemented across the country. "When we are hallmarking at this pace, we should be able to hallmark more than 1 crore jewellery pieces in a year. We have the capacity and pace to meet the country's requirements," he said. On apprehension of some jewellers about lack of capacity of assaying centres, he said, "One hallmarking centre in a shift of 8 hours can hallmark 500 pieces. There are about 860. About 161 out of 860 assaying centers have got more than 500 jewellery pieces per day. A lot of capacity is underutilised." The concerns raised about capacity and pace of hallmarking are not based on facts, he noted. Tiwari said that the government has addressed every genuine concern of the jewellers. Even small jewellers' demand to hallmark a mix of jewellery items having the same purity has been accepted. "A notification in this regard will be issued soon," he said. Asked if action had been taken against jewellers for violation of mandatory gold hallmarking, the official said that the government had assured the industry that the initial 2-3 months of implementation will focus on handholding and awareness. "It will not go for surveillance till August 30. The BIS has stuck to that decision," he said. However, the action against fake hallmarking centers is going on. In Delhi and South India, action has been taken against 10-12 assaying centers and fake hallmarking centers, he added. Tiwari also made it clear that HUID number uploading on the BIS portal is to be done only at the level of assaying centers at present. The privacy data of consumers will be protected. For second phase implementation, he said a committee's recommendation has been sent to the ministry for approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Trai suggests creation of separate authorisation for access network provider||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) has proposed a new category of wholesale player called the access network provider which will sell its services to the mobile virtual network operator which in turn will offer value added services to the final customer. The Trai proposal focuses on the role of the access network provider as well as its relationship with the mobile virtual network operator, with one of the objectives being to create a wide variety of 5G services for the end-user. The implementation of these recommendations is expected to result in increased sharing of network resources, reduction of cost, higher investment and could also prove to be a catalyst in the proliferation of 5G services, Trai said in a statement. “A separate authorisation under unified licence should be created for access network provider (network layer) to provide network services on a wholesale basis,” Trai said. Under this new authorisation, the access network provider would not be permitted to directly provide services to the end customers. The scope of the access network provider would be to establish and maintain telecom network, including wireless and wireline infrastructure, and selling the network services (capable of carrying voice and non-voice messages and data) on a wholesale basis to the virtual network operators or service delivery operators for retailing purpose. The access network provider should also be permitted to provide/share its network resources to/with the telecom service providers. Like the existing telecom players, the access network provider should also be permitted to acquire spectrum through auctions, subjected to the prescribed caps, enter into spectrum trading and sharing arrangements with the other players. It should also have access to backhaul spectrum, numbering resources and right to interconnection, Trai said. The existing licensing regime of “Unified Licence” shall continue. However, if a licensee with access service authorisation under UL wishes to migrate to segregated network layer and service layer regime, it should be permitted to do so. Trai said the network provider shall be permitted to take a separate licence to operate as a virtual network operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank shares tumble as MD & CEO Nitin Chugh resigns||Deteriorating asset quality and the exodus of top executives were the twin concerns for Ujjivan Small Finance Bank, founder Samit Ghosh said on Friday, a day after the exit of the bank’s managing director and CEO Nitin Chugh. Ujjivan Small Finance Bank shares tanked 18.76 per cent on the BSE on Friday after the news of Chugh’s exit on personal grounds. Ghosh, who is at present the non-executive director and chairman of Ujjivan Financial Services Limited (the holding company of the bank), has been drafted back on the board of the bank as a non-executive and non-independent director to address these concerns. He had vacated the post of managing director and CEO in 2019 on retirement following which Chugh had assumed office. The bank’s gross non-performing assets for the quarter ended June 2021 was 9.8 per cent versus 0.97 per cent in the corresponding period of the previous year. The bank reported a net loss of Rs 233 crore during the June quarter of 2020-21 against a profit of Rs 55 crore in the year-ago period. Even the pre-provisioning operating profits during the quarter at Rs 163 crore were down 24 per cent from previous year. The bank’s management had attributed this largely to the onset of the second wave of the Covid pandemic and the consequent restrictions and lockdowns in its key markets — Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Bengal. Recently, the bank’s chief financial officer Upma Goel and directors Mona Kachhwaha, Harish Devarajan and Mahadev Lakhsminarayan had also resigned. Clarifying to market analysts, Ghosh said Ujjivan had traditionally remained conservative on provisioning and upfront recognition of stressed assets. But this has fluctuated in the last one year — the provision coverage ratio fell from 82 per cent in June 2020 to 59 per cent in December 2020 before improving to 75 per cent in June 2021. He said while the timing of Chug’s resignation was a “surprise”, the bank’s board which has now been strengthened will undertake a “tough” review of the loan book and begin the recovery process. Ghosh said he would also play a role in co-ordination between the holding company and the bank on the reverse merger process. A board meeting is expected on August 25 to decide the future course of action. The board is likely to appoint an interim CEO. Ujjivan old-timer and the bank’s head of operations, Carol Furtado , could be given the role till the bank finds a new incumbent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Monetary policy committee’s Jayanth R Varma flays easy money policy||Jayanth R. Varma, the newly-emerging hawk in the Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy committee, believes that it is time to take a “hard look at the accommodative stance” that the central bank first adopted in June 2019. “Covid-19 is... beginning to resemble a neutron bomb,” Varma said while arguing for a review of the over two-year old policy. “The ability of the monetary policy to mitigate a human tragedy of this nature is very limited as compared to its ability to contain an economic crisis,” Varma said according to the minutes of the three-day MPC meeting that ended on August 6 and released on Friday. Varma voted along with the other five policymakers to hold the repo rate at 4 per cent but broke with them in their straw poll on persisting with the accommodative policy. ‘‘The possibility that Covid-19 will haunt us...for the next three to five years can no longer be ruled out. Keeping monetary policy highly accommodative for such a long horizon is very different from doing so for what was earlier expected to be a relatively short crisis,” Varma said. Money has been sloshing around in the system and the RBI has had to soak up the excess liquidity. In early August, the central bank was absorbing Rs 8.5 lakh crore every day. This has stoked fears of an emerging asset price bubble. “Monetary accommodation appears to be stimulating asset price inflation to a greater extent than it is mitigating distress in the economy,” Varma added. Varma also said the double talk on the RBI’s chief mandate — to hold inflation between 2 and 6 per cent at all times and shoot for a 4 per cent median rate — must end. ‘‘Inflation... is not expected to drop below 5 per cent even in the first quarter of 2022-23... it is important to emphasise that the inflation target for the MPC is 4 per cent and not 6 per cent or even 5 per cent,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Facebook partners Indifi to enable business loans for small business in India||Social media giant Facebook has expanded into the financial services space with the launch of Small Business Loans. The programme will offer small and medium businesses loans ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 50 lakh in 200 towns and cities in the country. India is the first country where the programme is being rolled out. Facebook has teamed up with Indifi, a Gurgaon-based digital lending platform, and is open to bringing in more partners on board. As part of the programme, small businesses that advertise with Facebook can get loans at a predefined interest rate of 17-20 per cent per annum. Borrowers will not be charged a processing fee by Indifi and the loan will be disbursed within five working days after the completion of documentation formalities and acceptance of offer by Indifi. The programme will also offer loans without collateral. Facebook in a statement on Friday said that a joint study of the social network platform in collaboration with the OECD and the World Bank last year identified cash flow as one of the primary challenges for small and medium enterprises. Access to timely credit is particularly challenging for micro and small businesses who do not have a long credit history. “Access to timely capital is more important than ever as it can help them jump-start their recovery and drive big growth. The country has made tremendous progress in the last few years in expanding access to credit. “As a company we are at the spearend of the digital transformation and we believe that the Small Business Loans initiative can provide a big impetus to early entrepreneurs to fuel their ideas and their appetite for taking risks,” said Ajit Mohan, VP and MD, Facebook India. Facebook said the programme is a not-for-profit arrangement with its lending partners and small businesses are not obligated to spend their loan amount on Facebook advertising. The announcement came at a virtual event hosted by Facebook India in partnership with Ficci. “We look forward to collaborating with Facebook over the coming months to develop programmes and solutions that can provide an impetus to the sector,” said Uday Shankar, president, Ficci.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Markets caught in global selloff||Equity indices fell for the second straight session on Friday, mirroring a global selloff as rising Delta cases and fears of earlier-than-expected Fed tapering sparked a broad retreat from riskier assets. A depreciating rupee, which slumped 15 paise against the dollar, added to the woes. The 30-share BSE Sensex slumped 300.17 points, or 0.54 per cent, to close at 55329.32. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 118.35 points, or 0.71 per cent, to 16450.50. Shrikant Chouhan, executive vice-president (equity technical research) at Kotak Securities, said: “After witnessing a splendid rally in the first two sessions of the week, markets have come under profit-taking thereafter amid worries of stretched valuations and lack of fresh positive triggers.” During the week, the Sensex declined 107.97 points or 0.19 per cent, while the Nifty slipped 78.6 points or 0.47 per cent. Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, said: “Over the week, FMCG and IT were the main gainers while metals, media, PSU Bank and realty lost the most. Global worries are impacting sentiments of investors in India. The broader market rally seems to be fizzling out. Nifty could remain in the 16540-16280 band for the better part of the coming week.” CarTrade disappoints Shares of CarTrade Tech had a muted market debut on Friday, closing with a discount of nearly 8 per cent against its issue price of Rs 1,618. The stock is listed at Rs 1,600, falling 1.11 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. It tumbled 8.77 per cent to Rs 1,476 and then ended at Rs 1,500.10, lower by 7.28 per cent. On the NSE, it made its debut at Rs 1,599.80 and closed at Rs 1,491, down 7.84 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||Business||Aditya Khaitan files appeal against NCLT order to start insolvency proceedings against McLeod||Aditya Khaitan, promoter of McLeod Russel India, has challenged the National Company Law Tribunal’s order to start insolvency proceedings against the country’s largest bulk tea producer. Khaitan filed an appeal before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) against the order handed down by the Delhi bench of the NCLT on August 6. The matter is likely to come up for hearing before the NCLAT on August 25. The NCLT order was issued on a petition moved by Techno Electric & Engineering under section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 against McLeod Russel after the bulk tea producer failed to repay a Rs 100 crore loan that had fallen due on March 31, 2019. NCLT, Delhi had admitted the application after being satisfied that it was complete in all respects and Techno was entitled to claim the outstanding financial debt from McLeod after determining that there had been a debt default. Legal eagles believe Khaitan’s challenge is tenable on two grounds. First, he is likely to argue that McLeod Russel does not owe the money to Techno, promoted by Calcutta-based businessman P.P. Gupta, as his company had assigned the loan to an unknown entity. He could also argue that Techno has the title of a property as security against the loan. No default is said to have occurred as the recovery of the dues could have begun by disposing of that secured asset. Aditya Khaitan could not be reached for comment. Udit Gupta, advocate for Techno, also declined to comment but confirmed the matter has been listed for next week. McLeod had made these arguments before the NCLT as well but it did not cut much ice. The bench had observed that McLeod had neither raised a dispute over the quantum of the default or the existence of the loan amount. McLeod’s counsel had relied on a conference call of Gupta, chairman and MD of Techno, where he told investors on November 11, 2019 that the company no longer had a debt exposure to McLeod. McLeod had also argued that Techno’s financial statements had disclosed the Rs 100 crore loan in 2018-19, but it was not reflected thereafter as it had been assigned to someone else. However, McLeod could not come up with documents to buttress its claim that the loan had been assigned to someone. Techno had also submitted an affidavit before the NCLT saying that the loan remained on its books. “The alleged arrangement regarding a loan of the respondent is an internal arrangement of the applicant which will not affect the liability of the respondent to clear the dues of the applicant company,” the August 6 order read. The property in question, located in the upscale south Calcutta neighbourhood of Sunny Park, remains in the possession of the Khaitans. Sources said the value of the property would not be enough to cover the loan exposure. While an application is being moved by Khaitan, interim resolution professional Kanchan Dutta, has taken charge of McLeod. A public announcement has also been made asking creditors to submit their claims. McLeod is understood to have a loan exposure of Rs 1,800 crore. It had borrowed the money to support McNally Bharat Engineering. While most of the bankers had agreed to restructure the loan outside the insolvency framework, it could not be done before the NCLT issued its order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
21-08-2021||India||Former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh passes away at 89||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and BJP veteran Kalyan Singh, who was ailing for some time, breathed his last on Saturday night, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) said in a statement here. He was 89.  Singh was admitted to SGPGI on July 4 in the Intensive Care Unit in critical condition.  He died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure, the hospital said in the statement.  Singh was the UP chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.  He later also served as the governor of Rajasthan. Expressing deep pain at the death of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that coming generations will remain forever grateful to him for his contributions towards India's "cultural regeneration".  Modi said he was saddened beyond words at his demise.  Singh was firmly rooted in Indian values and took pride in its centuries-old traditions, he said and lauded him as a "statesman, veteran administrator, grassroots level leader and great human".  He leaves behind an indelible contribution towards the development of Uttar Pradesh, the prime minister said.  Modi spoke to Singh's son Rajveer Singh, a Lok Sabha MP of the BJP, to convey his condolences.  "Kalyan Singh Ji gave voice to crores of people belonging to the marginalised sections of society. He made numerous efforts towards the empowerment of farmers, youngsters and women," he said.  Singh was closely associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.  The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished when he was the state's chief minister.  The Supreme Court had in 2019 handed over the disputed site to Hindu bodies, paving the way for the beginning of the construction of Ram temple there.  A backward caste leader, Singh was instrumental in the rise of the BJP to power in Uttar Pradesh in 1990s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
21-08-2021||India||Mehbooba refers to Afghanistan crisis, asks Centre to restore J&K special status||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday asked the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and urged the government to hold dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir and return its special status which was revoked in 2019. Mehbooba's remarks drew a sharp reaction from the BJP which accused her of indulging in "politics of hatred" after losing ground in the Union Territory and said anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed. Referring to the Taliban seizing power in Afghanistan, the former chief minister warned the Centre to not test us" and asked the government to mend its ways, understand the situation, and see what is happening in your neighbourhood." "America, a superpower, had to pack their bags and flee. You (the Centre) still have the opportunity to start a dialogue process in J-K like (former PM) Vajpayee had and mend your mistake of snatching the J-K's identity illegally and unconstitutionally and splitting of J-K, otherwise it will be too late, she said, referring to the decisions of August 5, 2019. Addressing her party workers in Kulgam district of south Kashmir, Mehbooba also appealed to the youth not to pick up arms, saying the issue cannot be resolved with guns or stones. The Government of India should return what it has snatched from us and address the Kashmir issue according to the wishes and aspirations of the people of J-K, she said. Citing the example of Afghanistan, the PDP president said the issues cannot be resolved by guns or stones. The Taliban are now controlling Afghanistan and they made the US to flee. But, right now, they are saying the gun will not do. The whole world is watching them, how they will behave, whether they will do the same strictness or behave well with the people, she said. Mehbooba said there was a lesson for the people of J-K in the situation in Afghanistan. I request the youth to resist by staying alive and do not lose your lives. When you lose your lives, everything is over. The people at the other end do not understand that the youth of Kashmir should not sacrifice their lives. They are not bothered. So, I appeal to all the youngsters not to pick up guns or stones. If you cannot speak with your tongue, then remember the wounds in your heart, she said. She said America talked to the Taliban and the previous governments in New Delhi, including the BJP government led by A B Vajpayee, also talked to militants in J-K and a time will come when they will bend on their knees and ask us what we want . The US talked to the Taliban, India talked to Pakistan and a ceasefire happened. There is no other option but to talk. Whatever is happening behind the doors, God willing, a day will come and they will have to talk to everyone be it the people of J-K or the people across as Kashmir issue is alive, she said. Saying that India is an idea of various religions, diversities and ethnicities, Mehbooba said the Congress party saved the country and kept it together and accused the BJP of trying to divide it. What has been happening since the last five-seven years, it seems the BJP is trying to split this country and divide the people in the name of religion, she said. Referring to Jammu and Kashmir's accession with the Union of India, the PDP president said had the BJP been in power then, J-K might not have joined the country. "The accession did not take place because of the BJP. It happened when Jawaharlal Nehru was in power, who was secular and democratic and who believed in brotherhood. He assured the people of J-K, which was a Muslim majority, of a special status to accede to a Hindu majority India. The Congress had joined J-K with India on these conditions. Had the BJP been there, then I do not think J-K would have been a part of this country, she said. On the criticism that she did not talk about Article 370 at a virtual meet of 19 opposition parties called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday, Mehbooba said she talked about the issue and noted that it was the duty of the Congress to safeguard the people of J-K and see their situation and understand difficulties. Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina lashed out at Mehbooba for her remarks, and said she "is under some misconception. India is a powerful country and our Prime Minister is Narendra Modi unlike (US president) Joe Biden who withdrew from Afghanistan. Whether it is the Taliban, Al-Qaeda, LeT, JeM, or Hizbul anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed." The PDP president has committed a great sin against the country. People of Jammu and Kashmir are patriots who love their nation and are keeping the national flag flying high. They are helping the police, Army and paramilitary forces in combating terrorism, he said. He further claimed that Mufti has lost ground in Jammu and Kashmir and the people have rejected her. Now, she is remembering the Taliban which has destroyed Afghanistan, killed innocent women and children, and trampling on the rights of people, including journalists and sportspersons, Raina said. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill also condemned her remarks. "Mehbooba Mufti quoted speech is highly condemnable & provocative . Rather than preaching peace, exposing Govt on policy issues if your politics requires you to threaten the establishment with violent consequences then clearly you are steering to wrong path-Sad & Shameful," Shergill said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
21-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar to lead all-party Bihar delegation to meet PM Modi on Aug 23 to discuss caste-based census||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said he along with representatives of all the parties in the state will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to discuss the issue of a caste-based census.  Tejashwi Yadav, the leader of opposition in the state assembly, will be part of the delegation, Kumar said.  I had sought an appointment with the PM to meet him along with an all-party delegation from Bihar, including RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, to discuss the issue of a caste-based census. I thank him for giving us time next Monday at 11 am," the CM told reporters here.  The caste-based census will benefit all sections of the society and facilitate more effective governance, he said.  Kumar had on August 3 written to PM Modi, seeking his appointment to discuss the demand for a caste-based census.  Leaders of the five-party opposition Grand Alliance, led by Yadav, had met the CM over the issue recently.  Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the JD(U), had asserted that divergent stands adopted by his party and the BJP, which heads the Union government, on the issue would not affect the coalition.  Notably, the Centre had recently informed Parliament that it was thinking of holding a census only for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, triggering vehement demand in Bihar that the same must include OBCs who dominate the state's politics.  Kumar had allayed fears that a census of all castes could lead to social tensions.  "When the legislature unanimously passed resolutions in support of a caste-based census on two occasions, members of all parties and from all castes and religions supported it. There should be no misgivings," he had said.  The bicameral Bihar legislature had unanimously passed resolutions in favour of a caste-based census in 2019 and also in 2020.  Caste-based census other than for SCs and STs has not been undertaken in the country after 1931.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
21-08-2021||India||Over 58 crore Covid vaccine shots administered in India, says govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 58 crore, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. More than 43 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. The ministry said 20,88,547 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received the first dose and 7,36,870 were administered the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday. Cumulatively, 21,60,58,123 people in the said age group have received the first dose and 1,92,54,925 have been administered the second dose of the vaccine since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive across the states and Union territories. On the 218th day (August 21) of the inoculation drive, a total of 43,92,759 vaccine doses were given -- 27,77,409 beneficiaries received the first dose and 16,15,350 got the second dose -- according to the provisional report. The final report for the day would be compiled by late night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
21-08-2021||India||Nirmala Sitharaman launches Ubharte Sitaare Fund||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are the backbone of the economy, and the Narendra Modi government has given the sector its rightful place. Addressing the launch of the ‘Ubharte Sitaare Fund’ here, Sitharaman said, "The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a proper identity to MSME. The place, which it had not got in decades, is being given to it, and it will be improved." "In the last two years, the Centre has done a number of different things. The government has changed the definition of MSME in a very flexible manner. Recently, a bill was tabled in the Parliament through which the MSME sector will directly benefit," she added. Sitharaman further said MSME businessmen will not have to undertake an audit for submission of their accounts. "The government has faith in them, and they can self-attest their accounts and certify them," she said. Speaking about the geographical indication (GI) tags for specialised products, she said while they are scattered across the country, in Uttar Pradesh, Banaras and its immediate surroundings alone boast of eight GIs. Sitharaman urged the state's MSME Minister Sidharth Nath Singh to establish an MSME chamber in every district, and hold awareness programmes about the 'Ubharte Sitaare Fund' so that entrepreneurs working under the One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme can know about its benefits. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of MSMEs and has effectively implemented the One District One Product programme, which provides the ideal ecosystem for success of an initiative like the Ubharte Sitaare Fund. The fund will go a long way in making India a major exporting hub, she said. Meanwhile, a tweet by Sitharaman's office said MSMEs have been at the forefront of the Modi government's economic policy through policies like change in definition of MSMEs to ensure adequate flexibility, effective implementation of ECLGS and Factoring Bill increasing the number of designated NBFCs to 9,000. The 'Ubharte Sitaare Fund' has been set up by Exim Bank and SIDBI. The fund is expected to identify Indian enterprises with potential advantages by way of technology, products or processes along with export potential, but which are currently underperforming or unable to tap their latent potential to grow. Harsha Bangari, Deputy Managing Director, India Exim Bank, said the bank has developed a robust pipeline of over 100 potential proposals and supported several companies across a diverse range of sectors. In her Budget speech last year, Sitharaman had mentioned that MSMEs are vital to keep the wheels of economy moving. They also create jobs, innovate and are risk takers. Accordingly, India Exim Bank's Ubharte Sitaare Programme (USP) identifies Indian companies that have the potential to be future champions in the domestic arena while catering to global demands. The fund is a mix of structured support, both financial and advisory services through investments in equity or equity like instruments, debt (funded and non-funded) and technical assistance (advisory services, grants and soft loans) to the Indian companies. Exim Bank and SIDBI have developed a pipeline of over 100 potential companies, including those in Uttar Pradesh, across various sectors such as pharma, auto components, engineering solutions, agriculture, and software. Later speaking to reporters, the finance minister, when asked about the steps taken to reduce the impact of COVID-19, said, "Not only have we kept this in mind in the Budget, but have also taken steps from time to time to give relief to the economy. The effect of this is visible now. Industries have benefited from different credit schemes." On unemployment and giving relief to the jobless, she said, "Small jobs have been made available. The budget of MNREGS has been increased from Rs 66,000 crore to Rs 1 lakh crore. ODOP is a step in the right direction." On rising prices of petrol and diesel, Sitharaman said, "I had said earlier that this is not in our hands alone. From the price of crude oil to central and state taxes contribute to the prices of fuel." "The state taxes increase whenever the prices of petrol and diesel go up. In other words, there is a burden on the public. We are keeping a watch on this," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Mehbooba indulging in 'politics of hatred' after losing ground Kashmir says BJP||Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Saturday lashed out at PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, accusing her of indulging in politics of hatred after losing ground in the Union Territory. Raina was reacting to an alleged statement of the PDP chief asking the Union government to learn lessons from the happenings in the neighbourhood -- apparently referring to the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan -- and hold dialogue with the people of Jammu and Kashmir and restore its special status. The BJP leader, however, said India is a powerful country and capable of destroying terror groups like Taliban, Al-Qaeda, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), and Hizbul Mujahideen to maintain the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. Mehbooba is under some misconception. India is a powerful country and our Prime Minister is Narendra Modi unlike (US president) Joe Biden who withdrew from Afghanistan. Whether it is the Taliban, Al-Qaeda, LeT, JeM, or Hizbul anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed, the BJP leader said. The PDP president has committed a great sin against the country. People of Jammu and Kashmir are patriots who love their nation and are keeping the national flag flying high. They are helping the police, Army and paramilitary forces in combating terrorism, he said. He further claimed that Mufti has lost ground in Jammu and Kashmir and the people have rejected her. "Now, she is remembering the Taliban which has destroyed Afghanistan, killed innocent women and children, and trampling on the rights of people, including journalists and sportspersons," Raina said. "We will not allow any conspiracy agenda to succeed. She (Mufti) is playing dirty politics, politics of hatred and poisoning the minds of the people," he alleged. He said the world is witness to how police and other security forces with the help of local people have tackled terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir since 1990. "We wiped out LeT, JeM and other terror groups in relentless operations which are continuing to ensure peace in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. "We will not accept any anti-national agenda and anyone working against the interests of the country will be dealt with strongl," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Delhi markets to to remain open beyond 8 pm from August 23||Markets in the national capital can stay open beyond 8 pm from August 23, with the Delhi government on Saturday announcing lifting of restrictions in view of a decline in COVID-19 cases in the city. No death due to COVID-19 was recorded in Delhi on Saturday, the second consecutive day the daily fatality count stood nil, while 19 fresh cases were reported, the lowest since April 15 last year, according to data shared by the city health department. "In view of the coronavirus situation, the markets were presently allowed to stay open till 8 pm. With the decline in COVID-19 cases, this time limit is being done away with from Monday. The markets can stay open according to their normal timing," Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. This is the twelfth time since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11, August 12, August 13, August 16 and August 20 too, no death due to COVID-19 was recorded, according to official data. On March 2 this year, the city had reported zero death due to the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Production of one crore Zydus Cadila Covid vaccines a month from October, says Chief||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Saturday said it is looking to supply its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D by the middle to end of September, adding the pricing of the dose will be announced in the next one or two weeks. The company's indigenously developed needle-free three-dose COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D was granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the drug regulator on Friday, making it the first vaccine to be administered to beneficiaries in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. "Post the emergency use authorisation, now we will work closely with the regulatory authorities to work on the pricing and modality of delivery of the doses of our vaccine. In the next one or two weeks we will have better clarity on the pricing," Zydus Group Managing Director Sharvil Patel said in a virtual press conference. The company hopes to start supplying the vaccines by the middle to end of September. "As I said, we need to scale up to 1 crore doses and we believe by October we can achieve this. We believe by October we will start producing 1 crore doses and that would mean by end of Jan we can have 4 to 5 crore doses," he added. Asked if the company was considering partnering with other firms to scale up production of its vaccine, Patel said Zydus Cadila is actively looking at ramping up manufacturing both domestically through partnerships and also outside of the country. The company is also seeking approval for a two-dose regimen of the vaccine, he added. Describing the approval for Zydus Cadila's vaccine as a momentous feat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet on Friday had said, "India is fighting COVID-19 with full vigour. The approval for world's first DNA based ''ZyCov-D'' vaccine of @ZydusUniverse is a testimony to the innovative zeal of India's scientists. A momentous feat indeed." ZyCoV-D is the sixth vaccine to get the emergency use authorisation in the country, after Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian vaccine Sputnik V and the vaccines of Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. Of these, Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are currently in use in India. These vaccines are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, which has three doses, these are administered in two doses. "This is a historic milestone with ZyCoV-D, a product of Indian innovation becoming the world's first DNA vaccine being offered for human use and supporting the world's largest immunization drive," Cadila Healthcare Chairman Pankaj R Patel had said on Friday. The company plans to manufacture 10-12 crore doses of ZyCoV-D annually, Zydus Cadila had said in a statement. "We are particularly happy that our vaccine will contribute to this fight against COVID-19 and enable the country to vaccinate a larger population especially in the age group of 12-18 years. "I would like to thank all the researchers, clinical trial investigators, volunteers and the regulators who have supported this endeavour," the Cadila Healthcare chairman had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Central agencies given 15 names by PM to file 'fake' cases against them, alleges Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shared the names of 15 people with Delhi Police, CBI and ED and asked them to "conduct raids and file fake FIRs" against those on the list and "ruin them before the next elections". During an online briefing, Sisodia claimed that many names on the list are from the Aam Aadmi Party. An immediate reaction was not available from the BJP or the central government. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal echoed similar sentiments and said nothing had come out of the earlier raids or fake cases. In a tweet in Hindi, Kejriwal said, "Do politics of votes and win the trust of people. There were so many fake cases filed against us and raids conducted but you got nothing. You want to file more fake cases and carry out raids? You are welcome." "We have learnt from reliable sources that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has handed over a list of 15 people to the CBI, the ED and the Delhi Police, asking them to conduct raids and file fake FIRs against them (people on the list) in order to ruin them before the next elections," Sisodia claimed. He claimed that Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana has promised to get the job done. "Rakesh Asthana is Modiji's 'brahmastra'. He has promised that come what may, he will get the job done," he claimed. Sisodia said the AAP does politics of truth and honesty. "You can send the CBI and the ED, we will welcome them," he said. Sisodia said there had been previous instances where AAP leaders were 'targeted' but nothing came out of it. "I want to ask -- What did you get in the earlier raids? There are 12 cases against Satyendar Jain. The CBI has raided my house and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's office. Police raided CM's house and even entered his bedroom. What came out of those raids?" he questioned. "There were 'fake' cases registered against 21 of our MLAs and the courts scolded the police for filing such cases. The Centre got the Shunglu Committee to scrutinise 450 files of our government but what came out of it. We have full faith in ourselves," he claimed. The deputy chief minister also claimed that AAP is gaining popularity in other states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and had even won 27 seats in the municipal corporation polls in Gujarat, which is the stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab will be going to polls next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Nadda lauds Modi for prioritising defence sector ||BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for prioritising the defence sector by increasing budgetary allocations for it manifold, giving a fresh impetus to the building of border infrastructure and boosting the morale of the armed forces by celebrating Diwali every year along with soldiers on the borders. "Everyone prefers to celebrate Diwali at home. But Modi ji celebrates it invariably with the jawans on some border or the other. He has not just boosted their morale by doing so but also given a message to the entire country that it is because of soldiers deployed along the borders that the rest of us can celebrate Diwali at home," Nadda said. "Modi ji has created a new enthusiasm and trust in the armed forces," Nadda said at an interactive programme with ex-servicemen at Raiwala where he also honoured them. He said budgetary allocation for defence has gone up manifold ever since Modi assumed office at the Centre and there is far greater emphasis today on the building of border roads and rail links in border areas. In 2011-12 the budgetary allocation for defence was Rs 1,45,000 crore which has risen to Rs 4,78,000 crore at present, he said. Measures like these have made it clear that defence is a priority for the prime minister, Nadda said. He said the world's longest highway tunnel of 9.02 km connecting Manali in Himachal Pradesh with Leh at a height of 10,000 feet, whose foundation stone was laid by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, was implemented under Modi's leadership after hanging fire for 10 years under the UPA. It also connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley throughout the year. Earlier the valley used to be cut off for about six months every year due to heavy snowfall. Nadda also spoke of new tunnel projects being built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on road and rail routes, and added 73 border roads and 3,812 km all-weather road being built under Modi's leadership. Speaking at the event, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami thanked the party leadership for giving the son of a retired army man like him the opportunity to serve the state as the "Mukhya Sevak".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Those who prize freedom must welcome pledge of unity by 19 parties, says Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said those who prize freedom above every other right must welcome the pledge of unity made by 19 political parties and supported by the Samajwadi Party. Chidambaram's remarks came a day after leaders of 19 Opposition parties announced that they would organise joint protests across the country from September 20 to 30, and urged people to save India for a better tomorrow. After a virtual meeting of the Opposition parties, where they stressed unitedly moving forward to defeat the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the leaders also put out an 11-point charter of demands before the government. Referring to the development, Chidambaram said those who prize freedom above every other right must welcome the pledge of unity. "Bhakts and trolls will ridicule the show of unity, but they should remember the famous words of the German Lutheran pastor Martin Niemoller. Cynics will scoff at the effort, but they will realize one day that we are fighting for the liberty of all people, including the cynics," the former Union minister tweeted. On Friday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi urged the top Opposition leaders to rise above political compulsions to take on the BJP in the interest of the nation and start planning "systematically" to realise the "ultimate goal" of winning the 2024 Lok Sabha polls to provide a government that believes in the values of the freedom movement and provisions of the Constitution. Gandhi gave the clarion call at a virtual meeting of leaders of 19 Opposition parties including NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and four non-Congress chief ministers -- TMC's Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), DMK's M K Stalin (Tamil Nadu), Shiv Sena's Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra) and JMM's Hemant Soren (Jharkhand) -- hosted by her. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav wrote a letter to the Congress president, expressing his inability to join the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Maharashtra: One more extortion case filed against Param Bir Singh||Mumbai police have registered one more case of extortion against former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh, an official said on Saturday. This is the fourth such case against Singh and second in Mumbai. Two other cases were filed in Thane city. All these FIRs were registered within a span of one month. The latest FIR was filed on Friday night at Goregaon police station on the basis of a complaint lodged by 48-year-old builder Bimal Agarwal, the official said. In this case, dismissed police officer Sachin Waze and four others - Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh alias Babloo and Riyaz Bhati - have also been named as accused, he said. As per the complaint by Agarwal, the accused extorted Rs 9 lakh from him for not conducting a raid on two bars and restaurants, which he ran in partnership, and also forced him to buy two smartphones worth around Rs 2.92 lakh for them. The incident occurred between January 2020 and March 2021, it said. Accordingly, the case was filed under IPC sections 384 and 385 (both pertaining to extortion) 34 (common intention) against the six accused and probe in the case is on, he said. Singh is currently posted as DG Home Guards and he has not been attending office since May as he is on sick leave. On July 22, Marine Drive police station in Mumbai had registered an FIR against Singh, five other police personnel, and two more persons for allegedly demanding Rs 15 crore from a builder. The next day, one more case of extortion was registered against him, some other police officers at Kopri police station in Thane. On July 30, another extortion case was filed against the senior IPS officer at Thane Nagar police station on the basis of a complaint lodged by businessman Ketan Tanna. The case registered at Marine Drive police station was recently handed over to state CID for investigation, while Thane police have issued lookout notices against Param Bir Singh and other accused persons in connection with the FIRs registered in Thane city. Singh was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner in March this year after the arrest of dismissed police officer Sachin Waze in the case of an explosives-laden vehicle found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai. Singh later accused the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption, following which the latter resigned in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||India records over 34,000 fresh Covid cases, 375 casualties in a day||A single-day rise of 34,457 COVID-19 cases pushed India's tally to 3,23,93,286 on Saturday, while the number of active cases declined to 3,61,340, the lowest in 151 days, according to Union health ministry data. India has reported less than 50,000 daily cases for 55 consecutive days. The death toll climbed to 4,33,964 with 375 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The 3,61,340 active cases comprise 1.12 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year. The national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.54 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. A reduction of 2,265 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate stands at 2 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 26 days, according to the ministry. The weekly positivity rate stands at 1.98 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 57 days, the ministry said. As many as 17,21,205 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total number of tests done so far in the country to 50,45,76,158. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,15,97,982, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. So far, 57.61 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 375 new fatalities include 105 from Maharashtra and 99 from Kerala. Of the 4,33,964 deaths reported so far in the country, 1,35,672 were from Maharashtra, 37,105 from Karnataka, 34,663 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,791 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,345 from Kerala and 18,346 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Three JeM militants killed in encounter in Pulwama||Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Saturday, officials said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the upper reaches of forest area of Nagbaeran Tral in the south Kashmir district following inputs about the presence of militants there, the officials said. They said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the search party of the security forces, who retaliated. "In the ensuing gunfight, three terrorists affiliated with JeM outfit were killed," the officials said. The search operation is going on, they said. This is the second encounter in the district in as many days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Heavy rains cause waterlogging in Delhi||Heavy rains lashed Delhi on Saturday morning, leading to waterlogging in many parts of the city including underneath Minto Bridge, Moolchand underpass and at ITO. Due to the waterlogging, the Delhi Traffic Police closed several crucial underpasses and took to Twitter to inform commuters. Public Works Department (PWD) officials said the field staff was on the ground to address waterlogging complaints on priority. "Traffic movement on Minto Bridge (both carriageways) has been closed due to waterlogging. Please avoid (the) stretch," the traffic police said in a series of tweets. "Traffic is affected at Moolchand Underpass due to waterlogging. Inconvenience is regretted. Azad Market Underpass is closed due to 1.5 feet waterlogging, please avoid using this route. Sorry for the inconvenience," it said. Other areas that witnessed waterlogging due to heavy rains include Pul Prahladpur underpass, Lajpat Nagar, Jangpura, ITO, roads around Pragati Maidan, Sangam Vihar, Rohtak Road, Mangolpuri, Kirari and Malviya Nagar. Traffic movement was also disrupted on the Mehrauli-Badarpur road in south Delhi due to the waterlogging. "Waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur Underpass. Traffic interrupted at MB road diverted on mathura road. Kindly avoid (the) stretch," the traffic police tweeted. A PWD official said the department's field staff was working to resolve the issue. "The intensity of rain this morning was high, so a few areas of the city witnessed waterlogging. Our field staff is on the ground and we are closely monitoring the situation," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||SC: 32 years later, another judge can get elevated post retirement||Thirty-two years ago, a former high court judge was brought out of retirement to be elevated to the Supreme Court in an initiative without parallel in independent India. Justice Fathima Beevi’s extraordinary appointment has again become a topic of discussion in legal circles following the Supreme Court collegium’s recommendation on Wednesday to elevate nine judges to the apex court. One factor behind that is the Narendra Modi government’s proclivity to sit on the collegium’s recommendations, often for months. If the government does not decide on the latest recommendations by September 1 — a tight deadline by its standards — one of the candidates, Justice Hima Kohli, will have retired. The second factor is an expectation — corroborated by an apex court judge to this newspaper —that the collegium might then explore the possibility of elevating Justice Kohli the way Justice Fathima Beevi had been in 1989 in the pre-collegium era. Justice Kohli, now chief justice of Telangana High Court, will reach 62, the retirement age for high court judges, on September 1. However, she will get a tenure of three more years if appointed by then to the Supreme Court, where the retirement age is 65. Asked whether they expected the Centre to decide on the latest recommendations in another 12 days, legal experts said they hoped Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana’s “no-nonsense” approach and ability to assert himself would persuade the government to do so. But they also cited the government’s serial delays in clearing judicial appointments and tendency to object to certain candidates or seek clarifications about others. They contended that if the government didn’t play ball and Justice Kohli had to retire on September 1, the collegium could well exercise the same option that had led to Justice Fathima Beevi becoming the country’s first woman apex court judge. Justice Fathima Beevi had retired on April 29, 1989, as a Kerala High Court judge. She was elevated to the Supreme Court on October 6, 1989, at a time the government selected judges for appointment in consultation with the judiciary. She retired on April 29, 1992. While the Constitution has no provision for a judge being recalled from retirement and elevated to a higher court, Justice Fathima Beevi’s appointment was not challenged. One standout example of the Centre delaying judges’ appointments has been the six-month stalemate over Justice K.M. Joseph’s elevation to the Supreme Court after the collegium recommended him in January 2018. Political and legal circles had accused the government of victimising Justice Joseph because he had as an Uttarakhand High Court judge in April 2016 quashed the Centre’s imposition of President’s rule on the hill state, thus restoring a Congress government. Before the 2018 standoff, the Centre had also rejected a request Justice Joseph had made in May 2016 seeking a transfer to Andhra Pradesh High Court on health grounds. Another collegium recommendation that the Centre had blocked concerned Justice Akil Kureshi, who had in 2010 sent Amit Shah, now Union home minister, to CBI custody in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh “fake encounter” case. The collegium had sought Justice Kureshi’s transfer as chief justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court but the government’s stalling forced it to recommend him for chief justice of the much smaller Tripura High Court. This the government accepted. This apart, several Chief Justices of India such as Justice T.S. Thakur, Justice Ranjan Gogoi, Justice S.A. Bobde and Justice Ramana have often pulled up the Modi government, in the courtroom and outside, for sitting over judicial appointments, including those to the quasi-judicial tribunals. As recently as last week, an angry Justice Ramana had told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta to close down the tribunals if the government could not fill the vacancies. Currently, the high courts and tribunals face more than 40 per cent vacancies. However, government sources have often accused the collegium of tardiness in recommending candidates instead of abiding by the memorandum of procedure that says replacements should ideally be named six months before an incumbent judge’s retirement. Government sources have suggested the collegium often recommends a candidate six months or even a year after a vacancy arises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders unite to prepare for 2024 general election||Senior Opposition leaders on Friday agreed to set aside their differences for a united effort to protect constitutional rule in India, stressing that preparations for the 2024 general election had to start now. Concerns were expressed about communication gaps and inadequate public action, but every leader stressed unity of purpose and appealed to citizens to thwart the designs to subvert constitutional rule. “We, the leaders of 19 Opposition parties, call upon the people of India to rise to the occasion to defend our secular, democratic, republican order with all our might. Save India today so that we can change it for a better tomorrow,” a joint statement adopted at the virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi said. Sonia recalled how sustained Opposition unity had cornered the Narendra Modi government during the just-concluded Parliament session. “But the larger political battle has to be fought outside. Of course, the ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, for which we have to begin to plan systematically with the single-minded objective of giving to our country a government that believes in the values of the freedom movement and in the principles and provisions of our Constitution,” she said. “This is a challenge, but together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively together.” Sonia added: “We all have our compulsions, but clearly a time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above them.... Let me say for its part, the Indian National Congress will not be found wanting.” Trinamul leader and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee made a forceful pitch for the shelving of personal and political differences, saying “the people should lead” the movement to save India. She said that instead of worrying about who should be its leader, the Opposition group should form a core group that would plan and execute its programmes. Nationalist Congress Party veteran Sharad Pawar appealed to people who believe in democratic principles to come together. He asked the parties to decide priorities and draw up an action plan to mobilise public opinion against the government. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav said that preparations for 2024 should start without wasting time. He referred to a communication deficit among Opposition parties and regretted that they had failed to cash in on the myriad issues troubling the nation. “The Opposition parties must stick to their own agenda and provide the nation with an alternative vision and governance scheme,” he said. “Regional parties that are strong in certain states should be put in the driver’s seat in their areas. Joint outreach programmes should be launched without delay.” The parties decided to jointly organise protests across the country from September 20 to 30. The parties’ state units will decide the forms of these protests keeping in mind the local Covid regulations and protocols. The joint statement presented a comprehensive critique of the government. “The destruction of the Indian economy, with deepening recession, is pushing crores of our people into joblessness, escalating the levels of poverty and hunger. The runaway inflation and price rise is adding to people’s woes and destroying livelihoods,” it said. “The historic struggle by our farmers continues into the ninth month now, with the government being obdurate in not repealing the three anti-farmer laws.” On the Pegasus snooping controversy, the parties said: “Procuring of the Pegasus military spyware for surveillance of people by the Government of India is extremely alarming. The government refuses to answer one straight question — has it or any of its agencies purchased the Pegasus spyware from the Israeli firm NSO, known for cyber military surveillance? “The government must answer and come clean. Such surveillance is not only a gross violation of people’s fundamental right to privacy but is an attack on Indian democracy and democratic institutions.” The joint statement also referred to what most Opposition leaders see as reckless privatisation by the government. “The destruction of the economy is accompanied by a mega loot of our national assets; large-scale privatisation of the public sector, including banks and financial services; the privatisation of our mineral resources and public utilities to benefit the cronies of the Prime Minister,” it said. The Opposition also voiced several demands. “1. Augment vaccine production capabilities, procure vaccines globally and speed up the free universal mass vaccination drive; provide adequate compensation for those who lost their lives due to Covid; 2. Implement free cash transfers of Rs 7,500 per month to all families outside the income tax bracket, distribute free food kits containing all essential commodities of daily consumption to all the needy; 3. Withdraw unprecedented hikes in central excise duties on petroleum products,” the statement said. “4. Repeal the three farm laws; 5. Stop and reverse the unbridled privatisation; 6. Stimulus packages for MSMEs; 7. Enlarge MGNREGA, bring urban employment guarantee scheme; 8. Prioritise vaccination of teachers, staff and students to ensure early reopening of educational institutions; 9. Hold Supreme Court-monitored judicial enquiry into the use of Pegasus spyware and the Rafale deal; 10. Release all political prisoners, including those (arrested) under draconian UAPA in Bhima Koregaon case and anti-CAA protests, stop using other draconian laws like sedition/ NSA to violate democratic rights and civil liberties of the people; 11. Release all political prisoners in J&K. Restore full statehood including J&K cadre of central services, conduct free and fair election at the earliest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Delhi nod  to driving licence on DigiLocker platform||Motorists in the national capital need not carry their driving licence and registration certificate and can show these documents stored in the DigiLocker platform or the m-Parivahan mobile app when asked for by traffic police and the transport department. DigiLocker is a cloud-based platform for storage, sharing and verification of documents and certificates. Driving licences and registration certificates available in the digital form on the DigiLocker platform or the m-Parivahan app are valid documents under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, a notice issued by the transport department of the Delhi government said. These are legally recognised on a par with the certificates issued by the transport department, the notice added. “The traffic police and the enforcement wing of the transport department duly accept the electronic form of driving licence and registration certificate if shown in the DigiLocker and m-Parivahan app,” the notice said. However, soft copies of driving licence and registration certificate maintained in any other form is not acceptable as original record, it clarified. The electronic record of driving licence and registration certificate available on DigiLocker or m-Parivahan is also recognised as valid documents like the originals as per the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the notice stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Centre to hold meeting of Indian Labour Conference after 6 years ||The Centre is planning to hold a meeting of the Indian Labour Conference — a tripartite outfit of the government, employers and employees — after a gap of six years, two labour ministry officials have said. The government’s purported apathy to hold such three-way negotiations on emerging labour issues and receive advice from the ILC had earned it criticism from the trade unions at a time there has been delay in the implementation of an unorganised workers’ database and the workers’ opposition to the new labour laws. The two labour ministry officials said the government was planning to hold a meeting of the ILC. “There is a demand for an ILC meeting. This may be accepted,” one of them said. The tripartite ILC had last met in 2015. All the 12 central trade unions are members of the ILC, which has been meeting every year since 1942 barring a few breaks in between. The BJP government’s apparent lack of interest in the ILC had been skewered by all the trade unions, including the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS). Last month, new labour minister Bhupender Yadav had held a courtesy meeting with all the trade unions where the labour outfits demanded the resumption of ILC meetings. BMS general secretary Binoy Kumar Sinha had last month written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to take steps to hold an ILC meeting at the earliest “to uphold the noble tradition of tripartism in the country”. Prime Ministers have been attending the inaugural programme of the ILC meetings since 1997. Modi had been present at the 2015 edition. Pawan Kumar, the BMS’s north zone secretary, said the ILC was an important forum where emerging labour issues were discussed. Labour database The Centre has decided to rely on existing data for the database it is to prepare on unorganised workers, who make up around 90 per cent of the country’s workforce. The Supreme Court has set a December deadline for putting in place the national database. The unorganised workers are among the hardest hit by the pandemic. The labour department officials said the government was planning to collate the existing data on workers compiled under different workers’ boards. “The plan is to take all the existing data already collected by the construction workers’ board, the beedi workers’ federation and so on. The states will be asked to collect data on the workers left out and feed them into the portal (on unorganised workers),” an official said. The labour minister has called a meeting of all trade unions on August 24 to discuss the matter. All India Trade Union Congress (Aituc) leader Amerjeet Kaur said the data maintained by different boards were incomplete. “The existing data cover only 15 to 20 per cent of workers in specific categories. Depending on such data will not help create a national database,” Kaur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||ED officer who probed UPA ‘scams’ eyes 2022 UP Assembly polls||Enforcement Directorate officer Rajeshwar Singh, who had helmed probes into UPA-era scam cases, has applied for retirement from government service and is expected to join the BJP and contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, official sources said on Friday. Singh had headed high-profile investigations such as the 2G spectrum allocation case, the 2010 Commonwealth Games irregularities and the money-laundering probes against former Union finance minister P. Chidambaram and his son Karti, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and former Jharkhand chief minister Madhu Koda. He also headed the headquarters investigation unit of the ED located in the national capital that probes sensitive money-laundering and foreign exchange violation cases, including those with political links. Singh is currently posted as the joint director of the ED at its zonal office in Lucknow. Singh joined the agency in 2009. Singh, who hails from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh, was permanently absorbed into the ED cadre in 2015. Sources said Singh had applied for retirement from government service. They said there were chances of him joining the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and contesting the Assembly polls .The application is yet to be accepted, they added. His sister Abha Singh, a lawyer based in Mumbai, posted a message on Twitter with a photograph of her and Singh: “Congratulations to my brother #RajeshwarSingh of the #ED for opting for early retirement to serve the country. Nation needs you.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Covid: Nod for first jab developed by Zydus Cadila for 12-plus kids||India has approved a DNA vaccine against Covid-19 developed by the Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila, the country’s second homegrown vaccine against the infection and the first approved for use in children 12 years or older. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, has granted emergency use authorisation for the three-dose vaccine named ZyCoV-D, the company and the department of biotechnology that funded its development said on Friday. The CDSCO’s approval represents a technical greenlight for the vaccine to be used in anyone 12 years or older. But the Centre’s vaccination policy makers will have to take a decision on when to actually open up the vaccination for children, taking into account the doses expected, and whether to prioritize certain groups of children considered at high risk for severe disease. Zydus Cadila has said it plans to produce 100-120 million doses annually. The Union health ministry has included 50 million doses of ZyCoV-D in its projected inventory of the 1,350 million doses India will require between August and December this year to vaccinate all adults. A company spokesperson told The Telegraph that the quantum of doses expected to be made available in the coming months would be announced soon. In clinical trials involving around 28,000 volunteers, the vaccine has shown 66.6 per cent protective efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19. Under globally adopted standards, a Covid-19 vaccine has to show at least 50 per cent efficacy to be considered for approval. The company had earlier this year said no moderate case of Covid-19 had been observed in the vaccine arm of the trial after three doses, indicating 100 per cent efficacy against moderate disease. No severe cases or deaths had occurred in the vaccine arm after the second dose. The CDSCO said it had approved the vaccine for use in recipients 12 years or older. Children aged between 12 and 18 years had made up around 1,000 of the 28,000 volunteers in the clinical trial. The health ministry is expected to take a decision on opening up the vaccination campaign for children based on recommendations from the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, a technical advisory panel guiding the vaccination policy. A decision to offer Covid-19 vaccines to children would raise the number of eligible recipients by more than 220 million. The current estimated number of recipients aged 18 years or older is around 943 million. Sections of public health experts have suggested that given limited supplies, health authorities might need to prioritise vaccines for children with underlying health conditions that increase their risk for developing severe Covid. Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and chair of NEGVAC, has said a decision on whether to prioritise vaccines for children considered at high risk for severe Covid would be taken after it is clear what quantum of doses would be available. ZyCoV-D, administered on the skin through a needle-free applicator, is the world’s first vaccine against any human infection based on the platform using genetically-engineered DNA, a technology viewed by scientists as challenging with no commercial human DNA vaccines until now. Research groups across the world have explored candidate DNA vaccines against several other microbes, including hepatitis-B and rabies, but none entered the market. “Delivery and efficacy have been challenging issues with DNA vaccines,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana), who was not associated with the vaccine development. “At three doses, the vaccine has demonstrated 66 per cent efficacy — this has been the major challenge,” Vrati told this newspaper. Medical experts believe as new vaccines enter the campaign, sections of the public are more likely to take into account the efficacy levels they have shown in clinical trials. The other vaccines used currently in India have shown higher efficacies — Covaxin’s 78 per cent, Covishield’s 81 per cent, and Sputnik V’s over 90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik launches smart health cards in Odisha||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday launched the smart health cards under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana in Malkangiri, an initiative that can change the face of healthcare in the state. It’s a first of its kind service in the entire country, which will become effective from September 1. In order to send a message that his government is with the underprivileged and the tribals, Naveen handed the first health smart health card to a Bonda tribal community member, Sukri Dhangda Majhi. Bondas are one of the oldest tribal groups of the state with around 12,000 members of the community residing in the hill pockets of the Malkangiri district. Speaking on occasion at Malkangiri, Naveen said: “The smart health card will lessen your burden on treatment for health. The state government is spending money for your health. So money to be spent towards treatment of health could be saved and it could be utilised for the studies of children and improvement of the economic condition of the families.” He had announced the smart health card move on Independence Day. Under the scheme, each male member of a family of an economically vulnerable section of the society is entitled to get insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh and woman of Rs 10 lakh per annum. As per the announcement about 96 lakh families covering a population of 3.5 crore people will avail the benefit of the health card. However, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan has urged the chief minister to implement the Ayushman Bharat scheme in Odisha. The state has so far declined to accept it stating that its health scheme is better than the central scheme. Naveen has launched the scheme at a point when the BJP has begun the Jan Ashriwad Yatra in Odisha and its ministers including railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Pradhan are touring the state. However, the launching of Naveen’s smart health card scheme has triggered a fresh war of words in the social media between the BJP and the BJD. In a series of tweets, the BJD’s most powerful MLA Pranb Prakash Das compared the two schemes stating that Centre’s scheme is an insurance scheme whereas the Odisha government’s scheme is an assurance scheme and its much better than the Ayushman Bharat. “There are no specific benefits for women under the central scheme. But in our scheme, there is a provision for Rs 10 lakh per annum for women members of the family enrolled under the BSKY.” The Odisha government said the BSKY is available in more than 200 hospitals in the country including big private hospitals. Using the health card the people can get a range of benefits, including the treatment of cancer and dialysis. Meanwhile, the Congress has demanded that all people should be included in the BSKY.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||IIT Bhubaneswar signs pact with Skill Development Institute||Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar, signed a memorandum of understanding with the Skill Development Institute here on Friday to provide support in skill development of the unemployed, under-employed and underprivileged youth with technical education relevant to the industry. The MoU was signed between IIT Bhubaneswar director R.V. Raja Kumar and SDI chairman Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra in the presence of Union minister for education and skill development Dharmendra Pradhan. The SDI is a philanthropic initiative of oil PSUs under the aegis of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas. “The collaboration will help the underprivileged sections of the society especially in the mineral rich state of Odisha for enhancing their skill set under the valuable expertise and guidance of IIT Bhubaneswar,” Pradhan said. The Union minister also inaugurated the Pushpagiri lecture hall complex and the Rishikulya halls of residence of IIT Bhubaneswar. Pradhan complemented the institute for its outstanding wellness, teaching excellence and research aura it has created. He further reiterated that the amalgamation of knowledge and technical skills at IIT Bhubaneswar will pave the path for innovative outcomes not only in a state like Odisha, but also across the globe. “IIT Bhubaneswar being a leading institute in the state of Odisha should take the lead in the effective implementation of the National Education Policy put forward by the Government of India,” Pradhan said. IIT director Raja Kumar said the inauguration of the state-of-the-art Educational Landscapes at the institute would add to the quality education and housing of the students thereby creating a world-class infrastructure. “We feel proud that the institute is constantly raising the standards on all fronts, including internationalisation of academic programmes and international collaborations on research of high industrial and societal relevance,” said Raja Kumar. Rajendra Prasad Singh, chairman of board of governors, IIT Bhubaneswar, sent his goodwill message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt transfers Rs 1,522 crore to 21 lakh peasants||The Chhattisgarh government under Bhupesh Baghel continued its support for farmers by transferring Rs 1,522 crore to the bank accounts of 21 lakh peasants of the state on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on Friday. Baghel also transferred online Rs 3 crore 49 lakh for the cow dung purchased from cattle rearers and to the Gauthan committees and women self-help groups under the Godhan Nyay Yojana. After making the funds transfer to farmers’ accounts under the Kisan Nyay Yojana, Baghel said that his government has adopted the vision of Rajiv to eradicate poverty and build a self-reliant India in Chhattisgarh. “Following the path shown by Rajivji, the state government has started many welfare programmes and schemes for all sections of the people including the poor, farmers and tribals. The Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana has been started to provide remunerative prices to the farmers for their produce,” said Baghel. The government has expanded the scope of this scheme from the 2021 kharif season to include paddy as well as other kharif crops. Along with this scheme, the Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Bhoomiheen Krishi Mazdoor Nyay Yojana has been started to provide financial help to the landless agricultural labourers of rural areas. Under this scheme, Rs 6,000 will be given annually to such rural families who do not have agricultural land and are associated with MGNREGA or agricultural wages. Under the Kisan Nyay Yojana, more than Rs 5,600 crore will be transferred to 21 lakh farmers of the state in four instalments as crop production incentive input assistance to paddy and sugarcane farmers. An amount of Rs 1,525 crore 97 lakh was paid to the farmers as the first instalment in their account. On Friday, Rs 1,522 crore 3 lakh was transferred to the farmers’ bank accounts as the second instalment. The Kisan Nyay Yojana was implemented in 2020 with the objective of providing a fair price to the farmers for their produce, promoting the productivity of kharif crops and crop diversification. In 2019-20, provision was made to give to the farmers selling paddy on support price and Rs 5,628 crore was given to the farmers. “This year also, the process of giving input assistance to farmers under this scheme is going on. On August 20, Rs 1,522 crore 3 lakh was paid to paddy and sugarcane farmers as the second instalment,” said a source in the chief minister’s office. In the last two-and-a-half years, the number of farmers in the state has increased from 15 lakh to 22 lakh and the area under paddy cultivation has increased from 22 lakh hectares to more than 27 lakh hectares. People who have turned away from agriculture have also started joining agriculture again, the source said. Under the Godhan Nyay Yojana, Rs 1 crore was paid to the cattle owners and villagers, Rs 1 crore 3 lakh as dividend to the self-help groups and Rs 1 crore 46 lakh to the Gauthan committees on Friday, making a total payment of Rs 3 crore 49 lakh. Under the Godhan Nyay Yojana started in the state from July 20, 2020, cow dung worth Rs 99 crore 8 lakh has been purchased so far. This amount is mostly contributed to cow dung sellers, cattle farmers, villagers and people belonging to backward classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. About 45 per cent of the benefited cow dung sellers are women. Among the beneficiaries, more than 78,000 people belong to landless families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Varanasi court issues notices on shared shrine petition in Ayodhya||A Varanasi court has issued notices on a petition that seeks the right to worship round the year at a temple that shares premises with a mosque and where prayers have been restricted since the Babri Masjid demolition in Ayodhya. The petition relating to the Shringar Gauri temple, moved by a little-known outfit that seeks to “liberate” Hindu shrines, appears aimed at opening a new flank in the Gyanvapi mosque-Kashi Vishwanath temple controversy. The Shringar Gauri stands on the compound of Gyanvapi, which is adjacent to Kashi Vishwanath and, according to Sangh parivar outfits, was built after demolishing a part of the original Kashi Vishwanath temple. On Thursday, the civil judge (senior division) issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the managements of the Kashi Vishwanath and Gyanvapi and asked the divisional commissioner to form a team of lawyers to advise the court. The Kashi Vishwanath temple and the Gyanvapi mosque, separated by a wall, are open to the public but the Shringar Gauri was closed in 1992 after the Babri demolition to ensure peace. Since 1995, it’s opened for worship just once a year, on the fourth day of Chaitra Navratri. Jitendra Singh Visen, head of the Delhi-based Vishva Vaidik Sanatan Sangh, who has moved the petition with five women residents of Varanasi city, wants the right to worship at the shrine “every day”. “There used to be Ganesh and Hanuman idols at the Shringar Gauri temple. We want to know whether all the idols are intact and whether we can worship there every day like before,” Visen told reporters. “Responses to the notices are to be filed by September 17, and the next hearing is on September 24.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
21-08-2021||India||Sidhu and Amarinder Singh set up 'strategic policy group'||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday agreed to set up a “strategic policy group” to ensure better coordination between the party and the government and expedite implementation of government projects, but party insiders claimed that the differences between the two leaders were far from over. The 10-member group headed by the chief minister will have three cabinet ministers — local government minister Brahm Mohindra, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and social security minister Aruna Chaudhary — Sidhu, four state Congress working presidents — Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Pawan Goel — and MLA Pargat Singh. The group will hold weekly meetings in addition to ministers being asked to visit party offices by rotation to meet MLAs and political workers to discuss their concerns. The chief minister himself stressed the need for better coordination with the party, probably responding positively to the charge of being disconnected with the organisation for a good part of his tenure. The central leadership has made it clear that both the chief minister and the Punjab unit president will have to work together despite personal and political differences. Sidhu described Friday’s meeting with Amarinder as “highly positive” and put out the details of the roster duties of ministers at the party office. He also tweeted the letter he had written to Amarinder on the importance of Congress workers and demanding the ministers’ presence at the party office to listen to the grievances and concerns of people. Sources, however, said Sidhu and Amarinder continued to work at cross-purposes and that expecting a genuine rapport was futile now. A Congress leader told The Telegraph over the phone from Chandigarh: “The points raised by the state unit clearly expose the chief minister’s failure to attend to the political needs of the party. Why has the need for a demand and an agreement on better coordination arisen and is being worked out just before the (Assembly) elections (next year)? Sidhu has repeatedly said the promises made in the last election have not been fulfilled….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
21-08-2021||India||Two Indian Jesuit priests and a nun stranded in Afghanistan ||Two Jesuit priests and a nun are among the unknown number of people from Karnataka stranded in Afghanistan in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover. The two priests have been running schools in Afghanistan as part of the humanitarian activities of the Jesuit Refugee Service, an international Catholic organisation. The nun works at another school in Kabul. Fr Jerome Sequeira, in his sixties, took over the JRS operations in Afghanistan in January this year, while Fr Robert Rodrigues has been working in that country for over a year, a Jesuit priest told The Telegraph on Friday. “Our information is that both of them are safe. But we don’t know how they would manage to catch a flight out of Kabul,” said Fr Francis D’Souza, a senior Jesuit priest. Sources in the Bangalore Jesuit Province said Fr Sequeira, who hails from Dakshina Kannada district, had contacted his family on Sunday and was believed to be in a safe house somewhere near Kabul. Fr Rodrigues, who hails from Thirthahalli in Shimoga district, works at Bamiyan in central Afghanistan and had tried to catch a flight to Kabul on August 14 before the Taliban took control of the airfield. Karnataka government sources trying to trace the trio said Sr Theresa Crasta, who is part of the Sisters of Charity in Mangalore, was scheduled to return to India on August 17. But she got stranded after the Taliban took over the strife-torn country two days prior to her date of departure. Information the Karnataka government has received from her family members indicates that she could not reach Kabul airport to catch one of the flights out of Afghanistan apparently due to the multiple roadblocks laid by the Taliban. The Karnataka government on Wednesday appointed additional director-general of police, CID, Umesh Kumar, as the nodal officer to coordinate the safe evacuation of Kannadigas stuck in Afghanistan. Home minister Araga Jnanendra on Friday told reporters in Mangalore that the government was still to figure out how many Kannadigas were now in Afghanistan. “There is no information on how many Kannadigas are there. So we are telling relatives of those who might still be in Afghanistan to call the nodal office and pass on all details,” he said. The minister assured that everyone would be evacuated from the troubled nation. “The nodal officer is in regular touch with the Centre on the evacuation plans,” Jnanendra said. The minister had earlier said protection would be provided to the 339 Afghan nationals living in Karnataka. Around 192 of them are students. He had also pledged help to coordinate with the Union government to renew some of their visas that would be expiring soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
21-08-2021||India||Empires created through terror are never permanent: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said empires created through terror were never permanent, against the backdrop of the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan. Modi, who has so far maintained silence on the developments in Afghanistan, made the remark while virtually laying the foundation stones for several projects at the Somnath temple in his home state Gujarat. He referred to how the Somnath temple had survived multiple attacks in the past and stressed its relevance in the modern world. “The Somnath temple faced attacks many times. Idols were desecrated several times and attempts were made to wipe out its existence. But it came up in its full glory after every destructive attack, which gives confidence to us,” Modi said, addressing the event from Delhi. “Forces that strive for destruction and those who follow the ideology of creating empires through terror can dominate for some time, but their existence is never permanent as they cannot suppress humanity,” he added. Modi said this was true when tyrants were demolishing the Somnath temple and even during the current times, appearing to make an oblique reference to the developments in Afghanistan. India has hurriedly closed its mission in Afghanistan and evacuated officials and journalists after the Taliban seized Kabul early this week. The government has so far dodged questions on any contact with the upcoming regime in Afghanistan where India is heavily invested. Politically, given the BJP’s Hindutva ideology, the government is wary of having any direct and official contact with the Taliban. BJP leaders have been using the Taliban surge for political and electoral gains. Home minister Amit Shah also joined Friday’s event virtually from Delhi. Veteran BJP leader L.K. Advani, too, was in attendance. Advani has a deep connection with the Somnath temple as he had undertaken a rath yatra from Somnath to Ayodhya in the early 90s that had contributed to the rise of the BJP as a formidable political force in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Rain in Bhutan leads to rise in streams||Incessant rainfall in the catchment areas of the Torsha that descends from the neighbouring country of Bhutan has swelled the river and its streams during the past 24 hours. While the river has started eroding away chunks of land from tea estates and has also flooded some hamlets and forest areas in Alipurduar district, one of its streams has snapped the direct connectivity between Alipurduar, the district headquarters and Falakata town as it is flowing over the road along the route. Sources said the Torsha has damaged a stretch of 250 metres of its embankment at Dalsinghpara in Kalchini block and is constantly gobbling land. It has also flooded the adjoining Narbahadurbusty and the Nilpara forest area. Sujit Bose, a resident of Narbahadurbusty, said it has rained heavily in the area and also in the Bhutan hills on Thursday which has led to the flood situation. “The administration should take up anti-erosion works on an emergency basis or else, Torsha will erode more land,” he said. Representatives of Dalsinghpara panchayat have also expressed their concern. Sambhu Jaiswal, deputy chief of the panchayat, said altogether, around 4,500 people have got affected in the sudden flood. “We have contacted the block administration for relief. Officials of the state irrigation department have also visited the spot,” he said. In past 24 hours, that is, till 8.30am on Friday, it has rained 70mm to 120mm in different places of Alipurduar district, said sources at the Indian Meteorological Department. “There is also a forecast of heavy to very heavy rain (70mm to 200mm) across the sub-Himalayan Bengal during next four-five days as the southwest monsoon is active in the region,” said a weather expert. The heavy downpour has also swelled Buri-Torsha, a tributary of the Torsha. Since early Friday morning, it has started flowing over the road in the Balurghat area along the Falakata-Alipurduar route. As a result, traffic movement along NH 31D – the direct route between the two towns – has stopped. Vehicles had to take a detour of around 25 kilometres via Pundibari to reach Alipurduar from Falakata and vice-versa. “The road condition along this route is poor and now, the situation has gone to such an extent that streams have started flowing over the road. The administration should look into it as taking a detour means we have spent additional time and money,” said Dipak Das, a daily commuter. Sources in the administration said they are waiting for the water to recede. “The damage would be assessed then and necessary work would be carried out to restore the route,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Electric shock kills youth during Muharram procession in Malda ||An 18-year-old got electric shock during a Muharram procession at a Malda village on Friday and later died while on way to Calcutta for treatment. According to sources, six boys, including two minors, received shock at Atgamar in Milki area during the procession as the steel pole, with a flag attached to it, being carried by them came in contact with an overhead power cable. “Initially, three people got electrocuted. Three others, who came to their rescue, also suffered electrical shock,” said Manirul Islam, the officer-in-charge of Milki police outpost. Later, Mohammad Hasinul Sheikh died on way to Calcutta. He and two others were referred from the Malda Medical College and Hospital (MMCH). The remaining three are under treatment at the MMCH. Sabitri Mitra, Trinamul MLA of Manikchak, said she would request the state to give compensation to the deceased’s family and also to the injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC asks Cong to invite all anti-BJP parties to meetings||The Trinamul Congress on Friday nudged the Congress to invite all parties opposed to the BJP to Opposition meetings instead of making it a Congress-and-allies affair. Every Opposition party should be enlisted in the fight against the BJP, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. Parties like the Aam Aadmi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM had not been invited to Friday’s virtual Opposition meeting, called by the Congress. Mamata is said to have batted for the CPIML too to be included at these meetings. Her suggestion for broad-basing Opposition unity apparently found support from Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray. Mamata also said that who would lead the Opposition was a secondary question, and that all like-minded parties should keep their individual differences and personal interests aside. Her view was that the people would lead, and that a leadership would emerge once the joining of forces gained momentum. “Let us forget who the leader is; let’s keep our personal interests aside. The people of India will lead,” a Trinamul source quoted Mamata as saying at the meeting. “Every Opposition party should be brought in to fight the BJP. All Opposition leaders have to move fast, walk together and forget our ego to fight the BJP.” Mamata suggested that for better coordination, a core group be set up to meet at least twice a month while the larger group met monthly. This suggestion found takers, and a mechanism for regular coordination is likely to be set up. Trinamul also differed with the Congress approach of drawing up a joint statement with a long list of demands. “Going forward, we should restrict our agenda to only five issues of national importance,” Mamata said, according to a statement issued by Trinamul on the points she had raised at the meeting. The five issues Trinamul has identified are: vaccination for all, repeal of the contentious farm laws, a rollback of the petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices, a monthly payment of Rs 7,500 to all outside the income-tax bracket, and a judicial probe into the Pegasus snooping controversy. Mamata also brought up the subject of the autonomy of national institutions being allegedly compromised on the Narendra Modi government’s watch. She said the Centre had “misused” the National Human Rights Commission to “malign” states ruled by non-BJP parties, such as Bengal. Among those who participated were Uddhav, Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, DMK chief and Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader and chief minister Hemant Soren, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja and LJD chief Sharad Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 758 infections, 767 recoveries and nine deaths||The total of active Covid-19 cases fell for 61 days on the trot on Friday in Bengal as the state logged 758 infections, 767 recoveries and nine deaths. The total of active cases fell by 18 to 9,635. Bengal now has 2.7 per cent of the national total of active cases and is sixth on the list of states with most such cases. With Calcutta logging 88 infections and North 24-Parganas 89, Friday was the 15th consecutive day of not a single Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases. Eighteen of the 23 Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. Kalimpong, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.19 per cent -- the highest ever this pandemic -- still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.51. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.6 per cent on Friday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while Jalpaiguri, North Dinajpur, East Midnapore, North 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal remained 24th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. The state currently has nearly 15.42 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes close to 15.14 lakh recoveries and 18,346 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||22 children fall sick in Malda, doctors smell Covid aftereffect||Twenty-two children aged between two and eight years in Malda district have been detected with multisystem inflammation syndrome. Doctors suspect the disease is the aftereffect of Covid-19 the children had contracted. The children are under treatment in the paediatric wards of Malda Medical College and Hospital. Doctors suspect they have developed the syndrome as an aftereffect of Covid-19 infection during the second wave. “We suspect these children contracted Covid-19 during the second wave and didn’t manifest any symptom. That is why they might have got MIS-C. As they are not infected with Covid-19 now and MIS-C is not contagious, they have been admitted to the paediatric ward and not in the special Covid-19 ward,” said Parthapratim Mukherjee, the MMCH principal. He said the children were being treated with immunoglobulin and other medicines. “As so many cases of the syndrome have been detected, we are in the process of preparing a database of such children,” he added. A senior doctor at MMCH has said the MIS-C has definite risks as several systems of a child’s body get affected. “The children are responding to treatment. That is a relief. But there is a risk of their cardiac systems getting affected by the syndrome. This is like the Kawasaki disease of the heart. If complications get aggravated and cardiac problems start, we have to refer them to Calcutta for better treatment,” the doctor said. MMCH sources said none of the children has been found infected with Covid 19 after their admission. The paediatricians are, however, checking whether antibodies have development in them, which, they said, is essential for treatment. Sushama Sahoo, the head of the department of paediatrics at the MMCH, said the children were suffering from fever, cough and cold, acute throat ache and have rashes in their bodies. “They have problems in swallowing food. Additionally, some of them have breathing complications and there are a few who have pain in the abdomen with nausea and loose motion,” she said. Doctors have advised that any child with symptoms like fever, cough and cold and rashes for 72 hours, should be immediately taken to a doctor. “Any child suffering from such symptoms needs prompt treatment,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal tiger kills fisherman in Sunderbans||A fisherman was killed by a royal Bengal tiger in the Jhila 1 area of the Sunderbans when he was rowing home around dawn on Friday. Police and local residents said an adult tiger had swam around 200metres in pursuit of a small fishing boat and attacked Anna Das, 50, reportedly leaping into the vessel from its rear and then attempting to drag him off. Other fishermen on the boat, however, sought to thwart the attempt by beating the tiger with bamboo sticks even as the big cat had Das in a death-grip at the neck. But Das soon died. The boat returned with the mauled body of the victim to Atapur village in North 24-Parganas’s Sandeshkhali, from where they had all sailed two days ago. The body was sent for an autopsy to the Basirhat district hospital. The latest incident brings the fatality toll from tiger attacks in the Sunderbans to at least 26 over the past 14 months, an official of the state wildlife department said. Sources in Gosaba said the fishermen had ventured deep into the Jhila forest area in the hope of catching crabs and had seemingly gone as far as the prohibited zone. “They went deep inside the creeks which are the turf of tigers. The big cat attacked the team when they were returning through an unprotected stretch close to the muddy bank of a khal (canal),” a forest department officer said. “Anna dada was sitting on the edge of the boat when the animal jumped over the vessel and attacked him. It mauled him by the neck and tried to drag him away. We battled hard to resist it. But by that time, he had died from heavy bleeding,” said one of the fishermen. The Sunderbans constitute the world’s largest mangrove delta, crisscrossed by rivers and creeks. Most of the creeks are very narrow and at around 20feet wide, generally are lucrative to fishermen owing to the existence of crabs and fish. “But the fishermen in these creeks often come under attack from tigers. The tigers do not merely attack them once they try to come close to the bank, rather the big cats often jump over the boats once they come closer through the narrow creeks,” said one villager. Foresters blamed fishermen for “inviting danger” by entering the deep jungle. “There is a strong prohibition on entry inside the jungle. We have taken up awareness drives among fishermen and urged them not to risk their lives and to try an alternative source of income like apiculture. But it appears they hardly paid any heed to our appeal,” a senior official of the state wildlife department said. A senior official attached to a tiger reserve added: “The chances of an attack by a tiger have increased following Cyclone Yaas. Several stretches of the forest have been inundated, making for an adverse impact on tigers also. In many places, tigers have come out close to river embankments. In such a situation, the fishermen should be more careful.” Sandeshkhali’s Trinamul Congress MLA Sukumar Mahato said: “A survival crisis owing to Cyclone Yaas, coupled with Covid-19, compelled fishermen to risk their lives and flout official restrictions.” “I will take up the matter with the state government so that the victim’s family gets compensated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||CBI seeks details of all cases of post-election result violence in Bengal||The CBI has sought details of all cases of post-election result violence which were registered with different police stations in Bengal and the steps that the state government initiated based on those complaints. In a mail to the home department on Friday, a copy of which was sent to director general of state police Virendra, the CBI asked fore a list of cases of murder, alleged rape, violence and intimidation that were recorded in the aftermath of the Assembly polls results. Senior CBI officers said a separate case would be drawn up after the agency received the list of the complaints recorded so far. This would be the first step of starting a probe in accordance with the directive of Calcutta High Court. The high court had on Thursday directed the state government to hand over to the CBI investigations into cases of alleged murder, rape and unnatural deaths that had taken place across the state after Assembly results were declared on May 2. “In case of some of these complaints, the state police have even initiated probes and taken necessary action. We want all those details before drawing up a specific case for our investigation to begin,” said a senior officer of the CBI. Ahead of taking up the probe, senior CBI officers held several rounds of meetings at the headquarters in Delhi to finalise composition of the team after pouring over the report drawn up by the National Human Right Commission (NHRC) on the violence. Sources said the CBI was planning to set up four teams for Bengal, each headed by a senior officer of the rank of joint director and comprising eight members each. Officers from CBI’s different units in Dehradun, Patna, New Delhi and Lucknow have been asked to report as a part of the team building process. Each team will have a woman officer of the rank of superintendent of police and senior officers of the rank of deputy inspector general of police. The teams are scheduled to reach Bengal by next week. Senior officers will meet their counterparts in the state police to collect information and case details and subsequently, the CBI will draw up a “regular case” and begin its probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmir Bhandar scheme: Cash aid applicants set to cross estimate||The Mamata Banerjee government will have to spend much more than what it had planned earlier under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme as the huge rush in the first four days of Duare Sarkar camps hints that the number of beneficiaries will cross the initial estimate of 1.6 crore. The scheme offers Rs 500 each to general caste women and Rs 1,000 each to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe women every month. “In the first four days of Duare Sarkar camps, which were made operational on August 16, the number of applicants under Lakshmir Bhandar reached 41 lakh. It seems more than 2 crore prospective beneficiaries would register their names by mid-September when the camps wind up,” said a senior government official. The issue had come up during an administrative review meeting convened by the chief minister on Wednesday where top government officials apprised Mamata Banerjee of the ground reports. “The chief secretary said during the meeting that the state might have to spend more than Rs 16,000 crore under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. This makes the scheme biggest direct benefit transfer scheme in the state. The chief secretary had earlier said during video conferences with officials that a sum of Rs 11,000 crore could be required for the project,” said a source. Sources said the primary estimate on the number of beneficiaries went awry as the top brass of the government had initially considered the number of Swasthya Sathi cards issued in the state. “But later on, when the camps started, reports started coming up that a number of families have split and they don’t have Swasthya Sathi cards. As these families were not in consideration while primary estimate was made, the number of beneficiaries would definitely go higher than what had been estimated earlier,” said a source. Another official said the number of beneficiaries could not be estimated accurately as the ground reports suggest that many of the families who did not queue up for Swasthya Sathi cards now show interest in getting the benefits of Lakshmir Bhandar. The top brass of the government were worried over arranging the huge funds required to run the scheme. “It seems the government is set to cut the allotment for development projects. During the meeting on Wednesday, the departments were told that they had to follow austerity measures strictly,” said a source. According to sources, shouldering the burden of Rs 16,000 crore annually is a Herculean task for the struggling state coffers. “The main problem is that our revenue generation has dipped because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Till July, the state could generate only about Rs 2,500 crore a month compared to its usual revenue generation of Rs 5,000 crore a month,” said a source. Although finance department officials were hopeful that the situation would improve from August as majority of the Covid-19-related restrictions were relaxed and festive season is coming up. “But still, it would not be good enough to shoulder the huge burden of the scheme. It remains to be seen how the state manages the situation from September when the scheme would be launched,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Government Railway Police seizes 256 parakeets from Calcutta-bound train in Malda ||The Government Railway Police (GRP) seized 256 parakeets from a Calcutta-bound train at Malda town station on Thursday night. “We recovered the birds from near the lavatory of a sleeper coach of Jogbani Express. The parakeets were kept in three cages and covered with clothes. No one has been arrested,” said Bhaskar Pradhan, the inspector-in-charge of Malda GRP. “We suspect an organised racket is smuggling these birds through this route. Our men and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) are probing the case,” Pradhan added. Later, the birds were handed over to the forest department. In the past one month, this is the third such incident when hundreds of parakeets have been recovered from Jogbani Express. On July 27, the RPF had seized 510 parakeets and a hill mynah from Jogbani Express and arrested a person. On August 3, the RPF and the state forest department had recovered 124 parakeets again from the same train. “We suspect the birds are being brought from Nepal or Bihar and are smuggled to south Bengal,” said a source in the RPF. “We are also on alert as it seems to be an attempt to sell the birds in clandestine markets. It is completely illegal. In due course, the birds would be released in the wild,” said Sujit Kumar Chatterjee, a forest officer posted in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Plan to improve waste management system in Siliguri  ||The Bengal urban development and municipal affairs department will improve the waste management system of Siliguri in collaboration with the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA). The announcement was made by Nandini Ghosh, a joint secretary of the department, on Friday. Justice Saibal Dasgupta, an expert member of the National Green Tribunal, along with Ghosh, visited different areas of Siliguri to check out arrangements made to curb the Mahananda river’s pollution according to the directives issued by the NGT earlier. “During our visit, we took stock of the existing waste disposal system of the civic body (Siliguri Municipal Corporation). We want to improve the overall solid and liquid waste management of the city to mitigate pollution,” said Ghosh. She said at one of the yards at the dumping ground of the SMC – located off Eastern Bypass, it was found that 90 per cent of the waste had been cleared. “We plan to develop an eco-park in the area. A new waste disposal site will be developed gradually in collaboration with the SJDA by setting up treatment plants,” the official added. Sources at the SMC said 350 tons of garbage were disposed of at the yard daily. Ghosh, who is also in charge of the liquid waste monitoring cell of the department, said her department would work according to the instructions of Justice Dasgupta. The State Urban Development Agency (SUDA) has sanctioned Rs 63 crore for setting up three sewerage treatment plants (STPs) at different locations along the bank of the Mahananda that flows through the city to reduce pollution of the river. “There are plans to install three STPs on the bank of the Mahananda with the help of the SJDA for the liquid waste management of the city. We are trying to identify the land for setting up one of the plants. For the rest of the plants, the pump houses and civil structures are ready. Once the plants become operational, 40 million litres of liquid waste will be treated every day and then the water would be channelised into the river. This will considerably reduce pollution levels of the Mahananda,” said Ghosh. Sources said the SJDA had already put iron nets at 12 major outlets which release water into the river. The plan to install the STPs was drawn up under the Mahananda Action Plan that was mooted during the erstwhile Left Front rule. The project was taken up in 2011 when the Trinamul Congress came to power. The plan was stalled later after financial regularities had been found at the SJDA in connection with the project. On Friday, officials of the state pollution control board, Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, SUDA, SJDA and the SMC held a meeting with Justice Dasgupta and Ghosh. Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the SMC, was also present. Sourav Chakraborty, the new chairman of the SJDA, said the authority would carry out the modernisation work of Bidhan Market, the largest of the kind in Siliguri, and build alternative roads to ease traffic in the city. Chakraborty, who assumed charge here on Friday, said the SJDA would consult experts of Jadavpur University for the projects. “Next week, we will discuss details of the projects with Gautam Deb. We will expedite some of the ongoing projects, work of which had almost come to a halt because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Cracks develop between Mann Ghisingh and Ajoy Edwards ||Cracks have developed between Gorkha National Liberation Front president Mann Ghisingh and senior leader Ajoy Edwards at a time the political landscape of the hills is undergoing a rapid change because of recent developments in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. A source aware of the developments in the GNLF said the fissures between the two childhood friends seemed to be “irreparable”. “Edwards and Ghisingh are childhood friends and there can be differences between leaders in the party. But unless something drastic happens, the differences seem irreparable this time,” said the source. Edwards is one of the most popular GNLF leaders at the moment, while Mann, who is the son of the party’s founder president, Subash Ghisingh, is seen as the uniting force within the GNLF. Given Edward’s popularity, many in the hills wanted him to contest from the Darjeeling Assembly seat. But the GNLF allowed Neeraj Zimba to contest the election on a BJP ticket. After initial dissent, Edwards decided to heed Mann’s decision in the overall interest of the party. “If I had contested and won, how could I see a pall of gloom descend on my president Mann’s house,” Edwards had then said. “That episode had been forgotten by Edwards. Everything was fine till even a few weeks back,” the source said. In fact, Edwards had left for New Delhi a few weeks ago to hold meetings with various stakeholders to take forward the “permanent political solution” (PPS) issue. On August 6, a delegation led by Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista called on Union home minister Amit Shah and announced that the Centre would soon hold an official level tripartite talks on PPS. The delegation included Mann Ghisingh, former Darjeeling MP and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists president R.B. Rai, BJP MLAs from Darjeeling and Kurseong Neeraj Zimba and B.P. Bajgain, respectively, and BJP hill president Kalyan Dewan. Edwards, despite being in Delhi, was not part of the delegation. Edwards is presently the president of the GNLF’s Darjeeling branch committee but many acknowledge that his contribution and role in the party was much bigger than the post he holds. A few days ago, Mann decided to appoint Zimba as the secretary-general of the GNLF. The party also decided to appoint vice-presidents. There was no change in Edwards designation. The new appointments ignited sparks of Edwards being sidelined in the party among a section in the hills. Edwards who is currently out of Darjeeling could not be immediately contacted. Zimba said the party was not aware that Edwards had fallen out with Mann. Regarding the August 6 delegation, Zimba said given the Covid-19 protocol, only the party presidents were invited. “Even presidents of our allies, Dawa Pakhrin (of Gorkhaland Rajya Nirmal Morcha), Bikash Rai (SUMETE Mukti Morcha) and Pratap Khati (a faction of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League) were not invited,” said Zimba. “I was allowed in the delegation as an MLA.” Many in the hills believe that tensions have developed between Edwards and Zimba also. “Regarding my appointment, the decision was taken by the party president after consultations in the core committee,” said Zimba. “No individual is above the party and its president.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati begins process of punishing two senior professors ||Visva-Bharati has begun the process of punishing two senior professors — known faces in the protests against several alleged wrongdoings of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty — apparently after the duo submitted a memorandum against the VC to junior Union education minister Subhas Sarkar. “Both of them were in a team to meet the Union minister and they submitted a memorandum against the VC. We suspect the move to punish them was taken because of that. The students who were suspended over the past six months also went with them and submitted to the minister separate letters with their demands on the same day. Now, we are waiting to see whether the VC goes after the students too,” said a senior professor. Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the suspended economics professor and president of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA) received a letter from the varsity’s acting registrar Ashok Mahato on August 18 — the day he met Sarkar. Bhattacharyya was informed that a charge had been framed against him and a probe committee would be set up over allegations of leaking a show-cause notice issued to him to the print media. Bhattacharyya was suspended in January. He spearheaded many a protest against the activities by Chakrabarty, including the organising of a pro-CAA lecture, and the “insult” of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen over a land-related issue. Manas Maity, a senior physics professor who is also a known voice of protest against Chakrabarty’s alleged wrongdoings, received a letter on August 19, informing him about how a probe committee would be formed against him. The letter said he would not be allowed to enter his department, the central administrative office and the office of Siksha Bhavana, which houses the science departments. Maity had earlier been show-caused and charge-sheeted for various activities, including his role to “rescue” the teachers of varsity’s English department, who were allegedly confined in the central office. Both Bhattacharyya and Maity declined comments because of a gag order issued by the varsity. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar neither took calls nor replied to a text message from this newspaper. An official said both the decisions had been taken at the executive council meeting on August 14, four days before Sarkar visited the varsity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
21-08-2021||North East||14 arrested in Assam for supporting Taliban on social media||Fourteen people were arrested from across Assam for alleged social media posts supporting the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, police said on Saturday. The arrests were made since Friday night and they have been booked under different sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, IT Act and CrPC, a senior police officer said. "We were on alert and monitoring social media for inflammatory posts," the officer said. Two people each were arrested from Kamrup Metropolitan, Barpeta, Dhubri and Karimganj districts, police said. One person each was arrested from Darrang, Cachar, Hailakandi, South Salmara, Goalpara and Hojai districts, they said. Deputy Inspector General Violet Baruah said the Assam Police is taking stern legal action against pro-Taliban comments on social media that are harmful to national security. "We're registering criminal cases against such persons. Please inform the police if any such thing comes to your notice," she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
21-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The community cup||Policing and punishment have, over the years, become synonymous in the public eye. In India, this connection is planted early on when errant children are threatened with the bogey of a policeman’s wrath for transgressions big and small, be it their refusal to eat greens or bunking classes. Ironically, the primary responsibility of the police is to protect, not to punish. The derivation of the word, police, from the Greek polis, meaning city, underlines the organic connection between cities and cops: as cities evolved, it enhanced their dependence on dedicated personnel tasked with the protection of citizens. Unfortunately, history has shown that the protector can also become the predator. This is especially true in a country where the police have been used as a tool by the State to oppress opponents in the guise of maintaining law and order. Unsurprisingly, in India, the police force has a markedly chequered record when it comes to committing such excesses as extracting forced confessions, disregarding prisoners’ rights or being implicated in custodial deaths. According to the National Campaign Against Torture, 76 per cent of the deaths in police custody in 2019 could be attributed to lethal coercion. Significantly, the Chief Justice of India pointed out recently that police stations pose the “highest threat” to human rights and dignity. This is not to suggest that the police are not vulnerable to retaliation. Indeed, pop culture has emerged as a potent weapon to caricature the man in the vardi. In popular cinema, the bumbling policeman inevitably arrives on the scene after the hero has taken the law in his hands and beaten villains to pulp. Hearteningly, the importance of an image makeover seems to have dawned on the wise men in Calcutta police. Perhaps mindful of the poor public perception of the police — incompetent, authoritarian, comical — the officer-in-charge of the Burtolla police station, one of the oldest in the city, has invited the aam aadmi for a cup of coffee at the newly renovated station in the hope that renewed public interaction would address the deficit in trust. And why not? They say a lot can happen over coffee. Conversations between cop and citizen can be mutually beneficial. They can lay bare the areas that need improvement in policing. Citizens, too, can educate themselves about the formidable challenges faced by the police, ranging from paucity of personnel and funds and long work hours to political meddling. In fact, this novel 'coffee pe charcha' ought to be looked at in terms of the police embracing the idea of community policing. Calcutta police have already launched several such welfare programmes — helping the elderly, educating citizens about online frauds, a cyber cell for women and so on; these, along with a welcome coffee break, can go a long way in building durable bonds between police and people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
21-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Nick Compton calls Virat Kohli 'foul-mouthed'||Play smart Sir — It is amusing that the former England cricketer, Nick Compton, called Virat Kohli “foul-mouthed”, especially after India decisively beat England at the Test match at Lord’s. During the fourth innings, Kohli was recorded on the stump microphones calling Ollie Robinson a “big mouth”. Whether that qualifies as foul language is debatable — especially since Robinson himself has expressed decidedly objectionable views on social media in the past — but sledging is a part of modern cricket and greatly increases the intensity of the game. I, for one, chortled when Kohli said, “[Robinson] laughed at me when I missed a cover drive; now he is playing to save a home Test”. Alisha Banerjee,Calcutta Dark ages Sir — It was appalling to read about the alleged rape of a 35-year-old Ghaziabad resident in a moving car in northeast Delhi just a day after Independence Day. The incident has, yet again, brought to the fore the growing violence against women in India and put the spotlight on gender-based attacks. Sexual violence against women is alarmingly common in the country. It is deeply unfortunate that entrenched patriarchy in Indian society has rendered women ‘second-class’ citizens. Data released by the National Crime Records Bureau in 2020 showed that India recorded 88 rape cases every day in 2019. These figures ought to make us bow our heads in shame, but they are just the tip of the iceberg. Only a fraction of rape survivors file complaints; most of them prefer to remain silent on account of the social stigma attached to rape. It is a disgrace that Indian society blames survivors for the crime committed against them and casts aspersions on their character. Popular culture equates masculinity with sexual aggression and encourages young men and boys to bully and harass women, all of which often leads to rape. Although the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 outlined a wider definition of rape and provided for stringent punishment, it has not been successful in curbing rape in India. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The news of the reported rape of a 35-year-old woman in a moving car by two men in northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park area on August 16 was shocking. It is perhaps of some relief that the accused were apprehended soon after they committed the crime. Going by reports from sources in the police, prompt action seems to have been taken: the survivor’s statement was recorded, she received medical care and a case was filed under Sections 376(D) (punishment for gang rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. While the relative promptness shown by the police in catching the accused is praiseworthy, the incident shows that Delhi continues to be unsafe for women. The fact that the crime took place the day after Independence Day proves that for all the strides India may have made in 74 years, it continues to consistently fail its women. Surya Ramachandran,Delhi Pushed to the brink Sir — Shopping malls, multiplexes, restaurants, bars and resorts all seem to have received the go-ahead from governments to reopen. Even sports tournaments are being allowed. Schools, however, remain shut, almost as though they are the only places where children might be exposed to the coronavirus. The virtues of online education have been widely advertised by the authorities, but the latter fall curiously silent on the subject of providing smartphones and smooth internet connectivity to students. Is it any wonder, then, that the 13-year old student from Odisha, Adria Jagaranga, was left with no choice other than to climb atop a rain-soaked hill to get enough network to attend online classes? As a result of having been forced to undertake such a hazardous activity, the young boy slipped and fell to his death (“Teen on hill for online class slips to death”, Aug 19). The child will soon fade from public memory; his parents and loved ones will have to live with his absence. In the meantime, the celebratory drum beats of ‘Digital India’ will continue to reverberate across New India — a nation that is only for the privileged. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
21-08-2021||Opinion||Lost freedom: The Afghan situation||My limited knowledge of Afghanistan comes from seeing a DVD of Tapan Sinha’s Kabuliwala and reading A Study in Scarlet, in which Sherlock Holmes tells John Watson at their first meeting, “You have been in Afghanistan, I perceive.” I also saw a stage version of Khaled Hosseini’s The Kite Runner in London in 2017 and thus listened carefully when he was recently interviewed on BBC Radio 4’s The World Tonight by Ritula Shah, who said: “Khaled Hosseini’s novels made dusty, distant Afghanistan seem a little more vivid in all its beauty and cruelty. And in A Thousand Splendid Suns you write vividly about the plight of women under the Taliban.” In the early 1980s, I did slip across the border from Iran into Afghanistan in a pick-up truck to try and “interview” the invading Russians but they were on the other side of the country. But I remember the spectacular beauty of Afghanistan’s purple mountains. Hosseini, who has been given asylum in America, was “just heartbroken” and found the Taliban’s return “absolutely devastating”. He urged the international community to maintain pressure on the Taliban because “the way they ran the country before 2001 is no longer acceptable. Afghanistan is not the country the Taliban left behind. What will happen to the women who have painstakingly carved a niche for themselves, at least in urban centres? Will freedom of movement, their right to attend school, to enter the workforce, to work in the government, to show their faces in public, to dress as they like, to leave home without the company of a male, be erased in one fell swoop?” Role model It says much about British society that Sarah Gilbert did not jump the queue when it came to being given the Covid vaccine. After all, Gilbert, professor of vaccinology, is the woman who designed the Oxford vaccine. “Since I was not a healthcare worker or in any of the other priority groups, I would have to wait my turn,” she explains in her book, Vaxxers: The Inside Story of the Oxford AstraZeneca Vaccine and the Race Against the Virus, co-authored with a colleague, Catherine Green. On New Year’s Day, she was at home when she read something odd was going on in Wuhan, China. Two weeks later she had the vaccine. But it took a year to ensure it was safe. The book tells how the Serum Institute of India, “the world’s biggest vaccine manufacturer”, was brought into the picture. The authors, “two ordinary people” who write their chapters as “Sarah” and “Cath”, relate a very human story. Sarah, a mother of triplets, worried about a son who was living in Bath. Cath, meanwhile, reveals her personal heartbreak: “My husband had left me a few months earlier and I was still angry and hurt and a bit fearful of what 2020 would bring.” Sarah emphasizes that the vaccine was “a collaborative effort by an international network of thousands of heroes — dedicated scientists in Oxford and across four continents.” And it wasn’t a race against other scientists but “against the devastating virus that took millions of lives”. It is fitting that Gilbert was given a standing ovation at Wimbledon and has inspired a Barbie . Shakespeare with a twist When Ajay Devgn came with Vivek Oberoi to the Cannes Film Festival to promote Omkara, Vishal Bhardwaj’s adaptation of Shakespeare’s Othello, he had assured a press conference: “His script is so good, it is even better than the original.” In London, after more than a year’s lockdown, Shakespeare’s Globe and other theatres have reopened, I am pleased to report. These days Shakespeare is always done with a twist. I recently saw Twelfth Night at the Globe — it’s the first play I studied at school in England — but with women taking the roles of Sir Toby Belch, Feste, Fabian and even the yellow cross-gartered Malvolio. Then I went to the National Theatre to see Paradise, described as “a new version of Philoctetes”, the Greek epic written by Sophocles in 409 BCE. Its 12-strong cast was all women, seven of them non-white. Theatre audiences are usually white but the National has committed itself to “diversity” and says it wants to reflect a multicultural Britain. A dark shadow Of the books I have read on Winston Churchill, Geoffrey Wheatcroft’s just-published Churchill’s Shadow: An Astonishing Life and a Dangerous Legacy is probably the best. The author, who read modern history at Oxford and has been literary editor of The Spectator, acknowledges Churchill’s greatness as wartime prime minister but also tackles his racism, the Bengal famine and his irrational hostility to Indian independence. Wheatcroft recalls that years ago he went to an India-England Test at Lord’s when “my friend Pankaj Mishra said to me, ‘It is not easy for an Indian to love Winston Churchill.’ And I completely understand that.” Wheatcroft adds: “Another Indian friend has just written to me about the Test match, saying he was obviously pleased that India had won but he very much dislikes the behaviour of Kohli and the team. And he said this is yet another example of the India of Modi and the ugly Indian.” Footnote Wearing his teacher’s hat, Wisden editor and The Daily Mail cricket writer, Lawrence Booth, has been giving marks out of 10 after the Lord’s Test. They range from 3 for Dom Sibley to 4 for Haseeb Hameed, 5.5 for Moeen Ali, 7.5 for James Anderson and 9 for Joe Root. Among the Indians, the lowest mark — 6 — goes to Kohli, Pujara and Pant. Jadeja and Rahane get 6.5; Ishant 7; Shami 7.5; Rohit 8; Rahul and Bumrah 8.5; while Siraj tops with 9. England’s total is 66.5; India’s 79.5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
21-08-2021||Opinion||Tricky terrain||A recently-released India Today survey asked its respondents to name the top achievements of the Narendra Modi government. Over half of the people opted for either the revocation of Article 370 or the Supreme Court sanction for the construction of the Ram Mandir. More than any other dispensation since that of Indira Gandhi, the Modi government has staked its reputation on its ability to bring about sweeping ideological changes in the country. Besides Article 370 and Ram Mandir, most state governments of the Bharatiya Janata Party have also pushed through, or reinforced, laws against cow slaughter and ‘forced conversions’, ticking off other items in their ideological bucket-list. Yet, in some respects, the BJP has now become a victim of the astonishing pace of its ideological triumphs in this dominant phase. A political party makes capital out of ideological issues in two ways: one, by mobilizing support for the struggle for the goal and, two, from the political goodwill that follows its achievement. The trouble is that the goodwill doesn’t persist ad infinitum. Having squeezed out the bulk of the political gains to be had from its many decades’ long ideological issues, the party is now constrained to look for a new generation of big issues that push the frontiers of Indian society and polity. There are two candidates that have been attracting growing attention in recent months. The first is the Uniform Civil Code, one of the three core demands of the BJP at its foundation (along with the construction of the Ram temple and the removal of Article 370). The second big issue that has gained newfound traction among large sections of the Hindu Right is population control. The governments of Uttar Pradesh and Assam have taken the lead in framing population control policies in line with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s call for checking ‘demographic imbalance’. However, both these issues have inbuilt liabilities that make for a trickier political terrain. The essential criteria of the sangh parivar to select an ideological issue is that it should represent, in some manner, the political and cultural domination of Hindus over Muslims. Whereas the other big issues of the BJP — Ram Temple, Article 370, cow slaughter and religious conversions — could be used to target Muslims, the UCC and population control also draw Hindus into their coercive or punitive dragnet. First, let’s take the case of the UCC. Earlier this year, the Uttar Pradesh state executive committee of the BJP resolved to make the UCC a key poll plank for next year’s state elections. The political rhetoric of the BJP on the UCC is framed in simple terms — countering Muslim autonomy or ‘separatism’ by taking away their regressive personal laws. But the reality is much more complicated, which is why the BJP has consistently shied away from moving ahead on the UCC. If a comprehensive UCC were to actually see the light of day, it would provoke the ire of political constituencies beyond Muslims. First, the UCC would disrupt the social life of Hindus as well as Muslims. Despite the impression of the Hindu code bills bringing in a uniform and progressive regime to regulate Hindu family life, the personal laws of Hindus are neither uniform nor particularly progressive. Hindu personal laws actually protect diverse customary laws, with regulations governing matters such as marriage and inheritance often varying according to the customs of different states and communities. Similarly, like the personal laws of other communities, Hindu personal laws are also regressive on gender equality. For example, the Hindu Succession Act differentiates between men and women in matters of intestate succession. As much as it relishes its rhetoric of ‘saving’ Muslim women, the BJP would, understandably, be wary of implementing policies that can draw it into a clash with Hindu conservatism. The modernist and progressive impulse of the BJP, after all, almost exclusively extends to Muslims. Second, the UCC would take away the autonomy in personal laws from the key political constituency of tribals who manage their affairs according to their customary laws. The suggestions coming from the Union law ministry and the Law Commission on bringing tribals into the fold of the UCC have been met with consternation among tribal groups. A few years back, the Rashtriya Adivasi Ekta Parishad had petitioned the Supreme Court against the UCC, stating that under it, “the Adivasi’s right to perform marriage, worship, last rites and other ceremonies would be abrogated.” Third, a thoroughgoing UCC would also abolish (as the Law Commission had advocated in its report on the UCC) the tax-evading contraption known as the Hindu Undivided Family, marking a significant financial blow to small businessmen and traditional Hindu joint families. One way out for the BJP would be to the split and phase the implementation of the UCC, such that it is able to isolate and target only Muslim personal laws. However, this would remove the veneer of constitutionality that the BJP has so skilfully instrumentalized for its political moves on cow slaughter, Ram Mandir and Article 370. A nakedly majoritarian approach would entail not just stronger legal challenges but also sharper international opprobrium. Now let’s come to the issue of population control. The draft bill of the Uttar Pradesh government would restrict access to political participation, jobs, welfare schemes and even the provision of subsidized food grains for those who violate the two-child norm. Again, this draconian legislation would harshly impact the poorer and less educated sections of society (including Hindus) more than it affects Muslims as a group. As the NFHS-4 data for Uttar Pradesh document, the fertility rate varies much more according to education than in terms of religion. For instance, the difference in fertility between an illiterate woman and a fully educated woman is 1.6, whereas the difference between the fertility of a Hindu and Muslim woman is 0.5. The political implications for the BJP become even more troubling when one notes that the fertility rates of the other backward classes and the scheduled castes are substantially higher than those of the upper castes. In fact, according to the NFHS-4 data, the fertility rate of Muslims and SCs in Uttar Pradesh is almost indistinguishable (3.10 and 3.09, respectively). In sum, this is a policy that would disproportionately punish the rural poor and the lower castes in addition to Muslims. The BJP has spent the last three decades meticulously effecting an image makeover from being an urban, upper caste party to one of the poor and the disadvantaged. Such a legislation, appearing more like a fantasy fermented in a middle-class drawing room than a carefully calibrated policy, would hardly burnish the egalitarian credentials of the party. Moreover, since it would be a prospectively applied law, it would discriminate against a young population already reeling under unemployment and grim economic prospects. The politics of coercive population control also has a forbidding legacy in India. One of the main reasons Indira Gandhi’s Congress got wiped out in northern India in 1977 was the fallout of its ham-handed, mass sterilization drive. The fact that even the Vishwa Hindu Parishad has opposed the UP population policy is hardly a propitious sign. Of course, one might reasonably contend that the sangh parivar is using the issues of UCC and population control as bugbears to mobilize Hindu support rather than as actual policies it plans to seriously implement. It is no doubt true that the Hindu Right has succeeded to a large extent in planting in the popular imagination myths about Muslim regressiveness and demographic expansion. However, there are two complicating factors here. One, since the BJP commands a formidable majority at the Centre, issues such as the UCC and population control risk losing their potency in the evident gulf between political rhetoric and political action. There is no Congress establishment to excoriate any longer over not bringing the UCC. And, two, Opposition parties have become smarter than to fall into the trap of debating the BJP on ideological issues, especially when they remain confined to the theoretical realm. What this era of BJP dominance has testified to is the broad political constituency that exists for grand ideological triumphs of Hindus over Muslims. However, this appetite likely pertains to symbolic or psychological victories that don’t require any particular sacrifices from ordinary Hindus. Having achieved its low-hanging ideological goals, the BJP now embarks on a trickier ideological road that can potentially also exact personal, social and financial costs from its base of Hindus. It must tread with caution lest the blowback outstrips the benefits.  Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Intensive mediation training session for advocates||Ranchi: Jharkhand High Court justice Aparesh Kumar Singh, who is the executive chairman the Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa) and High Court justice, Anubha Rawat Choudhary, member of state level mediation monitoring committee jointly inaugurated a 40-hour intensive mediation training program, for the first batch of 22 advocates at Nyaya Sadan, Ranchi. As per the approved schedule, training will be provided to 156 advocates and experts of different districts of Jharkhand in seven batches between August 21 to October 7.  Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh highlighted the importance of mediation in the present time and said that it is the duty of mediators to help the parties to find a solution. (Our Correspondent) Daltonganj: Nine members of an inter-state gang of highway robbers were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday in Daltonganj said SP Palamau Chandan Kumar Sinha. Sinha said all the 9 highway robbers hail from Bihar but were operative on the national highway 98 falling in Jharkhand. He said the interstate highway robbers used to loot pick up vans. They had looted two vans in a period of less than a month said the SP. Sinha said these interstate highway robbers who looted pick up vans did this only to smuggle illicit wine from Jharkhand to Bihar. (Our Correspondent) Hazaribagh : A youth who went to take out his duck from a pond in Kathotia Bhagwandas village in Chatra district got tired after reaching midway and drowned on Saturday morning.  Police officials said youth was identified as Raju Bhuiyan. They said after getting tired in mid of the pond, he failed to swim and finally drowned. The body was sent for post mortem to Chatra sadar hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Superstition proved fatal for a 35-year-old woman in Raksi village under Jori police station of Chatra after she wrapped a poisonous snake around her throat believing it to be a messenger of Lord Shiva. Runiya Devi was going to attend a special puja organised at village temple on the last Monday of auspicious sawan. Seeing her with a snake, villagers started singing bhajans and mantras encircling Runiya maintaining safe distance. No one cared to see that by that time, the snake had bitten the woman number of times. Everyone considered it as a blessing that a snake appeared on such an auspicious day. “Superstition has taken a life in the village,” said eyewitnesses. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)  Garhwa: A man murdered his wife with a sharp iron rod before dying by suicide near  his house in Chutiya village under Ranka police station of the district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Sheonath Manjhi, 36, and his wife Chandrawati Devi 34. According to Ranka police, the incident happened early morning when the couple’s child heard the sound of his parent's quarrel. Police said the couple were very poor and had frequent fights. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Information hub at Dalma sanctuary eyes September opening||Tourists visiting the scenic Dalma elephant sanctuary can look forward to having a guided tour from next month onwards. Work at the information kiosk at Makulakocha is underway on a war footing and the facility will be thrown open for the tourists next month. The Rs 40-lakh information kiosk is part of the eco tourism project of the state forest department. Nearly 90 per cent of work is complete. Only finishing touches are required to be given before the facility is made available to the tourists," said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. Electricity is also in place at the facility which, because of its look, is set to become yet another major attraction at the sanctuary. The information kiosk is a wooden structure with a resting hall for the tourists. Entry tickets will be sold from the kiosk. The hall has been furnished and has toilets. Visitors at the elephant abode, 30 km from Jamshedpur, can buy tickets and also have the much-needed rest inside the hall. "The effort is to provide ample space and comfort to tourists, including those from Jharkhand, Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, before they undertake a tour of the 192 sq km sanctuary," a forester said on condition of anonymity. Brochures having details of the flora and fauna, animals and water bodies as well as the Shiva temple within the sanctuary will be made available to the tourists for whom Dalma sanctuary is one of the favourite getaways. Visitors can also visit the museum which should also open next month. It is located adjacent to the information kiosk. "The museum, which is being refurbished, should also open for tourists next month. Tiles have already been fixed and painting is underway. But for rains, the facility would have been opened last month itself," the forester added. Tourists spend time at AC and non-AC accommodations as well mud houses at Makulakocha and quarters at the entrance of Pinderbera forest guest house atop the hill. Water bodies, including Badka Bandh, Majhla Bandh and Nichla Bandh are situated near the Pinderbera forest guest house. Tourists venture to the water bodies and watch the elephants at their playful best.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Storm in a teapot, courtesy a 250kg Cambodian creation worth Rs 1.6 lakh ||A Cambodian teapot weighing 250kg, measuring four feet in length and three feet in height, became a centre of attraction for visitors to La Gravitea, a high-end cafeteria located at Circuit House Area as soon as it reached on Saturday afternoon. Made of white and blue porcelain, the teapot worth Rs 1.6 lakh was added to the collection of printed and vintage teapots, which are just collectibles, adorning the plush cafe. "My passion drove me to get the unique teapot from as far as Cambodia. It is a one-of-a-kind teapot in India. Nowhere else in the country you will find such a large and heavy teapot," said Avinash Dugar, the cafe owner who brought the huge teapot in a SUV driving it from Calcutta. "We were very careful in bringing the heavy teapot. Five persons were required to lift it for keeping it inside the SUV and again bringing it inside the cafe after it reached here," said Dugar. Several regular customers rushed to the cafe to get a glimpse of the teapot. "I have gone places but never came across such a large and heavy teapot. We should feel proud as a steel city cafe can now boast of having such a unique teapot, "said Ranveer Singh, a local businessman who frequently visits the cafe. Located opposite the Army Camp, La Gravitea only employs boys and girls, with hearing and speech impairments. The cafeteria which is operating for more than five years now has been set up by Avinash Dugar, a tea connoisseur and former vice-president of a Seraikela-Kharsawan based industry, who quit his corporate career to start that cafe. The cafe also serves a wide variety of tea sourced from different countries. Dugar has himself got training on sign language and has trained the speech and hearing impaired boys and girls to run the cafe and  how to serve the customers with a smile and with proper etiquette.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Spurt in snatchings instils fear among steel city morning walkers||The footfall of morning and evening walkers has increased at already crowded walking tracks in Bistupur, Kadma and Sonari of the city as they dropped the practice of walking at isolated places in fear of falling prey to snatchers' gangs. A spurt in snatching incidents in the city during the spell of Covid-19 pandemic forced such people to avoid walking in isolation, something which would give them more pleasure. "I had been doing the morning walk routinely at the isolated Outer Circle Road since the past decade. But I have stopped walking in isolation and have now started visiting the G-Town ground's walking track instead, the only reason behind the change of place being the fear of falling victim to the snatchers," said Mahendra Soni, a businessman and resident of Bistupur to The Telegraph Online. Similarly, Murari Agarwal, who is also a Bistupur resident, has started carrying out his walk at the crowded walking-track along Kadma-Sonari Link Road. "Being time-conscious, I want to finish the walk within a stipulated period of time. This is why I used to walk with my headphones tucked in the ears at any lonely stretch so that I could evade any acquaintance. But given the prevailing law and order situation, I could no longer take the risk of walking alone," said Agarwal. Like Soni and Agarwal, scores of others who used to do their morning or evening walking conveniently in isolation have resorted to visiting crowded walking-tracks in Bistupur, Kadma and Sonari, fearing the prowling snatcher gangs. Bike-borne criminals use to move around the isolated places and snatch mobile phones or gold chains from morning or evening walkers, something which is regular in the steel city. Walking tracks are in Jubilee Park, G-Town ground, Kadma-Sonari Link Road and at Joggers Park behind Monibaba temple in Sonari. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Composit Control Room) Animesh Gupta said they have deployed mobile cops for providing security to the morning or evening walkers across the city. "If the morning or evening walkers still have apprehension of falling prey to the snatchers, then we will further intensify the patrolling," said the DSP (CCR) to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||13 shops gutted in early morning fire at Dhanbad market ||A fire mishap at the congested Hirapur Hatia market gutted 13 makeshift shops and caused loss of property of more than Rs 15lakh on Saturday morning. Prima facie, short circuit has been attributed for the fire but the detailed cause is likely to be ascertained only after an enquiry. The fire started at around 1:30am following which a team of fire brigade reached the site along with two fire tenders after being informed by police and controlled the fire in around two and a half hours. Senior officials of the district administration led by Prashant Kumar Layak, Dhanbad Circle Officer, who reached the site took stock of the fire situation and also took details of insurance papers and other documents of the affected shopkeepers. Chandrashekhar Agarwal, former Dhanbad mayor and Raj Sinha, Dhanbad MLA held talks with Prashant Kumar Layak, and Sandeep Kumar, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner with regard to monetary compensation for the affected shopkeepers. “Majority of fire victims are small time traders selling fruits, vegetables, puja paraphernalia, disposable thermocol cup-plate-glass-bowl-lunch boxes and birthday decorative items,” said Raj Sinha. Former mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal said, “Altogether 13 persons have lost their source of livelihood as they lost all their financial capital in the fire and now it is time to help them regain their livelihood for which we are working earnestly.” “We received information about the incident about fire over phone and immediately rushed to the site at around 2 am and controlled the fire till 2.30 pm but the fire was completely doused at around 4 am,” said district fire officer Vinod Kumar to Telegraph Online. “Altogether 12,000 litres of water in three tankers of 4000 litres each were used to completely douse the fire however only two fire tenders were used during the entire operation,” said Kumar and added that they have not yet received any application for compensation. This is the second incident of major fire in a market area of Dhanbad as a total of 35 makeshift shops were also gutted in a fire that took place in steel gate market about 5km from district headquarter during the night of Holi festival as the fire was caused due to a blast that took place in an illegally operated LPG refilling shop situated in the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt likely to table Medical Protection Bill in monsoon session||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta has given his nod to the Medical Protection Bill, which is likely to be tabled in the monsoon session of the state assembly scheduled from September 3 to September 9, officials from the minister’s office said on Saturday. Provisions from the Medical Protection Act (MPA) of different states have been incorporated in Jharkhand’s Medical Protection Bill to not only ensure safety for doctors but also provide consumer rights and right to affordable treatment to  patients, officials from Gupta’s office said. “Implementation of a Medical Protection Act has been a long-pending demand of the medical fraternity in our state. We have incorporated necessary changes in the bills drafted for this purpose earlier and tried to ensure benefits for doctors as well as patients through the bill,” said Gupta. During a felicitation programme for Covid warriors in the state capital last week, the health minister had said that he has had several rounds of discussion with Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Singh over the implementation of a MPA and the state would soon introduce a bill to implement laws for protection of healthcare professionals. The Jharkhand unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has raised repeated concern over incidents of violence against healthcare workers even during the first and second wave of Covid-19. Several incidents of assaults on doctors and medical students were reported in state-run hospitals across Jharkhand since the formation of the state back in 2000, triggering protests by medical practitioners. The MPA has already been implemented in 18 states in India and IMA wants Jharkhand to be the 19th state to implement the law. The Cabinet had approved the MPA in Jharkhand in 2017. Later, a select committee too gave a report on it. But it was never passed by the state assembly, sources said. The Act mandates imprisonment of up to three years and a fine of Rs 50,000 for attacks on doctors, nurses and hospital establishments. In June 2019, doctors were thrashed by attendants of a patient at Rinchi Hospital in Ranchi, triggering widespread protests by doctors, which required the intervention of then chief secretary D.K Tiwari to resume healthcare services in the state. In February 2018, a doctor was heckled by attendants of a patient at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) prompting medicos at the hospital to go on an indefinite strike. A couple of months later, in June, a nurse was thrashed by attendants of a patient who died in the hospital. This incident also caused uproar by RIMS staff. Similar incidents were also reported in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur, doctors said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Woman paraded naked in Jharkhand village over affair with married man||A woman was stripped and paraded naked with a garland of shoes around her neck in Jharkhand's Dumka district over her relationship with a married man, police said on Saturday. Six people were arrested in connection with the incident that happened in Ranishwar police station area of the district, they said. The woman, who is also married, had allegedly eloped with the man. On being caught on Wednesday night, she was thrashed by the family of the man's wife, a police officer said. Then she was stripped and paraded naked throughout the village with a garland of shoes around her neck, he said. "Twelve people have been named in the FIR filed on Thursday. So far, six persons, including the man and his wife, have been arrested," the officer said. The woman also alleged that the accused snatched Rs 25,000 from her, he said. The FIR was registered under IPC sections 148 (rioting), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 354b (assault) and 379 (theft), among others, he added. Efforts are on to arrest the remaining six accused, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Jugsalai railway overbridge delay||Jamshedpur: The long-awaited Jugsalai railway overbridge project is getting costlier but also delayed, due to the repeated change of the approach road design by the state's road construction department. Started in the year 2018, the Jugsalai ROB project was to be set up jointly by the railway and the RCD at a cost of Rs 16crore. The railway was supposed to construct the ROB over the track near the Jugsalai level-crossing between Tatanagar-Adityapur section at a cost of Rs 6crore whereas the RCD was supposed to construct approach roads on the either side of the ROB at a cost of Rs 10crore. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: The district health department has constituted six mobile teams comprising a magistrate, sample collectors and policemen which have launched Covid testing across Dhanbad town on Friday. Special focus of the testing drive are pedestrians or other commuters travelling without masks in public vehicles like auto rickshaw, e-rickshaw besides the private vehicles like two wheelers and four wheelers. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Two persons were electrocuted in separate incidents taken place under Sitaramdera and adjoining Sidhgora thana area on Friday afternoon. While a 35-year-old man, Sunil Kumar Mishra was electrocuted while fixing a ceiling fan at his house in Kalyan Nagar under Sitaramdera thana area at 1 pm on Friday, in another incident a 20-year-old youth was electrocuted while working at building construction site in Bidhyapati Nagar in Sidhgora around 3 pm. According to police, Sunil who worked as a para legal volunteer in Jamshedpur was fixing a ceiling fan at his house having climbed on an iron ladder. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Top Maoist leader arrested in Hazaribagh||A dreaded Maoist leader, carrying a reward of Rs 25 lakh on his head, was arrested here early on Friday in a joint operation by the police and the CRPF, a day after another senior member of the outlawed organisation was taken into custody. Pradyuman Sharma (49), who went by names Kundan, Shaket and Lulah, is wanted in more than 90 criminal cases in both Bihar and Jharkhand, a senior police officer said. The Bihar government, too, had announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on him. Acting on intelligence inputs, security personnel raided areas surrounding the Kothadumar hillock in Chouparan police station area of Hazaribagh district and arrested Sharma, who claimed that he was a prominent member of the CPI(Maoist) special area committee, Inspector General (operations) AV Homkar told PTI. Homkar also said that Sharma, a resident of Jehanabad district in Bihar, was the mastermind of several extortion rackets in the two states. Describing his arrest as a big achievement , the inspector general noted that the arrested Maoist leader is a graduate in philosophy. "As soon as Hazaribag SP Manoj Ratan Chouthe received intelligence inputs about the movement of Maoists in Chouparan area, a team of police officers and CRPF personnel raided the forests surrounding Kothadumar hillock and found Sharma talking to one of his associates. "On seeing security personnel approaching them, they tried to flee. Sharma, however, was apprehended. His associate managed to escape, Homkar explained. The arrested CPI(Maoist) leader was identified by the injury marks on his hand, which he sustained during an IED blast some years ago, the inspector general said. "During interrogation, Sharma identified himself as a prominent member of CPI(Maoist) special area committee, and claimed that he was instrumental in strengthening the outfit in the region, Homkar stated. The Jharkhand Police had on Thursday arrested another senior Maoist leader, Ganjhu alias Azad, in Chhatra district. Ganjhu has 45 criminal cases filed against him, including one that involved the death of 30 policemen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Fake Tata wire brand products seized in Andhra Pradesh||The Tata Steel intelligence unit along with Andhra Pradesh police seized counterfeit Tata Wiron chain link fences and barbed wires from multiple locations in Nellore district of the southern state on Friday. Tata Wiron is the brand name for Tata Steel’s global wire business, considered one of the leading steel wire manufacturers in the world. It has manufacturing facilities at Telco in Jamshedpur and in Maharashtra. “Tata Wiron’s chain link fences and barbed wires are packaged in a unique manner and all original products are sold with the same packaging by authorised dealers and distributors. Upon receiving information that multiple locations in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh were selling Tata Wiron chain link fences and barbed wires in non-standard packaging, Tata Steel with the help of Andhra Pradesh police conducted joint raids in four locations and seized counterfeit chain link fences worth Rs 5 lakh and barbed wires estimated at Rs 1.54 lakh,” said a Tata Steel spokesperson. The raids were conducted at four locations under Vedayapalem, Venkatachala Satram and Sydapuram police stations in Nellore district. “This unauthorised use of the Tata Wiron name is infringing on the intellectual property rights of Tata Steel. The owners were selling fake chain link fences and barbed wires of substandard quality to consumers as Tata Wiron products,” the spokesperson added. Cases were lodged against dealers — Asian Wire Industries and Sri Venkateshwara Wire Products (both under Vedayapalem police station), Sri Lakshmi Wire (under Venkatachala Satram police station) and Sree Srinivasa Industries (under Sydapuram police stations) — and four officials have been detained. “Cases have been lodged under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 63 of the Copyright Act. Both the sections are non-bailable,” the spokesperson said. “Tata Steel’s products possess tremendous goodwill in the minds of the consumers by virtue of the quality of the products. Such unauthorised use of the company’s name on wire products which do not meet the quality standards of Tata Steel products hampers the reputation of the company. Tata Steel condemns the misuse of the trademarks and logos,” said a communiqué issued by the Tata Steel corporate communications department on Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Congress dedicates park to elders on Rajiv Gandhi’s  birth anniversary||The Congress dedicated a park in Ranchi to senior citizens on Rajiv Gandhi’s  birth anniversary on Friday. “It will now provide senior citizens with a safe space for spending quality time that they didn’t have in this area,” Congress state spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey replied, asked about the park close to Jagannathpur police station. “Ranchi also didn’t have any such thing in memory of Rajivji,” added Congress state president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon who inaugurated the park, adding it was developed under a scheme of planning and development department of the state. “Rajiv Gandhi had taken over as the Prime Minister at a critical time when he also had to tackle problems within the country, in Assam and Punjab but he handled those successfully,” the minister said while paying tribute to Rajiv Gandhi. “It was during his tenure the country witnessed the benefits of the technology mission including spread of communication system as seen through PCOs (public call offices) in rural areas,” he added. “The BJP government at the Centre was playing a dangerous game,” Oraon said, referring to the change it made in the name Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award recently. (Major) Dhyanchand was a great player and they will surely appreciate naming good institutions after him, he explained,  adding removing Rajiv’s name from an award would not erase the memory of the late Prime Minister. “Badle ka bhavna se kam nehi karenge, badlao layenge (we will bring in real change, not encourage revenge),” Oraon further said to explain what would be their stand if the Congress came to power at the Centre. Among others, Congress ministers Alamgir Alam, Badal Patralekh and Banna Gupta also spoke during the programme, highlighting various achievements of the Rajiv Gandhi government in 1980s. Two senior citizens — former minister Hemant Pratap Dehati and social worker Mukhtar Singh — were also felicitated on the occasion by the ministers before they dedicated to senior citizens the park named after Rajiv Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
21-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant plea to evacuate Bokaro youth stranded in Kabul||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday requested external affairs minister S. Jaishankar to facilitate the return of a Bokaro resident stranded in Kabul. Hemant approached Jaishankar on Twitter after he came to know about Bablu Kumar’s plight through a video of his wife Lakho Devi, who had appealed to him and the Prime Minister to facilitate her husband’s safe return. Bablu, 37, works at a battery manufacturing unit in Kabul. Soren tweeted: “I urge @DrSJaishankar to ensure the safe return of Bablu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
