22-08-2021||Calcutta||Reduced night curfew brings back crowd in Calcutta||Five days have passed since the night curfew timings were relaxed. Starting last Monday, 11pm to 5am has been the night curfew slot. The Telegraph takes a stock of the city’s response to the relaxations. The dinner crowd is back at restaurants. The new closure time is 10.30pm. Most restaurants are allowing people in and taking last orders at 10pm compared to 8pm during the earlier curfew slot. Around 10pm on Friday, scores of people waited outside old favourites on Park Street. Because of the 50 per cent cap, not all of them could enter for dinner. “There is a big difference in footfall because of the night curfew relaxations. Indians do not feel hungry before 8-8.30pm. After such a long time, it is good to see people being able to come to dine at usual dinner time,” said Nitin Kothari, the owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat. The 9pm to 5am curfew slot meant a rush for lunch. Gradually, people had adapted and restaurants were busy in the post-lunch period as well. Many people were opting for an early dinner. Bar owners said the footfall was picking up gradually. The 9pm to midnight slot was extremely busy for pubs before the pandemic, especially on weekends. That rush is gone. But the owners pinned their hopes on further relaxations from next month. “The 8pm deadline (during the 9pm to 5am night curfew) meant almost zero dinner business. That has changed. It is a much-needed relief,” said Gaurav Karnani, the owner of Grid, a microbrewery and pub in Topsia. Malls were already back to being packed before the latest relaxations. An additional hour or 90 additional minutes has extended the rush. “The footfall has risen by around 10 per cent. Around 50,000 people visited the mall on Saturday,” said Dip Biswas, the deputy general manager of South City mall. The mall used to close for visitors at 8pm before the relaxations. Now, the closure time is 9pm. The food and beverage outlets close at 10.30pm. “A week ago, people would drop in early evening because they knew of the early deadline. But now, that rush is getting evenly distributed,” said Biswas. At Quest, a mall official said the “footfall has definitely gone up, though not like the pre-pandemic time”. “We hope it will go up further now,” the official said. In Salt Lake, City Centre I and II have also been registering a robust growth in footfall. “It is close to pre-pandemic times,” said Ramesh Pandey, the director of Ambuja Neotia group, the promoters of City Centre I and II. Bell Bottom, the first big Bollywood film to have released across halls in over two years, has breathed some life into the sector. Single screen halls registered three-figure ticket sales after a long time. The reduced night curfew has allowed for an extra show at most places. “Viewers are visible, after a long time,” said Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya Cinema. The hall is running three shows with the Akshay Kumar starrer. At Ajanta in Behala, there are two screens, each with a capacity of around 115 after the 50 per cent cap. “Till last week, the number of viewers would be less than 50 at both combined. Now, over 150 people have been turning up every day,” said an official. Satadeep Saha, who owns Ajanta and has distributed the film in Bengal, said in terms of occupancy, multiplexes were doing better. “But there is at least something that everybody can look forward to,” he said. “Footfall is on the rise every day. We are in a healthy situation,” said Amitava Guha Thakurta, the regional director east, INOX Leisure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Police at doorstep to bridge gap in Barrackpore||Barrackpore police commissionerate are reaching out to people at their doorsteps to so that they can approach the men in uniform without hesitation when needed. The project, named “Durare Police”, literally means police at the doorstep. A senior officer attached with Barrackpore commissionerate said the idea behind the project was to bridge the gap between residents of the jurisdiction and their police stations. “While reaching out to the neighbourhoods we are trying to make people aware about the frequent banking frauds, KYC frauds, ways in which fraudsters are using Facebook and WhatsApp to cheat people,” said an IPS officer. Countless men and women, especially the elderly,  are duped by tele-callers who  impersonate bank officials. They fetch confidential data from account holders claiming that their ATM card is about to be blocked or by simply saying that they have won a lottery. Under the programme, the police are also setting up camps in different locations under every police station and encouraging people to share their problems related to security, law and order and criminal activities in the area. If the police come across a complaint that amounts to a cognisable offence, the cops at the camp are encouraging people to submit a written complaint at the spot itself so that the matter can be processed immediately. Several people found the project unique as the police are often blamed for discouraging people from reporting their problems and sometimes, allegedly refuse to accept complaints citing one excuse or the other. Barrackpore police jurisdiction covers around 270 square km adjoining Calcutta and has 18 police stations. Each police station has been asked to conduct “Duare Police” camps at more than one location, an officer said. Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma has been monitoring the project and has visited several camps organised in the remote areas. The police have taken a separate approach towards the urban pockets of the jurisdiction. “We are holding cyber awareness camps, bank fraud awareness programmes inside housing societies,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Bond of brotherhood||Jute tassel rakhi Step 1 Mix the resin and hardener in the ratio of 2:1 with 20g of resin and 10g of hardener. Mix well for two minutes till all the bubbles disappear and the mixture is clear. Step 2 Wind the jute twine on the cardboard piece on the cut mark. Attach a thread on top to secure the twine. Pass embroidery thread from the cut mark and wind it two or three times. Secure with knot. Slide the jute out of the cardboard. Cut out the twines from the bottom and comb it out to make it fluffy. Step 3 Cut out a semi-circle from a paper. Form a cone and add glue and cover with jute cord. When dry, insert the jute tassel inside the cone and secure with glue. Add flowers and other decorations on top. The floral decorations can be purchased or home-made. The butterfly can be drawn and cut out or printed from the internet. Add a thread or ribbon on top of the cone. Resin is a chemical that becomes usable when mixed with a hardener in correct ratio. Once mixed, it becomes hard, slowly emanating a glass-like finish after 24 hours. Colours, glitter, sequins, dry flowers etc. can be added at the time of pouring. Art resin has become very popular for crafts and is available online or at art stores. But remember to wear a mask and use gloves while handling resin. Step 1 Mix the resin and hardener in the ratio of 2:1 with 20g of resin and 10g of hardener. Mix well for two minutes till all the bubbles disappear and the mixture is clear. Step 2 Put the resin mixture in separate small cups after 5 minutes and add colour of choice. For this you can buy resin pigments from the store or use acrylic colours. Mix well. Step 3 Get silicon moulds from the store and pour the resin mixture in the moulds and let it set for 24 hours. Un-mould the pieces. They will now be hard like glass but you still need to tie the rakhi threads on them. So drill holes on both sides with a drilling machine. Tie the threads, add the decorative metals, stickers, threads with beads etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Board exams: Teachers face MCQ papers challenge||Teachers across schools are taking double the time or more to prepare Class X and XII students’ multiple choice question papers, something they have never done before. The idea is to allow students to score and yet not make it a cakewalk for them because unlike a competitive exam, this is not an elimination test but an assessment. The challenge for teachers is the absence of a set pattern or a question bank to refer to. They are working out sums to come up with the choices so that the distractors are well thought of and this is a “time-consuming process”, said the head of a school. Teachers are also having to prepare many more questions. “If a paper is of 80 marks, the teacher has to set 80 questions as well as ensure that a child is able to finish the paper. I have told my teachers to set papers in such a way that a student would be able to complete each question within a certain time. If they spend more time on one question they will suffer,” said John Stephen, acting principal of La Martiniere for Boys. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has said there will be two semesters and an exam at the end of each semester conducted by the council. The exam in November will be online and entirely MCQ-based, the council said. Several schools are therefore making changes in their own pattern of question papers in the school exam in X and XII to prepare students for November. Across schools, teachers are investing time to prepare question papers for internal exams, mostly in September, while simultaneously trying to finish the syllabus. In The Heritage School, for example, teachers have been asked to prepare a question bank — not set a paper — for now. In St Xavier’s Collegiate School, a group of teachers have been asked to prepare sample MCQs, which will be shared with all the teachers. “Teachers earlier would take a day to prepare a question paper. But now they are taking four to five days because it involves more research,” said Anil Jha, senior coordinator at The Heritage School. The director of Modern High School for Girls, Devi Kar, said it was only natural for teachers to take more time than usual. “It is difficult to set a paper because the teacher has to challenge and stimulate the student,” she said. “This kind of an exam (MCQ pattern) is about how much the candidate has mastered the concept,” Kar added. While setting such questions, teachers have to think of students of all kinds — academically stronger ones, average and below average. “This is an assessment and we have to see that no child gets demotivated. In a subjective paper, while correcting, we try to find the answer in what the student has written but here there is no scope for that,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally. “There will be no scope for part marks and a child could also get a zero,” she added. Father Thamacin Arulappan, principal, St Xavier’s Collegiate School, said for subjects like maths, where the teachers have to work out the sums before setting the paper, it will take even more time. Teachers across schools are waiting for a sample question paper from the council. “We have to test both the learning and logical reasoning of a student while helping the child to score. The challenge is the students are not trained to answer and teachers are not trained to ask,” said economics teacher Joeeta Basu. In an assessment test, the intention mostly is to understand how much a child knows, not what the child does not know. English language teacher and director of Gems Akademia International School, Hilda Peacock said: “The distractors have to be well thought of and the intention is not to trick a child.” “There will be no scope for selective studies and the entire syllabus will have to be studied,” warned Aruna Gomes, principal, Loreto House. Schools heads believe that the newness would make it more interesting and challenging, unlike the set pattern that has been followed for years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Two arrested in Ekbalpore for city trader’s murder||Two men have been arrested in Ekbalpore in connection with the murder of city trader Saif Khan who was found dead in Jharkhand’s Jamtara on Tuesday. Based on inputs shared by Mihijam police in Jamtara, under whose jurisdiction Khan’s body was found, Calcutta police detained the two men on Saturday morning. They were later handed over to Jamtara police for formal arrest and court production. The arrested were identified as Mohammad Aftab Alam and Nazre Alam, police said. Aftab, a resident of Suresh Sarkar Road in Beniapukur, is a garments trader. Nazre works as a driver and drove the vehicle in which Khan was allegedly kidnapped, the police said. “Preliminary investigation suggests that Aftab Alam had taken a loan of Rs 15 lakh from Saif Khan, which he could repay only partially. Khan was allegedly humiliating Aftab over a period of time for not returning the money, while according to Aftab, he was unable to pay because of the losses he had incurred in business during the pandemic,” an officer said. The police said Khan had purportedly made multiple calls to Aftab on Tuesday evening — the day Khan went missing — demanding the money. Aftab had offered Khan a lift in his brother-in-law’s Honda Mobilio from Ripon Street to Ekbalpore, where he promised to repay the loan. “According to the accused person’s statement, he had told the victim that he was going to get some money in Ekbalpore with which he would repay the loan. However, when the victim boarded the vehicle, he was offered a bottle of beer laced with sedatives,” the officer added. Khan had passed out in the car. Hours later, when they reached Jamtara, he was murdered and his body was thrown on the road. The police said Aftab had used his brother-in-law’s vehicle for the operation. The car was tracked through CCTV footage at the toll plaza of the Vidyasagar Setu. After the execution, Aftab had returned to Calcutta in the same car through the same route. Driver Nazre had returned home after dropping Aftab and keeping the car in the garage of its owner. Nazre, who was apparently not aware about the murder plan, has also been booked under charges of murder and criminal conspiracy apparently for not raising an alarm when the incident happened or for not reporting it to the police. Both were produced  before a court on Saturday and handed over to Jamtara police on transit remand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
22-08-2021||Calcutta||CMC to build two water treatment plants for Jadavpur, Tollygunge||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will build two water treatment plants spending Rs 210 crore to supply potable water to Jadavapur and Tollygunge, officials of the civic body said on Saturday. These areas suffer from severe water shortage. One of the new water treatment plants will come up at New Garia’s Briji. It will have the capacity to produce 10 million gallons a day. The other will be built on the campus of the Dhapa water treatment plant. It will be able to produce 20 million gallons of water in a day. A senior engineer of the civic body said the potable water that would be produced by the two plants would be adequate to serve the needs of the population of Jadavpur-Tollygunge and vast areas to the east of EM Bypass like Anandapur and Mukundapur. “This would serve the needs of the area for the next 30 years, our study has revealed. But this is subject to no further inclusion of areas into the Calcutta municipal area,” said a senior CMC official. Vast stretches of Mukundapur, Anandapur, Kalikapur still depend on underground water drawn through pumps. Many other pockets have access to potable water, but the supply is grossly inadequate. Civic engineers said building a new plant was the only option to meet the demand-supply gap. According to civic engineers, the two new plants would benefit the entire boroughs X, XI, XII and portions of borough VII. “A proposal seeking funds to build the two plants has been sent to the finance department. We will float tender once the approval arrives,” said one engineer. Officials of the CMC said it was very unlikely for the finance department to turn down the proposal. “We will need six months to float a tender, choose contractors to build the plants and give the work order after following due process. There will be a deadline of two years for the construction to complete from the day it begins,” said an engineer of the CMC. The CMC’s budget for the financial year 2021-22 was presented on Saturday. The solid waste management department was allocated Rs 638 crore, the highest allocation to any department. The water supply department got the second highest allocation — Rs 395 crore. The tax structures remain unchanged. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said the civic body has waived a mutation fee of Rs 100 and first mutation certificate fee of Rs 100. “These services will be free henceforth,” he said. The civic body had earlier presented an interim budget for the period April 1 to September 30. “But as the elections to the civic body would not be held before that period ends, the CMC’s budget for 2021-22 was presented on Saturday,” said officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Malayalees in Calcutta celebrate Onam indoors||Malayalees in Calcutta celebrated Onam indoors because of the pandemic. Saturday was the most important day of Onam, called Thiruvonam. Large physical gatherings were mostly absent. But people hosted small groups of friends and neighbours. Pookkalams, or rangolis made of flowers, were made at home. At the in-house gatherings, young men and women turned up in traditional attire. Sadya, a traditional feast spread on a banana leaf, was one of the highlights of the day. Rice, avial (curry of different vegetables) and pickles were part of the fare. “Because of Covid, we couldn’t step out for celebrations. We cooked at home and had a good feast,” said a state government officer who hails from Kerala. The Calcutta Malayalee Samajam will organise a virtual Onam celebration on Sunday where cultural performances will be held. Friends and relatives from Kerala and the Gulf are slated to join in. K. Nandakumar, the national vice-president of the All India Malayalee Association, said homes were decorated with floral alpana. “Some people came over to my house. We had an Onam feast,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
22-08-2021||Calcutta||19-year-old boy found murdered near a garage in Shibpur||A 19-year-old boy was found murdered near a garage on Bipradas Chatterjee Lane in Shibpur, Howrah, late on Friday, his head bearing a deep injury mark and his throat partly slit. Mohammad Rayes, the youngest of three sons of a cosmetics dealer, had left home on Friday evening saying he was meeting friends on Park Street. Around 11.30pm, one of his brothers received a call from police saying Rayes had been found with critical injuries. He was declared dead at Howrah state general hospital. Cops have arrested four of Rayes’s friends for their alleged involvement. “An altercation broke out over returning money and turned violent,” an officer said. On Saturday, the four were produced before a Howrah court that remanded them to five days’ police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
22-08-2021||Calcutta||Salt lake civic body does patchwork road repair||The Salt Lake civic body has finally started road repairs but rather than laying a fresh layer of asphalt, patchwork repairs are being carried out. Residents and engineers of other government agencies are worried about the quality and longevity of the repairs. Potholes dot all major roads of the township — some in worse shape than others. The Telegraph had reported on the sorry state of roads in the township on August 7. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has started the repairs but their engineers are relying on patchwork — a layer of bitumen that is laid over craters — as a quick-fix solution. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said: “We will need at least a 15 day-stretch without rain to relay all the stretches. Since there have been showers on most days, we have decided to go ahead with patchwork repairs rather than full-blown repairs,” said Chakraborty. Of the worst affected stretches, a 1km-stretch that connects Tank Number 9 to the Udayachal tourist lodge is being repaired. However, on a stretch of Seventh Cross Road that leads from the Karunamoyee intersection to Tank Number 8 and was repaired a few days back, the patches have already started wearing off. A layer of small stone chips lie on the areas where the patches have worn off, making the stretch dangerous for two-wheelers to negotiate. A BK Block resident was injured on Saturday afternoon after his bike skidded on the loose stone chips. “I saw people repairing the stretch on Friday night. I was riding home when a car braked in front of me and I, too, had to hit the brakes. My bike skidded on the loose stone chips that had worn away from the patchwork repairs,” said Vikas Agarwal. On Saturday, teams of workers were seen pouring buckets of bitumen mix into the potholes. Another road that will be repaired is a 2km-stretch of Third Avenue that leads to the Wipro intersection from the Karunamoyee intersection. A Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority engineer said a road surface laid with mastic asphalt or concrete easily outlasts a surface redone with bitumen. Mastic asphalt could be laid in a short span of time and even in between rains. But civic authorities keep choosing patchwork over other options. Around Rs 3.8 crore is required to build a kilometre of mastic asphalt road. Though the cost is many times higher than patchwork repairs, it evens out in the long run because mastic asphalt doesn’t require frequent repairs. An engineer said: “A concrete road is three times costlier to build compared to bitumen but lasts two decades. The longevity of a bitumen stretch, on the other hand, is a few months. A mastic asphalt road costs double and lasts around five years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-10
22-08-2021||Business||Centre summons Infosys CEO to explain Income Tax portal glitches||The Ministry of Finance has "summoned" Infosys MD & CEO Salil Parekh to explain to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman why glitches on the Income Tax portal has not been resolved even after over two months of its launch. Taking note of the fact that since August 21, the portal "is not available", the Infosys top executive would be asked to explain why multiple glitches continue to mar its smooth functioning. "Ministry of Finance has summoned Sh Salil Parekh,MD&CEO @Infosys on 23/08/2021 to explain to hon'ble FM as to why even after 2.5 months since launch of new e-filing portal, glitches in the portal have not been resolved. In fact, since 21/08/2021 the portal itself is not available, the Income Tax department tweeted. The new income tax e-filing portal "www.incometax.gov.in' had a bumpy start from the day of its launch on June 7, as it continued to face tech glitches. Between January 2019 to June 2021, the government has paid Rs 164.5 crore to Infosys for developing the portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Fuel prices cut by 20 paise, first reduction in petrol in over a month||Petrol and diesel prices were cut by 20 paise per litre each on Sunday - the first reduction in petrol rate in over a month, and the fourth in case of diesel in less than a week. Petrol price in Delhi was cut to Rs 101.64 a litre and diesel to Rs 89.07 per litre, according to a price notification of state-run oil companies. The reduction came as international oil prices tumbled to their lowest level since May, after the US Federal Reserve signalled it was set to start tapering asset purchases within months, hurting commodities and lifting the dollar. The price cut in diesel is the fourth since August 18, when the reduction cycle began. All four reductions have been of 20 paise per litre each. On the previous three occasions when diesel rates were cut, petrol prices remained unchanged. Sunday's cut in petrol price came after 36 days of status quo in rates. Diesel rate change was effected after 33 days of no change. The freeze in rate revision coincided with Parliament session, where the opposition parties tried to corner the government on various issues including the hike in fuel prices. Petrol and diesel prices were last hiked on July 17. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rates had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. The price hike during this period pushed petrol prices above Rs 100-a-litre mark in more than half of the country, while diesel crossed that level in at least three states. International oil rates have fallen to USD 66 a barrel from USD 75 per barrel touched last month. India is dependent on imports to meet nearly 85 per cent of its oil needs and so benchmarks local fuel rates to international oil prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Adani Total acquires gas meter manufacturing company||Adani Total Gas Ltd, the city gas joint venture of Adani Group and TotalEnergies of France, has acquired a 50 per cent stake in a company that manufactures gas meters to aid its gas retailing business. The firm bought the stake in Smartmeters Technologies Pvt Ltd (SMTPL) for Rs 1 crore, the firm said in a stock exchange filing. Smartmeters, which had a turnover of Rs 4.83 crore in the year till March 31, 2021, manufactures gas meters which are used to measure the consumption of gas piped to household kitchens. The objective of the acquisition is “to manufacture gas meters with a focus on prepaid smart meters”, the company said. There are no government or regulatory approvals required for the acquisition, the firm added. The company further said the acquisition does not fall within related party transaction(s) and the promoter/promoter group/group companies don’t have any interest in the entity acquired. The acquisition, it said, is expected to be completed by September. Adani Total Gas retails CNG to automobiles and piped natural gas to household kitchens and industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Sebi keeps Adani Wilmar's Rs 4,500-crore IPO in abeyance||Capital market regulator Sebi has kept the proposed Rs 4,500-crore initial share sale of edible oil major Adani Wilmar Ltd (AWL) in “abeyance”. However, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) did not clarify further. The company had filed preliminary papers with Sebi on August 3 to raise funds through an initial public offering. Without disclosing the reason, Sebi said the “issuance of observations has been kept in abeyance” with regard to the Adani Wilmar IPO, according to an update on the Sebi website on August 13. In market parlance, the observations of Sebi is a kind of a go-ahead to float a public issue. In a statement on Saturday, the Adani Group spokesperson said, “We have not received any formal communication from Sebi with respect to the IPO observations being kept in abeyance.” “While we have always been fully compliant with the applicable Sebi regulations, we have made full disclosure to Sebi on specific information requests from them in the past. We will continue to cooperate with the regulators in the future as well,” the spokesperson added. The proposed listing of AWL on the stock exchanges will comprise an IPO in the form of a fresh issue of equity shares for an amount of up to Rs 4,500 crore (around $600 million).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Arvind Fashions raises Rs 439 crore from investors, promoters||Arvind Fashions a leading casual wear and denim manufacturer, on Saturday said it has raised Rs 439 crore by issuing equity shares of the company. This will allow the business to pursue its growth strategy  AFL said in a statement. The investors who participated in the fund raiser are Akash Bhanshali, existing shareholders such as ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, various foreign institutional investors, including University of Notre Dame Du Lac, GP Emerging Markets Strategies LP and The Ram Fund LP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
22-08-2021||Business||Banks restructure loans of around Rs 35,000 crore under RBI’s Resolution Framework 2.0||Banks have restructured loans of around Rs 35,000 crore under the Reserve Bank of India’s Resolution Framework 2.0 that allows lenders to implement a resolution plan for eligible borrowers in a bid to alleviate financial stress during the Covid pandemic. According to data compiled by Care Ratings as on June 30, 2021, public and private banks have together restructured Rs 1,37,000 crore worth of advances under the two restructuring frameworks provided by the RBI. Resolution Framework 2.0, which was aimed at individuals and small businesses, accounted for 26 per cent of the overall restructured amount till June end. The ratings firm expects more restructuring under the second window which is open till September 2021. Personal and MSME advances constituted 54 per cent under the two schemes together till the end of June. “The rise in slippages and restructuring indicates stress building up in the retail segment post Covid-19 especially after the second wave when there was no blanket moratorium and the banks either had to restructure or take the slippage on the books. Although most banks have seen improvement in collection efficiency with the opening of lockdowns, there could be additional restructuring under Framework 2.0,” said Care Ratings in its report. The ratings firm estimated the share of stressed assets inching up in the retail and MSME segments for both public and private sector banks for the quarter ended June largely on account of the second wave leading to many states invoking restrictions. PSU banks saw a rise in combined retail and MSME gross NPA to 7.28 per cent as of June 30, 2021 from 6.52 per cent as of March 31, 2021. For private banks combined gross NPA in the two segments rose to 3.32 per cent by June from 2.68 per cent as of March 31, 2021. The ratings firm also pointed out that the ending of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme in September 2021 is a downside risk for banks. “The stress from the second wave is expected to continue over the next quarters with a rise in slippages and restructuring. As a result, there could be higher restructuring and the real stressed accounts could be higher than the reported NPA numbers. Thus, credit losses could increase if economic conditions deteriorate, or government support measures are less effective than anticipated,” Care Ratings said in its report. The ratings firm has estimated a credit growth of around 7.5 per cent to 8 per cent for 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
22-08-2021||Business||NTPC commissions 15 MW floating solar capacity at Simhadri||State-owned power producer NTPC on Saturday said it has commissioned a 15 MW capacity at the floating solar PV project in Simhadri, Andhra Pradesh. With this, the installed capacity of the floating solar PV project at Simhadri stands at 25 MW. “Consequent upon successful commissioning of the 15 MW capacity, Simhadri Floating Solar PV Project at Simhadri, Andhra Pradesh is hereby declared on commercial operations,” a BSE filing said. The floating solar installation, which has a unique anchoring design, is spread over 75 acres in an RW reservoir. This floating solar project has the potential to generate electricity from more than 1 lakh solar PV modules, the power producer said. This would help to light around 7,000 households. The project would also save 1,364 million litres of water per annum. This would be adequate to meet the yearly water requirements of 6,700 households. With this addition, the installed capacity of NTPC and NTPC Group stands at 53,475 MW and 66,900 MW, respectively. “This is also the first solar project to be set up under the Flexibilisation Scheme, notified by the government of India in 2018,” the country’s largest power generation utility said. The project is part of NTPC’s plan to have 60 gigawatt (GW) renewable energy capacity by 2032 from around 4GW on Saturday. NTPC plans to invest Rs 1 trillion between 2019 and 2024 to become a 130GW power producer by 2032. “NTPC is also planning to set up a hydrogen-based micro-grid system on a pilot basis at Simhadri,” it said. Subsidiary NTPC REL has also inked a pact with the union territory of Ladakh for a green hydrogen mobility project with NVVN jointly executing the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
22-08-2021||Business||Government asks jewellers to rethink call for strike on August 23||The government on Saturday appealed to the jewellers to reconsider their decision to go on strike on Monday as the mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery in the 50 days of its first phase of implementation has been a “grand success.” The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) has called a nationwide “token strike” on August 23, against the government’s arbitrary implementation of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery with HUID (hallmark unique identification number). “I heard that some associations have given a call for strike. Strike for what? ... The government is listening to every issue raised by stakeholders. The idea of a strike is uncalled for,” Pramod Kumar Tiwari, director-general of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), said in a virtual press conference. Mandatory gold hallmarking has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and Union Territories for the first phase of implementation. Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature before June 16. Tiwari also ruled out extending the implementation of this new initiative to other districts. “The country does not have the stomach for hallmarking more than 10 crore pieces a year. At this rate, we will be able to hallmark all jewellery. There is no question of extension.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
22-08-2021||India||BJP flag over Indian flag at Kalyan Singh's prayer meet triggers row||A photograph of the tribute ceremony to former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh is rapidly becoming the eye of the storm on social media. Kalyan Singh -- the BJP veteran under whose watch the Babri Masjid was demolished -- died yesterday at the age of 89. Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had visited Lucknow to pay his respects. Kalyan Singh was a valuable personality and a capable leader who became a "symbol of faith" for the common people, he had said. But later in the day, there was apparently some rearrangement of the bier. Its photo, tweeted by the BJP, shows Kalyan Singh's body lying in state, draped by the national flag. But half of it was seen to be covered up by the party flag of the BJP. "Is it ok to place party flag over Indian flag in New India?" questioned Srivivas BV, the chief of the Youth Congress. "India will not tolerate the insult to the national flag," the Youth Congress tweeted in Hindi from its official handle. "Party above the Nation.Flag above the Tricolor. BJP as usual : no regret, no repentance, no sorrow, no grief," tweeted Samajwadi Party spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari. Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act says, "Insults to Indian National Flag and Constitution of India", says: "Whoever in any public place or in any other place within public view burns, mutilates, defaces, defiles, disfigures, destroys, tramples upon or otherwise shows disrespect to or brings into contempt (whether by words, either spoken or written, or by acts) the Indian National Flag or the Constitution of India or any part thereof, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both." Earlier this year, an instance of disrespect to the flag had taken place at the iconic Red Fort during the farmers' rally. After the farmers entered the forecourt of the fort, climbed its ramparts, and hoisted a religious flag on a mast outside, the Centre said it would "not tolerate disrespect to the flag".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Trying to convince farmers: UP on plea against road block||The Uttar Pradesh government has said that it is trying to convince farmers about the illegality, in light of a Supreme Court order from April, of blocking roads as part of their ongoing protest against three farm laws brought in by the Centre last year. In an affidavit filed in connection with a public interest litigation filed in the court by a resident of Noida seeking removal of road-blocks created by protesters, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's government has said that efforts were underway to "make farmers understand" the "grossly illegal act of blocking roads". "Most of the protesters are aged and old farmers," the affidavit has said. "Diversions have been created to allow for smooth movement of traffic between Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi via the Maharajpur and Hindon roads as NH 24 was still blocked." A hearing on the PIL by Monica Agarwal is scheduled to take place tomorrow before a bench of Justices SK Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy. The plea says "it has become a nightmare" to travel to Delhi from Noida which takes two hours instead of the usual 20 minutes. In an April 9 hearing related to the case, the Supreme Court had said that public roads should not be blocked, come what may. Without directly referring to the farmers' agitation, the court said, "We are not going into the larger issue but are referring to a limited issue. The larger issue can be solved judiciously, administratively, and politically. We have been repeatedly saying that the public roads should not be blocked." Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping around three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur – since last November, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Amarinder Singh asks two of Sidhu's advisors to not speak on sensitive issues||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday to "rein in" his advisers after two of them made "atrocious" comments recently on sensitive issues like Kashmir and Pakistan.  In a statement issued here, Singh warned against such "atrocious and ill-conceived comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country".  The chief minister, who has been at loggerheads with Sidhu in the past, trained his guns on the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief's advisors.  He urged them to stick to giving advice to Sidhu and not speak on matters "of which they clearly had little or no knowledge and had no understanding of the implications of their comments".  Singh was reacting to the reported remarks of Pyare Lal Garg, questioning his criticism of Pakistan, as well as an earlier statement made by Malwinder Singh Mali on Kashmir. Both of them were recently appointed by Sidhu as his advisors.  In a recent social media post, Mali had waded into the issue of revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave a special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.  He had reportedly said if Kashmir was a part of India, then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35A.  Singh expressed shock at the "extraordinary statements" of Mali and Garg, which he claimed were totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress on Pakistan and Kashmir.  "Kashmir was and is an inalienable part of India," the chief minister asserted, adding that with his "proclamation to the contrary", Mali had effectively and inexplicably toed Islamabad's line.  "This is totally anti-national," he said, also slamming Mali for failing to withdraw his statement, despite the widespread condemnation it had evoked not only from other political parties but also from within the Congress.  Ridiculing Garg's statement that Pakistan's criticism by him (Singh) was not in the interest of Punjab, the chief minister said Sidhu's advisor is clearly disconnected from the ground reality.  "The fact, which every Punjabi and in fact every Indian knows, is that Pakistan's threat to us is real. Every day they are pushing weapons and drugs into Punjab via drones in a brazen attempt to destabilise our state and our nation.  "Punjabi soldiers are dying at the borders at the hands of Pak-backed forces," he said, dubbing Garg's remarks as irrational and unjustified.  Singh said Garg may have forgotten about the thousands of Punjabi lives lost in the fire of Pak-backed terrorism in the 1980s and 1990s, "but I have not".  "Nor have the people of Punjab. And we will continue to do everything in our power to fight off Pakistan's dangerous games," he asserted, urging Garg not to undermine the sacrifices of Punjabis with his "outrageous, irresponsible and patently politically motivated" statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Railways suffered loss of Rs36,000cr in pandemic: Union Minister||Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Sunday said the Railways has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 36,000 crore during the coronavirus pandemic, and termed goods trains as the real revenue generators for the national transporter. He also said that a bullet train project would be executed along the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway, which is under construction at present. The Minister of State for Railways was speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony of an underbridge at the Jalna railway station. "The passenger train segment always runs into losses. Since increasing the ticket fares affects the passengers, we cannot do so. During the pandemic, the Railways suffered losses of Rs 36,000 crore," he said. "Only goods trains generate revenue. During the pandemic, these trains played an important role in carrying goods and providing relief to people," the minister added. Speaking about bullet train, he said this project would be rolled out along the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway as it is necessary for people. The Railways has undertaken the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor project, which will connect Navi Mumbai to Delhi, Danve said. He assured doubling of tracks between Nanded and Manmad stations, and said he would check if the Jalna-Khamgaon railway line was viable or not. Hitting out at his detractors, Danve said he was being attacked from all quarters. "But I become stronger after facing criticism," he said. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope, who was also present at the event, said the state government has sanctioned a hospital in Jalna for treatment of those suffering from mental illnesses. He said the facility would benefit the Marathwada region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to felicitate armed forces personnel who participated in Olympics 2020||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will felicitate armed forces personnel who participated in this year's Olympics in Tokyo at the Army Sports Institute (ASI) in Pune on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, the Defence Ministry had said the felicitation event was going to take place on Monday. Later, it said the minister's visit has been deferred to Tuesday “due to unavoidable circumstances and any inconvenience is deeply regretted”. It noted that all armed forces personnel who represented India in the recently-concluded Tokyo Olympics, including gold medallist javelin thrower Subedar Neeraj Chopra, are likely to be present on the occasion. Singh will also interact with budding sportspersons of the ASI and troops during his visit, it stated. "He will visit the Headquarters of Southern Command. The Raksha Mantri will be accompanied by Chief of the Army Staff General M M Naravane and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Command Lieutenant General J S Nain," the ministry said on Sunday. ASI has produced 34 Olympians, 22 Commonwealth Games medallists, 21 Asian Games medallists, six Youth Games medallists and 13 Arjuna Awardees till date, it mentioned. "Indian Army has always been the backbone of Indian sports - from Major Dhyan Chand to Subedar Neeraj Chopra who etched their names in golden letters in the history of Indian sports," the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij admitted to Chandigarh’s PGIMER||Haryana's Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was on Sunday admitted to the PGIMER here as his oxygen levels dipped. The 68-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader earlier could not attend the state Assembly's monsoon session on health grounds. He was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here on Sunday evening, hospital sources said. The sources said Vij is under the supervision of doctors led by a pulmonary and respiratory medicine specialist. Vij had last week gone to Rohtak to attend the cremation of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's younger brother. He had returned with the chief minister in a chopper and due to high altitude, his oxygen levels had dipped and have been fluctuating since, sources said. Vij had last year contracted Covid and was hospitalised for nearly a month. On November 20, Vij had offered to be the first volunteer in the phase 3 trials for anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin. He was administered the dose at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Taliban takeover hurts turban-makers of Bengal||With Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan dealing a severe blow to trade, a handful of turban-makers in West Bengal's Bankura district who had been supplying colourful silk headgears to Kabuliwallahs for over 40 years are now staring at an uncertain future. Since the Afghanistan crisis began, over 150 turban-makers in Sonamukhi town known for its exquisite silk weaves, are incurring huge losses as a Surat-based agency exporting headgears has stopped sending consignments, spokesman of local weavers organisation Shyamapada Dutta told PTI Sunday. "Due to the prevailing economic downturn, and the lockdowns, business had already received a blow with less than half of the turban-makers pulling on. The tumultuous situation in Afghanistan has dealt the final nail on the coffin in the past one week or so, Dutta said. Sonamukhi town in the state's western part, some 3,000 km from Kabul, had become a turban hub over four decades back when some Pakhtoons, locally known as Kabuliwallahs, used to visit Krishnabazar area to peddle spices, dry fruits, and for money lending purposes. As their rapport grew with local weavers, who were manufacturing items like sarees, the Pakhtoons placed orders for turbans and took the initiative in taking their products to Kolkata and from there to Surat, an old-timer of the place recalled. It became a flourishing business and around 150 weavers engaged themselves in the turban trade and the business continued for generations. Asked about the impact, Dutta, himself a turban maker, said with a headgear costing between Rs 350 and Rs 3,500, the craftsmen are suffering considerable losses. A turban-maker usually made around 20-50 turbans a month, another weaver said. Businessman Nimai Pal, who used to take the product from weavers and send them to Kolkata, said though it was difficult to hazard a guess, approximately a loss of Rs 1 crore has been incurred. "Though business had been down for quite some time due to factors like recession, lockdown, prolonged uncertainty in Afghanistan, trade was limping. The visit of Pakhtoons had also dwindled over the years. But now it has altogether stopped. The craftsmen will now be compelled to take up weaving other items," he added. A district official said if the weavers and traders approach the government documenting the losses and their previous income, the issue of financial support will be sympathetically considered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Afghanistan going through difficult times, says envoy to India||Asserting that the "suffering" of Afghanistan is man-made, the war-torn nation's Ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay on Sunday said his country is going through a difficult time, and only good leadership, compassionate attitude and international support to the Afghan people would bring an end to "miseries". Mamundzay also appreciated the words of sympathy and support messages from all "Indian friends" and the diplomatic missions in New Delhi over the suffering of Afghans in the past few weeks. His remarks come days after the Taliban swept across Afghanistan, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including capital Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. "I appreciate the kind words of sympathy and support messages from all Indian friends and the diplomatic missions in New Delhi over the suffering of Afghans in the past few weeks, particularly the last seven to eight days," Mamundzay said on Twitter. "The avoidable suffering of Afghanistan is man-made and at a scale beyond all civilised contemplation," he said. Afghanistan is going through a difficult time, and only good leadership, compassionate attitude and international support to the Afghan people "would somewhat bring an end to these miseries", the envoy said. India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban. Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani fled the country as his US-backed government fell with the Taliban gaining control. In his first comments after he left Afghanistan, Ghani in a Facebook post on August 15 had said he was faced with a "hard choice" between the "armed Taliban" who wanted to enter the Presidential Palace or "leaving the dear country that I dedicated my life to protecting the past 20 years".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Maha engineer touring world to spread Mahatma’s message reaches Kargil||A 30-year-old engineer from Pune in Maharashtra who has been touring the world on foot or by bicycle to spread Mahatma Gandhi's message of truth and non-violence arrived here after covering 46 countries in five continents, an official spokesperson said on Sunday. Nitin Sonawane arrived in Kargil on Saturday. On Sunday, he called on Chairman and Chief Executive Councillor of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (Kargil) Feroz Ahmad Khan, Deputy Commissioner and CEO of LAHDC (Kargil) Santosh Sukhadeve and Senior Superintendent of Police of Kargil Anayat Ali Choudhary, the spokesman said in a statement. According to the statement, Khan highly appreciated Sonawane's dedication and commitment in traversing different countries on foot or by bicycle to propagate Mahatma Gandhi's principles of truth, harmony and non-violence which remain relevant in the 21st century. Sukhadeve said Sonawane's extraordinary feat would prove to be an inspiration to people, especially the youth, to realise and dwell upon Gandhian principles and values. The SSP of Kargil said his journey should be an inspiration to many as to how "we can contribute in bringing peace and harmony in the world by promoting the values and principles of Mahatma Gandhi." According to the statement, Sonawane began his journey on November 18, 2016 from Sevagram Ashram in Wardha in Maharashtra and cycled in 20 countries, including India, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, China, Hong Kong, Macau, South Korea, USA, Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru. He also travelled on foot in 26 countries -- including Japan, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Egypt, Scotland, England, North Ireland, Ireland, Germany, Spain, Georgia, Turkey, Serbia, Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Afghanistan. So far, he has covered around 25,000 km by bicycle and around 11,000 km on foot, the statement noted. His journey will conclude at the Raj Ghat in Delhi on October 2 this year on the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Ex-PM Deve Gowda rues unruly events inside Rajya Sabha||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Sunday rued the unruly scenes in the Rajya Sabha and wastage of the recently concluded Parliament session without any debates on issues affecting people, saying he had not seen anything like it in his 30 years as a parliamentarian. After the conclusion of the monsoon session on August 11, he met the opposition leaders and asked them what they had achieved as none of the issues affecting the people was discussed, Gowda said. "I was not allowed to speak during the monsoon session due to the ruckus by members of the ruling and opposition parties. No business took place and the session was wasted," the JD(S) leader told reporters at the party office here. On the unruly behaviour of parliamentarians in the Rajya Sabha, he said, "I am disgusted with the behaviour of the ruling party, as well as the members of the opposition... People danced on the table in the well the house. In my 30 years as a parliamentarian, I have never witnessed any incident like this." Such behaviour was not good for society because it showed the degeneration of democratic values and was an insult to the great people who fought for the freedom of the country, he said. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu had suspended four TMC MPs on August 4 for the rest of the day for creating a ruckus over the Pegasus spying issue. Gowda said his party would launch a state-wide campaign after the conclusion of the legislature session on September 24, to resolve the water disputes in the state, including that pertaining to the Krishna and Mahadayi rivers and the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project across the river Cauvery. He said Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had spoken to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and other BJP leaders in a bid to find a solution to the Krishna and Mahadayi water sharing dispute between the state and Maharashtra. Regarding the Mekedatu issue, he said some leaders from Tamil Nadu he had spoken to had advocated a reservoir on the Cauvery river at Hogenakkal on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border, and not Mekedatu in Ramanagara district. "A reservoir at Hogenakkal would mean encompassing a large catchment area whereas in Mekedatu, the catchment area is small," Gowda said. The former PM said only a regional outfit like JD(S) could find a solution to these two river water disputes and not any national party. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi needed to 'walk the extra mile' to hone his political skills and wondered what he had achieved by taking out a bicycle rally recently to protest the hikes in fuel prices. To a question on his recent meeting with Bommai, Gowda said he assured him support on various issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||India flawlessly evacuating people from Afghanistan, says minister||Union Minister V Muraleedharan on Sunday said the evacuation process of Indians from Kabul in Afghanistan, in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban, was happening in a flawless manner and the central government will bring back all Indian citizens, who want to come back. The Union Minister of State for External Affairs while speaking to media here, said there are around 500 people stranded there as per the preliminary estimation and the government will ensure their safe travel to the airport there. "The evacuation process is happening in a flawless manner. As per our estimation there will be around 500 people to return to India. The union government has taken steps to bring back all those Indians who want to come back. There are some issues related to the travel to the airport there. The government will take necessary steps to bring those stranded there safely to the airport," Muraleedharan said. Meanwhile, India brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to meet on Tuesday regarding Jammu and Kashmir situation||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration is likely to meet here on Tuesday to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir, and have wider consultations on the way forward. The PAGD is an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was revoked by the Centre in August 2019. A leader said the meeting will take place at alliance chairman Farooq Abdullah's residence at Gupkar here at 11 am. "This meeting will be a different one from the earlier ones. This time it is not only the top leadership of the constituent parties which has been invited for consultations but the middle rung leadership as well," he said. The leader said it has been left to the alliance parties to select the party leaders for the meeting. "The participants will be from the length and breadth of the Valley and we expect around 150-200 leaders to take part in the meeting," he said. The meeting has been called to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir and "have wider consultations on various issues", he said. "It (the meeting) will discuss the way forward and it is the first such attempt in the Kashmir valley by the alliance to get a broader perspective on the issues. We wanted to have this kind of consultation before but various factors like Covid prevented such a gathering," the leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India|| Over 720 children in care homes got infected by Covid, says RTI||Over 720 children in child care institutions in 11 states and Union Territories have contracted COVID-19 till now and no fatalities have been reported, according to data from the country's apex child rights body. The data, which was shared by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights in response to an RTI query from PTI, also stated that 686 children living in child care institutions (CCIs) have been infected with COVID-19 so far this year. Last year, Uttar Pradesh was the only state out of the 11 states and Union Territories (UTs) to report coronavirus cases among children in CCIs. It had reported 35 cases, according to the data. This year, no coronavirus case has been reported yet from such institutions in Uttar Pradesh, it stated. According to the commission's data, no death due to the coronavirus infection has been reported among children residing in CCIs from these 11 states and UTs. Out of 721 children in such institutions, who contracted the infection, the highest number was reported from Haryana (288) followed by Tamil Nadu (149) and Bihar (131), according to the data. It stated that the number of COVID-19 cases among children in CCIs in Mizoram was 46, Karnataka 37, Delhi 19, Telangana seven, Gujarat six, Chandigarh three. No case was reported from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, stated the data of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights for 11 states and UTs. There are 857 CCIs in these states and UTs and 33,695 beneficiaries reside in them, according to government data. In June, the Women and Child Development Ministry had asked states to make suitable arrangements for isolation facilities within CCIs to take care of children suffering from COVID-19 and prepare a roaster of child psychologists or counsellors to visit the facilities and interact with them. To ensure institutional support through CCIs, the ministry had also asked states and UTs to organise special inspection drives in collaboration with district magistrates, for assessment of quality care at all CCIs for ascertaining the wellbeing of children. CCIs were also directed to ensure proper facilities such as clean and hygienic living conditions, basic amenities, quality food and safety for all children from the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||All achievements of last 20 years lost, nothing left now, says Afghan lawmaker||"All achievements of the last 20 years in Afghanistan have been lost. Nothing is left. It's zero now," said Afghan lawmaker Narender Singh Khalsa soon after his arrival along with 167 others at the Hindon airbase on Sunday as part of India's evacuation mission from Taliban besieged Kabul. Khalsa and senator Anarkali Honaryar as well as their families were among those flown out of Kabul in a C-17 heavy-lift aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) this morning. The Sikh lawmaker thanked the Indian government for rescuing him, his family and several other members of his community following the Taliban's takeover of Kabul and most parts of Afghanistan. "India is our second home. Even if we are Afghans and live in that country, people often call us Hindustanis," the lawmaker told reporters at the airbase near Delhi. Asked about the current situation in Afghanistan and how he felt about the latest developments in the country, Khalsa, with tears in his eyes, said all the gains of the past 20 years have been undone. "I feel like crying. Everything is finished. It is a very difficult and painful decision to leave the country. We have not seen such a situation. Everything has been snatched away. It's all over," he said. The Taliban took control of Kabul and almost all major cities and provinces of Afghanistan 20 years after it was ousted by a US-led military coalition following the 9/11 attacks. Recalling the harrowing experience of the past seven days after the Taliban took control of Kabul, Khalsa said the situation is "very bad" and appealed to the Indian government to rescue the remaining stranded Hindus and Sikhs from the war-torn country. "Situation is very bad. We had to face a lot of difficulties. Thank God for saving our lives as we had to face harrowing times in the last few days. My expectation from the Indian government is that all those who are still stuck are brought back," he said. "The Taliban used to ask us to remain in Afghanistan saying your security is our responsibility. As there are so many groups of Taliban, we do not know whom to speak to and whom to believe. That's why we decided to leave as the situation is serious," he added. Khalsa said almost all Indians and Afghan Sikhs were taking shelter at gurudwaras in Kabul and elsewhere and that some 200 other Indians and Indian-origin people are waiting to be rescued. "The gurudwaras are serving people by providing shelter and food. We are worried about our people who are still staying there," he said. Asked about the brief detention of Indians and the Afghan Sikhs and Hindus on Saturday by the Taliban when they were on their way to the Kabul airport, he said all of them had to face harrowing experiences. "They separated us from the Indians...In each of the gates at the airport, 5000-6000 people were standing. Initially, we could not go inside," he said. "A person from Taliban harassed us. Then we left the place and came to a gurudwara. Our Indian friends were also harassed. It was difficult to understand who was a good person and who was bad. Then around 8 at night, we entered the airport by a VIP entry point," he added. Khalsa said the temples and gurudwaras in Afghanistan are unharmed and safe so far. India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul. A total of 168 people including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to Hindon airbase near Delhi in a C-17 heavy-lift military transport aircraft of the IAF. Another group of 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals were brought back in a special Air India flight from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital in an IAF aircraft, officials said. Separately, a group of 135 Indians who were earlier evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days by the US and NATO aircraft, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on a special flight, they said. India carried out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries. Two days after the Taliban seized control of Kabul, India evacuated 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on Monday last. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Nearly 400 people evacuated from Afghanistan reach India||India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban. A total of 168 people including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to the Hindon airbase near Delhi in a C-17 heavy-lift military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF). Another group of 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals were brought back in a special Air India flight from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital in an IAF aircraft, officials said. Separately, a group of 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days by the US and NATO aircraft, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on a special flight, they said. India carried out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US, Qatar, Tajikistan and several other friendly countries. The group of 168 people, who were evacuated from Kabul, included Afghan lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa and their families, people familiar with the evacuation mission said. "Evacuation continues! IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers on board, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted hours before the plane landed at Hindon. It is learnt that the Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan. "Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated.Assisted and supported by our Embassy @IndEmbDushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," Bagchi tweeted at around 1:20 am. India evacuated 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on Monday last. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. The MEA said the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested the Indians as well as their employers to urgently share the relevant details with the special Afghanistan cell. According to a rough estimate last week, the number of Indians stranded in Afghanistan could be around 400 and India has been looking at ways to evacuate them including by coordinating with the US and other friendly countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi in Lucknow, pays last respects to Kalyan Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid his last respects to former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh here. Singh, who was ailing for some time, died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89. Tributes poured in for the prominent backward caste leader with Modi hailing the two-time Uttar Pradesh chief minister's "indelible contribution" towards the development of the state and the "cultural regeneration" of India. The veteran BJP leader, who also served as the Rajasthan governor, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the SGPGI in a critical condition on July 4. He died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure, the hospital said. Uttar Pradesh has announced three-day mourning and a holiday on Monday, when the former chief minister's last rites will be performed. Singh was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob of "karsevaks" in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Along with BJP veterans L K Advani and M M Joshi, he was among the 32 people acquitted in the demolition case in September last year. A Lodhi leader, Singh was instrumental in the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power in Uttar Pradesh in the 1990s. Singh is survived by his wife Ramvati Devi, son Rajveer Singh, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Etah, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is the minister of state for finance, technical education and medical education in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Lion killed after getting run over by train in Gujarat||An Asiatic lion was killed after being run over by a goods train in Gir forest area of Gujarat's Amreli district, an official said on Sunday. The incident took place around 9.30 pm on Saturday near Khadkala village in Gir (East) forest division under Savarkundla forest range, Chief Conservator of Forests (Junagadh wildlife circle) Dushyant Vasavada said. The carcass of a male lion, aged around 5-6 years, was found on a railway track, he said, adding that collision with a double-decker goods train was the possible cause of the death. Forest officials reached the spot and sent the carcass for an autopsy, he added. In 2019 and 2020, a total of 313 lions died in Gujarat, with 23 fatalities due to unnatural causes, state Forest Minister Ganpat Vasava told the state Assembly in March this year. The unnatural causes included dying after falling into an open well, getting run over by vehicles or trains, or electrocution, he had said. The government was making efforts to mitigate lion deaths due to unnatural causes, the minister had said. The Gir Wildlife Sanctuary, part of the forest spread across several Gujarat districts, is the last abode of Asiatic lions in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Rains lash some parts of Delhi, light precipitation likely||Rains lashed some parts of the city on Sunday morning, and the minimum temperature settled at 24.5 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season's normal, said a meteorological department official. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 92 per cent.In the last 24 hours, the city received 9.2 mm rainfall, they said. According to the weather office, the maximum temperature is expected to settle at 33 degrees Celsius. The MeT department has forecast generally cloudy sky with light rain later in the day. According to IMD officials, Saturday's rainfall of 138.8 mm is the ninth highest in the last 62 years for August.. The highest ever rainfall for August since 1961 is 184.0 mm. It was recorded on August 2, 1961. On Saturday, the maximum temperature settled at 32.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's normal while the minimum temperature settled at around 23.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below the season's normal, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||India records 30,948 Covid-19 cases, 403 deaths||India logged 30,948 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases declined to 3,53,398 comprising 1.09 per cent of the total infections, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,24,24,234. The death toll has climbed to 4,34,367 with 403 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,53,398, the lowest in 152 days, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.57 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A reduction of 7,942 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,85,681 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 50,62,56,239. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.95 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 27 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 58 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,16,36,469, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Heavy rain lashes New Delhi||Heavy rain lashed New Delhi on Saturday, crippling traffic movement and causing waterlogging in many parts of the national capital. Places such as Minto Bridge, Connaught Place and ITO were inundated after intense showers. The India Meteorological Department said Delhi recorded 139mm of rainfall, the highest single-day rain for August in at least 13 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Former CM Kalyan Singh passes away at 89||Kalyan Singh, who was chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when the Babri Masjid was demolished, died after a long illness on Saturday. He was 89. Kalyan failed in his duty as chief minister on December 6, 1992, and had to step down but his stature in his party, the BJP, rose. He was made chief minister again in 1997 and served till 1999, when the party replaced him with Ram Prakash Gupta. The last acceptable OBC face of the BJP, observers believe that even in death Kalyan could help the party electorally. The party is expected to invoke his memories in the 2022 election campaign. “Kalyan was useful for us when he was alive, he would remain useful for the party even after his death. There are leaders in Uttar Pradesh who represent one or the other OBC caste but Kalyan was a true representative of all the OBCs in the state,” said a senior BJP leader who didn’t want to be named. However, Vinay Katiyar, a less important OBC leader of the BJP, said: “Kalyan never invoked caste even though he was one who used to start his speeches with the mention of agre (upper caste), pichre (backward caste), Dalit (Scheduled Caste).” “He was a true hero of Ram Janmbhoomi movement,” Dinesh Sharma, deputy chief minister, said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said: “The state will mourn Kalyan Singh’s death for three days and there would be general holiday in UP on August 23, when his last rites would be performed at Narora in Aligarh, his home district.” Kalyan was also known to lash out in public against his own party leaders, including then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and was suspended. He later returned to the BJP and served as governor of Rajasthan between 2014 and 2019. Kalyan is survived by his wife Ramvati Devi, son Rajveer Singh, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Etah, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is a junior minister in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti warns Centre, asks to restore J&K special status||Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday warned the Centre it would face consequences if it did not correct its “mistake” in Jammu and Kashmir and asked it to see what was happening in the neighbourhood, in what appeared to be a reference to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. “The people of Jammu and Kashmir are enduring a lot but the day the dam of patience bursts, you will not survive. You will be decimated,” the PDP leader said, addressing a gathering in south Kashmir. “I repeatedly say, don’t test us. Come to your senses, see what is happening in the neighbourhood. See what is happening in the neighbourhood. Such a big force like America has to pack its bags and flee,” Mehbooba said. Mehbooba said the Centre still had time and should initiate talks as former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had done. “And you should return what you have looted illegally and unconstitutionally and spoiled the identity of Jammu and Kashmir. You divided Jammu and Kashmir into parts. Rectify the mistake, otherwise it will be too late,” the former chief minister said. She cautioned the Centre against taking her words lightly, saying if an ant flies into the nose of an elephant, the insect could make the hulking animal’s life hell. Mehbooba clarified that Kashmir’s fight would be peaceful. “Jammu and Kashmir is a unique state. People here are not cowards, they are brave. Waving a green flag (signifying a peaceful struggle) needs more courage. As Gandhiji would say, it needs more courage to fight non-violently. You do not need courage if you pick up stones or guns,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Army jawan dies, 30 collapse during endurance run in Punjab||An army jawan died and over 30 soldiers collapsed because of heat and exhaustion during an endurance run at the Mamun military station near Pathankot in Punjab on Saturday. Sources in the army said 35 jawans had to be admitted to the military hospital in Pathankot. “The weather was very hot and humid when the training was taking place. The soldiers suffered heat stroke,” said an army official. “Five of the 35 jawans are said to be in critical condition,” the official added. The incident took place around 11.30am on Saturday. The army did not reveal the identities of the deceased or those taken ill. The training activity was organised, supervised and monitored by the 9 Corps of the Indian Army. It started on Thursday. The army said: “In an organised, supervised and monitored training activity undertaken by officers, JCOs and other ranks near Pathankot, due to severe weather conditions, there has been one fatal casualty. A few individuals including some officers/JCOs have been admitted to Military Hospital, Pathankot. The affected persons are being provided with requisite medical care. The training activity was being undertaken by 11 officers, 11 JCOs and 120 other ranks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||‘Land jihad’ egg on BJP leader Kavinder Gupta's face||A former BJP deputy chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir who had coined the term “land jihad” to vilify Muslims during a party campaign against encroachments had himself been in illegal possession of land, government documents suggest. Kavinder Gupta, who was deputy chief minister in the PDP-BJP government for a few months in 2018, had, along with Subhash Sharma and Shiv Rattan Gupta, held possession of nearly three acres of state land in Jammu under a now-scrapped law between 2010 and 2016, according to a Jammu and Kashmir government reply to an RTI query. Under the Roshni Act, 2001, which Jammu and Kashmir High Court struck down last year, the government had given ownership rights to illegal occupants of state land that had been encroached on since 1990. The rights were given against payment in some cases to raise money for power projects. Since Kavinder and the two others had held the land under the Roshni Act for six years, according to the government’s reply to the RTI query of lawyer Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, it would suggest that the trio had been encroachers on the plot at some point before that. Kavinder denied having ever been in possession of the land and demanded an inquiry into how his name had entered government records related to the plot. The BJP leader was mayor of the Jammu Municipal Corporation in 2010, the year he is shown in government records to have been granted possession of the land. In 2017, after Kavinder’s possession of the land had ended according to the government records, there were allegations that Muslims had benefited disproportionately from the Roshni Act, or the Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001. Last year, when the high court struck down the Act calling it unconstitutional and illegal, Kavinder had said the verdict was a “surgical strike on land jihad”, an alleged Muslim conspiracy to alter the Hindu-majority character of Jammu by encroaching on land. The BJP ecosystem had run a vociferous campaign alleging a Muslim plot to change the demography of Jammu. However, the drive backfired when documents studied during the case revealed that the majority of beneficiaries of the Roshni Act were Hindus. The Jammu and Kashmir government has since filed a review petition and has not implemented the court order to reclaim the land transferred to encroachers, apparently fearing a backlash from voters. The government has contended that the ruling might “unintentionally” affect a large number of common people. When The Telegraph contacted Kavinder on Saturday, he denied having ever held the land at Ghaink village in Bhalwal tehsil of Jammu. “I have no land there. Find out who has signed it (revenue records and made him a beneficiary). There should be an inquiry to find out (who did it),” he said. Told that the revenue records show his name, Kavinder said that “if somebody transfers the Taj Mahal to my possession, it will not become mine”. A revenue official said no land can be written in somebody’s name if the proposed beneficiary is not present in person. PDP leader and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, whose deputy Kavinder had been, said the BJP’s reaction to the Roshni Act was like “a thief threatening a police officer”. “They stopped it (reclamation of land) because they found a lot of BJP men were involved. They were involved in a lot of scams,” she said. BJP spokesman R.S. Pathania said it needed to be verified whether Kavinder had held the land.Pathania said the BJP stood by its stand that the Roshni Act was a scam. “But one thing came to light later (that several poor men had benefited) and a review petition was filed. The BJP sticks to the stand that prime land in the heart of (Jammu) city and municipalities had been leased out to influential people for peanuts,” the party spokesman said. “That is why we call it a scam. Government properties had been under-priced and given to influential people. It should be taken care of,” Pathania added. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration had last year publicly named top politicians from the Valley, including former chief minister Farooq Abdullah, as beneficiaries of the act. The leaders have denied the allegation. Many believe the names of the politicians had been released just before the district body polls to tarnish those who had formed an alliance to contest the elections with a demand for the reinstatement of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370. According to the government’s reply to lawyer Ahmad’s RTI query, Kavinder, Sharma, an Independent councillor in Jammu, and Shiv Rattan had jointly held Khasra No. 1,789 measuring nearly three acres at Ghaink village between 2010 and 2016. Khasra is a number given to a piece of land by the revenue department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Impressive show of Opposition unity in Parliament fails to dispel gloom in Congress||The impressive show of Opposition unity in the monsoon session of Parliament followed by Friday’s successful meeting called by Sonia Gandhi have failed to dispel the gloom in a Congress grappling with organisational disarray. Fear lurks that the much-awaited election of party president may be pushed further into 2022, allowing the few months left of the existing presidential term to run their course. Leaders and workers feel that the absence of a full-fledged Congress president is not only holding back a revamp of the party but also affecting Opposition politics in the country. Rahul Gandhi was elected Congress president in December 2017. The party constitution was amended to extend the president’s tenure from three years to five, and the next election is therefore due in 2022. A senior party functionary told The Telegraph: “Nothing has been decided so far but there is an opinion that the election should be delayed by a few months and the new president elected to a five-year term in 2022.” Confusion has persisted since the Congress Working Committee announced last year that the election of a new president — to fill the vacancy created by Rahul’s resignation in July 2019 following the rout in the general election — would be completed by the year-end. That deadline was pushed back by six months because of Covid and the Assembly elections in states like Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The general secretary in charge of the organisation, K.C. Venugopal, declared at a news conference on January 22 this year that “there will be an elected Congress president by June”. It’s August now, and speculation about the election being held in 2022 has already begun, lengthening the period of uncertainty in this critical phase for the party. “Sonia Gandhi said at the meeting (of 19 Opposition parties on Friday) that the Congress will not be found wanting — the least we can do is to elect a leader,” a senior Congress politician said bitterly. “The entire parliamentary session saw Rahul emerge as the leader of the Opposition. He created ripples by taking the tractor to Parliament, riding a bicycle and forcing the washout of a session over Pegasus. Suddenly he is pushed aside and Sonia calls the Opposition meeting. Leadership doesn’t work in a switch-on, switch-off mode.” Another senior leader too rued the party’s tendency to procrastinate and failure to resolve contentious issues. “We have been hearing about a reshuffle in Rajasthan for three months now. We were told chief minister Ashok Gehlot was not listening to the central leadership,” the leader said. “Then came the tough decision in Punjab, where Navjot Singh Sidhu was installed (as state unit chief) against the wishes of chief minister Amarinder Singh. Now even Gehlot will be forced to fall in line. General secretary Ajay Maken went to Jaipur and returned with an agreed formula. Where is the reshuffle?” A rejig in Rajasthan is crucial to accommodating Sachin Pilot in the high command structure. Other critical decisions too are pending. Gujarat, which goes to the polls next year, has neither a state unit chief nor a general secretary in charge. In Maharashtra, every senior leader and minister is sulking, unhappy at the choice of Nana Patole as state Congress president. Ditto in Delhi, where the entrenched forces have refused to accept the young Anil Chaudhary as their leader. While the so-called “Group of 23” — now seen as enemies by the new loyalists — had raised questions about organisational weaknesses, many others too privately concede that more than two years have been wasted because of the absence of a functional head. Many senior leaders and state ministers are unhappy at not being able to convey their feelings to the central leadership because Sonia and Rahul are practically inaccessible. While Sonia has restricted her interactions because of Covid, Rahul says he has no authority to resolve issues and meets people selectively. With Rahul no longer party president, there’s no institutional arrangement for his interactions. Even leaders of other Opposition parties have privately expressed shock and disbelief at the continuing paralysis in the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||BJP in bind over Nitish Kumar’s Delhi visit for caste census||The BJP is in a bind in Bihar over the demand by ally and chief minister Nitish Kumar for a caste census. Nitish will be leading an all-party delegation comprising 11 members to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 in New Delhi to discuss the demand for a caste census. The BJP leaders in the state are in a dilemma over the meeting, especially in the light of the assertion by its top leadership that there would be no caste census in the country. If they do not accompany Nitish, they might be seen as working against the interests of the backward castes. They also stand the danger of annoying the BJP top brass if they decide to go with him. Asked about the issue, Bihar BJP vice-president and MLC Devesh Kumar told this newspaper: “We don’t know yet. It is for our central leadership to decide whether our leaders will be a part of the Nitish Kumar-led delegation.” However, sources said that BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal or senior leader and deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad could be a part of the delegation to ensure that the party does not fall foul of the backward castes. A majority of the BJP leaders are of the view that “caste-oriented” politics is detrimental to their “nationalist” politics, and there was a need for states like Bihar to come out of caste and identity politics. They are also planning to counter Nitish by raking up the caste survey that his government conducted across all 243 Assembly constituencies in 2013-14 with the help of Bihar police’s special branch, which acts as the state’s intelligence agency. “This survey was clandestinely conducted by the special branch at the behest of the chief minister. Its focus was not on the entire population, but on people aged 18 and above who would serve as voters. The data was never made public, and the government later hushed up everything,” a senior BJP leader and a close associate of Nitish told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The BJP leader added that the data thrown up by that caste survey was so alarming that the Nitish government thought it prudent to hide it. There were many discrepancies as well. “The figures pointed several things like mass exodus or migration of people, including the general category castes and the pachhpaniyas (55 castes) who are counted among the EBCs (Extremely Backward Castes), in search of work. The voters of a few dominant backward castes were more than anticipated. The data was against the existing notions,” the BJP leader said. However, the data was somehow leaked and came into the hands of the BJP also, which put it to good use during the elections that were conducted in the state since 2014 onwards. “Nitish keeps talking about the Centre not releasing caste-related data of the Socio-Economic Caste Census conducted in 2011, but never discusses the caste survey that he conducted. Maybe its accuracy was questionable, but he (Nitish) must have got an idea of the existing caste composition in the state. He should tell something about it,” another senior BJP leader said. The last caste census was conducted in 1931 during the British rule. It had put the backward caste population in the country at around 52 per cent. The data became the backbone of the reservation policy of the central and state governments. A socio-economic caste survey was conducted in 2011 by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, but the data on castes was not published due to various alleged discrepancies. Last month, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai had told the Lok Sabha that there were no plans for a caste census. It prompted Nitish and Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal to profess their support for the caste census and ask the Centre to reconsider its decision. Nitish also pointed out that the Bihar legislature unanimously passed resolutions in its favour twice (February 2019 and February 2020) and sent them to the Centre, which should pay attention to it. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has asserted that Nitish should consider conducting a caste census in Bihar on the lines of Karnataka if the central government refuses it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||Odisha govt spent Rs 17 crore for repair, renovation of Raj Bhavan||The Odisha government has spent around Rs 17 crore for the repair and renovation of the Raj Bhavan, its adjoining buildings and official quarters during the last six years, according to its reply to a Right to Information query. The executive engineer, Bhubaneswar (roads and building) division-IV, said they had spent Rs 16,91,13,899 (approximately Rs 17 crore) for the repair and renovation work of the building in response to the query by RTI activist Pradip Pradhan. The works department undertook various works like new construction, renovation, maintenance of the governor’s house and adjoining buildings and quarters of officers and employees of the Raj Bhavan. The money was spent in this regard during a period of six years from 2015-16 to 2020-21, according to the reply. Of the total money spent, the expenses for the construction of the abhishek-cum-banquet hall at the Raj Bhavan were to the tune of Rs 3,95,53,299 (Rs 3.95 crore), Pradhan said quoting the department’s reply to his query. Ganja seized: Odisha police on Saturday seized 253kg of ganja valued at Rs 10.12 lakh during a raid near Tikarpada village in Boudh district of the state, an official said, according to a PTI report. The drug peddlers, however, managed to escape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||India resumes evacuation flights out of Kabul, brings out 80 Indians||India on Saturday resumed evacuation flights out of Kabul and brought out 80 Indians who were flown to Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Another 150 Indians were at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul by evening, awaiting evacuation. This third round of evacuation took place amid reports by Afghan media that 150 people, mostly Indians, had been captured by the Taliban near Kabul airport. It took about a couple of hours for government sources in New Delhi to confirm that all the Indians headed for the airport were safe and accounted for. Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen told ABP News that the reports of his group kidnapping Indians were incorrect. “This is not true that they were taken into custody. Actually they were helped to the airport like diplomats or citizens of any country,” he said. Kabul Now, a news website, reported that a group of unarmed Taliban had approached the Indians as they headed to the airport in minivans around 1am to catch an evacuation flight. They were reportedly beaten and taken to a compound close to the airport. The passengers — who were told they would be taken into the airport from another gate — were interrogated and their documents verified, the media said. While the report could not be independently verified, it’s well established that the Taliban control the approach to the airport and that all those who have made it into the airport had to negotiate with the group’s soldiers manning the barricades. This was how the Indians who had got into the first two evacuation flights earlier this week had managed to enter the airport. Even the US, which still controls Kabul airport, has made it clear in security advisories that the American government cannot ensure safe passage to the airport to its own citizens. In a fresh advisory on Saturday, the US embassy in Kabul said: “Because of potential security threats outside the gates at the Kabul airport, we are advising US citizens to avoid travelling to the airport and to avoid airport gates at this time unless you receive individual instructions from a US government representative to do so.” The 80 Indians evacuated on Saturday arrived in Dushanbe on an Indian Air Force C-130 flight. Asked why they were not flown straight to India, sources cited operational issues and said some of them might reach Delhi on Sunday. Asked how the remaining 150 Indians who had made it to Kabul airport would be brought back, sources said this was yet to be worked out and that India was waiting for slots at Kabul airport for its flights. By resuming evacuation, India has signalled it has recalibrated its assessment of, and response to, the situation in Afghanistan. After the second evacuation flight — which brought back Indian diplomats and staff, including security personnel and their dogs attached to the Kabul embassy — the external affairs ministry had said: “Government of India is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals and will institute flight arrangements once Kabul airport is open for commercial operations.” However, with the situation in Afghanistan worsening amid reports of the Taliban returning to their true form, the government appears to have decided not to wait for the resumption of commercial operations to bring back the remaining Indians. There is no official count of the Indians stranded in Afghanistan, but some estimates put the number around 500.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||Dalits assaulted for seeking prasada in Karnataka||A Dalit teen’s request for prasada from a temple led to him and his parents being beaten up near Bangalore, and a Dalit labourer was burnt with a chemical elsewhere in Karnataka. The incidents happened on August 14 and August 17 but became public only on August 20, and just one of the eight people accused in the two cases has been arrested so far. Writer and Dalit activist Mahesh Chandra Guru said the delay in the two incidents coming to light reflected society’s attitude towards Dalits. “Hardly anyone is bothered when a Dalit is attacked. It’s a symptom of a deep-rooted sickness in our casteist society,” he said. A man named Kishore allegedly assaulted the Dalit teenager on August 14 when he asked for prasada from a special puja at the Anjaneya temple in Vishwanathapura village in Devanahalli, a few kilometres from Bangalore airport. Two days later, Kishore allegedly hurled caste abuses at the boy’s mother, Aruna, when she confronted him. When her husband Muninanjappa, a schoolteacher, tried to defend his wife, Kishore and two of his relatives allegedly beat up the couple. Local sub-inspector of police Venkatesh told The Telegraph on Saturday that none of the three accused had been arrested. “We are narrowing down on their hideout,” he said. At Hallihole village in Udupi, five members of a family including four women allegedly beat a 35-year-old day labourer, Venkataramana, with wooden logs and poured a chemical on him on August 17. Police sources said the accused had found Venkataramana working in a four-acre areca nut plantation whose ownership they claimed but which a court had handed to a man named Laxminarayana Chatra after a lengthy case. The suspects — Vijendra Chatra, Sushama, Shailaja, Greeshma and Suma — allegedly asked Venkataramana why he was working on the land and attacked him when he said the owner had hired him. Venkaratamana is being treated for burns at a hospital. Vijendra has been arrested but the four women are in hiding. Both cases have been booked under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act apart from penal code sections. Mavalli Shankar, president of the Dalit Sangharsh Samiti (Ambedkar Vada), said it was “strange” that he had learnt about the atrocities only on Saturday. “Our group will provide all support to the victims,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||Plight in Herat: Gunfire outside, scared children inside||Hiding in his home in Herat with his small children, Haider Abdullah (name changed on request) prays that the gunshots do not resume. “My children are scared. There was such terrible sound of weapons outside that they did not come out for three days,” the Afghan liver transplant patient in his mid-30s said when The Telegraph called him on Friday. Abdullah is one of the several Afghan patients whose treatment was done in India. “They are scared of the intruders on motorbikes with long beards and carbines.” It had been over a week since Herat, Afghanistan’s third-largest city, had fallen to the Taliban. “It happened on Thursday (August 12) evening. They entered on motorbikes. There were clashes everywhere — on the main road, near our house.” Since then, Abdullah, an employee of “a humanitarian organisation”, has not ventured into the city. Abdullah has been instrumental in tracing the forced marriage of underage girls or widows in Taliban-controlled areas. “If I go into the city, I might get recognised.” Abdullah has deleted his Facebook account. The biggest source of his insecurity is that it’s “no longer possible to know who is police, who is army and who is Taliban; all are with guns, using motorbikes or former military vehicles”. The anxiety of not knowing who to trust is so deep that Abdullah mentions this three times during the one-hour conversation. All businessmen and government employees are in hiding or have escaped to Iran or elsewhere. “My friends who worked with the embassies reached Kabul on Wednesday and are awaiting evacuation.” The economic situation is dire. “Exports and imports have stopped. Prices are rising. The exchange rate for the US dollar has shot up to 83-84 Afghanis. A month ago it was 67-68 Afghanis.” Abdullah does his shopping in his immediate neighbourhood, on the city’s outskirts. “In the city, there was Taliban everywhere; it was frightening.” The Taliban’s numbers have reduced since Muharram after the Taliban governor instructed the soldiers to return to their villages. They are present only in the town squares now, Abdullah said. He deeply resents Pakistan. “When the clashes started between the government and the Taliban, the Pakistan borders were open. Local people got evidence of an inflow of Pakistanis in Afghan clothes,” he said. “These former commandos of the Pakistani army provided leadership to the Taliban. We saw that in Herat. They often got lost as they didn’t know the local roads. Many of them were killed by the government forces. The government posted some of their faces on social media with proof of their identity, but the world never paid attention.” Abdullah flared up at the suggestion that the local army had caved in easily. “When the Taliban started entering, the army went back to their base about 10km outside the city, near the airport, and kept asking for instructions,” he said. “I was in touch with people across the city and men in the national army. With Pakistanis getting in, it was not an internal matter and they wanted to fight. But the government leadership was weak. They did not let them launch an operation.” Abdullah believes that Herat may not have fallen had the army been allowed to act. “Our army is very well-equipped. There were 8,000-10,000 of them against 500 Taliban. In each area, only five to 10 motorbikes had entered carrying two Taliban each. But the police were few and did not resist. Herat fell in two hours,” he said, bitterness apparent in his voice. Abdullah thinks the Taliban and Pakistan exerted influence on the political leadership. “The politicians are rich people, their families live in foreign countries and they have already fled there. What is it to them? The Taliban families also live in Pakistan. It’s we, the poor, who are stuck in our land and suffer.” He said a local warlord, Ismail Khan, had tried to resist. “There were uprisings (against the Taliban) in many areas but lacked leadership,” Abdullah said. “In Herat, Ismail Khan collected his former commandos and tried to build resistance, but he was not supported by the local government. The Taliban too sent him a message saying he would not be detained or harmed but he should not fight.” Abdullah sees no hope of US action. “All of us feel this was political play with the Afghan people. They had a deal in secret in Doha — the Americans, the Taliban and Pakistan.” He pointed to the water issue with Pakistan. “All our rivers flow into Pakistan. If we have a strong government, we will stop the water. There is also the border issue. So they do not want peace in our country,” he said. “Also, we import a lot of Pakistani goods. A strong government will make those things locally and stop import. Where will Imran (Khan, the Pakistani Prime Minister) sell his goods then?” Neither does he trust the Taliban to work for the country’s good. “They are under the influence of the Pakistani intelligence service. They transferred to Pakistan all the army tanks given by foreign countries. The army also had modern guns like the M4 and the M16, donated by the US. The Taliban looted the military bases and are just selling the guns. Everybody has a gun now,” Abdullah said. “The army men are angry that they could not fight. They are hiding and living in uncertainty. They have not been recalled by the Taliban. They don’t have a future. They were trained for 20 years. Now nobody values them.” Afghanistan Vice-President Amrullah Saleh has laid claim to the presidency in President Ashraf Ghani’s absence, but Abdullah does not want any internal fighting. “Saleh has gone back to Panjshir to start a resistance. This will lead to internal fighting and harm civilians. We will be back where we were 20 years ago. There will be no development. Instead, the Taliban should give all parties a share in power.” The schools reopened on Thursday. “The Taliban have said girls can wear decent clothes and attend school,” Abdullah said. He took his boys to school. “They passed an exam.” Girls have to wear a hijab, it has been ruled, though the burqa is not mandatory. Nor can women work in humanitarian organisations. “All such international organisations have asked their female staff to stay home. Donors who were supporting these organisations are not interested in a restart. They are waiting for a government to be formed. But the Taliban are not recognised by the international community,” Abdullah said. This also means he is jobless now. “Other than my wife and children, I support the niece who donated me her liver. I’m the sole earning member.” As a liver transplant patient, Abdullah needs protection against Covid-19 when he steps out. He also needs his medicines from India. “These expensive medicines are not sold in Afghanistan.” This is why his surgeon Ramdip Ray, who is now based in Calcutta (the operation was done in another Indian city), sent him a text message asking if he had medicines in stock. “My Afghan patients depend on their India trips for check-ups and medicines. It will be terrible if they cannot travel. Although my male patients responded, I failed to connect with a lady in Mazar-e-Sharif and am worried,” Dr Ray said. Abdullah wants to visit in December, which is when his medicines will run out. “But I need the Indian embassy to reopen to get my visa. Everything is uncertain,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||Covid: Zydus Cadila expects to produce 30 to 40 million doses of vaccine by December||Zydus Cadila expects to produce 30 to 40 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine by December instead of the 50 million doses the Centre hoped to receive from the Ahmedabad-based maker of India’s first Covid-19 vaccine approved for adolescents. The company has stockpiled 3 to 5 million doses through small-scale production and expects a new plant for large-scale production to start working by the second half of September, company managing director Sharvil Patel said on Saturday. “Our critical challenge is to scale up production, yields and efficiency,” Patel told reporters a day after the Centre announced that the country’s regulatory authority had granted emergency use authorisation for the Zydus vaccine, named ZyCoV-D. Patel said the company expected to produce around 10 million doses by October. By December, Patel said, Zydus expected to supply 30 to 40 million doses, and by January-end, 50 million doses. The company is yet to decide the price of the vaccine although, Patel said, there won’t be a huge difference with other vaccines. The Union health ministry had projected 50 million doses of ZyCoV-D by December. India needs around 1,350 million doses of the various vaccines to fully immunise its estimated 943 million adults, and hopes this will happen by year-end. The ministry has also projected the three vaccines currently used in the campaign — Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V — to make up 1,000 million of the 1,350 million doses by December. Adults still priority ZyCoV-D is the world’s first DNA vaccine for any human infection and the country’s first Covid-19 vaccine to be approved for adolescents 12 years or older, along with adults. Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are approved only for adults, that is, people aged 18 years or older. But the vaccination campaign is unlikely to be opened up for adolescents in the immediate future as the first priority is to vaccinate adults, who are at greater risk of severe disease and death, a top vaccination policy maker said. A supply of 10 million doses of ZyCoV-D — a three-dose vaccine — per month will support the vaccination of roughly 3.3 million people — whether adolescents or adults. “Our first priority is to vaccinate adults. This is the logical approach, the World Health Organisation supports this approach,” Narendra Arora, a paediatric gastro-enterologist and adviser to the Centre on its vaccination policy, told The Telegraph. The bulk of the deaths during the first and second Covid-19 waves occurred in people aged between 18 and 60 years. Deaths among children have been negligible, with a sizeable proportion of these occurring among those with underlying health disorders. “Many adults are parents. We cannot let parents die,” Arora said, explaining why vaccination for adolescents was unlikely to open in the next three or four months. However, the Centre is expected to ask a panel of medical and paediatric experts to create a list of priority groups among adolescents who could be vaccinated ahead of others. An analysis of Covid-19 infections among children in India during the first and second waves suggests that 40 per cent of the children who died had underlying health disorders. “Children with chronic lung disease or kidney disease, or those with malignancies or other such disorders, or those receiving immunosuppressant drugs could be prioritised for vaccines,” Arora said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Won't allow partition in Bengal, says TMC on Raksha Bandhan||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday greeted people of the state on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan She described the occasion as a celebration of the special bond between brother and sister. Mamata posted on her Twitter handle "My heartiest greetings to all on Raksha Bandhan. As we celebrate the special bond of brothers and sisters, let us resolve to protect each other always." Sisters tied threads of love on the wrist of their brothers as Rakha Bandhan was celebrated across Bengal. Both the Trinamul Congress and BJP also observed the day with women members and party supporters tying rakhi on the wrist of leaders and exchanged wishes. Trinamul Congress leaders and state ministers Firhad Hakim, Sujit Bose and Arup Biswas participated in the festival in Chetla, Lake Town, Netaji Indoor Stadium respectively. "We won't allow any partition of Bengal, there shouldn't be any division among people though many politicians may try to instigate and divide us before polls for political gains. Let us take resolve to remain united," Hakim said. Bose said "sisters from different linguistic and religious groups have come to tie rakhi on my hand. This is a special moment for me." Biswas wished everyone on the occasion at a programme in Netaji Indoor Stadium in presence of actor Raima Sen. BJP state President Dilip Ghosh tweeted wishing everyone on the pious occasion of Raksha Bandhan. As the party organised events across the state, state general secretary Sayantan Basu said "sister members of our Mahila Morcha, my friends from different walks of life, my siblings tie rakhi on my hand on this day." "My best wishes to everyone on this day of amity. Let's remember Tagore's famous song Banglar Mati Banglar Jol...," Basu said. Many clubs and organisations observed the day following covid protocols as patriotic songs were played.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal irrigation dept asks for detailed project reports on the permanent concrete embankments ||The state irrigation department has asked its divisional officials in Bengal’s three coastal districts — East Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas — to send detailed project reports on the permanent concrete embankments that will replace those weakened by cyclones Amphan and Yaas. Sources said the initiative was taken after chief minister Mamata Banerjee directed the department to build permanent dykes and criticised officials for spending money on repairing earthen embankments in the aftermath of Yaas. The department has already identified a combined stretch of 193km along the Bengal coastline to build concrete dykes. “We have around 193km stretch of earthen embankment that has been found weak. All divisions have been asked to send detailed project reports. We will allot funds according to the finance department’s approval. We may complete the tasks in phases,” state irrigation minister Soumen Mahapatra said. Irrigation officials said this was the first time since Mamata came to power that such a massive drive had been undertaken to repair embankments. “If we get the funds at the right time, we will start work after the rainy season,” said a senior irrigation department official in South 24-Parganas. Kalyan Dey, executive engineer of Kakdwip irrigation division, said: “We have sent proposals to build embankments along a 55km stretch and are waiting for approval.” ONGC relief NGO Sandeshkhali Maa Saroda Women and Rural Welfare Society with ONGC’s aid on Saturday handed over battery-operated vans to eight victims of Cyclone Amphan at Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj blocks of the Sunderbans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Fake liquor unit busted in Darjeeling||A team of Phansidewa police station in Darjeeling district based on a tip-off raided Power House area of Phansidewa on Saturday and busted a spurious liquor-making unit. Five persons allegedly running the unit were arrested. The police team seized several items, including fake stickers and bottles of various IMFL (Indian-made foreign liquor) brands. “It seems that fake liquor was made at the unit and was sold across various parts of the district and even sent to the neighbouring state of Bihar where there is a complete ban on the consumption of liquor. All those arrested need to be interrogated to obtain more information,” said a source. During the raid, the police seized 130 bottles of fake IMFL, six plastic jars of spirit, around 10,000 plastic caps, four cartons of empty bottles, stickers of multiple IMFL brands, some food colours and a pick-up van.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt to recruit nearly 3,000 youths to run Bangla Sahayata Kendras||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to recruit nearly 3,000 youths to run the Bangla Sahayata Kendras — Internet hubs set up by the state government to help people with online related work — after complaints poured in that several such centres were not functioning properly. “There were complaints that many of the 2,500-odd centres were not functioning properly because of lack of manpower. The government is set to recruit nearly 3,000 youths to run the centres properly,” said a senior state government official. The youths will be recruited on contract and paid in the range of Rs 7,000-8,000 every month. Recently, chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi asked the district magistrates to send detailed reports on the centres. “The chief secretary made it clear that district magistrates concerned should mention the kind of problems the centres are facing, from Internet connection to lack of space or manpower,” said a source. An official said the state government was putting effort in running the Bangla Sahayata Kendras smoothly as rural people depend heavily on them to apply online for government schemes and facilities. “Computers, laptops or smartphones are not so easily available to many people in remote and rural areas. Rural reople rely heavily on these centres,” said a source. According to sources, the government can reach residents of remote parts easily with schemes and campaigns through these centres if they work smoothly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid jab list with personal details raises brows in hills||The decision of employees of a Covid-19 vaccination centre at the Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan here to display exhaustive personal details of those on the priority list for jabs has created a furore in the hills. For around two weeks, the the centre has been bringing out a daily list of frontline Covid warriors and potential super spreaders with detailed personal information including name, the district they belong to, their job profile, PIN code of the workplace, gender, date of birth, age, mobile number, identification document being used and Aadhaar card number. The list is pasted outside the building. This “breach of privacy” has left many fuming. “I am not comfortable with my phone number and Aadhaar card details being displayed in public,” said a woman whose name was on the list. An employee at the centre said they brought out the list based on information provided by government offices “so that people can easily find out if their names are in the priority group for vaccination on a particular day”. The state government has been prioritising vaccination  of those who could be potential “super spreaders” such as medical professionals, hawkers, mediapersons, labourers, among others. The health department is under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration but the list of priority groups is also prepared at the district magistrate’s office. The decision to display the list with personal details however seems to be an arrangement by employees at this specific centre. Other jab centres have not displayed such details. A senior district official conceded so many personal details should not have been published. “We will issue suitable instructions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh defends John Barla for demanding north Bengal statehood ||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Saturday appeared to defend his party’s MP and Union minister of state John Barla for demanding statehood for north Bengal, contending that Mamata Banerjee would be responsible for such an eventuality because of development lacunae. “If Jungle Mahal or north Bengal eventually turns into separate states, it is only Mamata Banerjee who would be responsible for it. This is because both these areas have been deprived of development for decades now. People in Jungle Mahal still survive by selling saal and kendu leaves and from both these places, thousands migrate to other states in search of jobs,” said Ghosh. “John Barla has not made any illegitimate demand,” he added. “He has simply voiced the aspirations of the people who voted for him. There is nothing wrong in it.” Ghosh, who reached Jalpaiguri on Saturday and will be in Alipurduar on Sunday as part of his party’s statewide Shaheed Samman Yatra, surprised many with his remarks because the Bengal unit of the BJP had earlier distanced itself from the statehood call, keeping in mind the strong sentiment against any further division of Bengal. Alipurduar MP Barla, recently appointed the Union minister of state for minority affairs, had started harping on statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal after the Trinamul government won the Assembly polls. He accompanied Ghosh on Saturday. Ghosh said that in 2012, the state government had inked the tripartite agreement for the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). “The Bengal chief minister even allied with parties whose principal demand is Gorkhaland and no questions were raised. But when we speak about peoples’ aspirations, we are labelled as separatists. Our party will surely mull the demand,” he said. Kunal Ghosh, Trinamul’s state general secretary and spokesperson, said the BJP should have cited the “statehood issue” in its manifesto ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections. “Dilip Ghosh and his party should have mentioned that if voted to power, they will divide Bengal. They did not, as otherwise, not a single BJP candidate would have won… Now, they are playing the divisive card...,” he said. Minister and Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim said that as most BJP leaders in Bengal “are new in politics”, they “have no inkling of the condition of Jungle Mahal and north Bengal during Left rule and the development done by Mamata Banerjee and her government.” Samik Bhattacharya, the BJP’s chief spokesperson in the state, said Dilip Ghosh had not said anything new. “He has not spoken in favour of dividing Bengal. In the past, our leaders have said the BJP wants equal development in Bengal without disturbing its geographical boundaries. Some people in north Bengal might have demanded a separate state with the perception that it would contribute to their development and at times, elected representatives have to voice peoples’ demands. But that does not mean that such people have to be marked as separatists,” he said. Additional reporting by Avijit Sinha in Siliguri and Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Toy train to resume between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling railway stations from August 25||The regular toy train services of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling railway stations will resume from August 25, senior officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said on Saturday. “Every day, one such train will run from Darjeeling and NJP. There will be 17 seats in the first class and 29 seats in the general class,” said Guneet Kaur, the chief PRO of the NFR. Regular service of DHR was halted with the onset of the pandemic last year. Recently, joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom stations were resumed. “We believe resumption of the service will benefit the tourism and hospitality sectors,” Kaur said. Passengers have to observe all preventive measures and guidelines related to Covid-19, added Kaur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Carcass of adult male rhino found on the banks of Torsha river||The carcass of an adult male rhino was found on the banks of the Torsha river near a hamlet close to the Chilapata forest in Alipurduar on Saturday. Senior forest officials suspect that the animal had died by drowning in the Torsha that had swelled over the past couple of days following heavy rain in sub-Himalayan Bengal and in neighbouring Bhutan from where the river originates and descends into India. “After inspecting the carcass, we could not find any external injury marks. Also, the animal’s horn was intact,” a forest officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 679 more cases, 709 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Saturday recorded 679 new Covid-19 infections, 709 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 41 to 9,594 after 62 continuous days of slide. Calcutta reported 70 new cases and two deaths. With North 24-Parganas logging 84 new cases, Saturday was the 16th straight day of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Sixteen districts also reported zero deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate is 98.19 per cent, its highest in the pandemic, ahead of the national rate of 97.5. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.42 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year, the figure including more than 15.14 lakh recoveries and 18,356 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
22-08-2021||North East||Assam accuses Mizoram of constructing bridge in its territory||The Assam government alleged on Sunday that Mizoram officials entered its territory in Hailakandi and started constructing a bridge, in a fresh escalation between the two Northeastern states. The incident took place on Friday when a few workers from Mizoram were trying to construct a bridge at Kachurthal in the Ramnathpur police station area, Hailakandi's Superintendent of Police Gaurav Upadhyay told. "The Officer In-Charge (OC) of Ramnathpur police station and his patrolling team immediately reached the spot and stopped the construction work, calling it a trespass by Mizoram as they had no authority to build a bridge on the Assam side," he said. Upadhyay alleged that around 40-50 security personnel from Mizoram reached the bridge site on Saturday and few of them crossed to the Assam side "in complete violation of the joint statement issued by both states on August 5 to maintain peace in the border area". The local police team from Assam urged the Mizoram security personnel to leave the Assam land, but they refused to do so, he alleged. "In order to assert the position of Assam and to ask Mizoram forces to retreat from the Assam side of the bridge, a party of around 200 Assam Police personnel and commandos under my leadership and other senior officials reached Kachurthal on Sunday morning," Upadhyay said. He, however, stated that being a responsible force, the Assam Police did not confront and gave the respective civil administrations a chance to amicably resolve the matter by stopping the construction on the unauthorised bridge and remove the force of Mizoram. "The allegation of any theft by a disciplined force like Assam Police is absolutely concocted, baseless, malafide and devoid of any facts and is an attempt by Mizoram administration to divert the attention from main issue, that is illegal construction by Mizoram authorities on Assam soil," Upadhyay asserted. The Mizoram government said that it has filed a case against personnel of the Assam Police for allegedly "stealing" construction materials from the bridge site, which it claimed to be in its territory. Mizoram's Kolasib deputy commissioner H Lalthlangliana told PTI that personnel of the Assam Police entered the state's territory at Zophai near Bairabi town and allegedly stole some construction materials, including iron rods, from the bridge construction site on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
22-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Why India's vaccine certificate can be an embarrassment||Sir — A woman and her family were recently stopped at the Frankfurt airport by authorities who were confused by their vaccination certificates. The airport officials could not match the face on the certificates with their bearers and accused the family of fraud. The travellers had to then explain that the photo on the certificate was that of the Indian prime minister, much to the amusement of authorities. The photo and the message are meant to encourage people to get vaccinated. The question is, why do fully vaccinated people need such encouragement on a personal document? Minakshi Saha,  Calcutta Sir — The list of cases pending before the courts in India is significant. The problem is especially acute in the lower courts, which is where most people flock to in times of trouble (“In place”, Aug 20). But this backlog is hardly surprising given the number of posts that are lying vacant in the high courts and in various tribunals. What makes the situation much worse is that the law ministry has a paltry allowance in the budget. Is it any wonder that India has one of the world’s lowest ratios of judges to population in the world? Justice delayed is justice denied. It is perplexing that the government is not speeding up the procedure of appointment of judges and tribunal heads. The authorities concerned and the Supreme Court should explore the idea of having additional benches of the apex court in the southern and eastern parts of the country. Just as tribunals have regional benches in large states, the Supreme Court, too, should have additional benches to meet the needs of people across the length and breadth of the country. Experienced and talented advocates may not always wish to practice in the Supreme Court as they may not want to shift to Delhi. This is a loss to the country’s judiciary. Local benches of the Supreme Court will redress this issue and offer a level playing field to all talented advocates. The high court bar associations are absolutely correct. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — The editorial, “In place”, rightly pointed out that the lack of adequate numbers of judges is a matter of great concern. The number of unresolved litigations is a problem for both the State as well as citizens. But the government cannot be the only one to blame for this situation. The collegium for nominating judges must be held responsible too. In the United States of America, Supreme Court judges are nominated by the president and then this nomination is confirmed by the Senate. Although this leaves the judiciary vulnerable to the executive, the collegium system that is prevalent in India needs to evolve with the times too. It is unfortunate that even after seven decades of independence, India has not been able to deliver speedy justice to its citizens. To overcome this problem the legislature and the judiciary must work together to fill the gaps in India’s justice delivery system. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly Sir — It is disheartening that the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, is allegedly “extremely upset” about speculation in the media surrounding the collegium’s recommendation of nine new judges. People have the right to know what the collegium is thinking. It is also unfortunate that high court lawyers have taken an exception to practising lawyers from the Supreme Court being appointed as high court judges. Matters relating to the functioning of the courts should be considered more important than anything else. The need of the hour is to fill the vacancies at all levels of the judiciary. This is the only way to reduce the huge backlog of cases — some of them pending for decades now — in the Indian courts. This is not to blame the judiciary for the delay, but swift action must be taken if Indians are to have any hope of getting justice. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — Vacancies in the courts help wrongdoers get away with injustices. This must be remedied at once. Rima Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||When Jyotiraditya prompted BJP leaders to sing 'Yeh dosti...'||The national general-secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party and West Bengal in-charge, Kailash Vijayvargiya, has been spending more time in his home state, Madhya Pradesh, these days. With the dream of wresting power in Bengal being shattered, he now has a lot of time to spare. Madhya Pradesh has been the pivot of his politics and it is no secret that he nurses the ambition to rule the state. Recently, Vijayvargiya and the chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, were seen singing the popular Sholay number, “Yeh dosti hum nahi todenge”, at a function. This surprised many since he has been eyeing the chair that Chouhan has been occupying for years now. Party insiders feel that the new alignment is the result of Jyotiraditya Scindia’s entry into the BJP from the Congress. Scindia has been made the civil aviation minister at the Centre but everyone knows that he, too, has his eyes set on his home state’s hot seat. So Vijayvargiya is trying to mend relations with Chouhan to counter Scindia. People close to Vijayvargiya, however, are of the opinion that things would have been different had the BJP won Bengal. A chunk of the credit would have gone to him and then he would have secured Amit Shah’s full backing to fulfil his dream. With Bengal lost, Vijayvargiya now has to fend for himself. Of late, the goalkeeper of the Indian hockey team, PR Sreejesh, has been receiving more political leaders than politicians themselves do. Ever since he returned to the country — and to his hometown in Kerala — he has reportedly been busy receiving important visitors, including ministers, movie stars and everyone in between. Sreejesh, the second Olympic bronze medallist hockey goalkeeper from Kerala after Manuel Fredericks, who was the star at the 1972 Munich Olympics, has just one request to the politicians who visit him — provide good facilities for the beautiful game that has brought two Olympic medals to the state. With not a single decent hockey pitch in Kerala, all that ‘The Wall’ needs is hockey infrastructure, including synthetic turfs, so that youngsters who grab the stick can try their skills just as the boys from Punjab and Odisha have been doing for decades. But, as Kerala’s sports lovers say, politicians know promises are meant to be broken. Around a month ago, the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, decided to revive his weekly ‘janata durbars’ to listen to the woes of the people and connect with them. Alarmed over the move, the BJP, the Janata Dal (United)’s ally in the state, also relaunched its own version of the programme, ‘Jan Sanyog’, by fielding a couple of ministers at the state party headquarters on a daily basis to hear the problems of all and sundry. Not to be outdone, the JD(U) hit back by planning jan sunwai (public hearings) four days a week. Reportedly, three of its 12 ministers will be present on every such occasion. Sources in both the parties said that the government is now focusing on reviving the janata durbars in districts, sub-divisions, blocks and police stations under its public outreach campaign. JD(U) leaders and legislators may also hold such programmes in their respective areas to know the pulse of the people. Some top BJP leaders are also planning similar moves. “Such a competition is good in [a] democracy, but the focus should be on sincerely resolving the problems of the people,” a senior minister in Kumar’s cabinet added. The former bureaucrat and, now, the railways minister, Ashwini Vaishnaw, may be new to politics but he knows the art of image-building. The soft-spoken minister, who served in Odisha as an Indian Administrative Service officer, earned brownie points for his decision to travel by train to the Rayagada district, dominated by tribal communities, for the BJP’s ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ from Bhubaneswar. He took many by surprise during the journey by interacting with the people in the general bogies of the train. Everything was being recorded by his team and forwarded to mediapersons for obvious reasons. While Vaishnaw’s train journey had been adequately publicized in advance, the minister made it a point to tell the passengers he interacted with about the various pro-people initiatives undertaken by the Narendra Modi government. He also highlighted the fact that the prime minister had chosen to give the railway portfolio to a parliamentarian from Odisha. He even danced with the tribal people in Payakut village. Vaishnaw’s PR exercise had begun right from the moment he boarded the plane from Delhi for Bhubaneswar. He tweeted, “Odisha is my Karmabhumi and waiting to get the blessings of Jagannath and the people.” On his way to Puri from Bhubaneswar, he halted at several places and interacted with the local people. Sanjay Yadav, a man from Haryana, has suddenly become a household name in Bihar after Tej Pratap Yadav, the eldest son of the Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, accused him of creating a rift between him and his younger brother, Tejashwi Yadav, as well as in the party. Sanjay, 37, serves as a friend and adviser to Tejashwi. They have known each other since Tejashwi’s cricketing days. Sanjay is said to have a good knowledge of socialist thought, philosophy and politics. He previously worked with the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party leader, Akhilesh Yadav. Party leaders say that his experience and understanding of socialist politics helped Tejashwi during the 2020 assembly elections in the absence of Lalu. The RJD won 75 of 243 seats in the polls and emerged as the single-largest party in the state. His presence also helped Tejashwi’s rise to prominence in the family power struggle which started around six years ago. Sources say that Tej Pratap sees Sanjay as Tejashwi’s shield and is, therefore, trying hard to get him removed. At the inauguration of a cow protection campaign, the Malayali actor and Rajya Sabha member, Suresh Gopi, declared that he has no issues with being called ‘cow dung’, a description he has been slapped with on social media. Gopi, who had unsuccessfully contested the state polls on a BJP ticket in April, in fact, welcomed it. Hailing from a state where his party has zero presence in the assembly, much has been said about his over-dramatized utterances at public meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||Making a point||There are in Neeraj Chopra’s memorable throw of the javelin and its hitting gold in the Tokyo Olympics some earth-solid reasons for celebration. The most obvious of these is, of course, that we were all, we Indians, pining for news of some precious metal coming our way from Tokyo. And he delivered the best of them — pure gold. Hockey, that luck-starved prince of Indian sport, had fetched us burnished bronze. And now, in a curved rainbow of vibrant VIBGYOR, we had got to the pot of sun-flared gold. We? No, he. By himself. Because he was who he was, moulded by the as yet incompletely understood working of inherited skills and instincts passed on by mute but inexorable impulses which some call genetics, others define by the three letters — DNA. There was something very elemental about the accomplishment, something that linked the Tokyo moment to the millennial practice of precise aiming, measured strength and — sheer will. And that is what made me more than joyful. It moved me. Moved? Yes, exactly that. Here was a stranger to privilege, even to patronage, using his instinct alone with an instrument that could be called primitive to reach a level of competitive prowess before the narrow-eyed gaze of a grade-allotting world to show what that ancient art can still do and with such élan. Neeraj was, of course, following tradition — aiming targets for food, for survival, getting substituted by aiming targets for sport. Neeraj is, quintessentially, rural, from village India, a part of India — Haryana-Punjab — a tract that has, for centuries, millennia, in fact, known rivers to course through it, change course, even disappear. Neeraj has grown up in a village, schooled there, playing village pranks like a village trundler, tying up buffalo’s tails, disturbing beehives. Neeraj is that footloose village boy who, taken by his father to learn some ‘proper sport’ to tame his fancy-free ways, sees the lot — football, hockey, cricket. And chooses instinctively, but emphatically, the javelin. Something in him has made him choose the flying spear over the hitting bat or the chased ball. So it is a very old connect, between the javelin and the javelineer, making him and, doubtless other rural youth not ‘spotted’ for the Olympics, inherently fit for that sport. As Akshay Sawai tells us: “Neeraj Chopra threw the weight of five cricket balls, at 100kmh, across the equivalent of four cricket pitches... The men’s javelin weighs a minimum 800 gm, while the cricket ball typically weighs 163 gm. The length of a cricket pitch is 20.12 metres. Neeraj’s best throw in the final was 87.58 metres… On the face of it, javelin is a simple sport. Grab spear, run and throw. But when it is broken down, its complexity reveals itself. The approach itself has two components — the run-up and crossover steps. Then there are the load-up and release, which comprise concepts such as ‘angle of attitude’ and ‘angle of velocity vector’.” And what of his instrument? Here is a plain projectile, also just by itself, that has evolved from being a weapon for hunting and fighting to becoming an instrument for sport, pure and simple. It does not target a victim, does not impale or kill. It does not even puncture or disfigure an inanimate target. It just measures a distance reached by the power of an arm’s throw. And it shows the working of skill in that throw not by technologically-backed computings of aerodynamic speed and distances but by a combination of biochemical instincts that can assess the muscular packing needed for the launch so that it covers the span aimed at. Hunting and husbandry have marked, or rather made, that region’s life over the ages. The javelin’s antiquity over other ‘darters’ like the old bow-and-arrow and the less old gun in its various avatars is obvious. The javelin is to the gun what the 5,000-year-old Indus Valley Civilization is to Silicon Valley. Haryana, where Neeraj hails from, is about where the great IVC site of Rakhigarhi is located. It would not be stretching imagination to assume that javelin-like or rounded, rock-like objects must have been made and used for hunting in ancient times in that as in other pastoral sites of the pre-Common Era. While the authoritative report on the excavations at Rakhigarhi has not yet been published, the distinguished historian, Nayanjot Lahiri, has been kind enough to say in a communication to me “… harpoon-like objects made of copper are part of what have been described as copper hoards found in different parts of the Doab and elsewhere. These definitely go back to the second millennium BCE. Such objects have been found at Hissar, Mahendragarh and Ambala. Such a harpoon is also found in a late Harappan context at Mitathal in Haryana…” The partridge or kaalaa teetar, which is the state bird of Haryana, was ‘protected’ by Emperor Asoka in his Pillar Edict V from hunters and is protected again by the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, would not have needed javelins to be hunted. But the blackbuck or kaalaa hiran, which is the state animal of both Haryana and Punjab (Asoka protected the antelope as well) and is now protected again on account of having been over-hunted through time (it has all but disappeared in Pakistan), would have. That quadruped is the subject of many a Moghul miniature painting, two of which show the ill-starred Prince Khusrau and Shah Jehan, respectively, hunting that antelope with bow and arrow, trained cheetahs helping the builder of the Taj in his chase. All that activity has to have happened in and around present-day Haryana-Punjab and Rajasthan. And it has to pulsate within Neeraj Chopra’s sporting dividend. What is the upshot of this reflection on Neeraj Chopra’s javelin win? Just this: high-end, high-cost, high-tech sport will entrance India’s imagination. But history, cultural ecology, social capital and that elusive reality called the DNA of things make athletics, running, swimming, horse-riding and the javelin with its cousins India’s natural sporting fields. Tribal India has to be their natural inspiration. And behind this verity lies a greater one beyond sport, namely, that India’s way ahead in the world, politically, economically, technologically, cannot be non-competitive. But it need not be imitative, certainly not mulishly so. And meant not for the gratification of the spectating world but for the quenching of our own inner thirsts. Being true to oneself is an old, almost tired, phrase. But I cannot think of a better one to say India must cease worrying about bettering China here, Japan there and others everywhere. It must be itself — as in Neeraj’s golden moment in Tokyo. When, after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in 1919, Rabindranath Tagore lifted a reed to write his letter to the then Viceroy renouncing his Knighthood, and when Gandhi picked up his staff in 1930 to walk from Sabarmati to the seashore at Dandi to break the salt laws, they made, austerely, unmistakably, and originally, a ‘point’. We could call it a javelin’s point — causing huge change, no hurt. And the world applauded that silent triumph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Spinning no longer||Indian cricket, of late, has acquired a distinct Caribbean flavour. Batsmen around the world — Englishmen were the latest example at Lord’s — are all at sea against the Indian pace battery, jumping around to fend off darters or, leaving the pitch, their despondent heads shaking after being dismissed by one of India’s talented pacers. India’s famous quartet no longer spins a web; they bowl with fire, turning matches in the team’s favour. Indeed, India’s triumphs away from home — back-to-back series wins in Australia and also in the West Indies and Sri Lanka — have been, in recent years, gifted by its pace battery. The investments made in fast-bowling by the Board of Control for Cricket in India — a state-of-the-art pace academy, livelier pitches in domestic competitions and, perhaps the most influential, the emergence of the Indian Premier League as a steady supply of talent to the national team — seem to be bearing fruit, at last. Yet, there is fear that the sunrise in Indian pace-bowling is causing the sunset in spin. If this speculation turns out to be true, it would be particularly tragic. This is because Indian spinners have made glorious contributions to Indian and, indeed, international cricket. From Anil Kumble and Harbhajan Singh in recent times, to the fearsome foursome of Erapalli Prasanna-Srinivas Venkataraghavan-Bhagwat Chandrasekhar-Bishan Singh Bedi in the 1960s-70s, to, even earlier, V. Mankad and C.S. Nayudu, among many others, the list of the magicians of spin is long. Yet, the magic — an art really — is no longer casting a spell. A number of factors have been cited to explain this crisis. In its bid to conquer overseas territory, India and its cricketing wise men have ended up lending disproportionate support to the fast-bowling department, ranging from roping in global experts to turning pitches friendlier for the quickies. Unfortunately, India is yet to make full use of its rich spinning legacy to guide faltering youngsters. The most formidable challenge, however, is the changing nature of cricket. With the rise in the popularity of shorter formats — T20 and T10 cricket — captains are increasingly deploying spinners to contain, rather than attack, batsmen. This shift — from attack to defence — and the changes in rules to make cricket attractive have also robbed spinners of the opportunity to ply some of the finest tricks of their trade: the teasing loop, subtle changes in length, even classical leg-spin are now on the endangered list. There can also be a cultural explanation for the existential crisis in spin-bowling. Society’s relationship with time — the slowness of time — has undergone a profound transformation with the advent of modernity and the technological revolution. The primacy accorded to everything that is quick, instantaneous — even aggressive — has meant that the pleasure of all that is leisurely, including spin, has turned out to be rather fleeting. The revival of spin, therefore, will be predicated upon a reassessment of not just cricket but also contemporary life itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||Namesake||Assam’s detention centres will hereafter be known as transit camps. Reportedly, the move is the new chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s idea and an attempt to “humanise” the camps. That is a big leap or two, from oblivion (during the 2019 election campaign PM Modi was saying “whither camp?”), to admittance (Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai said in Lok Sabha in 2020 that there were six such camps in the state) to humanisation. Mind you, these centres/camps are located inside district jails and have been used to house those declared “foreigners” by various tribunals. In 2017, China set up vocational education and training centres all over Xinjiang, an autonomous region of the People’s Republic of China and home to ethnic minority groups such as the Uyghurs. These centres are said to have a million-plus inmates, all belonging to ethnic minority groups. The government steadfastly denied the existence of these centres — 380-plus according to one report — but after an international outcry in 2018, it passed a clause to legalise these. According to the clause, governments above the county level could set up education and transformation organisations “to educate and transform people who have been influenced by extremism”. It also stated that these centres would psychologically treat inmates to “transform their thoughts”. Former detainees, however, have spoken about mass sterilisation, mass rape, forced labour and rampant torture at these centres. Camp Justice was the informal name granted to the complex where Guantánamo detainees faced charges before the military commissions. British judge Baron Steyn described its working thus — “The military will act as interrogators, prosecutors and defence counsel, judges, and when death sentences are imposed, as executioners. The trials will be held in private. None of the guarantees of a fair trial need be observed.” And after the bombing of Pearl Harbour in 1942 by Japan, US president Roosevelt ordered the creation of Japanese internment camps. Japanese Americans were sent to assembly centres — reconfigured horse stalls or cattle sheds — and relocation centres, basically prison camps. Germany’s Nazi concentration camps were called Dachau, Sachsenhausen, Buchenwald, Auschwitz…||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Opinion||Give us this day our daily spread||Ah, come, come. You’ve been generous, let’s have a little more of what you’ve given us, and given us in plenty. At night you gave us the music that sings to us, the music of tinkling quaffed rum bottles you hung in rows by the barbed fencing. Our dogs wouldn’t bark for you, you got yourselves the sonata of swilled alcohol; when they swing on the fence, or someone swings the fence, it’s music that wakes you up. And it’s music that alarms us. Thank you, our alarms are orchestral, peril comes to us when the bottles tinkle and we wake, or we are out to sleep, with such heady music as you’ve invented and bequeathed upon us. That’s night. For days, you gave us, ah well, what a spread. You gave us bunkers. You gave us barricades. You gave us diversions. You gave us your throated cry, you gave us the unambiguous swish of your arm, this way, that way, backwards, forwards, no other way, no way, just stop. You gave us, you know —- or perhaps you do not know but generous people often do not know —- you gave us the gift of yoga. Hold your breath! Now swing, this way, that way, and now stand still. And silent. You gave us that gift. Our bodies are supple for your commanding. We know maun, for your commanding. We know obedience, for your commanding. Your commanding gave us gifts. And other gifts. Whoever did bother to bequeath upon us these before? They didn’t care, not for us, they didn’t think us worthy. Until you came. And ordered us, who needed ordering because we were all such a ramshackle disorder, hai na? Nobody on the streets, and there was nobody on the streets. Everybody on the streets, and there was everybody on the streets. Speak up! And we spoke up: Jai Ho! Shut up! And we shut up, it was always better that way, having not to say what did not need to be said. Stand up, and we stood up. Kneel down, and we knelt down. Hands behind your heads, and we had hands behind our heads (although that also made us realise, by some divine stroke of something or other, that we also had heads). And that’s when some of it started, you know. The realisation that we also had heads. We could think. And we thought: What a finishing school! We are finished. But if there’s some extra, do give it, go on. We know it does suit For you to lovingly tell You’d favour us with your boot So at your feet, dear, we all fell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||On Rakhi, a green message from 'most polluted' Jharia ||Coal town environmentalists celebrated Rakshabandhan in Jharia by tying Rakhi to tree trunks during a function at children park during which they also took the oath to save the trees to secure a pollution free environment for the town. The function held under the leadership of Dr Manoj Singh, a physiotherapist and environmentalist of Jharia began at around 11am and concluded at around 1.30 pm during which other environmentalists including Akhlaque Ahmad, and Anil Jain were also present. “We organised the programme on the occasion of Rakhi with the aim of creating awareness about the significance of trees in conservation of environment,” said Singh. “We tied the rakhi to the trunks of around 50 trees under the shade of which we played during our childhood days,” said Singh and added that such effort assumes greater significance for Jharia which figured in the list of most polluted cities/towns across the country for several years during the recent past due to high PM10 and PM2.5 level in the air. Akhlaque Ahmad, who also participated in the drive, said, “Conserving the existing vegetation as well as newly planted sapling is equally important than carrying out plantation.” Meanwhile, the teachers of Dr J.K. Sinha Memorial International School, a CBSE affiliated School also celebrated Rakhi in a special way by tying Rakhi on the wrists of newspaper vendors. Talking to The Telegraph Online during the function, Shobha Sinha, founder of the host school Dr JK Sinha said, “We organised the programme for acknowledging the services rendered by these persons whose contribution towards creating awareness among the people often remain unrecognised.” “At the time of pandemic when the information was the key to make people aware about the disease, these newspaper vendors played crucial role in distributing newspapers as the source of information,” said principal of the school, B Jagdish Rao and added the despite the unhindered services their efforts often remain  unacknowledged so they organised the programme to felicitate them. Chandana Ghosh, a Hindi teacher of the school, who led the programme said, “ We felt quite satisfied after tying Rakhi to our such brothers who play a significant role in spreading information in the society.” Dharnidhar Mandal, president of Dhanbad Zila Akhbar Vikreta Sangh, who also participated in the function along with 18 other newspaper hawkers said, “We felt quite elated when we received information from the school about the Rakhi celebration and felt proud after being tied Rakhi by lady teachers of the school.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Man found murdered on railway school premises in Bagbera||Jamshedpur: The mutilated body of a 28-year-old man with a criminal record was found on the premises of a railway high school under Bagbera thana area on Sunday morning. The victim identified as Raju Singh, was found with his throat slit and two deep cut injuries in the abdomen. Bagbera thana OC, Rajesh Kumar Singh said this to be a case of murder, informing that investigation has begun. He said police have recovered empty liquor bottles and glass from near the spot where the body was found, suggesting the assailants had killed Raju after making him consume liquor. The murder victim's father, said on Saturday three persons had visited his house as soon as his son had returned from the Station market, having closed his vegetable shop and had taken him along with them. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh : A 23-year-old BJP leader on Sunday died by suicide at his residence in Dhanbad road in Barhi block, 42km from district headquarter sending shockwaves among party workers as well as those knowing him. Shivam Anand was head of the district IT cell of the party. His parents spotted him hanging from the ceiling fan. He was immediately rushed to nearest hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. Family members failed to reason why Shivam took such a harsh step that too when he was happy with his life. Shivam’s body was sent for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: It was a rare Rakhi celebration in the backwaters of Palamau’s Japla. More than half a dozen girl students of the Boon Public School Japla led by its principal Sauvari  Mukherjee went to the police station Hussainabad (Japla) and tied rakhis on the hand of the officer-in-charge Ajay Singh. “Our students had made the rakhis with their own hands using discarded household items like wool, pearl, chiffon etc,” said Mukherjee. The girls were given sweets and Rs 1,000 in cash by the police officer. Sources said there is a paradigm shift in the attitude of women towards the police in Palamau which was earlier marred by fear due to the naxals in the area. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: The Indian painted frog was seen for the first time at Canary Hill reportedly for the first time in the state as well. Renowned wildlife researcher Mritunjay Sharma discovered this frog, declared as least concern and threatened species in IUCN list. He said three days ago, he saw this frog. Sharma said Uperodon taprobanicus, also known as the Sri Lankan bullfrog, Sri Lankan painted frog, Sri Lankan kaloula, Ceylon kaloula, Indian painted frog or painted globular frog is a species of narrow-mouthed frog found in Nepal, Bangladesh, southern and eastern India and Sri Lanka. It can grow to an adult length of up to 7.5 cm from snout to vent. Sharma had found India's largest anthill on the foothills of Canary earning him a place in Limca Book. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||After surplus rain in June, state now enters a deficit phase||Jharkhand entered a rain deficit phase on Sunday due to weak monsoon activity in the past 72 hours. Statistics revealed that against a normal of 745.2 mm, the state has so far recorded 728.6 mm rain, a deficit of two per cent. This was for the second time this monsoon, Jharkhand entered a rain deficit phase. On July 16, Jharkhand had encountered this monsoon's first deficit rain. According to Met data, as many as 10 out of 24 districts, figure in the rain deficit list as of Sunday. The districts that are facing a rain deficit are Chatra,  Bokaro, Garhwa, Godda,  Gumla,  Khunti,  Pakur, Seraikela- Kharsawan, Simdega and West Singhbhum. Gumla and Simdega are facing the maximum rain deficit of 39 and 28 per cent respectively. Rest of the 12 districts including Ranchi, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Hazaribagh and all the three districts of Kolhan- East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan figures in the rain surplus list. Notably, around mid-June, soon after the onset of the south-east monsoon, the surplus rain in Jharkhand had touched 109 per cent. At that time, the monsoon was described as being "vigorous" in nature. Towards the end of June, the rainfall activity over the state reduced as the monsoon entered into a weak phase. Monsoon revived and became active around July 7, resulting in widespread rain till July 11. After that rainfall activity again got gradually reduced. The last three days of July witnessed heavy rain in several parts of the state. August began well with most districts experiencing a good spell of rain. Rainfall activity got refuced in the second week because of a break- monsoon situation. Monsoon again revived from August 15 resulting in a good spell of rain till August 17 after that reduced rainfall activity promoted the state to again enter into a deficit phase. Data revealed that only three Met observatories based at Messanjore in Dumka, Maheshpur in Pakur ,  Garhwa and Jamshedpur recorded light to moderate rain during the past 48 hours. Head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said reduced rainfall during the past few days led to the deficit. "Most districts of Jharkhand have been experiencing light to moderate rain for the last 72 hours. The reduced rainfall activity has led to deficit rain in several districts," he said. Weathermen said no significant weather system prevails over the state and that most districts would witness cloudy sky with one or two spells of light to moderate rain. According to weathermen, there would also be no significant change in both day and night temperature during the next 72 hours. The monsoon trough was on Sunday passing through Bikaner, Shivpuri, Sidhi, Patna and Nagaland. Satellite pictures indicated that the western end of the monsoon trough lies to the south of its normal position and the eastern end lies to the north of its normal position. The western end is likely to shift gradually northwards from  Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Protests planned against Jharkhand Medical Protection Bill draft||The Jharkhand government may have decided to table the Medical Protection Bill in the coming monsoon session of the Assembly, but not everyone seems to be entirely satisfied that its provisions would also take care of patients' rights and grievances as has been promised by state health minister Banna Gupta. On Sunday, Jan Swastha Abhiyan Sangharsh Morcha (JSASM), a Left backed social outfit working in the field of community health, announced plans to burn copies of the draft Bill at Albert Ekka Chowk on Monday, as amark of protest. A few independent health activists are also against the Bill, claiming it is  intended to safeguard the interest of private hospitals more than the welfare of doctors and common people. Morcha officer-bearer Bhuvneshwar Kewat said, “We strongly oppose this Bill and have decided to fight against it tooth and nail. We will burn  copies of the draft bill on August 23 at Albert Ekka Chowk at 3pm. It is evident the state government is inclined towards securing the interests of private players/hospitals more than patients.” On Saturday, health minister Gupta okayed the final draft of the  Medical Protection Bill and said it was likely to be tabled in the monsoon session of the state assembly scheduled from September 3 to September 9. Officials in his ministry claimed the Bill,  a long pending demand of the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association, was not only to ensure the  safety of doctors but also takes care of patient rights. Another official of the morcha, Nadeem Khan demanded the government work towards a patients' protection bill. "“Why do we want a medical protection Bill in the first place? There are already several laws under different sections of IPC and other Acts which safeguard any entity and persons associated with it," he said. Agreed activist Atul Gera, who is works to promote blood donation. “No problem in this @BannaGupta76 ji. Will you also bring Patient Protection Bill? Do you know how patients have become victims of the money minded health system @HemantSorenJMM ji. Are we safeguarding the patients and their rights? @mansukhmandviya @roysaryu @malini_aisola,"he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi child welfare panel chief, member accused of harassment, suspended||The chairperson and a member of Ranchi Child Welfare Committee (CWC) were suspended after a tribal child activist accused them of harassment,  leaving the quasi-judicial body headless in the Jharkhand capital, officials said on Sunday. According to police, Ranchi CWC chairperson Rupa Kumari Verma and member Tanushree Sarkar were suspended by the State Women and Child Welfare department after Sita Diya lodged an FIR with the ST/SC police station in the capital, accusing the duo of harassment and use of “derogatory words” against her ethnicity. “The complainant, who also happens to be a child rights activist, has accused the two CWC members of harassment and use of derogatory words against her. We have lodged a case under relevant sections of the law,” said the officer in-charge of ST/SC police station, RR Minz. According to the complaint,  the two CWC members had allegedly stopped payment of funds to Diya Seva Sansthan, an NGO run by Sita Divya for protection and rehabilitation of children who fall victim to human trafficking. Diya, in her complaint, has also accused the duo of causing mental stress to her by stopping the payment of funds – about Rs 30 lakh – received for running her NGO. While none of the two CWC members accused in the matter responded to calls from this correspondent on Sunday, a former CWC member requesting anonymity said that the suspension of the two members would hamper the process of addressing issues related to child rights violations in the district. Three of the five CWC members in Ranchi have completed their tenure with the quasi-judicial body. The tenures of the remaining two, who have now been suspended, would end in three months, sources said. Hence, there is no functioning member left in Ranchi CWC to hear issues related to child rights. The CWC was also actively involved in identifying children who have been orphaned during the pandemic and extending support to them. This process too may get affected in the absence of members, sources said. Children rescued from bonded labour and trafficking networks are produced before the CWC. They also undergo counselling and medical tests under the supervision of this body before being sent to schools or rehabilitation centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Accused in Dhanbad judge murder case involved in mobile phone thefts||Sonar patti resident and auto driver Lakhan Verma and his old time friend, Rahul Verma of Jorapokhar area of Dhanbad who were arrested by police on July 29 in connection with the alleged murder case of Judge Uttam Anand on July 28 were involved in mobile phone theft from station road area and had stolen 10 phones before stealing the autorickshaw of Saguni Devi on July 27. The revelations came during interrogation of the duo by a CBI team led by investigator Vijay Kumar Shukla as part of the investigation carried out in New Delhi last week. Dhanbad district judge Uttan Anand, who was handling many cases of gangster killings, was allegedly killed on July 28 when an autorickshaw ran into him while he was on his morning run. CCTV has shown the vehicle going after him intentionally. The duo revealed before the CBI that they had so far stolen 10 mobile phones in the last several years out of which complaints were not made by victims in altogether 10 cases. In the latest case of mobile theft carried out by the duo days before the death of Judge Uttam Anand, they had stolen three mobile phones from the clerk of a railway contractor Purnendu Vishwakarma from his Hill colony based Railway outhouse location. Though, Vishshwakarma had made a complaint before Dhanbad police but a constable, Vijay Yadav of Dhanbad sadar police station who received the complaint did not register an FIR. On August 20, Dhanbad SSP, Sanjeev Kumar, on receiving information through CBI suspended the constable on charges of negligence. Lakhan Verma and Rahul  Verma used to consume liquor and other intoxicating substances near the Dhanbad station road and carried out multiple mobile robberies near the station road and surrounding areas. The CBI team which took up the case on August 5, a day after registering the FIR first took their remand of five day on August 6 of five days and again extended the remand to 10 more days on August 11. The CBI again obtained court permission for remand of the duo till September 3 for carrying out brain mapping and narcotic test. Their brain mapping test was conducted at New Delhi on August 20 but their narcotic test is likely to be conducted at Ahmedabad in a day or two. The CBI carried out a crime scene recreation at the site of the incident for two consecutive days on August 7 and August 8 during which the 3D laser scanning was also carried out to ascertain the vehicle speed, angle at which the vehicle moved while hitting judge Uttam Anand during the time of incident on July 28, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Over 4 lakh vaccine doses distributed across Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Saturday distributed over 4.17 lakh doses of vaccines against Covid-19 among all 24 districts to continue the ongoing immunisation drive at full-throttle and eliminate hurdles caused by shortages in some of the districts, health officials said. As per data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state distributed at least 87,390 doses of Covaxin, the crisis of which had left several second dose beneficiaries worried. Besides, at least 3,30,250 doses of Covishield vaccine were also distributed among the districts. Ranchi got the highest share of 6,500 Covaxin and 24,000 Covishield doses from the fresh lot, while East Singhbhum received 5700 Covaxin doses and 23,000 Covishield doses, figures shared by the NHM highlighted. Dhanbad was allotted 22,000 doses of Covishield vaccine and 4000 doses of Covaxin, while Palamu received 19,500 doses of Covishield and 5400 doses of Covaxin, as per NHM data. Among other districts, Bokaro received 18,750 Covishield doses and 2000 Covaxin doses, while Giridih received 20,000 Covishield doses and 5000 doses of Covaxin. On an average, each of the 24 districts received at least 10,000 doses of vaccines with Lohardaga getting the lowest share of 8,790 doses. The state on Saturday vaccinated over 60,000 residents against Covid-19, provisional data released by the health department highlighted. As per this data, at least 42,869 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine, while 21,213 beneficiaries got the second jab. At least 45,000 beneficiaries vaccinated on the day fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 213 in Jharkhand on Saturday as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state reported 18 fresh Covid cases on the day, while at least 20 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection. Ranchi, however, witnessed a spike in the active caseload as at least 12 people were found infected by coronavirus here and eight patients recovered from the infection on Saturday. As per government data, at least 103 residents were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
22-08-2021||Jharkhand||Raksha Bandhan kits prepared by women self-help groups in demand for festival of sibling love||Raksha Bandhan kits prepared by women self-help groups from the rural hinterlands of Jharkhand are in demand for the festival of sibling love on Sunday. “On Saturday (the eve of Raksha Bandhan) we have crossed sales figures of Rs 5 lakh for the Raksha Bandhan kits. On a cumulative basis we have touched sales of nearly Rs 10 lakh which is amazing considering nearly 2,000 women associated with self-help groups in rural hinterlands took up the Raksha Bandhan kit project only a month ago under the Palash brand,” said Nancy Sahay, chief executive officer of the Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society. The society, an arm of the rural development department, sells the products prepared by women SHGs in the state under the brand name Palash across all the 24 districts through Palash Marts and also on e-commerce platforms like Flipkart, Reliance Mart and Amazon. The Raksha Bandhan kits comprise silk rakhis (prepared from handmade tasar silk threads), roli (vermilion) and akshat (rice) for applying the tika on a brother’s forehead while performing rituals, sandalwood matches and dry fruit pack containing cashew, raisins, pistachio, badam, etc. “As a part of product diversification of Palash, we advised the women SHGs to try their hand in making rakhis and Raksha Bandhan kits. Several women SHGs from all the districts showed interest and brought out the products in a span of few weeks. All the products are in high demand in the very first year and the stock is almost exhausted. The products were much in demand due to two reasons — the low prices and good quality with innovative design,” said Sahay. The Raksha Bandhan kits are available at prices ranging between Rs 251 and Rs 301 (based on the quantity of dry fruits) while the silk rakhis are priced between Rs 10 and Rs 30 (based on the size and design) and the Resham Rakhi fit pack with message cards is priced at Rs 150. The products are available online on the Palash app which can be downloaded from Google Play Store (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.jslps.palashmart). Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was presented with a silk rakhi during his recent visit to Godda in Santhal Pargana by a woman SHG member, was so impressed by the design that he had made an appeal on Friday to residents to buy these rakhis. “This will help them increase their livelihood. We have to support them in their effort,” Soren said in a communiqué issued on Friday evening. Women SHGs associated with the society are currently producing 60 products, including edible items, soaps, sanitisers, essential oils, sanitary napkins, tribal jewellery and handicrafts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
