23-08-2021||Calcutta||Sunderbans women’s unit to nurture nature and livelihood||A paper plate manufacturing unit in the Sunderbans’ Jharkhali, run by a team of local women, is set to start commercial production on Monday. Plastic has for long been the bane of the ecologically sensitive mangrove delta. The danger gets aggravated after every cyclone when hundreds of groups from Calcutta visit the Sunderbans with relief materials, almost all of which wrapped in plastic. Thermocol plates, plastic water pouches, bottles and cups are dumped in water bodies by relief workers. Much of the plastic waste was left behind by tourists before the Covid curbs suspended tourism. All this, despite an official ban on plastic in the Sunderbans. The paper plate manufacturing unit is set to supply biodegradable plates to hotels, homestays and boats in the Sunderbans. With the Covid cases on the decline, the hoteliers hope the ban on tourism would be lifted soon. The unit has come up near the Jharkhali market in the Canning sub-division of South 24-Parganas, around 125km from Calcutta. Over 40 women, from various self-help groups in the Sunderbans, have received a fortnight’s training in making the final product from recycled paper rolls. The project is being funded by the South 24-Parganas Forest Division. An NGO called the Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage is executing it by training the women and marketing the finished products. “The project, if successful, will be scaled up in the coming days,” said Milan Mandal, the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas. This newspaper had reported that more than 9 lakh plastic bottles had been flushed out from the ecologically sensitive Sunderbans in 10 days after Cyclone Yaas. According to estimates of the South 24-Parganas district administration, around 1 crore plastic pouches, 20 lakh drinking water bottles and polythene and plastic packets were dumped in water bodies across the eight blocks - Kakdwip, Namkhana, Patharpratima, Sagar, Kultali, Mathurapur, Basanti and Gosaba. The presence of huge quantities of plastic has set alarm bells ringing among environmentalists. Lumps of plastic have been clogging the “breathing roots” of the mangrove trees, causing immense harm to the aquatic creatures in the biosphere reserve. Dolphins and turtles can choke to death if they unknowingly consume plastic, they said. “The training ended on Friday. Commercial production will start on Monday. To start with, the unit will produce around 600 plates every day,” said Sourav Mukherjee, the founder of the NGO at the helm of the project. “The bulk of the produce will be sold to local hotels, homestays and boats. The rates will be competitive so that they choose our products instead of plastic, which is anyway banned by the government. We also want to supply our products to retail players in Calcutta,” said Mukherjee. The unit is a lifeline for its workforce, struck by twin blows of the pandemic and cyclone. The women will not get fixed salaries but a commission on every product sold, said Mukherjee. Shuktara Bachori is one of the women working at the unit. Her husband is a fisherman. His income has dwindled since April, when fresh Covid curbs set in and taking the catch to markets became challenging. Kajal Adhikari used to grow seasonal vegetables on a small plot of land. But the cyclone inundated her land with saline water, rendering it infertile. “This (the unit) is my only shot at any income now,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta cancer patients worry over Covid vaccine||Eight months into the Covid vaccination drive in India, many cancer patients are still apprehensive of taking the shot. Doctors are receiving frequent calls from follow-up patients who want to know whether it is advisable for them to be inoculated against Covid. The “reluctance” stems from a fear that the vaccine could lead to side effects because of their low immunity, said an oncologist who has been receiving calls almost every day. “There is a notion among cancer patients that since their immune system is compromised because of the disease, they could be susceptible to side effects. But our advice is that follow-up patients should be vaccinated immediately. Those who are undergoing treatment like radiotherapy and chemotherapy and have undergone major oncosurgery must consult their treating oncologist to decide on the appropriate time of vaccination,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. He said that those with a history of major allergies must consult their physician before vaccination. The Bengal Oncology Foundation has run an online awareness campaign, in which Mukhopadhyay is seen urging people with cancer to take the shot. In the video, in English and Bengali, posted on social media, Mukhopadhyay says both doses of a Covid vaccine are necessary to ensure protection against the disease. “Remember for all cancer patients and their families, protection from Covid is extremely important and vaccination is the best option for this. Whichever vaccine is available, whether it is Covaxin or Covishield, both are very effective and that is why they have been approved by the government of India. So I would recommend that you look into this very carefully and just see that all members of your family are adequately protected,” Mukhopadhyay, also the secretary of the Bengal Oncology Foundation, says in the English video. “Do not worry about the side effects because these do not have much side effects and millions of people have taken the vaccine. It creates a lot of confidence among the people and it is not that you will be helping yourself only. You will be helping the community by being immunised against Covid.” He also says that one will not be adequately protected against the disease without both doses of a Covid vaccine. While talking to The Telegraph, Mukhopadhyay urged the need to spread awareness on Covid vaccination because he said there was a degree of apprehension among cancer patients. “We receive calls from follow-up patients almost every day. They ask whether they should take the vaccine. So we decided to launch this awareness initiative,” he said. The Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre & Research Institute in Thakurpukur, which has been administering Covid vaccines since January, has been receiving such calls, too. “Not all patients ask, but some do. Their families call up to ask whether they should take the vaccine. Their fear disappears once they get the doctor's approval,” said Arnab Gupta, the director of the institute. “There is a concern that the vaccine might trigger some complications. It is natural for us to have such concerns, though we know vaccines are necessary. A doctor’s nod goes a long way in allaying the fears,” said Manik Chandra Bera, a 59-year-old cancer survivor. Bera, who had colon cancer in 2007, has taken the Covid shot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid pandemic effect on nursery admissions in Calcutta||The number of applications for admission to nursery schools is lower than what it used to be before the Covid pandemic, many school heads said. The impact on application started last year and the numbers are low this year, too. Parents might not be keen to invest in a situation when they do not know when schools will reopen. They are, instead, opting for home tutoring of the child, the head of a school said. The application process for nursery usually begins in July or August and continues till the beginning of the next year. “The number of applicants is low this year, a trend which started last year,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. Parents feel they can tutor a pre-primary child at home and do not want to put them in a school paying a variety of fees at a time when no one is certain when schools will reopen. Parents have also learnt from the experience of their friends that a virtual class means they would have to hand-hold their children at every step. Schools have been closed since March 2020 as a precaution against Covid. Campuses reopened briefly in February only for Classes IX to XII. A section of parents is waiting to see how the Covid situation pans out before deciding whether they will enrol their children in schools. “Some parents may not want to invest in formal education and would want to wait for more clarity on reopening of the schools,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. “Parents are enquiring but we do not know whether they would turn up and enrol their children,” said Sister Rani Jacob, the principal of Our Lady Queen of the Missions School, Park Circus. Schools are also making changes in their seat allotment depending on the situation. The Assembly of God Church School, Park Street, authorities will take a decision based on the number of registrations. “We noticed a change in the current session. There are more applicants for kindergarten than nursery. At 3-plus, parents were continuing at home or in a preschool," said Lionel Chellappa, the principal of the Park Street school. The financial hardships inflicted by the pandemic have impacted admission. "Let's face it; the pandemic has impacted the financial condition of families…. They prefer tutoring the children at home to paying the school fees," a school head said. At South Point School, the number of applications for nursery has dropped by 10 per cent. At Indus Valley World School, applications have been “trickling in”. A reputable city school, which requested not to be named, received about 550 applications for 200 seats in nursery this year. Before the pandemic, it would receive around 800 applications. The Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Park Circus received about 25 per cent less applications last year compared with the pre-pandemic times. It has not yet invited applications for this year. The fewer registrations at the Assembly of God Church School, compared with pre-pandemic years, have prompted the authorities to reduce the number of sections in nursery by one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CMC’s vaccination centres to follow new schedule from Monday||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s Covid vaccination centres will follow a new vaccination schedule from Monday after having experimented with two other schedules over the past week. In the new schedule, all CMC centres will administer first and second doses Monday through Saturday but in separate time slots. The centres remain closed on Sundays. Details of the new schedule: The first dose of Covid vaccines will be administered between 10am and 3pm on all six days. The second dose will be administered from 3pm to 4pm. The civic body had first reserved three days in a week for the first dose and another three days for the second. This schedule was changed after CMC officials realised that the takers for second doses were far fewer than the number of shots available. This was surprising because the centres used to have long queues and almost half the people would have to return without getting the jab. Towards the middle of last week, the CMC centres decided to administer the second dose on two days a week and the first dose on four days. But the number of second dose recipients still remained low. Eventually, the CMC decided to administer the first and second shots every day but in separate time slots. The latest schedule will come into effect on Monday. Doctors managing the Covid vaccination centres said posters had been put up outside many vaccination centres informing people about the new schedule. “If needed, people with loud hailers will be deployed outside the centres,” said an official. Each centre has been allotted 150 doses of Covishield and 200 doses of Covaxin for Monday, said a CMC official. A clinic in Chetla, which has administered the maximum number of shots among all civic clinics, has been allotted 500 doses for Monday, said officials. “We will try to follow an 80-20 division. Eighty per cent of the shots will be administered to first dose recipients and the rest to the second dose recipients,” said an official of the CMC.  Civic doctors hope the quota for the first dose recipients will be used up in the five hours reserved for them. “Over the past few weeks, we noticed that 80 per cent of those getting vaccinated at our clinics were first dose recipients. Many of them were from neighbouring districts. We will not turn them away since everyone has the right to get vaccinated,” said the official. The CMC is running a Covid vaccination drive from its primary health centres and a number of community halls and auditoriums that have been tagged as megacentres. The civic body now runs 173 Covid vaccination centres. A senior doctor at the CMC said they were concerned over the routine immunisation of children at its centres on Wednesdays. “Earlier, the first two or three hours on Wednesdays were kept reserved for routine immunisation of children as part of the universal immunisation programme. But in the new schedule, Covid vaccination will be held from 10am to 4pm, like on other days. How will we vaccinate children under the universal immunisation programme?” asked one CMC doctor. Some of the primary health centres administer vaccines to as many as 50 children every Wednesday. Doctors fear routine immunisation will suffer if a few hours on Wednesday are not reserved for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta man out on bail tries to flee country||A man who had been arrested in connection with a murder on Bentinck Street 14 years ago and was currently out on bail, was caught by the Calcutta police on Saturday night while he was trying to flee to Bangladesh through the Petrapole border, police said. Pradip Jha, in his late 30s, the murder accused, was arrested on Saturday night. Santosh Yadav, his alleged crime partner and a co-accused in the same murder case, was also arrested 14 years back while trying to flee to Bangladesh through the same border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur asks students to pay hostel establishment charge for mess staff||NIT Durgapur has asked students to pay the hostel establishment charge, so the mess workers get their wages in time amid the Covid pandemic. A notice signed by the dean of students’ welfare, Biswajit Halder, says: “A timely payment of the charge (Rs 1,200) is a primary social responsibility too under this situation of crisis due to COVID-19.” In the last academic season, the notice says, a significant number of students did not pay the hostel establishment charge — Rs 1,200 for each semester — and the institute had to pay the private mess workers from its reserve. If the payment is not made on time in this academic session, “the process of semester registration will remain incomplete”, the institute has warned. There are 50-odd mess workers engaged by students as cooks and maintenance staff. They get a monthly remuneration of Rs 9,500 on average, which is paid by students as hostel establishment charge. “The establishment charge is paid at the beginning of each semester. Last year, the students had left the campus in March, following the outbreak of Covid. They have since been attending online classes from home. A significant number of them did not pay the hostel establishment charge of the semester that began in July,” an official of the institute said. “We have told students that they have to pay the amount, considering the financial constraints amid the pandemic being encountered by those who have served food and rendered other services. This is a social responsibility,” NIT director Anupam Basu said. The institute can no longer pay the workers from its reserve because the fund has been exhausted, officials said. “During the last academic year 2020-21 it has been observed that a significant number of students defaulted (still there are defaulters) to pay the hostel establishment charge of Rs.1200/- per semester, though the majority of the students paid on time,” says the notice. The institute had last year reduced the hostel fee of Rs 7,300 to Rs 2,800 and the other fees from Rs 5,300 to Rs 2,850 keeping in mind the hardship faced by students and their families because of the pandemic. “Last year, they were allowed to pay the tuition fee in installments. But students must realise they have some obligation during these trying times to those they engaged. Registration will be held up (if they do not pay the hostel establishment fee),” Basu said. An official of the institute said it was not possible for the mess workers to switch to other jobs because of the grim economic situation. “The workers have families…. We are continuing with the reduced fee structure and our own earnings have depleted. Whatever we earn, goes into maintenance,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Sunderbans women tie rakhis on mangrove trees||A group of women in the Sunderbans on Sunday tied rakhis on mangrove trees vowing to protect them in the hope that they would in turn get protected from the vagaries of nature such as cyclones. Aparna Dhara, from Lakshmipur village of Kakdwip block, and fellow members of Lakshmisree Self Help Group got up early to celebrate rakhi in a unique way. “We decided to tie rakhi on our mangrove plants as we think of them as our brothers, who will protect us from danger, just as our brothers do,” said Aparna. At Lakshmipur village, mangrove plants had been planted across 200 hectares. The area has since increased to 750 hectares. “This year again 10 hectares of mangrove plantation has been done at the village,” said Ajanta De of News, Environment and Wildlife Society (NEWS), an NGO involved in mangrove replantation in the Sunderbans. “We started planting mangrove seeds in 2013 under the leadership of NEWS. Today, we have been able to reduce soil erosion by the river to a large extent. The river erosion was not much during both Cyclone Amphan (in 2020) and Cyclone Yaas (in 2021). Most of our houses were protected,” said Aparna. Not just Lakshmipur village, women from Sumatinagar of Sagar block, Taranagar in Patharpratima, Nikarighata in Canning, Manmathanagar in Gosaba and Budokhali in Kultali tied rakhis on mangrove trees in their respective villages. “These plants protected us during Amphan and Yash. We have vowed to protect them, too,” said Rupa Samaddar of Nikarighata. “Villagers play an active role in protecting mangroves. Women of Self Help Groups take turns to guard the mangrove saplings, shooing away anyone trying to harm them. They alert the panchayats if anyone uproots trees. They have realised that to survive in the Sunderbans, they have to protect the mangroves,” said Ajanta De of News.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Calcutta||Lives of others: Bengal tourism on ground Zero||THIS IS NOT A LUXURY TOUR. The warning in capital letters appears halfway down an online brochure on a much-coveted tour of Bengal. Abdul Nazar, a young Malayali who lives in Chakla in North 24-Parganas, about 50km from Calcutta, takes the lead in organising this tour every year to introduce visitors to rural Bengal. It receives an overwhelming response from Nazar’s home state. Called “Bengal Yatra”, the 10-day tour is conducted from Chakla every December by Zero Foundation, a rural development organisation founded by the 34-year-old in Chakla. “About 600 people apply and 25 are chosen,” says Nazar. About 90 per cent of the visitors are Malayalis. “The applicants have to first answer a detailed questionnaire, which asks for their particulars, and those shortlisted are interviewed over the phone,” says Nazar. “Candidates” are judged mainly on their level of interest in Bengal. Though the cut-off age is 50, because the tour needs one to rough it out, a person above 50 is admitted if he is found deserving,” Nazar smiles. We are sitting in his one-room office-cum-home in the market area of Chakla, surrounded by green rice fields being lashed by the rain. Nazar is known as “Nazar Bandhu”, or simply “Bandhu”, by all here. Three small children suddenly appear at the shop, almost hidden under the large umbrellas they are carrying. “Bandhu, what are you doing?” they ask and are happy to be given a bunch of bananas. Nazar has been living here since 2011, when he was working with another organisation. He started Zero Foundation in 2015 and the tour in 2017. The foundation works in the Chakla panchayat area, named after Chakla village. The Chakla village area is also known as Chakla Dham, as a famous Loknath Baba temple in located here. Nazar works closely with 40 self-help groups. He also works for children’s education and for housing and sanitation. With a shy smile, he tries to explain that perhaps “social worker” is not the right description for him here. This is his world. And he wants others to see this world, away from the romanticised, tourism-poster version of Bengal. Visitors experience the living conditions of rural Bengal and are not drowned in comfort. Food and accommodation are simple and inexpensive and travel is usually through local transport, such as autos, local trains and boats. Chakla, where they are often put up at the temple guest house, remains the base. They are taken around some villages in Chakla, then to the Sunderbans, Malda and Murshidabad, and briefly to Calcutta and Santiniketan. Last year the tour cost Rs 17,000 per head, which did not include expenses of travelling to and from Chakla. The pandemic added to the costs. This year the tour will be held depending on the Covid situation. The brochure also mentions a “NO SMOKING — NO ALCHOHOL — NO TOBACCO” policy and the fact that the visitors may be put up in dormitories and will be provided with sleeping bags. The tour is in such high demand, smiles Nazar, because whatever we think of the state here at home, Bengal continues to fascinate the Malayali imagination. The connection is historical, as well as political and cultural, and of the heart. In the last centuries, many from Kerala would go to the “Far East” to work, he points out, via Bengal. Both states have strong literary traditions. Both states have favoured Left politics. (Not to forget the fish-and-rice factor, though the jury is still out on which state cooks fish better.) “You walk into a bookstore in Kerala, you are likely to find the translation of a Bengali book,” says Nazar. “Right now, Mahasweta Devi is very popular.” The tour pays back. Often there is a flurry of writing on Bengal after the trip. For some, the trip is “life-changing”. They are shocked by the poverty of a North 24-Parganas village, a sharp contrast to a Kerala village, far better looked after with its access to health, education and good roads, says Nazar. But the Bengal Yatra is not the only spectacular thing that Nazar does. His life in Chakla is no less so. As rain and thunder threaten to drown our conversation, and Calcutta seems a long, long way off, Nazar talks about the choices he made in his personal life. He grew up in Muvattupuzha in Kerala’s Ernakulam district and did his masters in social work from Shree Shankaracharya University in Kalady. It was then that he decided that he would live and work in a village. Later he trained at the Dalai Lama monastery in Dharamshala and worked in a Gond tribal area in Chhindwara. Then his life changed, as he came to Bengal. After stints at the Missionaries of Charity and in the red light district of Sonagachhi, he came to work in Chakla and stayed on. He founded Zero Foundation with seven others, which accepts donations, but does not request funds. He remains the driving force behind the foundation. Not just work, but a spiritual compulsion has brought him here, says Nazar again. Life here was difficult at first, with some villagers wary of a stranger suddenly making a home in their midst. But now they accept him as a friend and are grateful for his support. Of the 40 self-help groups he works with, about 35 are women’s groups. Many of the members now enjoy livelihood options through the groups’ micro-finance savings, where hardly any choice existed before. A woman from a nearby village now earns Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 per month from a nursery she set up with the help of micro-finance savings of her self-help group. Nazar himself hardly has any worldly possession. His room barely has any furniture, except a shelf full of books. “That’s why the zero in Zero Foundation,” he smiles. “Not having anything is fulfilment.” Infinite possibilities are contained where nothing else is. Born a Muslim, he respects every faith, and adds that the Buddhist idea of emptiness has influenced him greatly. He hardly cooks, hardly eats anything except biscuits and bananas, and drinks endless cups of tea and keeps offering them. That is also because he runs a tea shop near the temple. “I started it because a tea shop is a meeting place. Lots of people come to my shop. I am interested in the culture of tea shops and in people,” he says. Will Chakla remain his home? “That I don’t know. I will be here, anywhere, till I am supposed to,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-9
23-08-2021||Business||Niti Aayog expects Rs 35,100 crore from telecom assets by FY24||Government's think tank Niti Aayog has valued government telecom assets at Rs 35,100 crore which can be monetised by financial year 2024, according to the National Monetisation Pipeline released on Monday.  The Aayog has valued over 2.86 lakh kilometres of optical fibre assets laid by BBNL and BSNL under rural broadband project Bharatnet at Rs 26,300 crore.  The National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) has valued 13,567 mobile tower assets of BSNL and 1,350 of MTNL at Rs 8,800 crore that can also be monetised by financial year 2024. Both the PSUs jointly own 69,047 mobile towers.  "Indicative monetisation value of Rs 26,300 crores has been considered over FY23 and FY 24. It may be noted that the actual private investment towards these packages could be lower than the estimated capex and a portion of capex may be met out of grant," the NMP document said.  According to the document, the indicative monetisation value for Bharatnet fibre assets is considered based on a capex approach.  The total approved cost for Bharatnet project is Rs 61,109 crore which includes Rs 42,068 crore for BharatNet (Phase-I and Phase-II) and a maximum of Rs 19,041 crore on viability gap funding (VGF) for implementation of the PPP model of BharatNet in 16 states, according to government information shared in Parliament.  As of March 31, 2021, the government has utilised Rs 24,201 crore for the project.  "The bidding process for this project (Bharatnet) is expected to be initiated during FY'22 and the actual outlay of capex will happen over 2 years from the date of award," the document said.  According to the NMP, 5,25,706 kilometres of optical fibre has been laid under Bharatnet project which aims to connect all villages in the country with a high speed broadband network.  Earlier the scope of the project was limited to 2.5 lakh gram panchayats which has now been extended to village level.  The NMP proposes to realise 6 lakh crore from asset sale during FY 22-25 across various sectors of which 6 per cent value is expected to be realised from the telecom sector.  "The NMP is meant to serve as an essential roadmap for the Asset monetisation of various brownfield infrastructure assets across roads, railways, shipping, aviation, power, telecom, oil and gas, and warehousing sectors," the document said.  The government in the union-budget 2021-22 envisioned preparation of NMP to provide a direction to the monetisation initiative and visibility of investors and NITI Aayog was tasked with creation of the NMP for brownfield core infrastructure assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Asset ownership to remain with govt, says Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways. She also said the asset monetisation does not involve selling of land and it is about monetising brownfield assets. Projects have been identified across sectors, with roads, railways and power being the top segments. "NMP estimates aggregate monetisation potential of Rs 6 lakh crores through core assets of central government over the four-year period from FY 2022 to FY 2025," she said. "Ownership of assets will remain with the government and there will be a mandatory hand-back." Asset monetisation will unlock resources and lead to value unlocking, she said. Union Budget 2021-22 had identified monetisation of operating public infrastructure assets as a key means for sustainable infrastructure financing. Towards this, the Budget provided for preparation of a 'National Monetisation Pipeline' of potential brownfield infrastructure assets. NITI Aayog in consultation with infra line ministries has prepared the report on NMP. The aggregate asset pipeline under NMP over the four-year period is indicatively valued at Rs 6 lakh crore. The estimated value corresponds to 14 per cent of the proposed outlay for Centre under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (Rs 43 lakh crore). The end objective of this initiative is to enable "infrastructure creation through monetisation" wherein the public and private sector collaborate, each excelling in their core areas of competence, so as to deliver socio-economic growth and quality of life to the country's citizens, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises 226 points to close at 55,555||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 226 points higher on Monday following gains in index heavyweights TCS, HCL Tech and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. After rallying over 450 points during the day, the 30-share index pared some gains to end 226.47 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 55,555.79. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 45.95 points or 0.28 per cent to 16,496.45. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by TCS, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finance and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Auto, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid were among the laggards. "Domestic equities remained volatile despite witnessing brisk opening today. Strong cues from global equities aided benchmark indices to witness modest recovery, which was also supported by sustained rebound in IT stocks," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Nifty IT gained over 1.8 per cent, followed by financials recording modest gains. An improved visibility of sustained earnings growth with least volatility compared to other industries attracted investors towards IT stocks, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with strong gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 2.95 per cent to USD 66.66 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Leverage Wellness Points to Gain Several Benefits||Maintaining good health doesn't need any certified reason. Living a healthy life ensures the lesser risk of life, higher chances of elimination of critical diseases, big scope of avoiding health complications, and close to no medical bills. But there is one more benefit for living a healthy lifestyle i.e. Additional benefits from health insurance. This may sound a bit strange because it should be considered as hidden gems of your health insurance policy that people are not much familiar with. The health insurance companies are now enticing customers to adopt healthy practices of living with some lucrative benefits designed in different forms such as rewards and discounts. Digitization plays a crucial role in keeping a complete track of fitness regime and healthy lifestyles as almost all insurance companies have their mobile applications that also work as a tracker. Generally, the insurance companies rely on steps count or calories burned on a daily basis which are then accumulated during the renewal of the health insurance policy. In fact, policyholders can also maintain a track record of their health targets via the same application. It helps customers in gaining the maximum benefits of their wellness points and programs. Here is the list of benefits to enjoy from wellness points. Discounts on Renewal- To convenience customers to adopt a healthy style of living, insurance companies are benefiting policyholders by offering them a percentage of discounts on their renewal of health insurance. There are different parameters designed by the insurance companies to measure healthy practices such as steps count via their mobile application. This gives year-long data to the insurance companies on the basis of which the percentage is decided and finally credited in the form of discounts. While this ensures the lesser chances of claim with the help of good health but it also helps in retaining clients with the insurance company for the next year. Wellness Coach Support- It becomes easy and simple when there is proper guidance offered by the health expert or a nutritionist. It helps in keeping an accurate tab and consistency in maintaining good health. Therefore, several insurance companies have their internal nutritionist or fitness coaches who help the customers in building healthy habits inclusive of diet and exercise under health programs. The healthy regime is then checked by their nutrition experts on the basis of which the policyholder is given benefits in health insurance that are pre-decided in the policy. Reward Points- Alongside, discounts and money-back options, health insurance companies serve their customers with different benefits such as discounts on annual medical checkups such as lab testings for regular health diagnosis, medical bills, facilities offered on network hospitals, OPD bills, and etc. Moreover, in order to further boost the penetration of a healthy style of living, insurance companies tie-up with various fitness centers such as gym, marathons, yoga centers, aerobic centers, etc. where policyholders can avail services in exchange for these reward points. Second medical opinion- At times, the policyholder plans to go for the second round of medical opinion in case of some serious ailment from a reliable source to gain more understanding about the treatment. In such scenarios, the insurance companies come forward to provide the facility of a second medical expert opinion free of cost from the reliable medical practitioner associated with the insurance company. To avail of this facility, the insured needs to communicate to the insurance company in advance to facilitate the service which requires prior scrutinizing of medical reports and booking an appointment. As it is mandatory for the health insurance company to clearly mention all wellness benefits and programs that a health care policyholder is entitled to get as per the pre-defined guidelines stated by the insurance company. Thus, policyholders must read the wellness section to get complete knowledge and for the transparency of rules. Nonetheless, these benefits do sound exciting to the customers but it is never advised to make the selection of the health insurance policy based on these benefits because the primary job of the health insurance plan is to provide health coverage against unexpected hospitalization and medical treatment. Therefore, it is must consider key features, diseases covered, sum insured amount, claim settlement ratio, and other important factors at the time of selecting a health insurance plan and health insurance company. Because the wellness points are secondary and they vary from company to company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC twins amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share index was trading 411.04 points or 0.74 per cent higher at 55,740.36, while the broader NSE Nifty jumped 109.35 points or 0.66 per cent to 16,559.85. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, L&T, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, PowerGrid and HUL were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex slumped 300.17 points or 0.54 per cent to close at 55,329.32, and Nifty tumbled 118.35 points or 0.71 per cent to 16,450.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,287.03 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look inspiring as of now. Minutes of the MPC meeting held at the beginning of this month continues to show RBI's commitment to ensure policy support to sustain economic recovery despite select members showing some apprehensions about high inflation and pitching for gradual normalisation in ultra-soft monetary policy, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.79 per cent to USD 65.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Tata Steel Europe may fare better in next two quarters||Tata Steel has reported its best ever quarterly performance in the first quarter, making more profit than the entire last year. In a conversation with The Telegraph, Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of Tata Steel Group, says the market would remain strong despite a drop in iron ore prices which led to steel stocks correcting sharply on Friday on the fear that steel prices may follow suit. He says the company is likely to reduce debt by a similar amount as last year. Tata Steel had cut debt by $4 billion in 2020-21. Tata Steel has recorded more profit in Q1 than the full year of 2020-21. Analysts have also revised their target prices for Tata Steel. How do you analyse the changes in the industry background for the rest of the year? Indeed, we have had good operating and financial performance during the quarter and reported a profit after tax of Rs 9,786 crore for the quarter. This has been an outcome of stable operating performance, focus on cost takeout, strong market conditions and commercial performance. There are several structural developments in the steel industry in the last few years which are getting manifested prominently recently, primary among them is the supply side changes which are here to stay. Given the volatility of iron ore and steel prices, how do you see the performance focus of the European business? The underlying performance of Tata Steel in Europe has been sequentially better compared with the previous quarter and the revenue increase has been broadly in line with the market. The European business has more long-term contract mix and as they are renewed we expect the increase in the spot prices to reflect in a lagged manner in the second- and third-quarter performance. There has been a sudden drop in iron ore prices recently. Do you see that impacting the industry trend in the near future? Yes, international iron ore prices have fallen by about 40 per cent from the peak in May 2021. Fundamentally, the production trend in China has slowed down as there is some sluggishness in some sectors and equally steel exports have declined month-on-month in July even though the China-EU spot price differential is around $600/tonne. There is a general estimate that China will produce around 50-70 million tonnes lower compared with the same period last year ahead of the winter Olympics and also from a climate management. As China is the largest consumer of iron ore, it reacted to the news of production cuts. But this is unlikely to impact global steel prices as we don’t see China to be aggressive in the sea-borne market. Hence, the prices in Europe, the US and the rest of the world continue to be strong and sustainable, especially because of very strong policy interventions on imports in some geographies. The company managed to bring down the debt by $4 billion in the last fiscal. Will the pace of deleveraging slow down this year? What is your guidance? Free cash flow focus and balance sheet management will continue to be a priority for us and we have repaid around Rs 5,800 crore of principal debt during the first quarter. Our focus will be to prepay significant debt much ahead of schedule this year and achieve a similar level of deleveraging as the previous financial year. The company’s working capital requirement has increased this quarter. Can you explain why, and whether this will remain at this elevated level? Yes, in some ways it is natural when raw material prices and steel prices are elevated. The impact is more prominent in Europe as we buy both iron ore and coal and the average price of steel is higher than in India. So, the value impact is very high in the increase in the working capital, while the physical inventory has remained broadly at the normalised level. The finished goods inventory will further trend down in the second quarter in India as we will be selling more than in the first quarter. How do you see the Indian demand for the rest of the year? Are there signs of improvement? The demand conditions were impacted during the peak of the second wave, especially for long products, but since early July, we are seeing normalisation of demand. Flat product demand segments such as automotive tube etc are fairly strong. There are certain segments such as automotive which other than the semiconductor issue has a strong order book and is expected to be strong through the coming festive season. The current quarter is seasonally a slower quarter for construction but it is hoped that post monsoons it will pick up. The government’s public spending on infrastructure will be a critical factor in sustaining the demand profile in the balance part of the year. How does Tata Steel look at sustainability in the next decade? Sustainability is a very strong foundation for Tata Steel around the key themes of climate change, water, circularity and biodiversity. We have determined our targets and goals for 2025 and 2030 and our internal processes have been deeply embedded around those goals. We have developed long-term decarbonisation pathway, pursuing low carbon technologies, deployment of responsible supply chain policy and adaptation of global standards of reporting and disclosures. We have developed the strategy and actions based on scenario based approach for building a sustainable growth for the business in India. In Europe, we are deeply engaged in developing the decarbonisation pathway for the future. What are the key points of Tata Steel’s financial strategy? Our financial strategy is premised on maintaining balance sheet resilience, benchmarking the financial metrics to investment grade levels, developing a green finance framework and maximising return from the invested capital. These are key themes on which our entire business and financial plans of the company are pivoted and in the last 12 months, we have progressed on all of them, including strengthening the balance sheet.We have a target of 2x net debt to EBIDTA across the cycle and we are currently already at 1.6x. This is critical as it provides strategic space in our balance sheet for future growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||South City Group plans to foray into hospitality sector with wellness resort||South City Group, a consortium of six Calcutta-based developers, is foraying into the hospitality sector with a luxury wellness resort focusing on ayurveda. The venture is coming up on the Basanti highway, 16 kilometres off the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass on a 55-acre land. The project will also have luxury villas along with the wellness resort. The first phase will be launched later this year with the 30-key resort and 20 villas, Sushil Mohta, a director and one of the consortium partners of South City, informed. “We will invest about Rs 100 crore in the hospitality segment. The residential villa section will be crucial to make it viable as there is hardly any payback for such a hospitality venture,” Mohta explained. The villas will come up on plots ranging from 12 cottah to 2 bigha land and priced between Rs 3 crore and Rs 6 crore.There are about 100 villas planned for the second phase. In the wellness venture, South City Group has tied up with the Carnoustie group which operates such a facility near Kochi in Kerala. South City’s wellness resort is spread over 40,000 square feet. The South City Ayurveda and Wellness Retreat plans to offer diverse treatment and wellness packages of one to three weeks. Those who enrol for the package will stay in the resort. Rack rate for the rooms is likely to be Rs 10,000 a night. “Wellness is a booming industry, especially after the pandemic. There are many such boutiques in Kerala and a few more have come up near the Himalayas. However, there is none in this part of the country, especially in Bengal. This centre can fill up the gap,” Mohta explained. The developers are expecting half of the traffic to be generated from the city itself as many from this part of the country travel to the wellness centres in Kerala and Dehradun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Honda makes fresh attempt to sell hybrid cars and SUVs in India||Honda Cars India Limited (HCIL) will make a fresh attempt to sell hybrid cars and SUVs in the country after it stopped selling the hybrid versions of the Civic and the Accord because of dwindling sales. The company will launch a hybrid sedan in the next fiscal and is preparing to launch an SUV, Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, marketing and sales, HCIL, said when asked about the company’s electrification programme at the launch of the new Amaze last week. Globally, Honda has declared that by 2040, it will sell only electric vehicles. In India, the company will start its electrification programme with hybrids first. The company which has shut its Noida plant last year and has downsized its staff and operations to make the business more viable is aiming to post a double-digit growth this fiscal. “We are now looking at double-digit growth. The sales momentum in July has been good and gives us hope that demand will sustain in the market,” Goel said. The company is banking on the new Amaze — that will retail in the range of Rs 6.32 lakh to Rs 11. 15 lakh— to help it achieve its target. “The Amaze has been a huge success. It, along with City, contributes 80 per cent of the sales. The rest 20 per cent of sales come from the W-RV and the Jazz,” said Goel. He said that 68 per cent of Amaze’s sales come from smaller cities and 40 per cent of its customers are first-time buyers. Honda scooters Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India Ltd (HMSI) expects its scooter sales to rise once educational campuses reopen. Scooters comprised 30 per cent of its sales in pre-Covid times and the company managed to keep it at that level through the pandemic. But now as schools and colleges are set to reopen, the company hopes to increase its scooter sales. “We are waiting for schools and colleges to reopen that will push up our scooter sales,” said Yadvinder Singh Guleria, director, sales and marketing, HMSI. The company recently launched the CB200X in the 180-200cc motorcycle category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
23-08-2021||Business||Finance ministry summons Infosys CEO after income tax portal faces fresh glitches||The finance ministry has summoned Infosys managing director and CEO Salil Parekh on Monday to explain the persistent glitches in the new income-tax portal that have made it difficult to file returns. The tax authorities have been forced to reintroduce the manual filing of forms relating to remittances, while extending the last dates for the electronic filing of forms related to intimations by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. The new e-filing portal “www.incometax.gov.in”, developed by Infosys, had a bumpy start since its launch on June 7, and it continues to face glitches with users complaining that certain functionalities were either unavailable or working slow. On Saturday, the portal was put under emergency maintenance by Infosys, who seems unable to resolve the gremlins in the system. “Ministry of Finance has summoned Salil Parekh, MD & CEO @Infosys on 23/08/2021 to explain to hon’ble FM as to why even after 2.5 months since the launch of the new e-filing portal, glitches in the portal have not been resolved. In fact,since 21/08/2021 the portal itself is not available,” the income-tax department tweeted. Infosys India Business in a tweet late Sunday evening said that the portal has been brought to service again. “The emergency maintenance of the @IncomeTaxIndia portal has concluded and the portal is live. We regret any inconvenience caused to taxpayers,” the tweet said. Quoting the I-T department tweet, senior adviser in the ministry of information & broadcasting, Kanchan Gupta, tweeted, “This is the second major GoI project @Infosys has messed up. The first was #GST portal. Now it is #IncomeTax portal. Infosys bags GoI projects using L1 route which limits options. Clearly lacks either capacity or intent to deliver. Two ‘failures’ in a row cannot be coincidence”. In June, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had met the key officials of Infosys and highlighted the issues faced by taxpayers and tax professionals on the portal. The finance minister last week had said that the technical glitches in the new e-filing portal will largely be fixed in the next few days and that she has been constantly reminding Infosys about this. The government had disclosed last month that it had asked for suggestions in respect of the glitches on the portal online. More than 700 emails detailing over 2,000 issues, including 90 unique issues/problems in the portal were received from various stakeholders including the ICAI, tax professionals and taxpayers. “The government needs to seriously work it out or they should restart the old portal if possible. People were happy with the working of the earlier portal,” said tax advocate Narayan Jain. “The non-functioning of features in the new portal have caused immense problems to taxpayers and professionals. The government needs to take urgent steps so that compliance can be made,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||Business||Non-life insurance industry reports 19.5 per cent growth in July||The non-life insurance players are concerned over their profitability inspite of a steady growth in their business in this fiscal. The non-life insurance industry or general insurers reported a 19.5 per cent growth in July with gross direct premium underwritten at Rs 20,171 crore for the month compared with Rs 16,884 crore in July 2020. Between April and July, gross direct premium underwritten by the industry was Rs 64,607 crore posting a growth of 15.5 per cent. According to insurance industry officials, the growth momentum is sustainable as it is driven by higher sales of health policies and online purchases that are easier to execute. Bhargav Dasgupta, MD and CEO of ICICI Lombard, pointed out to a shifting trend at the company’s earnings call to analysts. “Health insurance continued to show robust growth for the industry which was driven by enhanced awareness due to the pandemic and then an attitude shift of consumers towards protection buying,” Dasgupta had said. But the growth in business is not reflected in the bottomline, with several companies reporting a drop in profits during the first quarter of 2021-22. The profitability may also take a hit because of elevated claims on health policies on account of Covid and no revision in the motor third-party rates. The additional risk of externalities such as catastrophic events is a concern. According to industry data, Covid claims reported during the April-June quarter crossed 1 million compared with 0.98 million cases in the whole of last financial year. “Q1FY22 has been adversely impacted on account of the rise in claims due to the second wave of the pandemic. Given the opening of the economy and anticipated growth in the same, the industry performance is expected to improve over time,” Care Ratings said in a report. “However, given that no increase in the motor third-party premium has been announced and Covid claims are persisting (net incurred claims ratio jumped more than 1.5 times in Q1FY22 against Q1 FY21), the sector is expected to witness pressure on near-term profitability,” said the report. “The impact of the pandemic has reduced in the second quarter. However, the threat of the third wave continues to loom large. Adjusted for Covid-19 related claims the company has performed well in all operating parameters,” said Atul Sahai, chairman and managing director, New India Assurance. Heading for IPO Three insurance sector companies are entering the primary market with initial public offerings in the coming months to mop up over Rs 10,000 crore. These companies are — PB Fintech, which runs insurance brokerage Policybazaar; standalone health insurer Star Health & Allied Insurance Company; and third-party administrator Medi Assist Healthcare Service. They have already filed their draft prospectus with market regulator Sebi. Over 40 companies have hit the IPO market so far this year, raising close to Rs 70,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||Business||India's exposure to US securities jumps over $20 billion in 3 months||India’s holding of US government securities surged more than $20 billion in just three months ended June to $220.2 billion amid rising foreign exchange reserves. Compared with June last year, when most of the economic activities were ravaged by the coronavirus pandemic, the exposure of India to the US treasury securities jumped nearly $40 billion. Latest data from the US treasury department showed that India, with holding worth $220.2 billion at the end of June this year, is the 11th largest holder of these securities while Japan has the most exposure at a little over $1.28 trillion. India has been steadily hiking its exposure to the treasury securities since March when it was at $200 billion. In April, the holding rose to $208.7 billion and then to $215.8 billion at the end of May. In February, the country’s exposure stood at $204.4 billion, a steep decline from $211.6 billion in January. The holding was at $182.7 billion at the end of June 2020. Unmesh Kulkarni, managing director senior adviser at wealth management major Julius Baer India, said the rise in India’s exposure to the US treasuries needs to be seen in the context of the continuous build-up of the country’s forex reserves. “US treasury yields, after bottoming out around the middle of last year and rising steadily thereafter, have been on a decline since May 2021, while the RBI has been gradually raising its exposure since April 2021,” he said. Forex reserves of India stood at $619.36 billion in the week ended August 13. Kulkarni noted that domestic liquidity in the Indian money markets has been ruling high, and RBI has been trying to normalise the liquidity situation through variable rate reverse repo auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||Business||IBA moves RBI seeking licence to set up Rs 6,000-crore NARCL||The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) has moved an application to the Reserve Bank of India seeking a licence to set up Rs 6,000-crore National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL), or bad bank, according to sources. NARCL was incorporated last month in Mumbai with the Registrar of Companies. According to sources, after mobilising an initial capital of Rs 100 crore and fulfilling other legal formalities, the company has approached the RBI to get a licence to undertake the asset reconstruction business. In 2017, the RBI raised the capital requirement to Rs 100 crore from the earlier level of Rs 2 crore, keeping in mind the higher amount of cash required to buy bad loans. The RBI has its process and procedure for granting licence for such a business, sources said, adding, it could take the next few weeks to obtain licence from the regulator. The RBI’s approval could come either in September or October, sources added. Legal consultant AZB & Partners has been engaged to seek various regulatory approvals and fulfilling other legal formalities. The IBA, entrusted with the task of setting up a bad bank, has put a preliminary board for NARCL in place. The company has hired P. M. Nair, a stressed assets expert from the State Bank of India (SBI), as the managing director. The other directors on the board are IBA chief executive Sunil Mehta, SBI deputy managing director S. S. Nair and Canara Bank’s chief general manager Ajit Krishnan Nair. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Budget 2021-22, announced that the high level of provisioning by public sector banks of their stressed assets calls for measures to clean up bank books. “An Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and Asset Management Company would be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt,” she had said in the budget speech. It will manage and dispose the assets to alternative investment funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation, she had said. Last year, the IBA made a proposal for the creation of a bad bank for the swift resolution of non-performing assets. The government accepted the proposal and decided to go for an asset reconstruction company and asset management company model in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||Business||Ways to push through obstacles for first time home buyer||Indians place a lot of value on home ownership. People in Calcutta are right up there when it comes to home ownership aspirations, the 2021 BankBazaar Aspiration Index has revealed. However, the survey also reveals the above-average difficulties residents of the city face in fulfilling this aspiration. What are those difficulties? How can they be overcome? The survey The aspiration index is an annual survey of India’s aspirations seen through the lens of personal finance. It asks pan-India respondents aged 22-45, who have an income of Rs 30,000 or more and who’ve done at least one digital transaction recently, questions about their goals. The aspirations — health, wealth, relationship, fame, and personal growth — subsume 21 financial or non-financial goals such as savings and investing for children, home ownership, or eating a nutritious diet. Three questions are asked about each goal: how important the goal is to you, how confident are you of achieving it, and what your current preparedness for it is. What Calcutta said In 2021, Calcutta’s aspirations are along the lines of India’s broader aspirations. Pan-India, the three most important goals are investing and saving for children’s education, to have long-lasting friendships, and home ownership. The same applied to the respondents in Calcutta. However, the data from Calcutta suggests home ownership is more difficult here compared with the rest of India. The readiness gap Home ownership scored 91.4 on importance for the people of Calcutta. On confidence about fulfilment, Calcutta scored 88.6. But for current preparedness, Calcutta scored a much lower 81.0. The average preparedness score for the home ownership goal is 84.4 in metros and 87.1 in non-metros. For Calcutta, there’s a very large gap of 10.4 points between the importance of an aspiration and its preparedness. The all-India readiness gap for home ownership was a much lower 6.4. The average readiness gap for all 21 goals was 4.3 compared with a much better 3.2 for Calcutta. This suggests Calcutta is perceived to be fulfilling its aspirations more easily than other cities, except when it comes to wealth goals such as home ownership. In fact, for Calcutta, of the five goals where the readiness gap was the largest, there were three wealth goals: saving for early retirement and travelling around the globe being the other two. Roadblocks to wealth goals The respondents were presented with a set of roadblocks between them and their aspirations. Of these, Calcutta ranked the highest on two roadblocks. A massive 52 per cent from the city said they were constrained by high costs of living. Twenty two per cent said they had difficulties in getting loans and credit cards. Further, 41 per cent pointed at limited savings, and another 36 per cent said their current health issues posed problems. Calcutta fared much better than the other cities on the following financial roadblocks: limited savings (41 per cent), family responsibilities (49 per cent) and insufficient salary (31 per cent). Solving the challenges To a large extent, Calcutta’s financial challenges are also the challenges faced by other cities. However, in the above analysis, a dichotomy emerges: that of limited savings despite sufficient income. Increasing savings while balancing other commitments will hopefully lead to home ownership. A typical home will require anywhere between 20 per cent and 40 per cent of self-contribution. Aggressive savings will help raise this capital. Access to credit We are in a time where credit is easily available though there are barriers to credit access. For the salaried with credit scores over 750, no borrowing option is off limit. In fact, the lowest interest rates and most attractive loan offers are reserved for those with scores above 750. On the other hand, those with lower credit and income profiles will struggle getting the same offers and may have to pay much higher interest on their borrowings. Therefore, taking control of one’s home loan eligibility is critical. First, one’s credit score needs to be strong. This is directly in the borrower’s control. Disciplined, judicious use of small credit can easily lead to a score of 750 over time, allowing you to borrow big for your home. Second, women are given preferential rates on home loans. Having a female co-borrower in your home purchase can, therefore, help. Start small Your first home need not be the home of your dreams. You could start small. When finances permit, you may upgrade to a better option. A smaller home, or at least one on a small budget, would be easier on your finances. It is also easier to get a higher loan-to-value on smaller properties, with some banks prepared to finance as much as 90 per cent of the cost compared with only 75 per cent on costlier properties. A smaller loan is also easier to pay off as your income increases with time while your EMIs remain constant. Avoid financial accidents Do not let the vagaries of life disturb the pursuit of your aspiration. Over a third of Calcutta’s respondents reported health-related financial challenges. A pandemic has the propensity to hurt your whole family, leaving you with very large expenses. The best way to control these expenses would be by buying a robust health insurance policy. It would ensure that the pursuit of your aspiration isn’t harmed and you don’t have to part with your precious savings in an emergency. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
23-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir police kills two top militants of Lashkar-e-Toiba||In a swift operation, the Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday eliminated two top commanders of The Resistance Force (TRF), a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), who were responsible for several killings in the city and motivating the youth to join terror ranks, a senior police official said.  Abbas Sheikh, one of the longest surviving militants and chief of the TRF, and his deputy Saqib Manzoor were killed in a brief shootout with police personnel at Aloochi Bagh in the city, the official said.  "We had information about their presence in the area. Ten jawans of police dressed in civvies quickly surrounded the area and challenged the terrorists, who opened firing. In the retaliatory firing, the two were killed," Inspector General of Police Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar told reporters.  He said the killing of Sheikh and Manzoor was a major success for the security forces.  "At the behest of Abbas Sheikh, Saqib Manzoor had carried out several killings. They had spread terror in the area," Kumar said.  He said the people in the area were fed up as the two were motivating youngsters to join terror ranks.  "We appeal to the people to prevent their children from joining terrorists. If they have already joined, please bring them back (to the mainstream). We will welcome them," he added.  Abbas Sheikh, who was earlier with Hizbul Mujahideen, had defected to TRF two years ago.  According to security officials, Sheikh was the mastermind behind most of the killings undertaken by his outfit in the past one year.  Manzoor, a post-graduate student when he joined the TRF last year, quickly rose through the ranks as he was believed to have executed some of the killings in and around Srinagar at Sheikh's behest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
23-08-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Centre to find solution to road blockades due to farmers' protest||The Supreme Court Monday said the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protest against the three farm laws passed last year. At the outset of the hearing, a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Mukherjee told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, “What is happening Mr Mehta. Why can't you find a solution? You have to find a solution to this problem. They have the right to protest but at the designated places. Due to the protests, inflow and outflow of traffic cannot be disrupted”. The bench said this will have an impact on toll collection as well because vehicles will not be able to pass through due to the blockades. Mehta informed the bench that petitioner Monica Agrawal, a Noida resident, who has sought removal of blockade, is not available due to connectivity problems as she is in some rural area. The bench then ordered, “Solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and the concerned state governments. They have to coordinate to find a solution that when a protest takes place, roads are not blocked and traffic is not disrupted to cause inconvenience to the common people”. Mehta said that if the court is willing to pass some orders then two farmers unions can be made parties and he can give their names. The bench said that tomorrow another two unions will come forward and say they represent the farmers and this will go on. The top court asked Mehta during the brief hearing, “Please workout something and posted the matter for further hearing on September 20. On March 26, the top court had issued notice to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana on the plea. The Uttar Pradesh government has said in its affidavit that continuous efforts are being made to remove the blockade at the Delhi-UP border and there at present about 141 tents and 31 ‘langars’ around the area, and the protestors have installed a platform on the flyover from where the leaders give speeches, a media house has also been made below the flyover. “At present there are about 800-1000 protestors in the area, however, a crowd of up to 15,000 protestors collect on their calls within hours from adjoining towns and villages,” the affidavit said. It said protestors had organised a tractor march on January 7 up to Palwal in Haryana and then again on January 26 they went up to the Red Fort on tractors “without permission” and indulged in large scale violence with the police authorities in Delhi for which several criminal cases have been registered against them. “Thereafter, the Delhi police closed the road by putting barricades on the way from Delhi to Ghaziabad on NH-24/9,” the state government said, adding that after persistent efforts of the authorities, one lane from Delhi to Ghaziabad was cleared for movement on March 15. For incoming traffic, from Ghaziabad to Delhi, diversions have been made by Ghaziabad police and Delhi Police through alternate routes like Maharajpur Border and Hindon canal road, it said. “That pursuant to the orders dated March 26, passed by this court, the police and the state administration have approached the protestors/farmers with the orders passed by this court and have made tireless efforts to make them understand their grossly illegal act of blocking roads causing grave inconvenience to the travel,” it said. The state government further said that large numbers of the protesters are very old and aged farmers from various districts of the state who are required to take precautions during the COVID-19 wave and that the efforts of intervention are still in progress. Similarly, the Haryana government also told the top court that protesters staging dharna at Singhu border have been camping on about 6 kilometres stretch of lanes of NH-44 since November 27, last year. “All lanes were initially blocked by using tractors/ trolleys and other vehicles. At present at least one lane on both sides has been opened after efforts made by the district police for movement of public vehicles", it said, adding that suitable diversions of traffic are being made to divert traffic and it has been able to maintain public order at both the sites that is at Singhu border and Tikri border. “A large number of women including children along with the farmers are protesting and persuasive methods have been deemed more appropriate instead of use of force at both the sites,” the state government said, adding that appeals are being made to the farmers' organisations to vacate both the sites from time to time. The farmers are protesting against passage of three laws-Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and some other parts of the country. Agrawal has claimed in her plea that it had become a nightmare to travel to Delhi from Noida, as it takes two hours’ time instead of the usual 20 minutes. She has sought the removal of blockades so that passenger traffic is not affected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
23-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi calls on Angela Merkel, talks on evolving situation in Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the two leaders discussed among issues the evolving situation in Afghanistan. Modi took to Twitter to post that he discussed bilateral, multilateral and regional issues with Chancellor Merkel. An official statement released by the Prime Minister's Office said the two leaders discussed the unfolding security situation in Afghanistan and its implications on the region and the world. “They emphasised the importance of maintaining peace and security, with the most urgent priority being the repatriation of stranded people,” it read. India deployed a special Air Force aircraft to evacuate its diplomats and nationals from Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan on Tuesday after reports surfaced of the advance of Taliban fighters amid a violent assault by the group on key cities and urban centres. The Indian government also advised its citizens still in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return before commercial air services are discontinued. India also repatriate around 400 people, including two Afghan lawmakers and two Nepalese citizens, back in three separate flights from Kabul on Sunday. Modi and Merkel also touched upon the bilateral agenda, including cooperation in vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), development cooperation with a focus on climate and energy, and fostering trade and economic relations. They exchanged views on issues of multilateral interest such as the forthcoming UN climate change conference (COP26) in Glasgow as well as India's initiative to promote a dialogue on maritime security at the United Nations Security Council. The discussion between the two heads of the state also included commonality of perspectives between both sides on promoting inclusive cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
23-08-2021||India||SC to hear Airtel's plea for AGR dues of Videocon dues tomorrow||Bharti Airtel's plea against the Centre's demand that it pay the AGR dues of Videocon, will be heard by the Supreme Court tomorrow. The firm, which is India's biggest mobile carrier, has a spectrum agreement with Videocon, so the Department of Telecommunications wants Airtel to pay Videocon's dues. Airtel entered a Rs 4,428 crore deal to buy Videocon Telecommunications' spectrum in six circles -- Bihar, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh (East), UP (West) and Gujarat -- in March 2016. Videocon owes the government Rs 1376 crore. Airtel, however, declined to pay, saying it could not be held responsible for Vodafone's past dues. The Telecom Department then went to court. In April this year, the government told Supreme Court that it had raised the demand in compliance with an earlier order of the top court but received a negative response from Airtel. During a hearing in September 2020, the top court had said that according to spectrum trading guidelines, AGR dues need to be met before trading of licenses and if the seller could not pay, the buyer will have to step up. Reports said after Airtel's refusal, the telecom department was also taking legal views on encashing Airtel's bank guarantee to raise the dues of Videocon. Last year, the Supreme Court had refused to stop the government from taking coercive action against telcos to raise AGR dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Sitharaman unveils Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday unveiled an ambitious Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors -- from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. As many as 25 Airports Authority of India (AAI) airports, including ones at Chennai, Bhopal, Varanasi and Vadodara, as well as 40 railway stations, 15 railway stadiums and an unidentified number of railway colonies have been identified for getting private investments. Under the plan, private companies can invest in projects for a fixed return using the InvIT route as well as operate and develop the assets for a certain period before transferring it back to the government agency. Some assets such as warehouses and stadiums can also be given on a long-term lease for operations. "The asset monetisation pipeline takes the NIP (National Infrastructure Pipeline) to the next phase where you are looking at public-private partnership," Sitharaman told a press conference. Stating that there is no transfer of ownership or land, she said "the NMP talks about brownfield infra assets where investments have already been made, where there is a completed asset which is either languishing or which is remaining not fully monetised or which is remaining underutilised." "So by bringing in private participation into this, you are going to be able to monetise it better, and with whatever resources you obtain through the monetisation, you will be able to put in further investment into infrastructure," she said. The total indicative value of NMP for core assets of the central government has been estimated at Rs 6 lakh crore over the four-year period FY22 to FY25. The estimated value corresponds to about 5.4 per cent of the total infrastructure investment envisaged under the NIP which is Rs 111 lakh crore and 14 per cent of the proposed outlay for the Centre (Rs 43 lakh crore). This pipeline of assets has been phased out over a four-year period starting FY 2022 up till FY 2025, she said. "The infrastructure NMP is talking about brownfield assets which need to be better monetised. The ownership of those assets remain with the government and there will be a mandatory hand-back after a certain time," she said. "So let there not be any confusion, 'oh this government is selling away'. No. These are brownfield assets which will still be under government ownership," the minister added. More than half of the monetisation plan is from the roads and railways sector. The biggest chunk of Rs 1.6 lakh crore will come from monetising 26,700-km of existing operation national highways and new roads. NHAI will take the InvIT (Infrastructure Investment Trust) route for monetising some of these assets. As many as 400 railway stations, 90 passenger trains, 741-km Konkan Railways and 15 railway stadiums and colonies are planned to be monetised for an estimated Rs 1.2 lakh crore. Monetising 28,608 circuit kilometres of power transmission lines is estimated to generate Rs 45,200 crore and another Rs 39,832 crore will come from 6 GW of power generation assets. The telecom sector will give Rs 35,100 crore from monetising 2.86 lakh km of BharatNet fiber and 14,917 signal towers of BSNL and MTNL. Close to Rs 29,000 crore each is estimated from monetising warehouses and coal mines. Monetising 8,154 kms of natural gas pipelines is estimated to give Rs 24,462 crore and 3,930-km product pipelines another Rs 22,504 crore. Airport monetisation will fetch Rs 20,782 crore and ports another Rs 12,828 crore. Monetising two national stadiums, including the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in New Delhi, and an equal number of regional centres (at Bengaluru and Zirakpur) is estimated to yield Rs 11,450 crore. Redevelopment of seven residential colonies in Delhi, including ones at Sarojini Nagar and Nauroji Nagaras well as development of residential/ commercial units on 240 acres of land in Ghitorni in Delhi has also been identified to garner Rs 15,000 crore. Commenting on the plan announced, Abhaya Agarwal, Partner, Infrastructure Practice, EY India, said: "A four-year National Monetization Pipeline (NMP) to monetize Rs 6 trillion of brownfield infrastructure assets across sectors will definitely boost investors' confidence by providing sufficient clarity on the number, size and type of assets that would be made available in the market." Success of the plan could also enable recycling of funds which will be critical for revival of the infrastructure investment in India. However, meticulous planning, project packaging, and coordination will be needed to address the underlying structural and legacy issues, Agarwal said. "It would be important for the government to get the first few projects in each sector right to set the ball rolling in the right direction. Therefore, smooth implementation of the first Rs 10,000 crore will determine the fate of Rs 6 lakh crore monetization plan," Agarwal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Indian students travelling to US hit all-time record high    ||Over 55,000 Indian students and exchange visitors are travelling to study in the US this year and it is "an all-time record", the US embassy said on Monday. It said more visa applications were approved in the current year than ever before notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic. "The US mission in India is pleased to announce that its embassy and consulates approved more student visa applicants in 2021 than ever before, despite the global Covid-19 pandemic," the embassy said. "Through these efforts, more than 55,000 students and exchange visitors are boarding planes to study in the US, and more students are being approved every day," it said in a statement. In a tweet, the embassy described it as an all-time record. "Huge congratulations to our hardworking consular teams across the U.S. Mission in India. This year, more than 55K students are boarding planes to study in the United States, an all-time record in India. Wishing all students a successful academic year!" it said. Ambassador Atul Keshap, the Charge d'Affaires at the US embassy, lauded the staff involved in the issuance of visas and said Indian students enrich US society, achieve high levels of academic success, and deepen the bonds of friendship between the two countries. "Studying in the US is a unique and often life-changing experience for Indian students, granting fresh, global perspectives and frequently leading to invaluable career opportunities," he said. "Indian students also enrich US society, achieve high levels of academic success, and deepen the bonds of friendship between our countries. The many hard-working women and men of the US Mission to India are proud to facilitate their travel and study," Keshap added. The embassy said the US missions typically begin interviewing fall semester students for a given year in May, but the second wave of Covid-19 forced a delay in the commencement of the student visa season by two months. "In July, as soon as conditions allowed for the resumption of visa services without endangering applicants' health and safety, consular teams worked not only to match, but surpass, their pre-Covid workload," it said. It said the US embassy and consulates opened additional hours for visa appointments and made every possible effort to ensure timely arrival for academic programmes for as many students as possible. "Ultimately, these efforts paid off, as more students than ever before received visas to study in the US," the embassy said. It said interested students can also participate in upcoming Education USA University Virtual Fairs to be held on August 27, for prospective graduate students and on September 3, for prospective undergraduate students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Covid: Experts warn of third wave between September and October ||An expert panel, set up by an institute under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has predicted a third wave of Covid-19 hitting the country anytime between September and October and suggested significantly ramping up vaccination pace. The committee of experts, constituted by the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), also said that children will have a similar risk as adults since paediatric facilities, doctors and equipment like ventilators, ambulances, etc. are nowhere close to what may be required in case a large number of children become infected. The report, which has been submitted to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), observed that only around 7.6 per cent (10.4 cr) people are fully vaccinated in India and if the current vaccination rate is not increased, India can witness six lakh cases per day in the next wave. Leading experts have repeatedly warned of an imminent third COVID-19 wave in India. Epidemiologists predict a series of surges till we achieve herd immunity through infection or vaccination and the disease becomes endemic, the report said. The NIDM report quoted the prediction of experts from IIT Kanpur which suggested three likely scenarios for the third wave based on the level of unlocking. In scenario one, it said that the third wave could peak in October with 3.2 lakh positive cases per day. In scenario two, with the emergence of new and more virulent variants, the third wave could peak in September with likely five lakh positive cases per day. In scenario three, the experts predicted that the third wave could peak in late October with two lakh positive cases per day. According to the report, earlier, it was proposed that if 67 percent of the population became immune (a few by infection and rest through vaccination), herd immunity could be achieved. But this has now been complicated by the new and more virulent mutated variants of SARS Cov-2 that have the ability to escape immunity from earlier infections and in some cases even the prevalent vaccines, it said. This has pushed the target immune population for achieving herd immunity to 80-90 percent. Hence, our health system and vaccines are caught in a race against the virus and are trying to catch up with risks that are evolving every day creating uncertainty all over the world, it said. The NIDM is now taking a clue from several warnings indicating an imminent third wave, trying to understand them and prepare for the third wave. With this backdrop, it engaged with multiple stakeholders from diverse backgrounds in an attempt to formulate consolidated recommendations for actions that can prevent or mitigate an impending surge. The report said there isn't sufficient data to back widespread fears that children will be hit more severely in the anticipated third wave of the pandemic. However, as the virus continues to evolve, this is going to be a major challenge for children as there is no approved vaccine for children in India yet (first week of August). Children with Covid-19 infection have largely been seen to be asymptomatic or develop mild symptoms. But this becomes worrisome in case children have any comorbidity or other special needs. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, out of all the children hospitalised due to Covid, 60-70 percent had comorbidities or low immunity. Children have also been seen to develop MIS-C (Multi-system Inflammatory Syndrome) which is a rare but extremely serious condition developed post-Covid recovery, it said. According to a parliamentary standing committee report in 2015, there is an 82 percent shortage of paediatricians in India's primary health centres and up to 62.8 percent of positions for paediatricians in community health centres were vacant. The working group committee experts suggested a holistic home care model, immediate increase in paediatric medical capacities and prioritising mental health issues among children, the report said. According to the COVID vaccination dashboard of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, as of August 2, 2021, 47,85,44, 144 (over 47 crore) individuals have been administered at least one dose of COVID vaccine. According to a recent study done by professors and alumni from Pandit Deendayal Energy University (PDEU) in collaboration with Nirma University, the vaccination rate of India is currently 3.2 percent and if does not improve, India can witness six lakh cases per day in the third wave. But if the government's proposal to increase this rate by five times (1 crore doses per day) comes to fruition, India will see only 25 percent of the cases (seen in the second wave) during the third wave peak. According to data from the CoWin portal, out of the total 30.9 crore doses administered since January 2021 till 25 June 2021, 14.3 crore went to women vis-a-vis 16.7 crore to men. The proportion of vaccine coverage -- 856 doses to women for every 1,000 doses for men -- does not match India's current sex ratio of 924 women per 1,000 men. The largest state in India, Uttar Pradesh, has 42 percent vaccination of women, West Bengal has 44 percent female coverage, Dadra and Nagar Haveli (predominantly rural UT) 30 per cent. Only a few states- Kerala and Andhra Pradesh -- have more vaccine coverage for women than men. Rural women are even more marginally placed vaccination-wise, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Army selection board clears way for promoting five women officers to Colonel rank||An Army selection board has cleared the way for promotion of five women officers to Colonel rank after they completed 26 years of "reckonable service", the Defence Ministry said on Monday. This is the first time that women officers serving with the Corps of Signals, Corps of Electronic and Mechanical Engineers (EME) and the Corps of Engineers have been approved to the rank of Colonel, the ministry said. "A Selection Board of the Indian Army cleared the way for the promotion of five women officers to Colonel (Time Scale) rank, post completion of 26 years of reckonable service," it said in a statement. Previously, promotion to the rank of Colonel was only applicable for women officers in the Army Medical Corps (AMC), Judge Advocate General (JAG) and the Army Education Corps (AEC). The five women officers selected for "Colonel Time Scale" rank are Lt Col Sangeeta Sardana from the Corps of Signals, Lt Col Sonia Anand and Lt Col Navneet Duggal from the Corps of EME, and Lt Col Reenu Khanna and Lt Col Ritcha Sagar from the Corps of Engineers. The move to grant Colonel rank to five women officers came days after the Supreme Court allowed women candidates to sit for the National Defence Academy (NDA) entrance exam scheduled to be held on September 5, in an interim order. "The widening of promotion avenues to more branches of the Indian Army is a sign of increasing career opportunities for women officers," the ministry said. "Combined with the decision to grant permanent commission to women officers from a majority of branches of the Indian Army, this step defines the Indian Army's approach towards a gender-neutral Army," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Umar Khalid calls Delhi riots conspiracy case 'cooked up'||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case, told a Delhi Court on Monday that there were various contradictions in the police's claims and called it a "cooked up" case. Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has sought bail in the case. Trideep Pais, Khalid's lawyer, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that the FIR was cooked up and unnecessary, and was used selectively to target and frame them. The counsel pointed to two contradictions in Delhi Police's claims. Firstly, he showed the court a 21-minute video clip of Khalid's speech in Maharashtra, which the prosecution had allegedly labelled inflammatory. The lawyer, pursuant to showing the video, apprised the court that his client did not give any call for violence through the speech and in fact gave a message of unity to the people. "A message of unity based on Gandhi ji was given by Umar Khalid that day. It was termed as terror. Content is not seditious. He is talking about democratic power. He referred to Gandhi," Pais added. Secondly, he argued that as per the police case, Khalid conspired with other accused on January 8 to cause riots during former US President Donald Trump's visit, however, the news about his visit was announced only in February. "These are the kind of lies they are peddling. This is a joke. This FIR is a cooked-up theory. Is it that easy to prosecute people? Do you have no responsibility as a prosecution?" Pais said. Delhi Police had recently said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case. In April, the former JNU student was granted bail in one of the riot cases. The court while granting him bail noted that he was not physically present at the scene of the crime on the date of the incident. Besides him, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Indian evacuated from Afghanistan recalls harrowing tale ||Jeet Bahadur Thapa shudders to recall how he and other Indians thought they might be killed by the Taliban gunmen any moment after they were made to sit on ground in an open area at Kabul airport for five hours by the militia before they could leave for India. Thapa, 30, a native of Chinore village here, was working as a supervisor in a consultancy company in Afghanistan for two and a half years and was among those evacuated after the Taliban took over Kabul. As many as 118 people from India worked in the company and all of them started on foot for the Denmark embassy, which was 30 km away, hoping that they will get a safe passage to India. "There was the fear of the Taliban. Some robbers stopped us and robbed us of about Rs one lakh and all the other belongings," he said. "Some Taliban members accosted us shortly before we arrived at the embassy and asked if we were Hindus. They let us go after we introduced ourselves as Indian citizens," Thapa said. When the Indians told them that they were robbed, the Taliban members claimed that local criminals might be involved and that the Taliban were not involved in such activities, according to Thapa. "Many people were injured after walking for so long in the dark," he said. On August 18, they reached the airport area in Kabul where lakhs of people had gathered in a desperate bid to escape from the country. They spent three days there with barely any food. "The Taliban gunmen present there made all the Indians sit on the ground in an open space for about five hours. We sat silently in fear that the Taliban who had modern weapons might kill us," he said. "When an Army plane arrived, we all left for Delhi on August 22 morning," he said. Thapa said there is an undeclared curfew in Afghanistan. "All companies and offices are closed. No one is leaving their house... Women and children in Afghanistan are very afraid and that's why no women are seen on the roads," he said. Replying to a question, he said he did not see the Taliban committing atrocities on women but people fear them due to their past actions. "The Taliban are on the streets due to which there is an atmosphere of fear. The Taliban are constantly appealing to the people of the country that no person should leave Afghanistan and that that they won't let anyone cause any trouble," he said. The Islamic militia seized control of Kabul on August 15 after taking over almost all key towns and cities, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||NHRC issues notices to Centre, Assam, Mizoram on border clash||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notices to the Centre, Assam and Mizoram over the deadly border clash between the two Northeastern states in July, stating that "grave violation of human rights" took place. Acting on a complaint by one Md Injamul Haque of Assam, the NHRC on Sunday issued notices to the Union home secretary and the chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram and asked them to file their reports within four weeks. "The Commission has considered the matter. The facts of the case are disturbing. The allegations made in the complaint are serious in nature involving deaths and injuries to public servants. "The case, therefore, involves a grave violation of Human Rights of the deceased and injured. Such types of cases are viewed very seriously by the Commission. In these circumstances, let a Notice be sent," as per the details of the proceedings. Accordingly, notices were issued and the matter will be put up before the full commission after four weeks. At least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed and more than 50 people injured as the festering border dispute between the two Northeastern states erupted into a bloody conflict on July 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt's reply to plea for CBI probe into Covid patients death at Jaipur Hospital||The Delhi High Court Monday granted additional time of six weeks to the Centre and Delhi government to file replies on a plea seeking CBI probe into the death of 21 COVID-19 patients at Jaipur Golden Hospital here in April allegedly due to oxygen shortage. The court, which was hearing the plea filed by the families of some patients who died on the intervening night of April 23 and 24, also permitted the petitioners to file a rejoinder to the governments' responses. By that time things will be clearer. We will see. You have approached the MM (Metropolitan Magistrate) also, said Justice Rekha Palli as the matter was listed for further hearing on December 9. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra and standing counsel Kiritman Singh, appearing for Delhi government and the Centre respectively, sought to file their responses to the petition. The aspect of criminal investigation was pending consideration before a magisterial court, Mehra said. Advocate Utsav Bains, appearing for the petitioners, said that the aggrieved families before the high court and the magisterial court were not the same. Singh said the Supreme Court was also seized of the issue of granting ex gratia compensation. "File your counter. I'm not passing any interim order anyway," the judge said. On June 4, the court had issued notice to the Centre and Delhi government on the plea which contended that the cause of death of the patients was respiratory failure due to insufficient supply of oxygen and not comorbidities as stated by a Delhi government committee in its report. The petitioners claimed that the committee came out with an "erroneous" report that those who died did not suffer suffocation due to lack of oxygen supply. The petition thus sought quashing of the committee's report and a direction for a probe by CBI or an independent agency into the deaths "so that the truth can be brought to light and justice be given to the deceased persons and their families" and they be provided compensation. The plea alleged that the incident took place "due to deliberate inaction and failure of the respondents (Centre, Delhi government and the hospital) to provide adequate oxygen to the patients despite knowing that any shortage of oxygen supply would lead to their immediate death. "As a result, the respondents herein have rendered themselves not only liable to pay compensation to the families of the deceased victims but also for criminal prosecution" for culpable homicide, the plea has said. The petitioners also contended that the hospital did not even inform the family members about the shortage otherwise they would have arranged for at least high flow oxygen cylinders and this would have saved the life of their loved ones who died as the pressure in the cylinders was low. It has contended that the Centre, Delhi government and the hospital "were under a legal and moral obligation to ensure no-one dies due to non-supply of oxygen".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Puri outlines need for CAA citing Afghan crises ||With Hindus and Sikhs settled in Afghanistan fleeing the country after its takeover by the Taliban, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri has outlined the need for the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In a tweet on Sunday, the senior BJP leader said, "Recent developments in our volatile neighbourhood & the way Sikhs & Hindus are going through a harrowing time are precisely why it was necessary to enact the Citizenship Amendment Act." The government of India has undertaken a massive evacuation exercise to airlift Hindus, Sikhs and natives from the neighbouring country passing through a phase of volatile uncertainty for its people. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, which came into force from January 10, 2020, witnessed widespread protests across the country with Delhi emerging as a hub of resistance against the legislation. Most of the Opposition parties vociferously protested against the Citizenship Amendment Bill, introduced in Parliament by the Modi government, alleging it of being "communal" in nature. The CAA grants citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan on the ground of religious persecution faced by them in their native country. India on August 17 announced that it will issue an emergency e-visa to Afghan nationals who want to come to the country in view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. All Afghans, irrespective of their religion, can apply for the 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' online and the applications will be processed in New Delhi. "The Ministry of Home Affairs reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan. A new category of electronic visa called 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India," a home ministry spokesperson had said. The visa would initially be valid for six months, officials had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||MEA to brief political parties on Afghanistan on Thursday||The Indian government will hold a meeting on Thursday to brief parliamentary leaders of various political parties on the developments in war-torn Afghanistan, Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi said. "Floor Leaders of Political Parties would be briefed by EAM @DrSJaishankar on the present situation in Afghanistan, on 26th August, 11am in Main Committee Room, PHA, New Delhi. Invites are being sent through email. All concerned are requested to attend." Joshi said in a tweet External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had previously mentioned that Prime Minister Narendra Modi instructed the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA)) to brief the floor leaders of the political parties. "In view of developments in Afghanistan, PM @narendramodi has instructed that MEA brief Floor Leaders of political parties. Minister of Parliamentary Affairs @JoshiPralhad will be intimating further details," Jaishankar tweeted. The government's briefing is expected to focus on its evacuation mission from Afghanistan as well as its assessment of the situation in that country. On August 17, PM Modi chaired a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security and asked officials to ensure the safe evacuation of Indians stranded in Afghanistan. The foreign ministry has said the government is committed to their safe return, adding that the main challenge is the operational status of the Kabul airport. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, following the withdrawal of the US forces from the country. As part of its evacuation mission from Afghanistan, India has already brought back around 730 people including members of the Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities. India on Monday brought back 146 of its nationals in four different flights from Qatar's capital Doha, days after they were evacuated from Afghanistan by NATO and American aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country. On Sunday, 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers were evacuated in three different flights under the evacuation mission. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days of the Taliban's capture of Kabul, India had evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on August 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||CAA protests: Sharjeel Imam denies inciting violence||JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, told a Delhi court on Monday that he cannot be hammered with sedition as his speeches did not call for violence. Imam has moved the court seeking bail in a case related to speeches made by him at two universities in 2019, where he allegedly threatened to cut off Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He has been arrested under UAPA and sedition. During the hearing, advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, representing the accused, apprised Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that no part of his speech called for any kind of violence to be initiated. "When Sharjeel Imam says that this piece of legislation (CAA/NRC) is unconstitutional, and seeks to persuade the government to rethink and says if you don't do it, we will be on the streets, he cannot be hammered by sedition," the counsel asserted. He further said that the right to protest, the right to blockade, and the right to bring the country to a standstill is not equal to an act of sedition. "The speech did not call for violence. He just called for a road blockade. He did not say that the northeast should become a different state and declare independence. That would have been seditious," advocate Mir added. He emphasised that Imam is not a member of any banned organisation or terrorist gang but is merely a student. The alleged inflammatory speeches were made at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019, and at Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, 2019. He is in judicial custody since January 28, 2020. Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the UAPA. Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central Government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019. "In the garb of CAA, he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block highways leading to major cities and resort to 'chakka jaam'. Also, in the name of opposing CAA, he openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country," the charge sheet had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||India's first smog tower inaugurated in Delhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated India's first smog tower in Delhi's Connaught Place that will purify 1,000 cubic metres of air per second within a radius of around 1 km. He said the tower has been set up as a pilot project and initial trends will be available within a month. If the pilot project is successful, more smog towers will be installed in the national capital. Earlier, officials had said that a two-year pilot study will be undertaken to ascertain the effectiveness of the smog tower after it becomes operational. A control room has been set up at the site to monitor the operations of the smog tower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Bihar delegation meets Modi to press for caste census||Stepping up their campaign for a caste-based census, a delegation of 10 parties from Bihar headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday in support of the demand. Kumar said after the meeting that all parties from Bihar spoke in one voice on the need for a caste-based census, and asserted that statistics about different castes will help in formulating development schemes effectively as many of them have not benefitted so far in line with their actual population. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, who was part of the delegation, said such a census was in national interest and will be a historic measure and help the poor and the most deprived sections of the society. If animals and trees can be counted, so can people, he said. Kumar was joined by representatives of all major parties, including the BJP and Congress, as they submitted their demand to Modi. Asked about the prime minister's response, he said Modi gave all of them a patient hearing and "did not deny what we said (need for caste census)". BJP's Janak Ram, who was part of the delegation, said Modi heard out everyone's view like the "guardian of a family". Everyone was "satisfied" and the prime minister's decision will be acceptable to all, he added. With census being the Union's prerogative, it is now up to the Centre to take a call on the demand made by many parties, mostly those who draw their core support from the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). Speaking to reporters, both Kumar and Yadav referred to the statement of a Union minister, a reference to Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai's reply in Rajya Sabha that there was no proposal for releasing caste-based population data, with the chief minister saying it triggered "unrest" among people. A certain bonhomie between the two political rivals, who have been allies in the past, was also on display as Kumar credited the young RJD leader for making the proposal for an all-party delegation meeting the prime minister, and Yadav expressing thanks to the chief minister for working on it and seeking time from Modi. Asked if Kumar's JD(U), which is part of the BJP-led NDA, and the RJD are coming closer, Yadav said the opposition in Bihar has always supported the government over pro-people measures and those in national interest "Once caste census is carried out, then we will get to know actual information about all castes. Development work for them can then be taken up effectively," he said. Noting the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes are counted and census also includes data about different religions, Yadav asked why then others cannot be counted. With critics claiming that caste census may fuel casteism and animosity, he noted that census-based on people's religious affiliations had never caused any violence. A caste census will help the government find out who are the poorest people, and measures can be then taken to help them, the RJD leader said, adding that their demand was not specific to Bihar but for a nationwide counting of people of different castes. Kumar and Yadav also thanked Modi for the meeting. Asked about his brother Tej Pratap Yadav's angry outbursts against some RJD leaders for allegedly ignoring him in the party's affairs, Tejashwi Yadav parried the query, and said he will stick to speaking on the issues of "national interest". A census on caste lines can have huge political implications and a number of regional parties, including BJP's allies, have batted for it as they believe that it will strengthen the demand for raising quota for the OBCs, which are estimated by them to be over 50 per cent of the population and get 27 per cent of reservation. Though many OBC leaders of the BJP support the demand, the party has so far not taken a categorical stand on the fraught issue. There is a view that a caste census will bring the Mandal politics to the centre stage of politics and can be an effective weapon in the hands of regional parties to counter the BJP's Hindutva and welfare planks, the twin issues used by the saffron parties to make massive inroads into the OBC vote bank at the expense of state-based parties. BJP leader Janak Ram, who was part of the 10-party delegation that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to push for a caste-based census, on Monday likened Modi to the "guardian of a family" and said whatever decision he takes on the issue will be "acceptable" to everyone. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Ram also took a swipe at rivals like the RJD's Tejashwi Yadav without naming them, saying many leaders advance their careers in the name of caste and community but later busy themselves in promoting their families. Ram, a minister in the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led government in Bihar, evaded a direct reply on whether he backs the demand for a caste-based census and said Modi fully understands as to how the country's all-round development can take place and has been working accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Afghan crisis: India brings back 146 of its evacuated nationals from Doha||India on Monday brought back 146 of its nationals in four different flights from Qatar's capital Doha, days after they were evacuated from Afghanistan by NATO and American aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country. People familiar with the development said the Indians were flown back to Delhi as part of India's mission to evacuate its citizens and Afghan partners from Kabul following its takeover by the Taliban over a week back, they said. It was the second batch of Indians to be brought back from Doha after their evacuation from Kabul. A total of 135 Indians were flown back to Delhi from Doha in a special flight on Sunday. Out of the second batch of Indians who returned home from Doha, 104 people were brought back in a Vistara flight, 30 by a Qatar Airways flight and 11 of them returned by an Indigo flight. One person returned by an Air India flight, they said. India on Sunday brought back 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers in three different flights under the evacuation mission amid a continued scramble by various countries to rescue their citizens from Kabul. The total number of people evacuees included the first batch of 135 Indians who were flown back from Doha. It is learnt that the Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan and they were flown out of Kabul by NATO and American aircraft. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days of the Taliban's capture of Kabul, India evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on August 17. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||India sees single-day rise of 25,000 Covid cases, 389 casualties||India saw a single-day rise of 25,072 new COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 160 days, while active cases declined to 3,33,924, comprising 1.03 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The tally of COVID-19 cases has increased to 3,24,49,306, while the death toll has climbed to 4,34,756 with 389 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,33,924, the lowest in 155 days, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.63 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A reduction of 19,474 cases has been recorded in the total number of active COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 12,95,160 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 50,75,51,399. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 28 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.91 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 59 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,16,80,626, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 58.25 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 389 new fatalities include 145 from Maharashtra, 69 from Odisha and 66 from Kerala. A total of 4,34,756 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,35,962 from Maharashtra, 37,145 from Karnataka, 34,709 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,792 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,494 from Kerala and 18,364 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Elgar Parishad: NIA draft charges claim accused wanted to wage war against nation||The NIA in its draft charges submitted before a special court here in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case has claimed the accused persons wanted to establish their own government and "wage a war against the nation". The National Investigation Agency (NIA) submitted the draft earlier this month and a copy of it was made available on Monday. The draft lays down 17 charges against 15 accused, including human rights and civil liberties activists, and they have been sought to be charged under various sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The NIA has alleged that the accused persons were active members of the banned terror outfit CPI (Maoist). The arrested accused in the case include activists Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Hany Babu, Anand Teltumbde, Shoma Sen, Gautam Navlakha and others. As per the draft charges, the main objective of the accused persons was to establish a "Jantana Sarkar (people's government) through revolution and armed struggle to seize power from the State". The draft also claimed that the accused attempted to "wage war against the Governments of India and Maharashtra". Framing of charges is the first step before trial commences in the case where the prosecution describes the charges against the accused along with the evidence to be relied upon. After the framing of charges, the court will ask the accused whether they plead guilty or not in the case. The draft further claimed the accused had been playing provocative songs, enacting short plays and skits in Pune during the Elgar Parishad meeting and distributing Naxal literature. "That the criminal conspiracy was an intention to bring about the secession of a part of the territory of India and incite individuals to bring about such a secession," it said. It further alleged that the accused had an intent to strike terror in the minds of people by using explosive substances. "That accused recruited students from various universities including the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Tata Institute of Social Science for commission of terrorist activity," it claimed. The accused have been charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 120-B (conspiracy), 115 (abetment of offence), 121, 121-A (waging war against state), 124-A (sedition), 153-A (arms in procession), 505(1)(B) (statements promoting mischief) and 34 (common intention). They have also been charged under UAPA Sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 18A, 18B, 20 (punishment for terrorist activities), 38, 39 and 40 (punishment for being part of terrorist organisation). The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The prosecution claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Police seek feedback from devotees as Jagannath Temple reopens from Monday||A day before the iconic Shree Jagannath Temple here reopens for the public after a gap of almost four months, police on Sunday urged devotees to share feedback in order to improve their experience of visiting the 12th-century shrine. Devotees can submit their feedback on police service at the temple either by submitting a form or through online QR code scanning systems installed at parking lots and other places, police sources said. "We urge all to give feedback and use this opportunity to further help us in improving the Hassle-Free Darshan Experience for devotees," the Puri Police said on Twitter. The temple has been closed for the public since April 24 in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. Detailed briefing of the force and officers has been conducted before reopening the temple, a police officer said. As per the SOP, all devotees will be allowed entry to the shrine from 7 am to 7 pm, Monday to Friday. The temple will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday for the sanitisation of its premises. The shrine will also be shut during major festivals to avoid mass congregations. Devotees visiting the temple will have to produce a full vaccination certificate or a negative Covid test report not older than 96 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Thunderstorm, light to moderate rain likely in Delhi today||The national capital is likely to receive light to moderate rains with thunderstorm on Monday, the India Meteorological Department said. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 26.2 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 35 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. In the last 24 hours till 8.30 am, the city received 1 mm rainfall. The relative humidity was 89 per cent at 8.30 am, it said. The maximum temperature on Sunday settled at 34.3 degrees Celsius as rains lashed some parts of the city, and the minimum temperature settled at 24.5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Junior union minister refuses to increase paltry pension under NSAP||Sulochana Behera eagerly waits for her old-age pension of Rs 500 every month at her home in Garh Nipania village in Puri district, Odisha. Within hours of receiving the sum, the widowed Sulochana spends it all on medicine and food that barely last a week. She then starts counting the days for the next payment. For clothing, she depends on the earnings of her grandson Anil, a day labourer. The Dalit family has no land or other source of regular income. Sulochana’s son Bansidhar died three years ago. Her daughter-in-law Lata receives a widow pension of Rs 500 a month, and that too is spent in a few hours. Anil’s wife Pratima said the family lives perpetually in debt. “We have two elderly people at home. They cannot work any longer and fall ill regularly,” she said. “The monthly pension of Rs 500 is too little to help each of them manage their expenses even for a week. The pensions should be increased.” Any such hopes were, however, dashed by junior rural development minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti in Parliament this month. Basanta Kumar Panda, a BJP Lok Sabha member, had asked whether the Centre might double the pensions disbursed under its National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP). “No, Sir. There is no such proposal for consideration to double the amount under the NSAP,” Jyoti said in a written reply on August 3. Nikhil Dey, national convener of the Pension Parishad, a civil society organisation, described the government’s statement in Parliament as “callous”. Nepal, Bolivia and Botswana — with economies much smaller than India’s — provide better social security pensions to their elderly citizens in terms of percentage of the GDP. While India spends 0.04 per cent of its GDP on social security pension, Nepal, Bolivia and Botswana spend 0.7 per cent, 1.3 per cent and 0.3 per cent, respectively. The NSAP has three sub-schemes. The Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme provides for a monthly pension of Rs 200 to people aged 60 to 79 and living below the poverty line. The Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme provides for a monthly pension of Rs 300 to adults with a disability level 80 per cent or higher. The Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme provides for a monthly pension of Rs 300 for widows aged over 40. Once a beneficiary attains the age of 80, he or she receives Rs 500 a month. Several states add to the pension from their own funds. The Odisha government gives Sulochana and Lata additional monthly sums of Rs 300 and Rs 200, respectively, bringing their pensions up to Rs 500 each. Sulochana claims she is 83 and is eligible for Rs 700 a month — Rs 500 under the central scheme and Odisha’s top-up of Rs 200 for octogenarians. She says her age must have been entered incorrectly under the scheme’s records. Lata is in her 50s. The Pension Parishad has been demanding that the social security pensions under the central programme be increased to half the state minimum wage, with an indexation to inflation. “Covid has devastated the elderly. There’s been no relief, nor any sign of concern for them. The Centre’s monthly pension of Rs 200 or Rs 300 has remained unchanged since 2007,” Dey, the convener of the Parishad, said. “Just imagine, the Centre has given 28 per cent dearness allowance this year to its employees, and not bothered about the elderly. It indicates callousness, cruelty and self-interest at the cost of the nation’s most vulnerable.” Nearly 3.39 crore elderly people receive social security pension under the National Social Assistance Programme. Dey said the old-age pension scheme should also include the vulnerable elderly living above the poverty line. Sulochana’s family lives in a thatched house. They applied for housing under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana two years ago and are on the waiting list. “I know how to operate a stitching machine but we haven’t got the money to buy one,” Pratima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Bihar floods: Staff builds makeshift rafts with damaged vaccine boxes||When floodwaters cut off the community health centre at Dighwara in Bihar’s Saran district a week ago, its staff decided to think out of the box. Or rather, think about the boxes — the plastic crates in which Covid vaccine doses are stored. The staff tied these sturdy but light containers together to build makeshift rafts so they could row the patients across nearly a kilometre of four-to-five-feet-deep water to the community health centre, built in the middle of a vast field. The doctor in charge of the CHC, Roshan Kumar, told The Telegraph: “Our staff saw the plight of the people and realised it was futile to wait for the water to recede. “So they built the rafts using damaged vaccine boxes. It takes a 15-minute ride on these improvised boats to reach the hospital.” Sources said the CHC had built three rafts, each with four boxes, each capable of ferrying two or three patients at a time to the CHC across the floodwaters of the Gandak and its tributaries. “Over 20 patients of dog bites, snakebites or scorpion stings, or people injured in accidents and fights, are coming daily to the hospital,” Dr Kumar said. “Our doctors and other staff too are finding it easier to reach the hospital.” However, the handful of makeshift rafts being inadequate for the hundreds of Covid vaccine seekers who come to the CHC every day, the vaccination campaign has been shifted to a school built on higher ground at Dighwara Bazar. Still, the number of jabs administered daily has fallen to around 400 from the pre-flood figure of about 1,000, Dr Kumar said. A team of inspectors from the World Health Organisation, who arrived at the CHC on Saturday as part of a routine countrywide monitoring of the Covid vaccination campaign, however, objected to the vaccine cases being used to ferry patients and staff. The WHO inspectors feared that the use of these insulated “cold boxes” to build rafts would hit the CHC’s capacity to store the Covid vaccines. Dr Kumar, however, told this newspaper the CHC had built its rafts only with “damaged vaccine cases that had been declared unfit for reuse”. He said the CHC had enough cold boxes in good condition to store the vaccines. With the matter coming to light, the district administration gave the CHC a boat on Saturday but without a boatman. “The circle officer provided a boat after the (critical) remarks from WHO officials, but no boatman,” Dr Kumar said. A boat can carry seven to eight passengers at a time but Dr Kumar said the CHC staff were still using the rafts because rowing a boat is a specialised job. “There already was another boat around here but that too has been without a boatman. Using a boat on our own is very cumbersome and takes much time,” he said. While the CHC at Dighwara has partly solved its problem, hundreds of other primary health centres (PHCs), health sub-centres, CHCs and sub-divisional and district hospitals too are believed to have been affected by floods. At least 17 of Bihar’s 38 districts are flood-hit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||India||Poet upholds need to value equality and contemporary issues in Onam||Malayalam poet K. Satchidanandan on Sunday said the ongoing Onam celebrations must become an occasion to uphold the value of equality and remember contemporary issues such as the agitations against the contentious farm laws and the new citizenship matrix. “Farmers have been engaged in an agitation for their rights. I think Onam is in some way linked to these farmers,” he said, addressing via a recorded video message the Onam celebrations organised by the Calcutta Malayalee Samajam. Onam is a harvest festival. Satchidanandan referred to how “some Hindus — or those who claim to be Hindus — are trying to convert Onam into Vamana Jayanti”. Onam celebrates the annual visit to Kerala by the mythological “Asura” king Mahabali whom Vamana — an incarnation of Vishnu — had banished to the netherworld following a conspiracy by the gods who detested his equitable rule and popularity. The Sangh parivar has been trying to refashion Onam as the birthday celebration of Vamana. Union home minister Amit Shah had wished Malayalis on “Vamana Jayanti” in 2016, attracting allegations of pushing the Hindutva agenda. “In one way, our rulers are representatives of Vamana,” Satchidanandan said. He drew on the Onam mythology to allude to the Citizenship Amendment Act. “This is a time when we are fast losing the values of Onam (equality) and the divide between the rich and poor keeps growing. This is also a time when people fear they would lose their citizenship,” he said. Kerala Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh inaugurated the event with a brief address. “I congratulate the Calcutta Kerala Samajam on celebrating Onam and keeping up with the traditions even while living far away from Kerala,” he said in a video message. CPM politburo member M.A. Baby said the world needed to work more for equality, which Mahabali’s governance represented and Onam celebrated. “We cannot forget that we are still not sufficiently utilising the opportunity to bring equality into the world,” Baby said in his video message. The event included classical dance recitals and music.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||India||Govt survey portrays better job situation from July 2019- June 2020||A government survey has portrayed an improved unemployment situation between July 2019 and June 2020 on certain parameters, but experts say this is largely an illusion caused by a distressed population increasingly taking up low-paid informal jobs. Besides, while one standard of measurement in the survey appears to show an improvement, another — a more reliable one — shows none, they added. The National Statistical Office, an arm of the statistics and programme implementation ministry, released the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) report for 2019-20 last month. The sample survey covered 100,480 households: 55,291 in rural areas and 45,189 in urban areas. It showed an improvement in the unemployment situation under the “usual status” measure. A person is considered employed under this measure if he or she has worked at least an hour a day for more than 30 days in the preceding 365 days. The PLFS for 2017-18 (July 2017 to June 2018) had found the unemployment rate under the “usual status” to be 6.1 per cent — the highest in four decades. This had improved to 5.8 per cent in 2018-19 and further to 4.8 per cent in 2019-20. Another key indicator on employment — the Worker Population Ratio, or the percentage of people aged 15 and above who are already employed — too has shown an improvement. The national figure for 2017-18 was 46.8 per cent under the “usual status”: it rose to 47.3 per cent in 2018-19 and 50.9 per cent in 2019-20. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra said the PLFS data established how India’s workforce had moved towards low-paid informal work, such as family work and farm work, in 2019-20. “The engagement of people increased in 2019-20; also, the share of people in unpaid family labour increased,” he said. “This means more people moved towards the informal sector and less remunerative jobs because of a decline of formal and secure jobs.” The PLFS shows that 15.9 per cent people were engaged as “helpers in household enterprises” in 2019-20, up from 13.3 per cent in 2018-19, with such work attracting more women than men. “Employment as helpers in household enterprises mainly refers to unpaid family work, such as helping one’s husband run a snacks stall or doing some sort of work on (the family’s) farmland,” Mehrotra said. “These people are considered employed but get no payment. Their (proportion) has increased while that of women working as regular employees in establishments has declined.” Among all the employed women, the percentage of those earning regular salaries or wages fell from 21.9 in 2018-19 to 20 in 2019-20. The percentage of employed women working as “helpers in household enterprises” rose to 35 in 2019-20 from 30.9 the previous year. Mehrotra said the unemployment rate under the “usual status” measure may have shown an improvement but this was not an international standard of measurement. Most developed and developing nations use the “current weekly status” (CWS) measure. Under the CWS, a person is considered employed if he or she has worked for over an hour in the preceding one week (from the time they are questioned for the survey). “Going by the CWS, the unemployment situation continues to be as grim in 2019-20 as in 2018-19 and 2017-18,” Mehrotra said. Labour economist Amitabh Kundu, currently adviser to Oxfam India, suggested that the “usual status” measure was unreliable in another way — many respondents might not clearly remember on how many days in the past one year they had worked at least an hour. “Under the current weekly status, the reference period is one week and there is no recall error,” he said. According to the PLFS, the unemployment rate under the CWS was 8.8 per cent for both 2019-20 and 2018-19. The unemployment rate in urban areas was 11 per cent in 2019-20 under the CWS against 9.5 per cent the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||India||Modi,  senior BJP leaders focus on Ayodhya in Kalyan Singh tributes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi repeatedly invoked Ram as he and other senior BJP leaders gathered in Lucknow on Sunday to pay tributes to Kalyan Singh, who had passed away on Saturday at the age of 89. Several BJP leaders underlined how the Babri Masjid was demolished in Ayodhya in 1992 on Kalyan’s watch as Uttar Pradesh chief minister — an occurrence that changed Indian politics and which the BJP turned into political capital while the courts exonerated its leaders. The under-construction Ram temple in Ayodhya is expected to be a key BJP plank during the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, whose results could be crucial to Modi’s fortunes in the 2024 general election. During an interaction with the media, Modi said: “I pray at the feet of Lord Shri Ram that he gives refuge to Kalyan Singh, gives his family the strength to bear this grief, and gives solace to all the suffering people of this country who believe in this country’s values, ideals, culture and tradition.” Earlier in the morning, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had tweeted (from @myogioffice) in Hindi: “Respected Kalyan Singhji didn’t hesitate to give up power for the construction of a magnificent temple to Maryada Purushottam Bhagwan Shri Ram at his holy birthplace. Taking moral responsibility for the demolition of the controversial structure on December 6, 1992, he had immediately resigned as chief minister.” Kalyan had assured the then Congress government of P.V. Narasimha Rao at the Centre that no harm would come to the Babri Masjid. However, an army of kar sevaks, egged on by Sangh parivar leaders, pulled the mosque down on December 6, 1992. Following this, the Kalyan government was dismissed and President’s rule imposed. Allahabad High Court later detained Kalyan for a day for allowing the destruction of the mosque after having submitted an affidavit saying nothing untoward would happen if the kar sevaks were allowed entry into Ayodhya. The Liberhan Commission, instituted by the Centre to probe the demolition, had alleged a conspiracy by Kalyan’s government and Sangh parivar leaders. However, a lower court in Lucknow acquitted Kalyan and the others in September 2020. Kalyan, however, used to openly claim credit for the demolition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||India||ICMR to set up diagnostic centre for fungi at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar||The Indian Council of Medical Research will set up an advanced molecular diagnostic centre for fungi at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. An amount of Rs 2.5 crore is being sanctioned by the ICMR for setting up the facility. AIIMS director Professor Gitanjali Batmanabane told The Telegraph: “The centre will undertake research on fungal diseases and will help other institutions in capacity building to fight fungal diseases.” “The money will be given over a period of three years for the capacity building of AIIMS. With the funds we will build up our infrastructure, train our men and provide them with necessary equipment,” she said. Stating that the facility will be used as a referral centre for the eastern part of the country, she said: “We will provide referral services in detection and control of fungal diseases.” The centre will set up a multi-disciplinary team comprising mycologists, pathologists, surgeons, haematologists and other experts to manage suspected fungal infections and conduct research on such infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Will not fight if all political parties and states reach a consensus on caste-based census, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she will accept a nationwide caste-based census if all political parties reach a consensus on the matter.  Banerjee's statement came at the backdrop of a 10-party delegation from Bihar headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi to push for a caste-based census.  "When there will be a discussion and if a consensus is reached, I will not have any problem accepting it. I will not fight if all political parties and states reach a consensus. Let political parties, the CMs and the Central government reach a consensus," Banerjee said.  She declined to say much on the issue, saying that sentiments differ from one state to the other.  Banerjee said, "Nitish-ji has put up his questions on this issue. Let's see how others react to it."  Statistics about different castes will help in formulating development schemes effectively as many of them have not benefitted so far in line with their actual population, the Bihar CM has said.  The BJP leadership has so far not taken a categorical stand on the issue which has been lapped up by a number of regional parties, many of them its rivals in different states.  With census being the Union's prerogative, it is now up to the Centre to take a call on the demand.  There is a view that a caste census will bring the Mandal politics to the centre stage of politics and can be an effective weapon in the hands of regional parties to counter the BJP's Hindutva and welfare planks, the twin issues used by the saffron party to make inroads into the OBC vote bank at the expense of state-based parties.  The caste-based census has not taken place in the country since British rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||BSF arrests truck driver and assistant with foreign cash at Petrapole border||A truck driver and his assistant, both Indian nationals, were arrested by the Border Security Force allegedly for illegally dealing in foreign currency through the Petrapole international land port on Saturday evening. The BSF team attached to the 179 Battalion recovered 8,50,000 Saudi Riyal valued at over Rs 1.68 crore from driver Baki Billa Sahaji, 20, and his assistant Sahin Hossain Mondal, 19, while they were leaving the Petrapole check post after returning from Bangladesh in an empty truck. While Baki is a resident of Bongaon, Sahin lives in Petrapole. The duo were handed over to the Petrapole police along with the truck. The seized currency was deposited at Customs, a BSF officer said. The arrests happened on Saturday evening when a BSF team was checking empty vehicles returning from Bangladesh after unloading export items. “We had a tip-off about foreign currency being illegally brought into the country and our team was very alert to track it,” BSF sources said. “During the checking, the behaviour of the truck driver and his assistant seemed suspicious. We suspected foul play and our personnel thoroughly checked their vehicle to find nine packets of foreign currency from under the driver’s seat. The packets contained 17 bundles of foreign currency valued approximately at 8,50,000 Saudi Riyal. Asked about the source and reason behind the duo carrying the hefty amount of foreign currency, they failed to offer any reasonable reply,” said a spokesperson for South Bengal Frontier of the BSF in Calcutta. During police interrogation, Baki confessed he had gone to Benapole port in Bangladesh on August 12 to export clothing materials and while returning with the emptytruck , a Bangladeshi national asked him to hand over the packets to the latter’s Indian associate in Petrapole. “The driver claimed he was given Rs 300 for each of the 17 packets,” the BSF spokesperson said and added that the driver’s assistant claimed ignorance about the currency notes. Officiating commanding officer of 179 Battalion Ajay Kumar met Customs officials at Petrapole and urged them to help prevent smuggling and laundering of cash by people associated with export and import activities. BSF authorities suspect a major racket was behind the money laundering network. “Our intelligence inputs indicate big operators behind such incidents. We are coordinating with civil administration and customs authorities to bust this racket in national interest,” a senior BSF official posted in Petrapole said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress worker arrested for con and snatch in Malda ||A youth worker of the Trinamul Congress was arrested on Sunday after he had allegedly grabbed cash and cellphones from five migrant labourers by impersonating as a police officer at Malda Town station on Saturday night. Trinamul has sought to distance itself from Akash Saha, who hails from Ratua of Malda district. According to sources, the migrant workers, all residents of the district, reached the station by train from Bangalore. When they alighted, Saha, along with some of his associates, intercepted them. "A young man suddenly stopped us and claimed that police had information that we were carrying narcotics. He introduced himself as a sub-inspector of police. Accusing us of being drug peddlers, he started searching our luggage. We were too baffled to stop him. He then took our cellphones and around Rs 10,000 in cash from us and left the spot on a two-wheeler," one of the workers said. The migrants were doubtful about Saha's identity and went to Englishbazar police station where they filed a complaint. The police soon picked up Saha and brought him to the station. The labourers identified him as the person who had taken away their phones and cash. The police recovered the stolen items from him, said sources. A court here on Sunday remanded Saha in police custody for five days. Saha was often seen at events hosted by Trinamul, especially the youth wing of the party. "I do not know him (Saha). We never endorse such activities," Chandana Haldar, the newly-appointed district president of youth Trinamul, said when asked about Saha's arrest. Samar Mukherjee, chairman of Malda district Trinamul, said: "The law will take its own course. None from the party will stand by him." Trinamul insiders said there were allegations that Saha would click photos with senior party leaders and use them to convince others about his influence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records 561 new infections and eight deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded 561 new Covid-19 infections, 686 recoveries and eight deaths. The total number of active cases in the state fell by 133 to 9,461 with 63 successive days of a slide. Calcutta logged 74 new infections and two deaths. With North 24-Parganas reporting 79 new cases, Sunday was the 17th consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Sixteen of Bengal's 23 districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections. Kalimpong, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Howrah, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s recovery rate is 98.2 per cent, its highest this pandemic, and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.5. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate is now 1.53 per cent on Sunday. It was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.19 now, while that of the nation stayed put at 1.34 per cent. The state currently has nearly 15.43 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.15 lakh recoveries and 18,364 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Three held from Duare Sarkar camp for taking money from govt welfare beneficiaries||Three persons, including a woman, were arrested by Siliguri Metropolitan Police from a Duare Sarkar camp on Saturday for allegedly taking money from potential government welfare beneficiaries in exchange of filling up their application forms. The camp is underway at the Jyostnamoyee Girls High School in Babupara of Siliguri. Police are keeping a close watch on all Duare Sarkar camps across the city where in each hundreds of women are turning up to register for the Lakshmir Bhandar monthly cash benefit scheme. The arrested trio are Atindra Majumdar of Shantinagar and Nabab Roy Chowdhury and his wife Aparna from Hakimpara. “On Saturday, police found these three  filling up application forms of prospective beneficiaries against cash. The matter was immediately brought to our notice and they were arrested without delay,” said a police officer. This is the third arrest from a Duare Sarkar camp in and around Siliguri. Recently, Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the local civic body, nabbed a youth for a similar crime from another school. In another camp held at a school in neighbouring Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, a woman was arrested for taking money by filling application forms. Sources in Siliguri Municipal Corporation said there is a strict order from the district administration to the officials of all the borough (cluster of wards) offices – the camps are being held borough-wise – that there should be a steady vigil in all the camps across the civic area to prevent any malpractice. An officer of Siliguri Metropolitan Police said after the arrests, a case has been registered on the basis of a complaint filed by an official of the concerned borough office. “Charges under sections 420 (cheating), 465 and 468 (forgery), 471 (use a forged document as a genuine one) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC have been brought against them,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Rahul Sinha cites Rabindranath Tagore to ‘counter’ Dilip Ghosh||Former Bengal BJP president Rahul Sinha on Sunday obliquely spoke against statehood for north Bengal and urged people to remember Rabindranath Tagore’s call for unity through “Rakhi Bandhan” to protest the British government’s decision to divide Bengal in 1905. His comment comes a day after BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh defended fellow MP and Union minister of state John Barla’s call for statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal as “nothing illegitimate”. Sinha, in a video message posted on social media, said Tagore had taken up the onus for promoting unity through the Rakhi festival in 1905 when the British rulers had first planned to partition Bengal. “These days, we find some people are again talking about partition of our state. They want to finish off the rich cultural heritage and history of Bengal and want to change its name. We should all stand united,” said Sinha. These contrasting voices, political observers feel, may be the BJP’s strategy to try and retain their support in all quarters of Bengal. Most in the state are vehemently against any division, but some in north Bengal, where the BJP has tasted poll success, want it. “As the BJP won 30 of  its 77 Assembly seats and seven of 18 Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, it seems it is not ready to antagonise either side. This may be why different leaders are coming up with different statements,” said an observer. Speaking to the media in Jalpaiguri, Ghosh had said if Jungle Mahal or north Bengal becomes states, chief minister Mamata Banerjee would be responsible because of lack of development. “John Barla has not made any illegitimate demand but has simply voiced the aspirations of people who had voted for him,” Ghosh had said. The remarks seemed to have nudged Sinha to voice his views. “Those who want to change the geographical boundaries of Bengal and its history should realize that it is incongruent to Rabindranath Tagore’s thoughts and principles. We should all uphold our rich heritage and   strive to conserve our history. It would then be a real manifestation of honour to the poet,” Sinha said. On Sunday, the state BJP president held a meeting with party leaders of Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts at a private resort in Murti on the fringes of Gorumara National Park. Specific instructions were given to the leaders to prepare for the civic elections, sources said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Shyama Prasad Mukherjee held for 'misappropriation' of civic  funds||Police on Sunday arrested Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, who was a member of the first Mamata Banerjee cabinet and chairman of the Bishnupur municipality for over 30 years, for allegedly misappropriating civic funds of around Rs 10 crore. Mukherjee had left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP last year, along with Suvendu Adhikari. But having faced stiff resistance within the saffron camp, Mukherjee had been pleading with the Trinamul leadership to let him rejoin the party. The arrest was made after Bishnupur subdivisional officer Arup Kumar Dutta had lodged an FIR with Bishnupur police on August 20. “Following the complaint of misappropriation of government funds, we first detained him for interrogation yesterday. As he did not satisfy police with his answers related to the financial scam, we had to take him into our custody to inquire into the case and track the money trail by probing his property deals,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the superintendent of Bankura police. Mukherjee, 70, was produced in the Bishnupur subdivisional court which remanded him in police custody for four days. “He had embezzled Rs 10 crore by floating faulty tenders for 30-odd projects already completed by the Bishnupur municipality. We will interrogate Mukherjee to know where he spent the money. We will look into his movable and immovable properties and find out whether the politician gave the illegal money to others,” said a police source. While he was being taken to Bishnupur court, Mukherjee said he was in the dark regarding the charges against him. Mukherjee, a known face in Bankura politics as the longest-serving chairman of Bishnupur municipality, was the housing minister in the first Trinamul government in 2011. He later became the minister of women and child welfare and eventually of textiles. The former minister started looking to switch to the BJP as a follower of fellow Trinamul turncoat Adhikari after he had been removed as the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Bishnupur municipality in March last year. Trinamul leaders said they suspected that a share of the money was used in political activities after he joined the BJP. “He is accused of defalcating taxpayers’ money and the arrest of Mukherjee proves that our government does not spare anyone involved in financial scams. He is now with the BJP and we want a thorough probe to find out whether there are any other beneficiaries of the money, including politicians or officials. We hope the police will expose all those who benefited and none will be spared,” said Alok Mukherjee, Trinamul’s Bishnupur organisational district. BJP leaders suspect there is a political conspiracy behind the arrest as Mukherjee is now in their party. “The arrest appears to be the outcome of a political conspiracy as it was made today though the allegation had cropped up over a year ago. Anyone can understand why such a complaint was lodged,” said Sujit Agasty, the BJP chief of the Bishnupur organisational district. Mukherjee had joined the BJP in December last year in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. Sources in the BJP said the inclusion of Mukherjee in their party had been a headache for them since local leaders and workers did not accept him for his long connection with Trinamul. BJP workers openly protested Mukherjee’s induction and he was driven away when he turned up at the party office in Bishnupur. Later, posters were put up, allegedly by BJP old-timers, warning the party of trouble if Mukherjee was nominated from Bishnupur in the Assembly polls. Sensing the mood, the BJP did not make him a candidate and Mukherjee has not been active since the summer. Left in the lurch, Mukherjee made a futile attempt to meet Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee on March 15 during her visit to Durgapur. He was refused an audience. “He joined the party with Suvenduda, but he was not with us politically. He also tried to join Trinamul before the elections and attempted to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Durgapur. However, we are sympathetic towards him as he is a veteran politician,” Agasty added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal govt announces new precautions to rein in possible third wave ||The Bengal government on Sunday announced new precautions aimed at containing a possible third wave of Covid-19 in the state, following a spike in new cases across several districts. Sources said updated precautions would include the enforcement of micro-containment zones “with strict vigilance” and the relaunch of “a massive awareness drive”. “Crowds are flouting Covid protocols, perhaps emboldened by partial vaccination, and inviting a possible third wave,” said a Nabanna official. Districts like South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, and East Midnapore, apart from the metropolitan areas of Calcutta have reportedly raised concerns again owing to the recent surge although the overall number of positive cases in the state has been dropping. Sources at Nabanna and health department stressed on distribution and wearing of face masks. “Contact tracing and doorstep awareness drives by grassroots health workers will go on,” a state health directorate official added. The state government has announced special vigilance at river jetties and tourist spots and will time schedules at local markets are obeyed. Separate control rooms at the sub divisional level and district headquarters at Alipore will monitor the overall situation 24/7, a district official added. A senior official of the state health directorate said there was no room for risks at this juncture. “We must try to contain the surge at the earliest,” he said, adding that micro-containment zones, awareness drives and a mask-positive culture are steps towards this. “We have started micro-containment zones at South 24-Parganas, which topped the chart of positive cases on Saturday with 89 cases,” the official added. South 24-Parganas administration on Sunday announced 56 micro containment zones, mostly in Maheshtala, Bishnupur, Bhangar, Rajpur-Sonarpur, Narendrapur, Canning, Gosaba, Kakdwip, Sagar, Namkhana, Patharpratima, among others. District magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “There were some micro-containment zones, to which we have added areas from where new cases were traced, for instance Gosaba and Bishnupur-II.” The objective of creating micro-containment zones is to cause minimal disruption to public life and economic activities, while at the same time containing the outbreak of Covid-19, an official of the South 24 Parganas district administration explained. Sources said many health officials had recently attributed decreased contact tracing as a reason behind the recent spike. “We have told health authorities to avoid complacency regarding contact tracing as it could turn fatal”, a health official said. South 24-Parganas district administration has announced plans to vaccinate the entire population in Sagar island before the Ganga Sagar pilgrimage scheduled for January next year. “Our target is to ensure two jabs for all people on the island, particularly those associated with the fair,” said BDO Sudipta Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
23-08-2021||North East||Assam-Mizo border clash: NHRC issues notice to Centre, states||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued notices to the centre, Assam and Mizoram governments over alleged rights violation during the border clash between the two neighbouring states recently. The panel said "grave violation of human rights" took place on the Assam-Mizoram border. The complaint was filed by Md Injamul Haque of Assam to the NHRC and acting on his complaint, the NHRC on Sunday issued notices to the Union Home Secretary and the chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram. The NHRC asked them to file their reports within four weeks. "The commission has considered the matter. The facts of the case are disturbing. The allegations made in the complaint are serious in nature involving deaths and injuries to public servants," the NHRC said. "The case, therefore, involves a grave violation of human rights of the dead and injured. Such types of cases are viewed very seriously by the commission. In these circumstances, let a notice be sent," it said. Accordingly, notices were issued and the matter will be put up before the full commission after four weeks. Six Assam Police personnel and a civilian were killed in a clash in Lailapur in Assam-Mizoram border on July 26. More than 50 were injured during the clash between the two neighbouring states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
23-08-2021||North East||List of people killed in 'encounters' grows in BJP-led Assam ||Three suspected robbers were killed in an encounter with Assam police early on Sunday around 700 metres from an Indian Bank branch they had allegedly “planned” to loot in Kokrajhar district. The deaths took the number of people killed in “encounters” in Assam to 20 since the BJP-led government returned to power in May. Another 31 have been injured. The police said they had information about the group’s plan to rob the bank and deployed four teams to intercept them. The alleged robbers were killed in the ensuing encounter around 2.30am. Sources said there was Rs 25 lakh in the bank vaults. Two of the deceased — Monuar Hussain, 27, and Aminul Hoque — were from Jaleswar in Goalpara district, while Daula Sheikh, 26, was from Bagarpara in South Salmara district. They were identified from documents such as Aadhaar cards and the cellphones they were carrying. “We had intelligence inputs about a team of dacoits planning to loot the Allahabad Bank (now Indian Bank after a merger) branch at Bhotgaon, about 6km from Kokrajhar town. Another attempt to loot the bank had failed around three months ago. Since then we had been keeping a close watch on possible suspects,” a police officer said. The suspected robbers fired first on the policemen, who resorted to “controlled firing” to protect lives and government properties, cops said. The police teams, led by Kokrajhar SP Thube Prateek Vijay Kumar, intercepted the alleged gang at Chengmari near Bhotgaon around 2.30am. A motorbike, a three-wheeler, two 7.65mm pistols with magazines and eight live rounds, six empty cases and three mobile handsets were recovered from the site, police said. A .25-litre oxygen cylinder, a 14.5-litre domestic gas cylinder, a hatchet, an iron rod for breaking doors and grills, a cutting torch, two rubber pipes, a clutch plate, a slide wrench, a holder and aluminium wires were seized, the police added. “When the firing ended after around 30 minutes, a combing operation began and three robbers were found injured while the others managed to run away from the spot, leaving behind the equipment and ammunition they had brought with them to loot the bank. They were declared dead on arrival at RNB Hospital in Kokrajhar,” a police officer said, adding the deceased trio had several cases registered against them. At least three others escaped, the sources said, adding the police were probing the possibility of “locals” helping the gang. Hailing the efforts of the police, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said a major robbery had been foiled. “Assam has to be crime-free and free from murder, violence and hatred. We will continue to work in this direction,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
23-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Equal stakes||In a nation afflicted with entrenched gender-based prejudices, it is the highest court of the land that has shone as a beacon of hope for doing away with such discrimination. It recently did so when it pulled up the Indian army for not allowing women to sit for the entrance examinations of the National Defence Academy, saying that such a “policy decision... is based on gender discrimination”. This is not the first time that the Supreme Court has had to intervene in decisions related to the rights and representation of women in the armed forces. In a landmark verdict last year, it enabled women officers in the army to get permanent commission and command postings; it had also pulled up the Centre for its blatantly sexist arguments against women officers. Among other things, the government had said that male officers would not want to ‘accept orders’ from women and that the ‘inherent physiological differences’ between men and women render the latter unfit for performance on a par with men. It is a pity that the apex court has had to step in on different occasions to direct both the Union government and the Indian army to give women their due as equal citizens. Neither the provision for permanent commission nor the right of women to appear for the NDA exams can be viewed as an unfair entitlement, especially when women personnel have already proved their worth with their exemplary performances in the short service commission. Several countries with powerful militaries, such as the United States of America and Israel, allow women in different forms of active combat. In contrast, the Indian army — the world’s second-largest — still has an official ban on women taking on combat roles; women also comprise a paltry 3.8 per cent of the army’s personnel. While common sense dictates that gallantry and displays of capability be rewarded with equal opportunities, the reluctance of both the Centre and the army to do so only reinforces the belief that the structural exclusion of women is the result of a wider form of conservatism. This makes the Supreme Court’s recent stand encouraging; it may create a momentum in favour of fairer gender representation not just in the army but also in other institutions. The judiciary’s consistent and progressive stance on such matters notwithstanding, uprooting gender disparities in India is a long-term challenge, one that can be confronted with the help of supportive legislations by a political constituency receptive to the need for equality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
23-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Together alone||Inclusion can be an illusion. The Centre recently informed the Supreme Court that under the Samagra Shiksha scheme, a majority of the 22.5 lakh children with special needs would be admitted to regular schools where teachers would be trained to address their needs. However, special schools would continue to cater to children with more than 40 per cent disabilities. This was in response to a public interest litigation seeking adequate numbers of trained teachers in special schools. Integration is an objective that must be lauded; but the government’s noble intentions are unlikely to address other, relevant challenges. What about the aspect of enhanced burden on educators at regular schools, which already have an abysmal teacher-student ratio of about 1:32? Tellingly, of these teachers, 70 per cent have not received training in special education and do not have any experience teaching students with disabilities. The lack of trained educators or training overburdened teachers is not the only challenge. Not even one per cent of Indian educational institutions are accessible to disabled persons, according to the National Convention of Youth with Disabilities. This in spite of the fact that the inclusive model of education where every child has the right to attend a school of his or her choice was introduced in India in 2009 as part of the Right to Education Act. There are also reports from across states of schools denying admission to children with disabilities despite the existence of regulations that prohibit this kind of segregation. All of this conveys a deep unwillingness on the part of culture and educational institutions to be more accommodating; can this be remedied by a fiat in favour of convergences of students with diverse sets of needs? Strikingly, a 2019 Unesco report revealed that there is a gap between the Right to Education Act, 2009 and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, leading to ambiguities about where children with disabilities should study and who should teach them. Germane to this confusion is the attitude towards education of children with special needs. Education for this constituency is often imagined in terms of the challenges it poses — the need for dedicated infrastructure, trained educators and so on — instead of being seen as a means to assure the fundamental right that it is. This is not to say that the challenges are not significant, but policy interventions need to go beyond these. As long as the needs of those with disabilities are confined to a ‘special’ category, these will not be a part of regular educational initiatives, and till such a time, inclusive education will remain a pipe dream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
23-08-2021||Opinion||With Death on its wings||One superstition that keeps me going — or not really — is that of “ek shalik”. The shalik, or the Indian myna, I have been told since early childhood, is ominous when it is alone. It brings bad luck. The English rhyme, purportedly about magpies, goes further, adding an antidote to singleness, which is not singularity: “One for sorrow, two for joy.” These bits of wisdom have been driven through my brain into my muscle memory so successfully that every time I see a solitary shalik, my stomach, even if for a moment, promptly contracts with a sense of terror, the light goes out and I stop. I hear footsteps. They are coming for me. I do not believe in god, the after-life or the supernatural, although I may be afraid of them, and that may partly be the problem. But why do I feel this strange, enormous fear at the sight of a little bird, that too when it is alone? It could also be that fear is our most powerful feeling, and it just needs to attach itself to a shape to strike us down, and there is something about feathers that can be terrifying, as Hitchcock, who specialized in our fears, showed us so well. But this still does not explain why a lone shalik should be able to do me in. I think the solitary shalik can inspire such fear in me because it is solitary. The unpartnered, the unaccompanied, the single, the one who has lost a partner: they make us uneasy, especially if the single creature is female. A witch was feared, she was kept away, not allowed into the social. Can we imagine a married witch? Same for mad women, who tend to be isolated and demonized more than mad men. A widow in an Indian family in earlier times could be dreaded in a similar way. The ritual that officially announced her bereft, new single life was horrifying: her sindoor was erased, her shankha and pola, the bangles that symbolized her marital status, were broken and her hair was often shaved off. Two centuries earlier, her entire person could have been eliminated through sati. About the same time, in Jane Austen’s England, the “spinster” could evoke quite a lot of dread, too. Sometimes, hatred. Like witches and widows elsewhere, although perhaps with less obvious violence, spinsters needed to be avoided, too, if not asked to wither away. Single males fare better. From the lone wolf to James Bond, though we are not sure what would happen to them if they were consigned to everlasting solitariness. Religion and myth conspire against singleness (and we will not even get into later institutions such as Hollywood, Bollywood and Valentine’s Day couple dinners). Two for joy, because it is the law of nature, they seem to say. Which is why Noah took two from each species in his ark. The death of a bird (the winged species, again!) led to the birth of Valmiki’s Ramayana and the first poetic utterance. The sage observes two krauncha birds, engrossed in each other in intense desire, when a hunter kills the male bird. The female survives, but its heart-rending cry awakens in Valmiki a grief that can only be expressed as poetry. He curses the hunter for killing one of two birds so deeply in love. Shoka (grief) becomes shloka (poem), which is a sublime theory of the emotions and art, but it endorses the natural state of bliss as being double. Which reminds us of another Paradise that was ruined. Some exceptional singles are sage Valmiki himself, or other sages and hermits, or priests, or nuns, or some prime ministers. But only god in his essential, eternal form is One. The rest are mortals and are not enough alone. The solitary shalik is dreadful because it reminds us of our mortality. Death is the only fear. So if I see one shalik, I quickly look away and look again. That should make “two for joy”. But I am not sure I can cheat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
23-08-2021||Opinion||Dust off the forgotten shelves||We all have fond memories of libraries — visiting the library, roaming among the different sections for hours and finally the joy of finding the book we want to read, which takes some skill. Libraries have served as the gateway to knowledge, but somehow they are now finding it difficult to survive. It is time to remind everyone of the importance of libraries. What started through the patronage of emperors and scholars in ancient India still exists. Ancient universities like Nalanda, Taxila and Vikramshila had magnificent libraries with massive collections of manuscripts. Mughal emperors were known for their contributions to art and literature, which provided further stimulus to the growth of libraries. Babur, Humayun and Akbar established new libraries and also developed the existing ones by appointing scholars as librarians. Maharaja Sawai Man Singh of Jaipur and Maharaja Ranjit Singh of Punjab played significant roles in the promotion of library services. In fact, the Sarasvati Mahal Library was started by the Maharaja of Tanjore around 17th century CE. Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda travelled across the world and was amazed by the role played by libraries in promoting education. He later invited the American expert, William Alson, to help establish a library system in his state to extend its benefits to his subjects. Initially, libraries functioned as private institutions where admission was limited to small, affluent sections of society. Even during the British rule, when Indian cultural heritage was dealt a severe blow, there were some developments in library services. In 1808, the Government of Bombay proposed to register libraries. The three presidency towns of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras set up public libraries, mostly funded by Europeans. The most significant of these was the public library in Calcutta (1835), which was later developed into the National Library of India. The first three decades of the 20th century were seen as the golden age of the Indian library system. The Imperial Library Act was passed in 1902 and the Calcutta Public Library was converted into the Imperial Library by Lord Curzon in 1906. A series of conferences took place — first Conference of Library Workers and Persons Interested in the Library Movement (1914, Andhra Pradesh), first All India Library Conference of Librarians (1918, Lahore), first All India Library Conference (1933, Calcutta) — and, for the first time, there were gatherings with a common agenda: the development of libraries. Many rural libraries were set up in Assam, Bihar, Punjab and Travancore between 1937 and 1942, by which time there were some 13,000 rural libraries across the country. Post Independence, there was considerable improvement in our public library system. The Delhi Public Library (1951), which was the first joint project of the Unesco and the Government of India, tried to adapt ‘modern techniques to Indian conditions’ and to serve as a model public library for Asia. After this, many states passed legislations on the public library system and five-year plans allotted funds for the development of public libraries. The Sinha Committee was set up in 1957 to report on the status of public libraries across India. It described the condition of libraries as ‘dismal’ and called them a ‘stagnant pool of books’. It also mentioned that users were not trusted and rigid rules prevented readers from visiting libraries regularly. It stated that there were 32,000 libraries with around 71 lakh books across the country and advocated the creation of state library networks with uniform legislation. The most important recommendation it gave was that library services should be free for every citizen of India. The establishment of the Raja Rammohun Roy Library Foundation in Calcutta in 1972 was a significant step that enhanced library development, especially in rural areas. It gives financial assistance to Central, state and district libraries. The West Bengal Public Libraries Act, 1979 gave further impetus to the development of libraries by laying down details on regulation, guidance and supervision of libraries across the state. Libraries play a significant role in reducing the education gap among urban and rural masses. They can create a more equitable society by providing access to national and global knowledge. These information and learning centres have to be seen differently as they seem to have lost their significance; the untapped potential of libraries has to be utilized in order to create a better-educated and informed citizenry. We have lost interest in libraries owing to technological advances. We may have information at our fingertips, but devices cannot replace libraries. The latter played a part in developing social capital where people of varied interests would visit and exchange information. Moreover, smart devices are still not affordable in many parts of India; libraries can play a very important role in such areas. Once again, we have to inculcate among people the idea of seeing library visits as a hobby, something that can be enjoyed and can make them feel connected to the world. We cannot allow libraries to be a stagnant pool of books where knowledge lies idle. We have to start local movements to ensure that these knowledge centres are utilized to their full potential. West Bengal has 2,480 libraries; it is up to us to decide whether they are forgotten assets or a resource that we can be proud of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
23-08-2021||Opinion||Boom to bust||Afghanistan has been a running media story for two decades now, more so than any other country in South Asia. Partly because the country has been continuously at war, at least in terms of occupation by foreign troops. But also because of the media agenda, which followed the invasion by the United States of America in 2001. Donor agencies led by the United States Agency for International Development marched in right after the Taliban’s exit as rulers, determined to manufacture a ‘free media’ in a nation ravaged and suppressed by an Islamic organization. So where there had only been a single radio station offering religious programming under Taliban control, three Afghan diaspora returnees supported by USAID set up the country’s first private radio station, Radio Arman, which began airing by 2003. It was quickly followed by others. Between UNESCO, USAID, Internews and other do-gooders, Western nations set about funding and training to establish an independent media in Afghanistan. The rapid proliferation which followed was only partly sustainable, and only partly free. But in the long term, a media landscape established itself, in Kabul and in the provinces. Because of limitations imposed by literacy, the cost of television sets, and electricity available in the countryside, radio stations were the most ubiquitous. Its donor-funded media growth sets Afghanistan apart from other nations in the region. In November 2002, Reporters Sans Frontieres published a report on press freedom one year after the fall of the Taliban. It cited 150 publications being sold on the streets of Kabul, electronic media outlets springing up, and dozens of journalists being trained by non-government organizations. It also cited for contrast its own 2000 report, which had described five years of Taliban domination turning Afghanistan into “a country without news or pictures”. Also noteworthy was the reappearance after five years of the privately-owned Kabul Weekly. The West attempted to set the norms, but ground realities governed how the media fared here. Funding the lot of the media did not instantly ensure a climate of editorial freedom. The Central government led by Hamid Karzai began to intimidate journalists, something which eased under international pressure. It began to publish 35 newspapers, controlled almost all electronic media, and promulgated a press law that forbade publishing information which could “offend Islam” or “weaken Afghanistan’s army”. The country’s penal code, meanwhile, contained no less than 37 articles that provided for punishing journalists with prison sentences in connection with their work, the RSF report noted. While the Central government kept an eye on the media in Kabul, the provincial radio and television stations were quickly taken over by governors who ruled there and intimidated local journalists. Since the transformation was imposed rather than organic, the environment for the media to flourish had not yet developed. An Afghanistan Independent Journalists’ Union came up, along with similar other unions. In 2003, the young journalist heading it described what was missing — there were too few good journalists. There were not enough good journalists to go round. Not even one professional per publication: “There are too many NGOs and too many publications.” Nor was the environment conducive as yet for a free media attempting to hold those in power to account. Warlords, militia commanders, the mujahideen, and the governors of the provinces were all part of the landscape of control apart from the government in Kabul. By 2012, the BBC identified five categories of media in Afghanistan: warlord media (media funded by local tribal leaders and politicians for tribal or personal agenda), the mainstream commercial media, Taliban media, government media and local FM radio, including radio stations set up by the International Security Assistance Force through the provincial reconstruction teams. The last was a Nato-led military mission in Afghanistan. The Taliban media refers to the communication network the organization built in the areas it dominated, much of it in Pashto, the language of the largest ethnic group.  Most of the media outlets multiplying in Kabul were publishing and broadcasting in Dari, catering to the country’s second-largest ethnic group, the Tajiks. The 2014 elections in Afghanistan were a high point for the independent media that had taken root. Najiba Ayubi, who headed the Killid Media Group, described to an interviewer how they had deployed a network of 209 reporters at voting centres in different locations in Afghanistan to provide live updates on Killid’s radio programmes. Meanwhile, BBC Media Action collaborated with Afghanistan’s public broadcaster, Radio Television Afghanistan, to devise a talk show called Open Jirga, which had politicians and experts being grilled by a live audience from the different provinces of Afghanistan. The then president, Karzai, was persuaded to appear on it, a far cry from the initial year of opening up when a reporter was ticked off for asking him an ‘unsuitable’ question. Now that the Taliban are back fully in control, the wheel is turning full circle; starting from April, media outlets have been shutting down. At the beginning of this month, Tolo News reported that 51 media outlets had closed amid the fighting, including five TV networks and 44 radio stations, one media centre and a news agency. Over this period, it said, over 1,000 reporters and media workers, including 150 women, had lost their jobs. Apart from outlets shutting down, there were reports of those falling to the Taliban — in Baghlan, Faryab, Badakhshan and Samangan provinces. Another report from Tolo News in January quoted the media support organization, Nai, to say that there were 130 incidents of violence against journalists in 2020, up 10 per cent from 2019. Has Afghanistan’s independent media story begun to unravel completely then? What is at stake, more than anything else, is the future of a whole generation of Afghan journalists with multimedia skills who cut their teeth in this crucible over the last two decades. International media development evangelists fostered Afghanistan’s media flowering in an inhospitable terrain. What order of negotiation skills will it take from the international community at large to save this experiment from grief and destruction? Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI alumni donate ICU beds for Covid treatment||The XLRI Alumni Association on Monday gifted a four-bed Intensive Care Unit (ICU) facility for treatment of Covid patients at St. Joseph's Hospital, located at Bhilaipahari, around 10km away from the Steel City. The ICU with Covid level - III facilities was inaugurated by East Singhbhum civil surgeon A.K. Lal. He appreciated the gesture of XLRI Alumni Association for its contribution in developing the ICU and said that the district health department would also provide necessary support to the hospital. XLRI director Fr. Paul Fernandes, president of XLRI Alumni Association (Jamshedpur chapter) Ronald D'Costa and director of St. Joseph's Hospital Fr. David Vincent was also present on the occasion. "The ICU facility was developed at that hospital as a preparation for a possible  third wave of Covid-19. The special facility at St. Joseph’s Hospital, will help in catering 10 villages located in close proximity. It will help in managing illnesses related to Covid-19, " said Ronald D'Costa, president of XLRI Alumni Association (Jamshedpur chapter). The ICU facility is equipped with the latest medical equipment like multipara monitor with a wall mounting bracket. A multipara monitor helps in  providing information on multiple parameters like ECG, blood pressure, respiration, oxygen saturation and temperature to understand the condition of patients and monitor vital signs. It has a BiPAP machine, a type of ventilator used to treat chronic conditions that affect breathing, a syringe pump - a small infusion pump, used to gradually administer small amounts of fluid to a patient and an infusion pump that infuses fluids, medication or nutrients into a patient's circulatory system. The ICU facility is equipped with four motorised bed, four bedside lockers, four food trolley, a portable X-Ray, a crash cart, a high flow humidifier and a video laryngoscope, a small device to look into one's throat and larynx, or voice box.  There are some specially chosen monitoring equipment that could be used for other patients too in need of close monitoring, said Fr. David Vincent, director of St. Joseph's Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches 4-day mass campaign against filariasis||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Monday launched a mass drug administration (MDA) programme against filariasis for over 1.78 crore residents in at least 12 of 24 affected districts and urged beneficiaries to come forward and take the medication to eradicate the vector-borne disease, which mostly affects people in rural areas of the state. “Our state government is constantly striving to achieve important health and development goals. The government is also very sensitive to other health concerns even during this pandemic and is running continuous programmes to address them,” Gupta said. The four-day campaign, scheduled to conclude on August 27, was launched in Giridih, Chatra, Dumka, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Garhwa, Godda, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Lohardaga, Ranchi and Simdega, a document released by the health department stated. Filariasis is caused by filarial worms and can trigger abnormal growth in the infected person. The abnormal swelling in legs caused by Filariasis is commonly referred to as elephantiasis, said doctors. The health minister iterated that the anti-filarial drug were absolutely safe if taken under the supervision of trained personnel and doctors. During the drive, at least two drugs – DEC and Albendazole – will be administered to beneficiaries in 11 districts of the state and three drugs – DEC, Albendazole and Ivermectin – will be administered to beneficiaries in Simdega. National Health Mission director Umashankar Singh said that filariasis is a complex problem of public health and the Health Department is determined for its successful eradication. “The success of the programme is possible only when there is public participation in it,” said Singh, adding that except children younger than one year and pregnant women, everyone can take these medications. A total of 71,234 personnel and 7,123 supervisors have been deployed in 12 districts to monitor the programme and to ensure that 1.78 crore targeted beneficiaries of the combined population of about 2.2 crore of the chosen districts are administered anti-filaria drugs. Rapid response teams have been formed in all the districts to deal with it. The campaign, officials said, will be run under strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behavior. Booths will be sanitised and all drug administrators will wear protective gear. In a similar campaign run from February 22 to February 27, the state health department had administered anti-filarial drugs to over 70 lakh beneficiaries in four districts – Sahenganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ramgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Sahebganj health official held for fake vaccination certificates||A community health officer engaged in Covid-19 vaccinations has been arrested in Jharkhand’s Sahebganj district for providing fake vaccination certificates to migrant workers in exchange of money. The officer employed on contract has been identified as Mangni Ram Tandi. He is in his mid-30s and was posted as the community health officer (CHO) at a primary health centre in Rajmahal sub-division, officials said on Monday. Sahibganj police said that they were on the lookout for another health officer, Kripan Mina, who worked as Tandi’s accomplice. Deputy commissioner Ramnivas Yadav said this was the first such instance in Jharkhand since Covid vaccinations began in January. “Yesterday (Sunday), a video had gone viral where Tandi was shown dealing with an unidentified person for arranging Covid-19 vaccinations for around 60 migrant workers. As per the deal being discussed, each certificate would cost Rs 400-Rs 500. We launched a crackdown soon after,” the police officer said. Tandi, the police revealed, was from Rajasthan, but was working in Jharkhand on contract for about a year. Yadav said that prima facie evidence indicated that the accused was providing fake vaccination certificates. “They used to edit an original vaccination certificate of a genuine beneficiary who took the jab to include the name of some other person and provided printouts of the same on payment,” he explained, adding that a full-fledged investigation has been ordered to understand the extent of the fraud. Police sources said an FIR was filed against Tandi on Sunday night by deputy superintendent of Rajmahal sub divisional hospital Dr Sanjay Kumar. “Before that, we had picked him up, but he used the name of another CHO (Kripan Mina) to identify himself.  We learnt that about four-five persons were running the racket of fake certificates. we need to find out how many certificates were issued and since when,” said a police officer. Vaccination is mandatory for every eligible person while travelling. The demand is high among migrant workers ready to leave the state for work again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Rakhi pledge to protect trees in East Singhbhum||Environmentalist Jamuna Tudu and members of the forest security committee formed by her tied rakhis to over 1,000 sal trees at Sunsunia forest in East Singhbhum district of Jharkhand and took a pledge to protect them from the timber mafia on Saturday. Tudu, 40, who received the Padma Shri in 2019, had organised the programme with over 1,000 members, mostly tribal women, of the Van Suraksha Samity at the forest in Chakulia, nearly 200km from capital Ranchi and bordering West Midnapore district of Bengal. “We have been organising a similar programme in the forest for the last few years. But this year we had the highest turnout of samity members as they came from all the six Assembly constituencies of East Singhbhum district and took a pledge to protect the trees from being felled by the timber mafia,” said Tudu, who was also selected among 100 women achievers by the President and felicitated at Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2017. The Assembly constituencies — Jamshedpur East, Jamshedpur West, Bahargora, Ghatshila, Potka and Jugsalai — fall under East Singhbhum which has over 30 per cent area under forest cover, according to a forest survey report of 2019. The Van Suraksha Samity formed in 1998 in Chakulia by Tudu now has over 400 women members in the district, including from Bahargora, Ghatshila, Potka, Patamda and Dhalbhumgarh. Similar samitis have been also formed in other districts like Dumka, Giridih, Godda and Pakur  also. Born in Odisha, Tudu settled in Muturkham area under Chakulia block of East Singhbhum district after marriage. Surrounded by 50 hectares of forest land, Muturkham was plagued by the forest mafia and poachers before she decided to take up the cause of protecting the natural wealth. “In the initial days the members had to do patrolling from morning to late evening in the forest areas of Beladih, Madhupur, Laubera, Dhalukdingha, Baraghat and Muhulbera. However, with the passage of time and continuous efforts on the part of our samity to educate villagers about the importance of forests and resisting the timber mafia, tree felling has almost stopped in the area. But we still carry out random patrolling in the area,” said Tudu. Jamshedpur divisional forest officer Mamta Priyadarshi, who was the chief guest during the programme and also tied rakhis to sal trees, appreciated the efforts of the forest security committees. “The samitis are doing a good job in stopping tree felling and also preventing forest fires. We would continue to extend our cooperation to the samity members for their effort,” said Priyadarshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Taliban insurgency: Bokaro’s Bablu back from Kabul||Bablu Kumar of Bokaro, who was stranded in Kabul, returned on Sunday. “He called from the Delhi airport to inform that their aircraft had landed just then,” his elder brother Lal Babu Patel informed this paper, adding their family that spent a week of anxiety since the Taliban took control of Afghanistan heaved a sigh of relief after hearing the news. “Bablu couldn’t speak much as he had to complete the formalities at the airport,” Lal Babu further said, adding his brother was expected to reach Ranchi by another flight by evening before setting out for their home near Sunday Bazar area of Bermo in Bokaro. “I’m in a hurry to catch a flight for Ranchi and as such can’t speak at this moment,” Bablu, 37,  said when contacted at the Delhi airport. “We didn’t face problems today,” he further said when asked about his flight to Delhi and added he was feeling “very tired and needed some rest”. “Bablu would speak to us daily and assured he would return soon but we were really worried,” his brother Lal Babu said, adding Bablu’s wife Lakho Devi kept weeping all these days and prayed for his safe return. Bablu, a father of two sons aged 10 and 7 years, had earlier gained experience in Tamil Nadu and Punjab before going to Afghanistan for working in a battery manufacturing unit near Kabul and would visit his family in Bokaro twice or thrice in a year. He came on leave and returned in the first week of June. His employer had advised Bablu to return to India when the Taliban was advancing towards the Afghan capital, his brother said. “Bablu had a confirmed air ticket on August 16, the day after Kabul fell and even went to airport for boarding the flight,” he further informed, adding he had to return as the situation near the airport had turned chaotic and gunshots were heard all around. His employer had also arranged a guesthouse near the airport for Bablu and three others, Lal Babu further said, adding some Taliban members visited them at that place. “Bablu said they (the Taliban) checked their passports and asked them to wait till they heard their commander’s instructions,” he further informed, adding they were worried what would the Taliban decide about such stranded persons. Meanwhile, the family approached everyone for help. Bermo MLA Kumar Jaimangal tweeted chief minister Hemant Soren, requesting his intervention and Soren, in return, approached external affairs minister S. Jaishankar for helping the family. “Anyway, it’s a great relief that my brother finally returned to the country and we are now waiting to receive him,” Lal Babu added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
23-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren presents himself as a sensible leader at Opp party meet||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren presented himself as a sensible leader at the virtual meeting of the Opposition that was convened by Sonia Gandhi last Friday. “Hemant not only gave emphasis on consolidation of the Opposition forces but also put forward a sensible argument in its favour,” said a political observer. Unlike in May when Soren was criticised by some for his remarks, his arguments rather drew attention this time,  he further said, referring to Soren’s remarks after his virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Covid situation in the state. In May, Soren expressed his dissatisfaction over not being allowed to put his views during their interaction and termed that as another episode of Maan Ki Baat (the radio programme addressed by the Prime Minister at regular intervals), indicating their interaction was rather reduced to a monologue by Modi. “Some, including his counterparts in a few other states, had then criticised Soren for his remarks but he drew applause this time,” the observer said, pointing out the views the chief minister expressed, particularly on the Israeli spyware Pegasus. The workers and the peasants of the country were not much bothered about the use of the Pegasus as they were more concerned about the policy on farming and farmers and generation of employment opportunities, Soren had told the gathering of the Opposition leaders belonging to 19 different parties. The Opposition should corner the central government with strong issued and there was no dearth those, the young chief minister further said, adding the Opposition needed to be more powerful by forging unity among various Opposition parties. The country was facing a crisis as the Modi government was killing democracy by not listening to people’s representatives, Soren further said, accusing the central government. “We should also demand that the pandemic induced by coronavirus be declared a national disaster in our country,” Soren further said, adding many families lost their bread earners while many others became paupers for meeting medical expenses. They all need assistance but the central government had nothing other than MGNREGA to offer them in rural areas while it had absolutely nothing in urban areas, the chief minister further said. “All this projected Hemant as a sensible leader the day before yesterday,” the observer concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
