24-08-2021||Calcutta||Curb expenses, ministry of education tells NITs & IIEST Shibpur||The ministry of education has asked all the NITs and IIEST (Shibpur) to cut down expenditure by 20 per cent. The advisory on reducing “controllable expenditure” came because the budget estimate for financial year 2021-22 under the scheme “support to NITs and IIEST” has been curtailed from Rs 1,325 crore to 1,065.04 crore under overhead expenditure, says a circular issued by the ministry. A suggestive list of object heads under which expenditure will have to be controlled has been enclosed with the circular. These include grant-in-aid general, minor works, maintenance and travel expenses. IIEST acting registrar Rana Roy recently issued a notice stating: “This is for information a letter with regard to ‘curtailing avoidable expenditure’... has been received by the institute from the ministry of education.” When contacted, Roy declined to comment. An NIT Durgapur official said the ministry had earlier stopped providing funds for infrastructure and asked institutes to take loans under the Higher Education Financing Agency (HEFA), a scheme that was announced in the 2016 budget. “Worried about repaying the loans, we have already paused the infrastructure projects. Now they have cut down on overhead expenditure as well. As the financial health of the Union government is worsening amid the pandemic, they are reducing the budget for the central academic institutes increasingly,” said an official. Another official of the institute said NIT Durgapur’s earning had reduced substantially as the institute was continuing with the reduced fees announced last year keeping in mind the pandemic-induced economic hardship faced by students and their families. “Now there is a cut in budget. Leave alone taking a loan, how will we sustain ourselves if the support is reduced in a phased manner?” he told Metro. This newspaper had in March reported that this year’s budgetary allocation for education had been the lowest in the last three years. The total allocation for education in 2020 was 99,311 crore. It has been reduced to 93,224 crore in 2021. “It was obvious that when the overall budget has been slashed, support to the NITs and IIEST Shibpur would be reduced as a consequence,” said an IIEST official. The economic crisis had compelled the government last September to ask central universities and the IITs to refrain from creating teaching posts and filling posts created after July 2020. The directive has deepened the problems confronting higher education and research after institutions were asked to admit more students to implement the 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt focuses on third-wave care for children||The state government is ramping up paediatric Covid beds in its hospitals with a special focus on critical care treatment facilities in preparation for a third wave of infections, a senior official in the state health department said on Monday. Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services, said doctors and nurses would be trained in dealing with paediatric Covid cases. A committee of experienced paediatricians has prepared a list of medicines that will be required to treat children suffering from Covid and the government has started the process of procuring them, Chakraborty said. “We are strengthening the paediatric beds and especially critical care treatment facilities in every district in anticipation of a third wave,” Chakraborty said. The government will add 284 paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds, 109 newborn intensive care unit beds and 160 special newborn care unit (SNCU) beds. Post-addition, Chakraborty said, government hospitals in the state will have 1,550 critical care unit beds, 528 PICU beds, 270 NICU beds and 2,476 SNCU beds. Paediatrician Apurba Ghosh welcomed the decision to increase the bed count. “This is a good move because we have fewer paediatric beds than required. But the nurse to patient ratio for paediatric care is 1:1. So, more nurses and doctors will be required if the number of beds is increased,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Bus hits motorcyclist on Strand Road||A motorcyclist was injured after being hit by a bus on Strand Road near Netaji Indoor Stadium on Monday morning. Sumit Adhikary, 32, was wearing a helmet, police said. He has been admitted to SSKM Hospital. The bus fled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Covid: No new schedule notices at CMC vaccination centres||Many Covid vaccination centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation did not put up any notice informing people about the changed timings that came into effect on Monday. Many people whose second dose had become due arrived at some of the centres early, only to learn that the shot would be delivered after 3pm. The civic body has changed its vaccination schedule thrice in the past week. Till Saturday, it had reserved separate days for the first and the second dose. From Monday, the CMC centres are administering doses every day, except Sunday, but in separate time slots. The first dose is being administered from 10am to 3pm and the second between 3pm and 4pm. Sixty-year-old Amiya Kumar Nayak arrived at the primary health centre of ward 90, in the compound of Rabindra Sarobar, at 5am on Monday for the second dose of Covaxin. “I came here early thinking I would be among the first few recipients. When the civic employees arrived around 10am, they told me second doses would be given only after the first doses were administered. There was no notice anywhere regarding the changed timings,” said Nayak, a resident of Balarampur in South 24-Parganas, who kept waiting under the sun. The notices pasted on the walls of the health centre were about the old schedule. The scene was identical outside the ward 69 primary health centre on Ballygunge Circular Road. There was no notice announcing the new schedule. A notice mentioning last week’s schedule was still pasted on the walls around noon. Kanai Saha, 54, was waiting outside the centre for his second dose. “When I arrived in the morning, those at the gate told me that the tokens for the second dose would be given in the afternoon. So I went back. When I returned to the centre around 12.15pm, I was told that all 40 coupons for the second dose had been exhausted,” Saha said. “There was no clear instruction on how we would get the tokens. Some people told me the CMC staff would distribute tokens for Tuesday after 4pm on Monday. But nothing is written anywhere. The CMC employee at the gate is not even talking properly,” he said. Asked about the lack of notices at vaccination centres on the revised schedule, an official at the CMC headquarters said: “We have asked the health centres to inform people about the new schedule.” Civic doctors supervising vaccination said around two-thirds of the available doses were given to first dose recipients and the remaining to second dose recipients. The primary health centre in ward 82 in Chetla, which has been among the most visited, administered 484 doses on Monday. “Two-thirds of the recipients had come for the first dose,” an official said. Most other primary health centres were given 150 doses. At almost all centres, over 100 doses were administered to first dose recipients. “We administered the first and second doses as and when people came and did not always follow the schedule. If some people came in the morning to take the second dose, we did not make them wait till 3pm,” said a CMC doctor. Civic doctors are also concerned about how they will administer vaccines to children under the universal immunisation programme on Wednesday. Civic health clinics conduct routine immunisation of children up to 5 years on Wednesdays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Group fires at apartment’s windows in Behala ||A Behala resident lodged a complaint with police saying some people had gathered below his apartment early on Monday and fired shots at one of the apartment’s windows and threatened him. Rupak Ganguly told police that at least four rounds were fired around 12.30am after some youths turned up below his apartment and started calling out his name. Immediately after this, the family said they closed all the windows and switched off the lights fearing further attack. “Ganguly lodged the complaint in the morning and a probe has been initiated. We have drawn up a case of criminal intimidation by unknown armed persons,” said a senior officer of Behala police station. “We are scanning all the CCTV footage of the area at night to identify whether a group of youths have been moving around late at night,” the officer said. The police said the area comes under the jurisdiction of Ward 121 of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and had witnessed a similar incident of firing in the open in June. Bike-borne men had fired three rounds near a market in the afternoon triggering panic among residents. The police said the youths who opened fire at night had clearly targeted the Ganguly family. “The idea was to threaten and not kill anyone in the family. That was successfully done,” an officer said. “We will speak to Ganguly and others to find out why he could possibly be a target,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-7
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Milk market at Ganesh Talkies to be shifted to make way for demolition of Vivekananda Road flyover ||The milk market at Ganesh Talkies and two parking lots nearby will be shifted to make way for the second phase of the demolition of the Vivekananda Road flyover, a part of which had collapsed in March 2016, killing 45 people. In the first phase, the stretch of the flyover between Posta Bazar and Strand Road, near the Howrah bridge, was pulled down. The second, and the last, phase of the demolition, between Ganesh Talkies and Girish Park, is set to start on August 27. The urban development department will supervise the demolition. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has decided that once work starts, the stretch of Vivekananda Road between Ganesh Talkies and Girish Park will remain shut to traffic for nearly a month and a half, officials said. On Saturday, representatives of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, which functions under the urban development department, and officers of Posta police station and Jorabagan traffic guard met residents and traders of the area and briefed them on the changes the demolition would entail. The milk market at Ganesh Talkies will be shifted to a spot near Lohia Matri Seva Sadan Hospital on Rabindra Sarani. The two parking lots on Vivekananda Road and KK Tagore Street, managed by the CMC, will be moved away, too. “Residents were told they would be able to use the footpaths but can’t bring their cars. The cars will have to be parked on Rabindra Sarani, Balaram Dey Street or Rajendra Mullick Street,” said an officer. “The CMDA has made it clear no families will be evacuated during the demolition.” Officers at Lalbazar said a traffic diversion plan had been worked out. “Vehicles will be diverted from Rabindra Sarani to Beadon Street or down Strand Road North and Jadulal Mullick Road to Beadon Street,” said a senior police officer. All vehicles headed towards Posta will move through Nimtolla Ghat Street to reach Beadon Street. Cars from MG Road will be diverted through Rabindra Sarani to Beadon Row, Beadon Street or BK Pal Avenue. Traders dotting the stretch between Ganesh Talkies and the Posta market have been told that trucks and other heavy vehicles would be restricted on the stretch for the next month and a half. The state government has engaged a Mumbai-based company, which specialises in demolition of concrete structures, to pull down the 2.2km flyover. Senior officials of the company, which had razed the Majherhat bridge, said the biggest challenge would be pulling down the concrete deck slabs, which are very close to some of the buildings on Vivekananda Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Refund order to AMRI and Iris hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday ordered AMRI Hospitals and Iris Multispeciality Hospital to refund various amounts to patients’ families after it found that the hospitals did not offer discounts on medicines, consumables and tests. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said the refunds were ordered because the hospitals did not adhere to various advisories issued by the commission over time. The commission asked AMRI Dhakuria to return around Rs 1.17 lakh to the family of a 58-year-old man who was admitted to the hospital with Covid-19 in June. Banerjee said the commission found that the hospital did not offer discounts on “medicines, consumables, pathology and radiology”. “We have asked the hospital to return Rs 1,17,270. The hospital has promised to return the money within a month,” said Banerjee. AMRI Mukundapur has been asked to return Rs 60,000 to a patient’s family for not offering similar discounts. The 51-year-old resident from Howrah’s Santragachhi was treated at the hospital between June 27 and July 10. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, told Metro the hospitals were following all advisories. “One of the cases today pertained to a patient who had medical insurance. The commission had earlier said that its advisories would not apply to patients with medical insurance coverage. Now it has said the discounts have to be offered on the portion of the bill paid by the patient’s relatives themselves. We have agreed to this,” said Barua. The commission has asked Iris Multispeciality Hospital in Ganguly Bagan to return Rs 1 lakh to a patient’s family for the same reason. “We examined the bill and found that the discounts were not offered. They also did not follow the advisory on doctors’ fees. We have asked the hospital to return Rs 1 lakh. The hospital will return the money in four instalments,” said Banerjee. The hospital was also cautioned for demanding Rs 1 lakh in advance while admitting the patient. “The patient party was asked to deposit Rs 1 lakh, but they did not have the amount with them. They alleged that hospital employees misbehaved with them. Finally, the patient party had to inform police, who turned up to get the patient admitted. The patient’s family gave some amount during admission and had to give it in writing that they would deposit the remaining amount the next day,” said Banerjee. “The hospital could not give any justification for demanding Rs 1 lakh in advance. We have cautioned that we will take action (against them) if similar complaints come again,” Banerjee said. An official of Iris hospital refused to comment. In August last year, the commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price (MRP) of medicines and consumables to lessen the burden on patients or their families. The commission had fixed a 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables. If hospitals were unable to offer the discount, they should allow a patient’s family to buy medicines and consumables from outside where discounts are offered, the commission had mentioned in the advisories. Later, the commission issued another advisory saying that the discounts should be offered to all non-Covid patients as well. The commission had also said that a hospital could charge up to Rs 2,000 as doctor’s consultation fee if a doctor visited a patient more than once in a day. For one visit a day, the fee was capped at Rs 1,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Family from Baranagar moves Calcutta High Court with plea for rape probe||A family from Baranagar has moved Calcutta High Court seeking a CID probe into the alleged rape of a teenager and claimed that Baranagar police station has been slack in investigating the complaint. Family members said the medical report of the victim had not yet reached them and some police officers were nudging them to strike a compromise with the accused. According to the complaint, two youths from Baranagar — Pritam Pal and Bablu Mondal — raped the teenager after luring her to accompany them on a short trip. Later, the accused allegedly took her to Basirhat, in North 24-Parganas, where they tried to sell her. The next day the family lodged a complaint with Baranagar police station and the two accused youths were arrested. The family alleged that despite repeated requests, the police had not drawn up a case under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Instead, they have drawn up an FIR on charges of kidnapping and wrongful confinement following kidnapping. On Monday, the family moved the high court and filed a writ petition claiming that the police had been allegedly asking the family to strike a deal with the accused and their associates. “If someone from their family had undergone a similar trauma, would they have struck a deal with the accused?” asked the girl’s mother. “The police have not searched the house of the accused. Even the two-wheeler that was used has not been seized.” The family’s lawyer said the writ petition demands shifting the probe from the jurisdiction of Baranagar police station to another agency, such as the CID, for a fair investigation. The police said the FIR was drawn up the day the family had lodged a complaint with Baranagar police station. “In her statement to the court, the victim said she had been raped. Subsequently, the Pocso Act was added and the medical tests of the accused and the victim were conducted,” said an officer of the Barrackpore police commissionerate, to which Baranagar police station reports. “It is still not clear where the police failed in discharging their duty. The two accused have been remanded in judicial custody and investigation is on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||‘Drunk’ doctor hits app bike near Lake Gardens flyover, two injured||A 54-year-old woman who was returning home on an app driven motorcycle after tying rakhi on her brothers at her parents’ house met with an accident near the Lake Gardens flyover and was hospitalised with head injuries on Sunday night. The man at the wheel of the Swift Dzire that hit the bike was allegedly in an inebriated state, police said. The accused is a doctor. Mili Mukherjee, a homemaker, had hired a two-wheeler to return home to Parnasree when the accident happened. “The surge for app cabs was too high. So, my wife hired a two-wheeler. I later came to know that when she was crossing Lake Kalibari, a Swift Dzire that was being driven in a reckless manner shoved the bike in such a way that the two-wheeler lost balance and fell,” said husband Prosenjit Mukherjee. The app bike rider suffered injuries on his back. The car, after the accident, came to a screeching halt in the middle of the road and was surrounded by people, the police said. The accident happened around 9.25pm. A passer-by who found Prosenjit’s number on Mili’s phone alerted him by 9.30pm. “I was told that the police were taking her and the bike driver to Baghajatin State General Hospital. Later, we shifted her to a private hospital. She has suffered head injuries. Doctors have suggested a CT scan,” Prosenjit said. The man at the wheel, whom the police identified as a doctor, was handed over to Charu Market police station, where a case of rash and negligent driving under the influence of alcohol was drawn up. The accused underwent a medical test to ascertain whether he was intoxicated. An officer of Charu Market police station said there were two other occupants in the car — a doctor and an engineer — who have also been prosecuted under the Calcutta police suburban act. “They were intoxicated, too, and did nothing to stop their friend from driving in a dangerous way,” the officer said. The car has been seized. A stethoscope was found on the dashboard of the car. The police refused to divulge the identity of the doctor at the wheel. A senior police officer said it was practically impossible to carry out a drive against drink driving during the pandemic situation using breathalysers. A breathalyser is a machine where a motorist is asked to blow air through his or her mouth to ascertain the percentage of alcohol in the blood. The test includes physical contact with the machine and so, during the pandemic, it cannot be shared without proper sanitisation before every use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Roads, streets in Salt Lake plunge into darkness as soon as sun sets ||Several roads and streets in Salt Lake plunge into darkness as soon as the sun sets because the streetlights don’t work. Residents of several blocks across Sector I, II and III said they think twice before driving or walking down the stretches after dusk. A 4-km road that connects EM Bypass to Salt Lake along the Eastern Drainage Channel has streetlights at 20 metre intervals but none of them work. This road — starts from the Chingrighata crossing to EE Block — connects several blocks as well as housing complexes of the township, including the Jal Vayu Vihar and Mahavir Vikas complexes, and KB, KC and IC blocks in Sector III and FF and EE blocks in Sector II. To add to the worries of the motorists and pedestrians construction materials like concrete blocks, sand and iron rods remain scattered on the sides of the road for the ongoing construction of the Airport-New Garia Metro Railway viaduct. Apart from this dud cables are strewn along several stretches of the road that make it extremely dangerous for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. Similarly several stretches of Broadway, a nearly 3-km artery that connects EM Bypass with Salt Lake, including a 1-km stretch in front of Central Park, have streetlights installed every 20 metre but none of them are functional. The crater-filled road leading towards Anindita Island from tank number 13 in IB Block does not have a single light that works. Partha Chowdhury, a resident of the block, said the lights were defunct for over two months. “I avoid driving on the stretch at night. My car had a flat tyre after I hit a pothole that I failed to spot in the dark,” said Chowdhury. Ranojay Paul, a resident of HA Block, also said half the streetlights in their block had become defunct and the others were not bright enough.  “The lights that work produce long shadows instead of illuminating the streets," said Paul. The mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty, said she would send in a team to make a list of defunct streetlights in Salt Lake and the adjoining areas. “We will send in a team to first conduct a survey and then start the repairs,” said Chakraborty. Another civic official said the member of te board of administrators, who was in charge of lighting, had been asked to step down. “The electrical department doesn't have a head now and so all the work is pending,” the official said. According to him, a project — Alo Amar Alo — was launched to replace all sodium vapour lamps in Salt Lake and its adjoining areas, including Baguiati, airport and parts of Rajarhat, with LED lights. “But we have not been able to do that yet because of internal problems,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Evaluation the last thing. First is how much we are learning: Amartya Sen||Creating the right atmosphere for learning and acquiring knowledge come first and evaluation comes only in the end, said Nobel laureate Amartya Sen while addressing teachers, students, social workers and healthcare workers in an online session on Sunday evening. During the session, the economist was asked about the evaluation system and the reopening of schools. Both have been prickly issues in the state. Schools, colleges and universities have been closed almost entirely since March 2020 because of Covid-19. Many individuals and organisations, including the CPM’s student arm SFI, have been demanding immediate resumption of in-person classes. The Mamata Banerjee government, though, has chosen caution. Evaluation, too, has been a problem with allegations of over-marking and under-marking in equal measure in the absence of board exams. All board exams were scrapped this year because of the pandemic. Sen’s opinion on the resumption of in-person classes will give the state government some comfort. He said the closure of schools was damaging for children but if reopening meant exposing them to infection, it had to be thought about carefully. Sen, who had joined from Boston, was a speaker at Reimagining Learning, a web discussion on children’s education, health and the environment — three core aspects of a sustainable future — organised by Pratichi’s Sahojog. Sen is the chairman of Pratichi (India) Trust. Excerpts from his talk Evaluation I would say that a lot of times we give more importance to evaluation. Evaluation is absolutely the last work. First work is to prepare the atmosphere for acquiring knowledge, the second work is acquiring knowledge. After that it is to see how much one could move ahead and how to assess that and then comes evaluation. I am not saying that it has no value. But we have to judge the value of it by giving attention to the bigger problems. My principal opinion is that evaluation is absolutely the last thing. The first thing is how much we are learning, how much we are studying, how much we are understanding and how we are able to move ahead. It needs to be discussed what is the relation of these with that of the errors of the evaluation. But what we do not want to do is to see evaluation in a big way. Evaluation is necessary, that is right, but how much is required, in what way it will be required and how we can use it, that we need to see. Not just evaluation, but what is the connection between learning, of real learning, with evaluation - to have some more discussion on that. Reopening schools It is true that if schools are closed, it is damaging for children. But if reopening increases the chances of children getting a disease, then we need to think about it. The place where I stay in America, there is an argument between two groups on this. Even in India in various places there is a reason for different opinions. Had I been an expert in the field of medicine and if I had intense knowledge about social sciences, I could have answered these questions quickly. That is not possible. I know it is a big problem. It would be belittling the problem if I quickly say that school should remain closed or school should be anyhow opened. We have to think. And in that it would be seen on many occasions that what is applicable in Birbhum’s eastern part might not be applicable to Bankura's western region. We have to think and lay stress on these problems. This does not have a quick answer. It would have been good had we had an answer to this and something that could have been implemented whenever we wanted to. But that is not the situation we are in. And we need to think about what is more damaging and what is more profitable. These questions and these finer points cannot be bypassed, is what my understanding is.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Calcutta||Schools to reopen after puja break if Covid situation doesn't get worse: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government was keen to reopen schools after the Puja break, provided the Covid situation remains under control and “the third wave is not as dangerous”. “I have already said the schools will reopen after Puja. We will have the schools sanitised before they are reopened. (The schools will reopen) provided the third wave is not as dangerous. It depends on the situation. So far, the situation in Bengal is stable. Positivity rate is hovering around 1 per cent. But we want the situation to remain stable,” the chief minister said at Nabanna. The state government will try to reopen schools and colleges “on alternate days” after the Puja vacation, Mamata had said on August 5. The positivity rate had soared to 33 per cent during the peak of the second wave in May. “If the third wave strikes, I cannot control myself because every state is facing it. Even in Maharashtra, then Kerala, it is increasing day by day. I do not know what the situation will be tomorrow. But today I can tell you that it is in control,” Mamata said on Monday. “We want the students to go to school. But the only thing is that we have to plan something. Since Puja is around the corner, schools will be reopened after Puja, after Diwali, provided the situation remains normal.” Diwali is in early Nov-ember. In Bengal, schools had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. The classes were suspended on April 21 because of a renewed spike in the number of Covid cases. Students of Classes III to VIII and those in colleges and universities have been away from campuses since March 2020. In early August, Mamata had spoken of reopening following a meeting with the state's global advisory board on Covid-19, headed by Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. An official of the school education department said Mamata was in constant touch with the board and would take a decision after consulting the members. “When the schools reopened in February, teachers and students in several schools tested positive…. It is true that lack of in-person classes is weakening the foundation of many students, but the state government wants to tread cautiously,” the official said. The state has around 59,000 primary and 18,000 secondary schools, close to 550 colleges and more than 40 universities. In neighbouring Odisha, the schools have reopened this month. Considering the adverse impact stemming from disconnect with studies, NIT Durgapur is setting up two virtual classrooms in Bankura and Purulia, where teachers and students of the institute will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students from Classes VIII to X. Students of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, are offering free tutorials to school students over online platforms. Saugata Basu, of the government school teachers’ association, said reopening of campuses, particularly for Classes X and XII, was required so the students could undergo as many internal assessments as possible. If the Class X and XII board exams are cancelled next year, too, the scores in the internal assessments will help determine their board performance. “While preparing the HS results, the higher secondary council this year gave 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to Class XI annual exam marks. This led to a sharp drop among top graders, subjecting them to tougher competition for admission to undergraduate courses based on marks,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-8
24-08-2021||Business||Govt mulls permitting foreign direct investment in LIC||The government is mulling allowing foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country's largest insurer LIC, a move which would help overseas investors take part in the company's proposed mega IPO, sources said. The proposal is under discussion between the Department of Financial Services and Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM). "Discussions have been going on for the proposal for the last few weeks. It would also go for inter-ministerial discussions and would also require Cabinet nod," a source said. According to the current FDI policy, 74 per cent foreign investment is permitted under the automatic route in the insurance sector. However, these rules do not apply to the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), which is administered through a separate LIC Act. As per Sebi rules, both FPI and FDI are permitted under public offer. However, sources said since LIC Act has no provision for foreign investments, there is a need to align the proposed LIC IPO with Sebi norms regarding foreign investor participation. The Cabinet had in July approved the initial public offering (IPO) of LIC. The DIPAM had in January appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP India to assess the embedded value of LIC ahead of the IPO, which is touted to be the biggest public issue in Indian corporate history. The government expects to come out with the LIC IPO by the end of current fiscal. Up to 10 per cent of the issue size would be reserved for policyholders. The government has already brought in the required legislative amendments in the LIC Act for the proposed IPO. Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed as pre-IPO transaction advisors. As many as 16 merchant bankers are in the race to manage the mega initial public offering. These bankers will be making a presentation before DIPAM during the week. Seven international bankers, including BNP Paribas, Citigroup Global Markets India and DSP Merrill Lynch Ltd (now known as BofA Securities), will make presentations. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government to meet its disinvestment target. The government aims to mop up Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the current fiscal from minority stake sales and privatisation. Of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore, Rs 1 lakh crore is to come from selling the government's stakes in public sector banks and financial institutions. The remaining Rs 75,000 crore would come as CPSE disinvestment receipts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
24-08-2021||Business||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to meet CEOs of public sector banks on Wednesday||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will meet heads of public sector banks (PSBs) on Wednesday to review the financial performance of the lenders and progress made by them in supporting the pandemic-hit economy, sources said. The meeting with MD and CEOs of PSBs assumes significance given the importance of the banking sector in generating demand and boosting consumption. Recently, the finance minister had said the government is ready to do everything required to revive and support economic growth hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The meeting is expected to take stock of the banking sector and progress on the restructuring 2.0 scheme announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the sources said, adding that banks may be nudged to push loan growth in productive sectors. The revamped Rs 4.5 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) would also be reviewed during the meeting likely to be held in Mumbai, the sources said. Besides, the finance minister is expected to take stock of the bad loans or non-performing assets (NPAs) situation, and discuss various recovery measures by banks, they said. As a result of the government's strategy of recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms, NPAs have shown a declining trend, from Rs 7,39,541 crore on March 31, 2019 to Rs 6,78,317 crore on March 31, 2020 and further to Rs 6,16,616 crore as on March 31, 2021 (provisional data). At the same time, comprehensive steps were taken to control and to effect recovery in NPAs, which enabled PSBs to recover Rs 5,01,479 crore over the last six financial years, the government informed Parliament recently. Besides, Sitharaman is expected to declare the results of Ease 3.0 Index for 2020-21, they said, adding that PSBs would be rated on various indexes for the year. Launched in January 2018, Enhanced Access and Service Excellence (Ease) is the common reform agenda for all public sector banks aimed at institutionalising clean and smart banking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Delhi's The Ashok, Hotel Samrat in Centre's monetisation plan ||The sprawling "The Ashok" 5-star hotel in the heart of the national capital is planned to be leased out to private operators as part of the government's ambitious target of monetising under-utilised public sector assets. The Ashok and the adjacent Hotel Samrat are among the eight ITDC properties that have been listed in the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) released by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), a PSU under the Tourism Ministry, runs hotels, restaurants at various places for tourists, besides providing transport facilities. The present network of ITDC consists of four Ashok Group of Hotels, four Joint Venture Hotels, seven transport units part of the travel and tourism infrastructure, 14 Duty-Free Shops at Seaports, one sound and light show, and four catering outlets. As per the monetisation plan, ITDC would divest Hotel Ranchi Ashok in Ranchi and Hotel Nilachal in Puri. Strategically located New Delhi's Hotel Ashok would be monetised by way of a sub-lease, while Hotel Samrat would be given to private players under O&M (Operation & Maintenance) agreement. Hotel Pondicherry Ashok in Puducherry would be monetised through joint leasing, while for Hotel Kalinga Ashok in Bhubaneswar and Hotel Jammu Ashok in Jammu O&M contract model will be followed. For ITDC's Anandpur Sahib Hotel would be privatised along with transfer of ownership. "All 8 hotel assets of ITDC have been considered for monetisation during the financial year 2022 to 2025. Long-term leasing, divestment, long term OMT contract may be explored as potential models for monetisation to be ascertained on a case to case basis as per detailed asset-level due diligence," said the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) document. The Ashok group of hotels is the flagship hotel chain under ITDC which has a brand value developed over the last 40-50 years and has been the centrestage for all government events organised by various ministries and public sector entities, the document said, adding there is a potential to leverage the brand value of Ashok Group. ITDC chain of hotels are placed at 125 acres of land parcels spanning across major cities across the country that have not been utilised to their maximum potential and hence monetising them would act as government push for under-utilised assets. ITDC hotels have the location advantage as the majority of the hotels are placed at the heart of the city in prime locations. Sitharaman on Monday had unveiled a Rs 6 lakh crore NMP outlining the brownfield infrastructure assets would be monetised through fiscal 2025. Ownership control in these assets would, however, be retained with the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end at fresh lifetime highs||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 403 points to end at a fresh record on Tuesday, driven by gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finserv amid a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share index ended 403.19 points or 0.73 per cent higher at its lifetime peak of 55,958.98. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 128.15 points or 0.78 per cent to its all-time closing high of 16,624.60. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 8 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and SBI. On the other hand, Nestle India, Infosys, HDFC and HCL Tech were among the laggards. "Strong rebound in broader markets along with favourable global cues bolstered optimism in Dalal Street, led by metal, banking and realty stocks," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Metal stocks led the rally as value-buying was witnessed in the sector after deep sell-off during the past four trading sessions due to weak iron ore futures across the globe, he noted. Further, the USFDA granted full approval to the COVID-19 vaccine by Pfizer and BioNTech, which boosted hopes of faster inoculations, Nair added. Meanwhile, experts said market sentiment was also bolstered after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday unveiled an ambitious Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors -- from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with strong gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.14 per cent to USD 69.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade on positive global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex rose over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Tata Steel and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global equities.  The 30-share index was trading 148.72 points or 0.27 per cent higher at 55,704.51, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 49.15 points or 0.30 per cent to 16,545.60.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, NTPC, L&T, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, Maruti, Asian Paints, Kotak Bank and HDFC were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 226.47 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 55,555.79, and Nifty rose 45.95 points or 0.28 per cent to 16,496.45.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,363.36 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be good as of now. Benchmark indices witnessed high volatility in recent period especially after FOMC meeting minutes, which essentially indicates that liquidity-driven market might come to an end, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Notably, the minutes of the RBI's Monetary Policy Committee meeting held at the beginning of this month continues to show its commitment to ensuring policy support to sustain economic recovery despite select members showing some apprehensions about high inflation and pitching for gradual normalisation in ultra-loose monetary policy, he stated.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals.  US equities recovered sharply as investors focused on the likelihood of dovish tone from Federal Reserve Chairman in the Jackson Hole Symposium later this week, Modi said.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.23 per cent to USD 68.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business|| Five out of the eight IPOs in August trading below their issue prices||Five out of the eight initial public offers (IPOs) which mopped up Rs 13,857.07 crore in August are trading below their issue prices,  raising concerns if the big party around public issues is over, albeit temporarily. Three out of them started trading with a cut on their listing days while two others slipped below their issue prices in subsequent sessions. In contrast, 24 out of the 27 issues that hit the market between January 1 and July 31 are in the green and all of them have showered investors with varied degrees of gains. Market mandarins say the recent correction in the mid and small cap space, in which most of these IPO stocks belong, have played spoilsport. Moreover, a possibility that central banks across the world, especially the Federal Reserve, may taper the liquidity flow into the financial system has spooked the markets in India and elsewhere. “Markets hate uncertainty. And there is now uncertainty on what the Fed might do,” says Sudip Bandyopadhyay, group chairman of Inditarde Capital. Some clues could be forthcoming when Fed chairman Jerome Powell speaks on Friday after a virtual internal meeting which usually takes place at Jackson Hole, Wyoming. A swell of capital has fuelled a global equity rally even though the real economies struggled under Covid impact. Bandyopadhyay believes the hyper exuberance over IPOs may be over as valuations have become a concern. Pranav Haldea, managing director of Prime Database, concurs. While he feels valuations tend to become more expensive towards the latter stage of an IPO cycle, he disagrees that they were too pricey. “If an IPO was expensive, it would simply not have found enough buyers,” he argues. Siddhartha Khemka, head of (retail research, broking and distribution) of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, says the market usually oscillates between greed and fear and at present, fear has overpowered greed. “It is not that issues in the recent past were not richly valued. But they are still oversubscribed multiple times and doled out handsome listing gains,” Khemka points out. Market watchers say the appetite for fresh papers has come down, especially in the high net worth (HNI) segment, who were borrowing from NBFCs to apply for IPOs. “Recent IPOs gave good listing gains, resulting in higher retail investors expectations. They are looking for quick returns. However, one needs to be selective in IPOs,” says Shrikant Chouhan, who is an executive vice-president at Kotak Securities. However, Arun Kejriwal, founder of Kejriwal Research and Investment Services, warns that if the valuations don’t correct, there is a possibility that issues could fail at the IPO level. However, a section of experts point out that public memory is short, after all. “Let one big IPO be a success and the party will start again,” Khemka quips. Study stats Almost 52 per cent of IPO investors sold shares on the listing day in the first four months of this fiscal while another 20 per cent sold the allotted shares within the first week of listing, an analysis by Motilal Oswal Financial Services showed. Around 64 per cent of the IPO clients applied for at least two such public issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||HDFC Bank to win back credit card market||The battle for credit cards is ready to break out again after the embargo on new card issuances by HDFC Bank was lifted last week. The private sector lender on Monday announced an aggressive plan to add 5 lakh credit cards to its portfolio every month beginning February 2022. “Over the next three to four quarters, our aim is to regain the market share we have lost,” said Parag Rao, head of payments, consumer finance, digital banking and IT, HDFC Bank. The bank’s market share in credit card outstanding has shrunk by 200 basis points to 23.6 per cent since December last year when the embargo was imposed. But it still retains its pre-eminent position with a base of 1.48 crore credit card outstanding as of June 2021. After HDFC Bank, SBI has a market share of 19.2 per cent followed by ICICI Bank at 17.6 per cent. The bank has identified over 20 initiatives to drive its aggressive growth plan. These include launch of co-branded credit cards with corporates across pharma, travel, FMCG, hospitality, telecom and fintech sectors. The bank has also revamped its existing range of cards over the past nine months and is aiming at strategic partnerships with new companies. Rao said there is significant headroom to grow within the bank’s existing liability base of six crore customers. “Right from the inception of the business, we have maintained that a large portion of our portfolio will always be our internal bank customers who have at least a liability relationship with us. That strategy continues. A significant portion of the new customers acquired will come from our existing liability base,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Sixteen merchant bankers apply for LIC IPO||Sixteen merchant bankers are in the fray to manage the mega IPO of Life Insurance Corporation. The bankers will be making  presentations before the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) over the next two days — August 24 and 25. Among those in the fray, seven international bankers, including BNP Paribas, Citigroup Global Markets India and DSP Merrill Lynch Ltd (now known as BofA Securities), will make their presentations on Tuesday, according to a circular by Dipam. Other bankers to make their presentations on Tuesday are Goldman Sachs (India) Securities, HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India), JP Morgan India, Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India). On Wednesday, nine domestic bankers, including Axis Capital Ltd, DAM Capital Advisors Ltd, HDFC Bank Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd and IIFL Securities Ltd, will make their presentations. Merchant bankers will be required to structure the IPO according to Sebi’s prevailing framework. They will also be required to undertake due diligence activities and prepare the draft red herring prospectus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Govt sets September 15 for Infosys to resolve I-T portal glitches||The government has set a deadline of September 15 for Infosys to resolve the glitches faced by taxpayers in the new income tax filing portal. Tax experts said the government should extend the statutory return filing timelines and should not charge penal interest for the delay in filing because of the technical glitches in the portal. Some of the statutory tax filing return  deadlines are expiring by the end of this month. During her meeting with Infosys CEO Salil Parekh on Monday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman expressed the government’s “deep disappointment and concern’’ over the continuing glitches in the new income tax filing portal, even two months after it went live. Sitharaman had summoned Parekh at her office here to know the reasons for not resolving the snags in the portal. A statement issued by the income tax department said that during the meeting the finance minister emphasised the need to put in more resources and efforts on the part of Infosys so that the much delayed delivery of agreed services is ensured. Parekh explained that he and his team are doing everything to ensure the smooth functioning of the portal. Further, he said, over 750 team members are working on this project and Pravin Rao, COO of Infosys, was personally overseeing this project. Tax expert Narayan Jain said, “It is unfortunate that the income tax portal launched on June 7, 2021, is still not properly working. If Infosys was unable to provide all the features/functionalities before its scheduled launch on June 7, then its launch itself was wrong/erratic. The vendors have belied the trust of the government, taxpayers as well as tax professionals.” “The government should extend timelines for furnishing income tax returns and for all other compliances by allowing adequate time,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Arcelor-Mittal-Nippon Steel India to bid for state-owned Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited||Arcelor-Mittal-Nippon Steel India is planning to bid for state-owned steel maker Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL)  — which has already attracted the interest of Tata Steel, according to a source. RINL is a special steel making company based in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. The company, under the administrative control of the ministry of steel, operates a 7.3 million tonne (mt) plant in the state. “Arcelor-Nippon Steel India is exploring this option,” the source said while replying to a question if the company would be interested in divestment-bound RINL. An email query sent to Arcelor-Nippon Steel India remained unanswered. Tata Steel CEO and managing director T.V. Narendran has recently said his company is interested in acquiring RINL as the plant is strategically located on the eastern coast and its acquisition will give it more access to the South East Asian markets, where the company already has a presence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||CCI fines Maruti Suzuki India Rs 200 crore for anti-competitive practices||India’s antitrust regulator has fined Maruti Suzuki, the country’s biggest car maker, Rs 200 crore for anti-competitive practices related to how it forced dealers to discount cars, the watchdog said in an order on Monday. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) in 2019 started looking into allegations that Maruti forces its dealers to limit the discounts they offer, effectively stifling competition among them and harming consumers who could have benefited from lower prices if dealers operated freely. In an order, issued after an investigation that began in July 2019, the CCI asked Maruti to “cease and desist” from indulging in such practices and asked the company to deposit the fine within 60 days. Maruti, which sells one in every two cars in India and is majority-owned by Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corp, said in a statement it is examining the order and will take appropriate actions under law. “Maruti had a ‘Discount Control Policy’ in place whereby the dealers were discouraged from giving extra discounts or freebies to the consumers beyond what was permitted by Maruti. If a dealer wanted to offer additional discounts, prior approval of Maruti was mandatory. “Any dealer found violating the policy was threatened with the imposition of penalty, not only on the dealership but also on individuals, including direct sales executive, regional manager, showroom manager and team leader,” CCI said. Maruti did not immediately respond to a request for comment. However, the car maker had told the regulator during the probe that there was no discount control policy and dealers were free to offer any discounts they wished to their customers, the order said. The CCI order, however, contained extracts of several emails exchanged between dealers and Maruti officials, which made it “evident that the Discount Control Policy was controlled” by Maruti and not its dealers. To enforce the policy, the watchdog said the company appointed ‘Mystery Shopping Agencies’ who would pose as customers to find out if any additional discounts were being offered to customers. Carmakers at times set a limit on discounts its dealers offer to prevent price wars among them, but Indian law says the practice, described as ‘resale price maintenance’ is prohibited if it adversely impacts competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
24-08-2021||Business||Centre to offer incentives to states to monetise their assets||The Modi government has said it would offer incentives to states to monetise their assets, which is over and above the Rs 6 lakh crore NMP programme. “The central government will also incentivise states to monetise their public assets,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. The incentive is in the form of a 50-year interest free loan, with Rs 5,000-crore allocated in the present budget. “If the states divest a PSU and raise funds, the government will give them 100 per cent of that amount as financial assistance. If they monetise the asset, the government will give them 33 per cent of that amount. If states list a public company in the stock markets and raise funds, the government will give them 50 per cent of that amount,” Sitharaman added. A Niti Aayog document on the national monetisation plan (NMP) said in the case of monetisation, the sum will be deposited in state consolidated funds or in the account of state public sector enterprises owning the assets. The allocation and disbursement is subject to the realised amount being necessarily used for capital expenditure by states. “Funds provided to the states under the scheme by the Government of India shall be used for new and ongoing capital projects, for long term benefit to the state.” “The funds may also be used for settling pending bills in ongoing capital projects,” the report said. NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said nodal officers have been appointed by 26 states and Union Territories, and four states have created their pipeline of assets for monetisation. “We are with the states, we want to work together with the states...central ministries now only need to gear up towards taking this initiative forward,” said Kant. He said some storied investors such as Blackstone, Blackrock and Macquerie have shown interest in the projects of the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
24-08-2021||Business||Government to monetise Rs 6 lakh crore worth of central assets||The Centre plans to monetise Rs 6 lakh crore (trillion) worth of central assets over the next four years under a plan announced earlier in the 2021-22 budget to boost infrastructure spending and spur economic growth in Asia’s third-biggest economy. A cornucopia of government assets have been lined up for monetisation — from gas pipelines, roads and warehousing facilities to airports, railway stations, railway colonies, passenger trains and even stadiums. A Niti Aayog document on the roadmap for the National Monetisation Plan (NMP) said successful bidders for the assets would either pay upfront or invest over a longer period of time. The Centre plans to use the funds collected from the exercise for further public investments. “The strategic objective of the programme is to unlock the value of investments in brownfield public sector assets by tapping institutional and long-term patient capital which can thereafter be leveraged for further public investments,” Niti Aayog chief executive Amitabh Kant said. The top five infrastructure sectors  estimated by the government for their potential for monetisation are roads, railways, power, oil and gas pipelines, and telecommunication. The government is aiming to raise Rs 88,000 crore through asset monetisation in the current fiscal, Rs 1.6 lakh crore in 2022-23, Rs 1.8 lakh crore in 2023-24 and Rs 1.6 lakh crore in 2024-25. Kant said a transparent mechanism would achieve a “fair value”. Under the plan, private companies can invest in projects for a fixed return using the InvIT route as well as operate and develop the assets for a certain period before transferring it back to the government agency. Some assets such as warehouses and stadiums can also be given on a long-term lease for operations. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the programme would give an impetus to economic growth. Stating that there is no transfer of ownership or land, she said “the NMP talks about brownfield infra assets where investments have already been made, where there is a completed asset which is either languishing or which is remaining not fully monetised or which is remaining underutilised”. “So, by bringing in private participation into this, you are going to be able to monetise it better, and with whatever resources you obtain through the monetisation, you will be able to put in further investment into infrastructure,” she said. “Let there not be any confusion. The government is not selling away. These are brownfield assets which will still be under government ownership. They would come back to the government after the end of the lease period,” the minister added. Amit Kapur, joint managing partner, J. Sagar Associates, said: “What is on offer is a clutch of concession formats permitting the concessionaire to build/refurbish and operate the asset with defined risk and performance obligations, without any transfer of title. The success of the offering would depend on adopting fair risk and reward allocation, as also efficiency of the bid process followed. Abhaya Agarwal, partner, infrastructure practice, EY India said “success of the plan could also enable recycling of funds which will be critical for revival of the infrastructure investment in India”. He said meticulous planning, project packaging, and co-ordination will be needed to address the underlying structural and legacy issues. “It would be important for the government to get the first few projects in each sector right to set the ball rolling in the right direction.’’ Earlier this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration announced a privatisation plan which would leave government ownership only in a few critical sectors. Freight corridor The Niti Aayog study also referred to the possibility of monetising stretches of the eastern dedicated freight corridor. As much as 2,843km of the freight corridor can be monetised, though it is yet to finalise any stretch. The plan hints at farming out Bengal’s famous Toy Train — the heritage Darjeeling Hill Railway system. Similar plans are afoot  for the Kalka-Shimla line, Nilgiri mountain railway and the Neral-Matheran railway. “The station and the adjoining real estate on the railway land may be bundled along with train operations to bring in viability and commercial attractiveness,” the Niti Aayog document said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
24-08-2021||India||Modi-led govt selling crown jewels of country, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi Tuesday lashed out at the central government over the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) plan, alleging that the BJP -led government is selling all assets created in the last 70 years to the Prime Minister’s “industrialist friends”. “The Narendra Modi-led government is in the process of selling India’s crown jewels built by previous governments with public money over 70 years,” Gandhi said while addressing a press conference along with senior Congress leader P Chidambaram. The Congress leader alleged that the BJP government’s privatisation plan is aimed at creating monopolies in key sectors and that it will kill jobs. On Monday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had unveiled the NMP, worth Rs 6 lakh crore, that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors — from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads, and stadiums. Reading out a list of assets being “gifted away”, Gandhi said, “Roads are being sold for Rs 1.6 lakh crores – 26,700 kilometres of National Highways; Railways for Rs 1.5 lakh crores – 400 stations, 150 trains, Railway tracks and woodsheds; Power transmission – 42,300 circuit kilometres of transmission network; Power generation for Rs 40,000 crores – 6,000 MW of Hydro, Solar or Wind Assets; Natural Gas Pipeline for Rs 25,000 crores – 8000 kilometres of GAIL pipeline; Petrol pipeline for Rs 22,000 crores – 4,000 kilometres of Indian Oil and HPCL pipelines; Telecom for Rs 35,000 crores – 2.86 lakh kilometres of BharatNet Fibres Optics; Warehousing for Rs 29,000 crores; Mining for Rs 32,000 crore – 160 coal mines; Airports for Rs 21,000 crores – 25 airports; Ports for Rs 13,000 crores – 31 projects; 9 ports; and Stadiums for Rs 11,000 crores – 2 national stadia.” While acknowledging that the Congress too had a privatisation policy during it’s rule, Gandhi said his party “was not against privatisation” but “believes that there should be a strategy for privatisation.” Further, taking potshots at the Centre’s move, Congress leader P Chidambaram said, “The only thing that I could glean from the Finance Minister’s press conference is and from the reports in your media, is we are going to raise money! Can that be a goal by itself? We are going to raise 1.5 lakh crore a year for 4 years. Can that be sole goal to virtually sell assets built over 70 years?” The Congress has described the government’s infrastructure monetisation plan as “legalised loot and organised plunder”, alleging that invaluable public assets created over decades are being handed over to a chosen few. It further alleged that the government is giving away assets worth crores made from the hard work of the people to its billionaire “friends”. Hitting out at the Centre, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had earlier alleged that the government is giving the “jumla of Aatmanirbhar (rhetoric of self-reliance)” but has made the country dependent on its “billionaire friends”. “While giving the ‘jumla’ of ‘Aatmanirbhar’, they have made the entire government dependent on ‘billionaire friends’. All the work for those billionaire friends and all the wealth also for them,” she said in a tweet in Hindi. Meanwhile, BJP leader Smriti Irani hit back at the Congress saying that the Opposition party’s allegations have exposed its “political hypocrisy” as it had monetised the Mumbai-Pune Expressway and airports. The four-year National Monetisation Pipeline has been announced to provide a clear framework for monetisation and give potential investors a ready list of assets to generate investment interest. The government has stressed that these are brownfield assets, which have been “de-risked” from execution risks and therefore should encourage private investment. Structuring the monetisation transactions providing a balance risk profile of assets and an effective execution of the NMP will be a key challenge. Roads, railways and power sector assets will comprise over 66 per cent of the total estimated value of the assets to be monetised, with the balance coming from sectors including telecom, mining, aviation, ports, natural gas and petroleum product pipelines, warehouses and stadiums. As many as 25 Airports Authority of India (AAI) airports, including the ones at Chennai, Bhopal, Varanasi and Vadodara, as well as 40 railway stations, 15 railway stadiums and an unidentified number of railway colonies have been identified for getting private investments. Stating that there is no transfer of ownership or land, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said, “The NMP talks about brownfield infra assets where investments have already been made, where there is a completed asset which is either languishing or which is remaining not fully monetised or which is remaining underutilised.” She added that monetisation will create further value for infrastructure creation in the country and explore innovative ways of private participation without transfer of government ownership. The government had announced plans for NMP in this year’s Budget and earlier in August. Meanwhile, the CPI(M) on Tuesday alleged that the Centre with its decision to monetise its assets across key sectors has “officially” announced the “sale of India”. “The central government has officially announced the sale of India. The National Monetisation Pipeline released by the finance minister yesterday details the loot of our national assets and infrastructure. This is an outright plunder of people’s wealth?” the CPI(M) said. The Left party also alleged that this was like “selling family silver” to meet daily expenditure of the country which “makes neither economic nor common sense”. “Selling assets for a song when the markets are low benefits only crony corporates and promotes crony capitalism. The politburo of the CPI(M) calls upon the people of India to protest against and resist this loot of our national assets,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
24-08-2021||India||Hardeep Puri asserts relief from fuel price hike in coming months||The government is very sensitive to the issue of the rise in fuel prices, Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Hardeep Singh Puri said today, asserting that people will get some relief in the coming months. International oil prices are slowly coming down and stabilising, the minister said at a press conference here. "The central government is very sensitive to this issue... I see that in the coming months, relief will come," he told reporters, replying to a query if any relief can be expected in the near future. Puri, however, defended the government on the consistent rise of fuel prices in the country, saying the Centre imposes an excise duty of Rs 32 per litre and the revenue thus generated is spent on various welfare schemes. "The central government is also very sensitive to other responsibilities that we have...the government provided free rations to 80 crore people, free vaccines, all other facilities. So it's a part of that picture," he said. The minister said the excise duty levied by the central government continues to remain the same as it was in April 2010. "For example, when international price was 19 dollar 60 cents or 64 cents per litre, then also we used to impose Rs 32 per litre. Now when it is 75 dollar per litre, we are still imposing the same Rs 32 per litre," he said. Fuel prices in India are determined by the international market since the Congress-led UPA deregulated oil pricing in 2010, Puri said. Besides the excise duty imposed by the central government on fuel, the states also levy VAT, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
24-08-2021||India||India may be entering endemic stage of Covid: WHO chief scientist ||Covid-19 in India may be entering some kind of stage of endemicity where there is low or moderate level of transmission going on, Chief Scientist of the World Health Organisation Dr Soumya Swaminathan said. The endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus. It’s very different from the epidemic stage when the virus overwhelms a population. On clearance to Covaxin, she said she is fairly confident that the WHO’s technical group will be satisfied to give Covaxin clearance to be one of its authorised vaccines and that could happen by mid-September. In an interview to journalist Karan Thapar for news website The Wire, Swaminathan said given the size of India and heterogeneity of population and immunity status in different parts of the country, it is “very very feasible” that the situation may continue like this with ups and downs in various parts of the nation. “We may be entering some kind of stage of endemicity where there is low level transmission or moderate level transmission going on but we are not seeing the kinds of exponential growth and peaks that we saw a few months ago,” Swaminathan said. “As far as India is concerned that seems to be what is happening and because of size of India and heterogeneity of population and immunity status in different parts of country in different pockets, it is very very feasible that the situation may continue like this with ups and downs in different parts of the country, particularly where there are more susceptible population, so those groups who were perhaps less affected by first and second waves or those areas with low levels of vaccine coverage we could see peaks and troughs for the next several months,” she said. She said she hopes that by the end of 2022 “we would be in that position that we have achieved vaccine coverage, say 70 per cent, and then countries can get back to normal”. On prevalence of Covid among children, Swaminathan said parents need not panic. “We can take from the sero survey and what we learnt from other countries also that while it is possible that children could get infected and transmit, children luckily have very mild illness most of the time and there is a small percentage that gets sick and get inflammatory complications and few will die but much much less than the adult population…But it is good to prepare… preparing hospitals for paediatric admissions, paediatric intensive care is going to serve our health system in many ways for other illnesses children have but we should not panic about thousands of children crowding into ICUs,” she said. On use of drugs like Remdesivir, HCQ or Ivermectin for treatment, she said as of now, there is no evidence that HCQ or Ivermectin have any role to play in reducing mortality or morbidity in people infected with the virus or actually preventing people from getting infection, so therefore there are no grounds on which recommendations can be made in use of either of these drugs for treatment or prevention. “Solidarity trial showed Remdesivir does not reduce mortality, it may have a marginal benefit in subgroup of patients who are ill enough to need oxygen but not ill enough to be on ventilation so there may be a marginal benefit but certainly Remdesivir does not do much in stage of moderately or severely ill patients. It is also very expensive. Drugs like Dexamethasone and Oxygen are the two essential ones that save lives,” she added. On clearance to Covaxin, she said the decision can be made hopefully by mid-September. “The Bharat Biotech submitted their data in the third week of July which was the first data set, then there was an updated data set that came in the middle of August. The committee has gone back to the company with some questions which they must be in process of answering now. I think the technical advisory group that ultimately approves will meet in the first 10 days of September and so we are hoping it happens soon after that,” she said. “So by the middle of September I am thinking, and the reason it took longer was because of back and forth and the need for more data requested from the company and this is the usual process. People think it is taking longer for Covaxin than for others but that is not the case… each company that applied for EUL (Emergency Use Listing) had taken this period of 4 to 6 to 8 weeks to get all the data needed,” she said. On the third wave, she said no one has a “crystal ball” and it’s impossible to predict a third wave. “It will be impossible to predict when, where the third wave will be upon us and if at all a third wave will come. However, you can make an educated guess on some of the variables that have an impact on transmission,” she said. On booster doses, she said there are both scientific and moral, and ethical reasons for not rushing into boosters. “…so it would also be in self interest of countries who have excess doses now to send those doses out through Covax to countries that desperately need them,” she said. On vaccine passport concept, she said, “We do not believe that vaccination has to be a prerequisite at least at the global level to do things like travelling because we haven’t given everyone an opportunity to get vaccinated there is so much inequity in access to vaccines, so the first thing is to get rid of the inequality then you can allow people vaccinated to relax certain measures.” Vaccine passports are for allowing international travel to those fully vaccinated against coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
24-08-2021||India||ICCRC department Canada Penalised unlicensed Consultants of India||Thousands of Indians migrate to Canada every year and more than that people actually are victimised by frauds only in India. To give a right piece of knowledge can save the public at large from happening fraud with them and also can help to choose a right Immigration Consultant. ICCRC department Canada also takes cognizance under such matters and strictly implies their policies in the public interest.   There are a lot of Immigration Consultants who have been reprimanded or penalised by the ICCRC department. Today we will discuss why the ICCRC department penalised such consultants and what are the repercussions if you choose a wrong immigration consultant for your Immigration journey. This will help readers to understand a few things about which laymen have no knowledge of it.  Hiring a fraud immigration consultant can be a nightmare for an aspirant and thousands of cases are still pending in the courts of India for such matters. Choosing a wrong immigration consultant can ruin the dreams of innocent people, can give financial loss, career loss and people may sell their properties in some cases.  Our objective of this article is to raise awareness in the public at large.  Which immigration Consultants in India were penalised by the ICCRC department Canada and why ? There are thousands of immigration agents and consultants located around the world and a few consultants were strictly penalised by the ICCRC department in past years. There are a total of 44 consultants reported to be trialed by the department as per their website. Indian companies who were trialed by ICCRC department and were penalised. 1.   Abhinav Outsourcings / Abhinav Immigration services pvt ltd from New Delhi was penalised by ICCRC department in the year November 2016. 2.   Abhinav immigration claimed to be associated with ICCRC member Yvon guerin mentioned in the list of ICCRC member but was later found to be an unlicensed/ illegal Immigration consultant as per the agreement of facts. 3.                   Agreement of facts in that published article were serious in nature .i.e  The immigration consultant, Mr. Ajay Sharma (“Sharma”) of Abhinav Outsourcings PVT Ltd. (“Abhinav”) is an unlicensed consultant carrying on business in New Delhi, India. 4.                   ICCRC department penalised this ICCRC member and also published that for public interest which proved that the department is strict with their policy and if any consultants are doing fraud business or unlicensed business in their country will not be spared. A few other ICCRC members were also penalised in the past and a few Indian names on the ICCRC website are Harinder Kaur Kang, Kuldeep Bansal and Rajesh Randev, Sumit Sen and Sharandeep Singh Mann. What are the repercussions of hiring a fraud Immigration consultant ? How to choose the right immigration consultant?  Migrating to a foreign country involves a lot of delicate and layered paperwork. Aspiring immigrants face a lot of queries and dilemmas when dealing with the application process. This is where having an experienced and certified guidance of an immigration consultant comes to your rescue. Having to choose an immigration consultant is going to be one of the most important decisions in your Canada immigration journey. The first thing that you should check as an immigration applicant is the authenticity of the choice of your immigration consultancy. Your Immigration consultant should be ICCRC registered and the agents should be licenced, experienced and qualified professionals. A highly neglected part in settling for an immigration consultant is to look for background checks of the consultancy. The practicing consultant should be free of any past record of fraudulency and penalisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
24-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar hopeful of caste census after meeting with Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has listened attentively and intently to submissions of an all-party delegation from Bihar which met him on the issue of caste census and a positive outcome was expected, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said here on Tuesday. Kumar, who had on the previous day led the 11-member delegation comprising a legislator each from 10 parties, was replying to queries from journalists at the airport upon his return from the national capital. "He listened attentively (dhyaan se)....intently (prem se)... so it is natural that we would expect some positive outcome," said the chief minister with a smile The Centre's recent statement before Parliament that enumeration of only the SCs and the STs was proposed has triggered vociferous demands for including the OBCs, especially in states like Bihar where the numerically powerful intermediary castes wield tremendous political clout. The Bihar chief minister underscored that the last time a caste census was held way back in 1931, under the British Raj. Fresh census could not be held a decade later because of the Second World War. Thereafter, the nation has been making do with estimates based on 1931 figures, he said. This is not a desirable state of affairs. No wonder the desire for a fresh caste census is finding resonance across the country and from among all sections of the society. This is not an issue that concerns only Bihar. "We took the lead because in our state all political parties concur over the issue. Twice, resolutions backing the demand have been passed unanimously by the legislature. The decision to meet the PM to discuss the issue was, significantly, taken in view of a request from the opposition," remarked Kumar. During the Monsoon Session of the Assembly last month, leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav had met Kumar with the request. A copy of the letter that I had received from the opposition has also been made available to the Prime Minister. Moreover, he now knows first-hand the prevailing sentiment in Bihar, having listened to the averments of all delegates , said the Chief Minister. Asked whether his government was prepared to conduct a state-level survey of castes if the Centre did not come out with a positive response, the Bihar chief minister said let us have some patience. A decision will take place at the appropriate time. Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the JD(U), was also asked about the possibility of the Centre keeping silent over caste census, like it has done over the long-standing demand for a special status to Bihar. Please do not have such misgivings. The census cannot be put off for an indefinite period. And once the census begins, we will get to know whether or not the Centre has considered our request , he quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
24-08-2021||India||Four ministers, several MLAs revolt against Punjab CM||Four cabinet ministers and several Congress legislators on Tuesday raised a banner of revolt against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, saying they do not have "faith" in him as he has not fulfilled promises made before the 2017 assembly polls. The four ministers -- Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi -- and around two dozen legislators met here at the residence of Bajwa on Tuesday. Bajwa said they would seek time to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi and apprise her of the political situation in the state. He said "drastic" steps need to be taken and if there is a need to change the chief minister, then it should be done. The development is expected to deepen the crisis in the Punjab Congress, just a few months ahead of the assembly elections. Addressing the media after the meeting, Channi said several party legislators and ministers on Tuesday assembled here and expressed concern over the unfulfilled promises, including delay in justice in case of desecration of a religious text in 2015, arrest of the big fish involved in drug rackets and scrapping power purchase agreements. He said Bajwa, Sarkaria, Randhawa and Punjab Congress general secretary Pargat Singh will meet the party high command. These five are known detractors of Amarinder Singh. The meeting comes amid severe criticism of two advisers of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for making controversial remarks on sensitive issues like Kashmir and Pakistan. However, Sidhu was not present in the meeting. The Congress has 80 legislators in the 117-assembly member house. "A lot of promises have been fulfilled but those promises (the implementation of) which lead to friction with the opposition remain unfulfilled," Channi said. "We no longer have faith that these issues will be resolved. Therefore, we are seeking time from the party high command for a meeting, he said. He said nothing happened after the questioning of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal by the SIT in the Kotkapura police firing incident. "Today the situation is such that our issues are not being resolved with the chief minister (Amarinder Singh) and that is why we are going to meet the party high command, said Channi. When asked if an attempt was being made to oust the chief minister, Bajwa said it's not an attempt but the demand of the people. To a question on the new face, Bajwa said that decision will be taken by the party high command. He claimed that perception has gained ground in Punjab that Amarinder Singh and the Shiromani Akali Dal have "colluded" with each other and it has "damaged" the reputation of the Congress. To a question on a possible cabinet rejig, Randhawa said they are not greedy for any post and only want fulfilment of the promises made to the people before the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
24-08-2021||India||Budding economist who represented India at WFBL is optimistic about recovery||Economics is the most relevant subject for society because none is out of its gambit. From household kitchen to the budget of a nation, everything comes under the premises of economics. That’s why it has been a subject of serious discussions among politicians, economists, industrialists, and even housewives. When taught in school, Economics is one of the toughest subjects, requiring students to pay attention to each definition and explanation so that they can come up with solutions using their problem-solving skills. But, when a student is engrossed in this subject, society witnesses young proponents of Economics like Sarvadh. Just like any other teenager of his age, Sarvadh also enjoys playing indoor and outdoor games, watching cartoon shows, and more. But, what sets him apart from the rest is his unique understanding and acuteness towards ‘Economics’. While Economics is often not the favourite subject for lots of children of his age, this boy has Economics ingrained in him. He has represented India at the World Economics Cup - WEC 2020, World Future Business Leaders Cup (WFBL), and International Business Olympiad (IBO) at the tender age of 15. Sarvadh Sathiaram, a Grade 11 student of the Akshar Arbol International School (Chennai) belongs to a traditional South Indian family with a strong value system and willingness to participate in nation-building activities. Carrying forward the legacy, Sarvadh is determined to serve the country with his aptitude and knowledge of Economics. His goal is to improve the quality of life for individuals and at a macro level for communities and countries. As per his understanding and foresight, current inflation is expected to abate within the next 12 to 18 months. Businesses can possibly weather a transient shock and return to normal if there are no major policy shifts from the RBI or Centre. He claims that a sharp increase in commodity prices, upward pressure on wages and dealing with cost increases are really making the decision map very interesting for companies. Similar to what happened in the 1970s, workers expect sharp wage rises. “Suppliers expect persistent inflation and prefer it to be a regular feature of their negotiations. Simultaneously, inflation often entails complacent consumers who are ready to accept price increases. That, in turn, can allow companies to easily boost profit margins by raising prices and not be compelled to invest in greater efficiency. These are very interesting times and as a society, it is important for us to make the right trade-offs without pushing people into poverty. I am optimistic that India will do well,” Sarvadh says. When asked what attracts him towards such a complex subject, Sarvadh asserted, “Economics is an integral part of our lives. It affects our lives – subtly and obviously. When it comes to making choices such as leisure, work, consumption, savings, etc., Economics helps us choose better options and make wise and informed decisions. Growth, inflation, interest rates, and other macro and micro-economic trends have a direct or indirect impact on our daily lives. It cloud be a principal lever to bring about positive change in the quality of life. This is what attracts me towards Economics.” Sarvadh has won multiple titles and medals in economics and business. He has represented India at the World Economics Cup - WEC 2020 and won the silver medal in Individual Economics (Aggregate) award category after competing with hundreds of international high school students from 33 different countries. He also won 16th place in the Deep Comprehension category, and “Global Top 10 Award” in the Thinking and Innovation category at WEC 2020. Sarvadh’s international achievements only grew further. In early 2021, he represented India and competed at the World Future Business Leaders Cup (WFBL), an international competition for high school students in the areas of business and finance. In this competition, he secured “Global 4th Place” in International Business while competing with many high school students 2-3 years older than him. This finish in the Top 5 in the world also gained him a direct entry to represent India at the International Business Olympiad (IBO) which just finished on August 15, 2021. In addition to the various international achievements, he has also won several other competitions in the areas of economics, finance and business over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
24-08-2021||India||From a small-town boy to an entrepreneur, Shubh Agrawal is eventually making his presence felt across borders||Gone are the days of bricks and mortar setup to start a business. The world has changed and has become a digital ecosystem. Without worrying about physical workspace, all that one needs is a laptop, smartphone and a strong internet connection to earn great fortunes. Staying up to date with all these modern requirements, the younger generation has seen an ample number of entrepreneurs in the business world. Raipur-based Shubh Agrawal is one such budding name who is eventually building his presence across the digital domain. The 21-year-old originally hails from Pithora and has gone ahead to make a name for himself all over India. Before you start wondering what this bundle of talent does, we tell you that he is an entrepreneur who has made a great living by his online business into digital marketing, social media & many more. Beginning his career merely at an age of 19, Shubh Agrawal in a time of two years has built a clientele from India. Moreover, he has also been captivating the attention of clients from other parts of the world. The low-key profile that Shubh has maintained over these two years is because he believes to work silently and not blabber about it. “Internet is a platform where anybody can change the game. All that is needed to understand is how well-equipped you are with the web space. I believe that it has helped me in networking with hundreds of people who have a similar approach like me towards life”, quoted Shubh. After creating a strong reputation on a pan India level, this dynamic entrepreneur has made his foray into the international markets as well. Speaking about the same, he said, “It all begins when you step out of your comfort zone. Surfing the internet and chatting with my friends was my comfort zone. The day I replaced it with networking with business intellects, life has changed for good.” The mindset and the growth this entrepreneur has shown has turned out to be the ultimate gamechanger for him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
24-08-2021||India||BJP legislator claims there is life threat to Narayan Rane in police custody||There is a threat to Union minister Narayan Rane's life in police custody, a BJP legislator in Maharashtra claimed on Tuesday. State minister and Shiv Sena leader Gulabrao Patil, meanwhile, said Rane should be given "shock treatment" as he has lost his "balance". The Union minister was treated roughly by the police, BJP Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Prasad Lad alleged while talking to reporters at Sangameshwar in coastal Ratnagiri district. Rane was taken to Sangmeshwar police station after he was arrested over his statement that he would have slapped chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for `forgetting the year of India's independence'. "Police pushed Rane while he was having his lunch. He is nearly 70. Should a person of such age be treated like this? We feel there is a threat to his life," Lad said. "A doctor who did his check-up said Rane is diabetic but he could not check the sugar level. His blood pressure has increased. The current readings are 160/110. The doctor also said they took his ECG and considering he is a diabetes patient, his sugar needs to be checked and he should be hospitalized," the BJP legislator added. Lad also expressed apprehension that police may not produce Rane before a magistrate till 6 pm so that he does not get bail during the day. "The police may harass him during the night. The Nashik police which has sent a team to arrest him has not yet reached here, Lad claimed. Speaking in Mumbai, Sena leader and minister Gulabrao Patil said Rane "has lost his balance". "He should be taken to Thane and given shock treatment to cure him," Patil said, apparently referring to the state-run mental hospital there. The action against Rane is appropriate as it sends out a strong message to everyone who uses un-parliamentary language against people holding constitutional posts. Rane seems to have forgotten that he was once chief minister of Maharashtra, he further said. Patil also claimed that Rane's entry into the BJP was a "major threat" to leaders in that party including Devendra Fadnavis, Pravin Darekar and Chandrakant Patil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||Delhi riots-accused questions why no FIR was registered against Anurag Thakur and Kapil Mishra||Jamia Millia Islamia Alumni Association President Shifa-Ur-Rehman, who was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Delhi riots asked in the court on Tuesday why no FIR was registered against Union Minister Anurag Thakur, BJP leader Kapil Mishra, and others for allegedly instigating riots. During the bail hearing, Shifa's lawyer, Abhishek Singh, showed Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat a complaint filed by him on January 30, 2020, seeking registration of FIR against Thakur, Mishra, another BJP leader Parvesh Sharma, and Jamia Shooter Ram Bhakt Gopal for allegedly instigating riots . "Did the prosecution even bother to call them as witnesses or accused or issue a notice that we want to know something? Because they said 'shoot xyz' so they know who those people are. They will at least have some evidence. Why was no FIR registered against them? This was the complaint I was pursuing," Singh said. According to the complaint, as read by the lawyer in the court, Shifa mentioned that Mishra took out a rally in which slogans to shoot were raised, following which Thakur on January 28, 2020, said: desh ke gaddaron ko... In January 2020, Thakur had allegedly egged on participants of an election rally to raise an incendiary slogan. While the minister raised the slogan "Desh ke gaddaron ko... (the traitors of the country)", the crowd responded by chanting: "Goli maaro saalon ko... (shoot them)." Shifa is accused of collecting money to fund various sit-in protests against Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). He, along with several others, has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case for being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Alluding to the alleged funding, the lawyer affirmed that Shifa had made "some financial arrangements" but questioned whether paying some protestors make it an offence under the stringent UAPA. Advocate Singh further emphasized that being a member or president of the alumni association or a protester is not an offence as people are entitled to their opinion and can peacefully protest against anything. Why have I been roped in? I fail to understand. There is a fundamental right to protest. If a certain section of society is aggrieved by certain legislation and protest against it, that is not a crime. They can protest, the lawyer told the court. Furthermore, Shifa's counsel sought bail for him saying that there has been a systematic violation of his fundamental rights and that he cannot be put in the bracket of rioters. He also read his WhatsApp chats to show that there was no instigation of violence. Besides him, former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||Rane's arrest violative of constitutional values, says Nadda||Slamming the Maharashtra government for the arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane, BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday said it was violative of constitutional values, and his party will not be cowed down by such actions. In a tweet, Nadda said the "huge" response the BJP has received in its 'Jan Aashirvad Yatra' has jolted its rivals. "We fight democratically. The yatra will continue," he said. Rane was arrested on Tuesday over his remarks about slapping Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for what he claimed was the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. Rane was taken into custody by police in coastal Ratnagiri district, where he is travelling as part of the Jan Ashirvad Yatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||UAE temporarily suspends visa-on-arrival for passengers arriving from India||Authorities in the UAE have temporarily suspended the visa-on-arrival facility for passengers who are arriving from or have been in India in the past 14 days, according to Etihad Airways. The Abu Dhabi-headquartered airline, which is the second flag carrier of the UAE, said in a tweet that it is working to update its website with the latest information. "The UAE authorities have decided to temporarily suspend the Visa-on-arrival facility for passengers who are arriving from or been in India in the past 14 days," Etihad said on Twitter. The tweet was in response to a query by a passenger whether an Indian citizen holding a US visa can fly to Abu Dhabi and get visa-on-arrival and travel to Dubai without quarantine. The airline also advised passengers to please keep an eye on https: //bit.ly/TravelGuideEN for latest regulations. The latest travel update is applicable to passengers having a visa or residence permit issued by the US, the UK or a European Union member state. Travel regulations to and from the UAE have frequently changed in recent weeks considering the developing COVID-19 situation. On April 22, Dubai-based Emirates Airline announced that its flights from India to the UAE will be suspended for 10 days. On August 5, the UAE lifted a ban on transit passengers from India. On August 10, the UAE's flag carrier Emirates announced that UAE residents flying in from India and five other nations are no longer required to present COVID-19 vaccination certificate for entry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||Afghanistan situation must not be used by terrorist groups like JeM and LeT, says India at UNHRC meet||India on Tuesday said the current situation in Afghanistan is of "great concern" to it, hoping that it does not pose a challenge to its neighbours and the country is not used by terrorist groups such as LeT and JeM. In his address at a special session of the UN Human Rights Council on the situation in Afghanistan, Indian ambassador Indra Mani Pandey said a "grave" humanitarian crisis is unfolding in the country and everyone is concerned about the increasing violations of fundamental rights of the Afghan people. He said India hopes that the situation stabilises soon, and the parties concerned address the humanitarian and security issues. "We also hope that there is an inclusive and broad-based dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society. Voices of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities must be respected," he said. A broad-based representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy, he added. Pandey, India's Permanent Representative to the UN in Geneva, said stability in Afghanistan is linked to the peace and security of the region. "We hope that the situation in Afghanistan does not pose a challenge to its neighbours and its territory is not used by terrorist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any other country," he said. The ambassador said as a neighbour of Afghanistan, the situation prevailing in the country is of "great concern" to India. "We are closely monitoring the rapidly evolving security situation in Afghanistan and we continue to call upon parties concerned to maintain law and order, ensure the safety and security of all Afghan nationals, UN personnel and diplomatic staff members, and observe human rights and international humanitarian law in all circumstances in Afghanistan," he added. The UN Human Rights Council is holding a special session to discuss the human rights concerns and situation in Afghanistan after Kabul fell to the Taliban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||Gupkar leaders reiterate their demand for restoration of statehood to JK||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Tuesday demanded the restoration of the pre-August 5, 2019 constitutional position of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, saying it would continue the fight to seek the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The alliance of the six mainstream political parties, which seek the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state, held a meeting at its chairman and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah's residence at Gupkar here. The meeting was also attended by the middle and lower rung leaders of the constituent parties of the alliance. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, PAGD spokesperson and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami said seeking the restoration of the special status, which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019, is the constitutional right of the people of the erstwhile state. "We are not seeking anything other than the restoration of the special constitutional position that Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh had till August 4, 2019. It is our constitutional right," he said. Tarigami, who was flanked by other leaders of the alliance, including Abdullah and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, said a few people were interpreting their demands some other way and calling them "anti-national activities". "They try to harass the leaders associated with the alliance and continue with slanderous campaigns. Perhaps, it has not happened before that the voice of the people was being stopped this way. It is impossible to keep stopping the voice of the people," he said. The alliance spokesperson said the silence in Jammu and Kashmir has been considered as normalcy. "Even today, they think Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh should be silent like a graveyard, and it is not acceptable to the present government and leadership that anyone should raise his voice or keep his head high," he claimed. "The present government has vowed to humiliate us, they think of our humiliation as their pride, which is not acceptable to us," the CPI(M) leader alleged. Tarigami said the alliance wants to send a message to the country and its people that the PAGD is committed to seek the rights which were guaranteed by the Constitution. The PAGD spokesperson said the alliance adopted a unanimous resolution at its Tuesday meeting, reiterating that the constitutional position of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh which the erstwhile state enjoyed on August 4, 2019, be restored. "Articles 370, 35-A and full statehood has been our constitutional position and the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, which was abolished unconstitutionally, be restored. This is our basic agenda and our basic demand," he said. The PAGD, he said, has vowed that insult and humiliation of the people and political leadership will not be acceptable. Tarigami said they had raised the issue of the release of political prisoners at an all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but no such prisoner has been released as a confidence-building measure. "We want to ask the government how many people have been released since the all-party meeting chaired by Modi was held," he said. Tarigami claimed that there is a campaign to humiliate the political leadership and workers "as if only thieves exist here". "This humiliation must be stopped and we will keep our case before the people of India, its civil society, media houses and Parliament. We appeal to them that this humiliation must stop or its consequences can be dangerous not only for Jammu and Kashmir but for the entire country," he said. He also said that all main administrative officers whether in the civil administration or police were from outside and locals were being sidelined. Referring to the denial of the permission for the meeting in view of the Covid pandemic, Tarigami said "it seems even this small meeting is not acceptable to the administration".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane arrested for his remarks against Maharashtra CM||Union minister Narayan Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon over his `would have slapped chief minister Uddhav Thackeray' remark and being taken to Mahad where he was likely to be produced before a court, Maharashtra police sources said. Cases were registered against the BJP leader at Mahad in coastal Raigad district as well as at Nashik and Pune as his controversial remark accusing Thackeray of not knowing the year of India's independence set off angry protests by workers of the ruling Shiv Sena. He was taken into custody at Galavali in Ratnagiri district during his `Jan Ashirwad Yatra', and first taken to Sangameshwar police station. A team of Nashik police too had set out to take his custody, but Rane was handed over to Raigad police around 2.45 pm in connection with the FIR registered at Mahad, 160 km from Mumbai, a police official said. He was likely to be produced before court at Mahad either on Tuesday or Wednesday, police sources said. The First Information Report at Mahad has been registered under IPC sections 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of public peace), and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief). His supporters staged protests near the Sangameshwar police station after the arrest. After he was taken into custody, a doctor checked him. A BJP leader claimed that Rane had high blood pressure and sugar levels and doctors advised that he should be hospitalized as he is also a diabetes patient. The arrest followed Rane's statement targeting chief minister Thackeray in Raigad district during the Jan Ashirwad Yatra on Monday. "It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap," Rane said in adjoining Raigad district on Monday. The former chief minister claimed Thackeray forgot the year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state. Thackeray had to check the year of independence with his aides midway during the speech that day, Rane said. Rane on Tuesday defended his remarks against Thackeray, saying he hasn't committed any crime by making them. On media reportage of his 'imminent arrest' in the case, Rane said - hours before his arrest - that he was not a normal' man and cautioned the media against such reportage. "I haven't committed any crime. You should verify and show it on TV or else I will file a case against you (media). Despite not committing any crime, the media is showing speculative news about my 'imminent' arrest. Do you think I am a normal (ordinary) man?" Rane said. Rane's remarks drew sharp reactions from Shiv Sena, whose workers put several posters in Mumbai and other places, calling him a kombdi chor' (chicken stealer), a reference to the poultry shop he ran in Mumbai's Chembur area five decades ago, during the initial part of his over four-decades-old stint with the Bal Thackeray-led party. Activists of Shiv Sena and its youth wing staged protests in various cities across Maharashtra against Rane. In Pune's Deccan Gymkhana area, Sena workers slapped posters of Rane with footwear. Yuva Sena workers staged a demonstration in Hadapsar. A stone was hurled at a mall located on JM Road in Pune, a police official said. In Amravati, Sena workers vandalised the BJP office located in the Rajapeth area and also set various posters installed in front of the office on fire in protest against Rane's remarks. No BJP office-bearer or party worker was present in the office at the time of the incident. Sena activists poured petrol, brought by them in bottles, on the posters installed outside the office and set them afire around noon. They also hurled stones at the office. Heavy police security was deployed outside Rane's residence in Mumbai in the wake of his remarks against Thackeray, an official said. BJP workers gathered outside Rane's residence on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West) in the morning in support of their party leader. Shiv Sena workers carrying placards and shouting slogans against Rane assembled in Juhu area. Police personnel, including women cops, were deployed outside Rane's residence to prevent any untoward incident, the official said. Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil distanced himself from Rane's remarks. I am not defending Rane's comments, but I will also not express regret," Patil said. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the BJP does not support Rane's comments, but the "party stands behind him 100 per cent". Alleging that the state police force was being used as a tool for "vendetta politics", the former chief minister said there should be law and order and "not Taliban-like governance". Union minister Ramdas Athawale said Rane didn't intend to insult Thackeray and will clarify his statement. "Rane only meant that Thackeray is not doing anything for the development of Maharashtra and he seldom steps out of his residence 'Matoshree' in Mumbai to understand the problems faced by the people. Rane meant that such a chief minister does not have the right to occupy the chair. This was his feeling," he said. Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding sacking of Rane over his remarks against the Maharashtra chief minister. Raut said it was beyond his comprehension what message Rane would give to the society when he himself was using such language. "It is also an insult to the prime minister of this country," Raut said in the letter. Talking to reporters later, Raut said Rane should resign from the Modi ministry. Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey on Tuesday issued orders for the immediate arrest of Rane and a team of city police left for Konkan region. Rane approached the Bombay High Court, challenging the FIRs registered against him in parts of Maharashtra over his remarks against Thackeray, and sought protection from arrest. The BJP leader also sought an interim order granting him protection from arrest or any coercive action. The petition was mentioned before a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar, seeking urgent hearing on Tuesday itself. The bench, however, refused to hear it and said mentioning (of the petition) was not allowed and asked the lawyer to follow the procedure. "File an application before the Registry department seeking urgent hearing and then we will consider," the court said. "Everyone has to go through the process. Don't make us do the job of the Registry," the HC said. The petition has challenged three FIRs lodged against Rane in Pune, Nashik and Mahad in Raigad. A court in Ratnagiri rejected Rane's anticipatory bail application.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||Bangle seller attack: Four held so far in Indore||Police have so far arrested four persons for allegedly assaulting a bangle seller for apparently using a 'fake' name while selling his goods to women in Govind Nagar of Indore in Madhya Pradesh, an official said on Tuesday. A protest was held earlier in the day under the banner of a Hindu outfit in front of the Deputy Inspector General (DIG) office against the "rise in anti-national incidents" in Indore. The arrested persons were part of a mob that thrashed 25-year-old Taslim Ali on Sunday after asking his name, he said. The arrested persons have been identified as Rakesh Pawar (38), Vikas Malviya (27), Rajkumar Bhatnagar (37) and Vivek Vyas (35), Banganga police station in-charge Rajendra Soni said. He said the police are scanning video footage to identify and nab other persons involved in the attack. Police are also investigating the charges of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and forgery registered against Ali. Ali was booked under the POCSO Act for allegedly touching a 13-year-old girl inappropriately in Indore city, officials had said on Monday. In the melee, Ali, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, left behind a carry bag in which two Aadhaar cards were found, the officials had said. Based on the girl's complaint, a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 471 (using fake documents as real ones), among others, was registered against Ali. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra had said the controversy started when this man described himself as a Hindu to sell bangles to women during the holy month of saavan, while he belongs to another community. A protest was organised on Tuesday morning under the banner of Hindu Jagran Manch (HJM) at Regal Square in front of the Deputy Inspector General (DIG) office in Indore in which many people participated. A heavy police force was deployed in the area. Eyewitnesses said protestors waved saffron flags and raised slogans such as 'Bharat Mata ki Jai', 'Hindustan me rahna hoga, Vande Matram kahna hoga', 'Jai-Jai Siya Ram' and 'Pakistan Murdabad'. The protestors handed over a memorandum alleging that anti-national incidents and incidents against a particular community are taking place regularly. Despite bringing these incidents to the notice of the police, no firm action is being taken under the pressure from a particular group, they alleged. The memorandum mentioned pelting of stones during an Independence Day function, eve-teasing of minor girls and incidents of "luring young girls by men by hiding their true identity". Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Manish Kapooria, however, said appropriate action has been taken in all such cases. He said the cooperation of people is needed in maintaining communal harmony in the city. "Police will not allow any particular community to disrupt the peace in Indore," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane moves Bombay HC, seeks protection from arrest||Union minister Narayan Rane approached the Bombay High Court on Tuesday, challenging the FIRs lodged against him over his remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, and sought protection from arrest. Rane's petition, filed through advocate Aniket Nikam, sought the FIRs to be quashed. The BJP leader also sought an interim order granting him protection from arrest or any coercive action. The petition was mentioned before a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar, seeking urgent hearing on Tuesday itself. The bench, however, refused to hear it and said mentioning (of the petition) was not allowed and asked the lawyer to follow the procedure. "File an application before the Registry department seeking urgent hearing and then we will consider," the court said. The petition has challenged the FIRs lodged against Rane in Pune, Nashik and Mahad in Raigad. Rane had sparked off a row over his remarks about slapping CM Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey on Tuesday issued orders for the immediate arrest of Rane after an FIR was registered against him in the north Maharashtra city over his remarks against the CM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||Modi speaks to Putin over Afghanistan situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan amid mounting global concerns over the deteriorating security situation and uncertainty in the war-ravaged country after its capital Kabul fell to the Taliban last week. After the conversation, the Russian embassy in India said the two leaders expressed the intention to enhance cooperation to counter the dissemination of "terrorist ideology" and the drug threat emanating from Afghanistan and agreed to form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations on the issue. In a tweet, Modi said,"had a detailed and useful exchange of views with my friend President Putin on recent developments in Afghanistan. We also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including India-Russia cooperation against COVID-19. We agreed to continue close consultations on important issues". The Russian embassy said the two leaders exchanged views on the situation in Afghanistan. It said both sides noted the importance of coordinated efforts to "establish peace and stability" in Afghanistan and to ensure security in the region as a whole. "They expressed intention to enhance cooperation on countering the dissemination of the terrorist ideology and the drug threat emanating from the territory of Afghanistan," the embassy said. "It was agreed to form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations on this issue," it said. It said a number of questions pertaining to the further development of the Russia-India special and privileged strategic partnership, including in trade and economy, were also touched upon. "Narendra Modi expressed gratitude to Vladimir Putin for assistance in combating the spread of the COVID-19 infection, including supply and production of the Russian vaccine in India, as well as shipment of the necessary medicines and medical equipment," it said. Modi had on Monday spoken to German Chancellor Angela Merkel over the Afghanistan situation and its implications on the region and the world. Both leaders had emphasised the importance of maintaining peace and security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-281
24-08-2021||India||India's Afghanistan evacuation mission named Operation Devi Shakti||India's complex mission to evacuate its citizens and Afghan partners from Kabul after its swift takeover by the Taliban last week has been named as "Operation Devi Shakti". The name of the operation was known when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar mentioned it in a tweet on Tuesday while referring to the arrival of a fresh batch of 78 evacuees in Delhi. "Op Devi Shakti continues. 78 evacuees from Kabul arrive via Dushanbe. Salute @IAF_MCC, @AirIndiain and #TeamMEA for their untiring efforts. #DeviShakti," he said. India began the complex evacuation mission by airlifting 40 Indians from Kabul to Delhi on August 16, a day after the Taliban seized control of the Afghan capital city. So far, India has evacuated over 800 people amid a deteriorating security situation in Kabul and scramble by various nations to rescue their citizens. Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for over a week, in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality. At a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 17 directed officials to ensure the safe evacuation of all Indians from Afghanistan and provide refuge to Afghan Sikhs and Hindus wanting to come to India. In the last few days, India stepped up its efforts to evacuate Indians and its Afghan partners from Kabul amid increasing hostilities by the Taliban. After India evacuated the Indian embassy staff from Kabul on August 17, Jaishankar had described the mission as a "difficult and complicated" exercise. On Tuesday, India brought back 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and a number of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated from Kabul to the Tajik city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||Earthquake of 5.1 magnitude rocks Bay of Bengal||A 5.1 magnitude undersea earthquake over 300 km from here in the Bay of Bengal was reported on Tuesday, the National Center for Seismology said. The quake, reported at 12.35 pm, was at a depth of 10 km in the Bay of Bengal and was about 296 km south-south east of Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh and 320 km east north east of Chennai, it said. While there were no immediate reports of any damage, the tremors were felt in some parts of the city, residents said. People living in areas like Adyar and neighbouring Thiruvanmiyur said they felt mild tremors, with some Twitter users saying they could even see the furniture 'shaking.'||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||Legalised loot, organised plunder: Congress on new monetisation plan||The Congress on Tuesday described the government's infrastructure monetisation plan as "legalised loot and organised plunder", alleging that invaluable public assets created over decades are being handed over to a chosen few. The government is giving away assets worth crores made from the hard work of the people to its billionaire "friends", Congress further alleged. "First came the demonetisation disaster, which Dr Manmohan Singh rightly described as 'organised loot and legalised plunder.' "Now comes monetisation mela invaluable public assets created over decades given away to a chosen few. This is legalised loot and organised plunder," senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged the government is giving the "jumla of Aatmanirbhar (rhetoric of self-reliance)" but has made the country dependent on its "billionaire friends". "While giving the 'jumla' of 'Aatmanirbhar', they have made the entire government dependent on 'billionaire friends'. All the work for those billionaire friends and all the wealth also for them," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "This government is giving away assets worth lakhs of crores made from the hard work of the people of the country in the last 70 years to its billionaire friends," the Congress general secretary added. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that under the BJP, the country's assets will not be saved. "Sale of country's properties worth Rs 6 lakh crore -- roads, rail, mines, telecom, power, gas, airports, ports, sports stadium...Modi ji will sell everything from the earth to the sky. If there is BJP, the assets of the country will not be saved," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#StopSellingIndia". Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) on Monday that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors -- from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. As many as 25 Airports Authority of India (AAI) airports, including the ones at Chennai, Bhopal, Varanasi and Vadodara, as well as 40 railway stations, 15 railway stadiums and an unidentified number of railway colonies have been identified for getting private investments. Stating that there is no transfer of ownership or land, she said, "The NMP talks about brownfield infra assets where investments have already been made, where there is a completed asset which is either languishing or which is remaining not fully monetised or which is remaining underutilised."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||Kerala High Court questions Centre on 84-day gap between two Covidshield doses||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre whether the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield was based on availability of the vaccine or its efficacy. The query to the central government came from Justice P B Suresh Kumar while hearing a plea by Kitex Garments Ltd seeking permission to administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine to its workers. The judge also said that if efficacy was the reason for the gap, then he was "worried" as he was administered the second dose within 4-6 weeks of the first dose. The court said if availability was the reason for the gap, then those who are able to afford to buy it, like Kitex has, they should be allowed to take the second dose without waiting for 84 days as per the prevailing protocol. The court further said if efficacy was the reason then the scientific data in support of it be also provided. With the direction, the matter was listed for hearing on August 26 after the lawyer for the Centre sought time till Thursday to seek instructions. Earlier, on August 12, the high court had asked the Kerala government why it was permitting the second dose of the vaccine only after expiry of 84 days from the first dose. The court had also asked the Centre what was the reason for increasing the gap between the first and second dose of Covishield from the earlier 4 weeks to 12-16 weeks. On Tuesday, the state government said it was following the Covid vaccination guidelines issued by the Centre. Subsequently, the lawyer for the Centre sought more time to answer the court's query. Kitex in its plea has said that it has already vaccinated more than 5,000 of its workers with the first dose and has arranged for the second dose, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||Congress: Beating up of bangle seller prelude to polarisation ahead of polls||The Congress on Tuesday said the Indore incident involving the beating up of a bangle seller is a prelude to "inciting communal conflict and polarisation" ahead of next year's Assembly elections. The Opposition party also asked whether there was any rule of law in force, and said the goons are insulting the great Hindu culture. A 25-year-old man selling bangles on the streets was beaten up by a mob in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city on Sunday. "These incidents are a prelude to inciting communal conflict, violence and polarisation in the run up to the next round of state elections," said senior Congress leader P Chidambaram. "Ghaziabad, Kanpur and now Indore. Who are these persons who are emboldened to decide what is right and what is wrong," he asked. "If the State Home Minister will justify mob violence and vigilante justice, why is he remaining in the chair of Home Minister," the former union minister said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, the poor bangle seller will be beaten up and sent to jail too. "These goons are insulting the great Hindu culture by spreading violence. Shame on you, is this the rule of law," he asked in a tweet in Hindi. Three persons have been arrested on charges of assaulting the bangle seller, but the episode took a new turn when he himself was later booked under the POCSO Act for allegedly touching a 13-year-old girl inappropriately and was detained, officials said. The bangle seller identified as Tasleem Ali was also accused of possessing fake documents related to his identity, they said. The officials said the minor girl filed a complaint with the Banganga police station in Indore against Ali, alleging he introduced himself as Golu, son of Mohan Singh to sell bangles at her home on Sunday and after describing her as very beautiful, he touched her inappropriately. When the girl raised an alarm, her mother rushed out of home and when the bangle seller tried to escape from the spot, neighbours and other local residents caught and thrashed him, they said, adding three persons were arrested for assaulting him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||Arrest order against Narayan Rane for comments against Uddhav Thackeray||Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey on Tuesday issued orders for the immediate arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane after an FIR was registered against him in the north Maharashtra city over his remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Accordingly, a team of Nashik Police left in the morning for Ratnagiri district, where Rane is currently carrying out his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra', an official said. Rane had sparked off a row over his remarks about slapping Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. "It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap, Rane said during his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Raigad district on Monday. The BJP leader and former Shiv Sena chief minister claimed Thackeray forgot the year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state. Thackeray had to check the year of independence with his aides midway during the speech that day, Rane said. Following his remarks, a complaint was lodged against Rane by Nashik city Shiv Sena unit chief at the Cyber police station there. Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered against Rane in Nashik under IPC sections 500 (defamation), 505(2) (mischief), 153-B (1)(c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill-will), a police official said. Considering the law and order situation across the state and in Nashik in the wake of Rane's remarks, Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey ordered an investigation into the matter and immediate arrest of the Union minister. Accordingly, a team, led by Nashik DCP (crime) Sanjay Barkund and comprising police inspector Ananda Wagh and other officers, was formed and it rushed to Chiplun in Ratnagiri to arrest Rane, the official said. The team was asked to arrest Rane and produce him before a court in Nashik, the official said, adding the team was also directed to follow the due procedure for arresting the Union minister. "We are going by the facts of the case after the registration of an offence against Rane. We are following the rule of law," Pandey said, adding the arrest was needed to prevent the repetition of such an offence. The Union minister will be arrested in the case and produced before a court, and further action will be taken according to orders of the court, the police commissioner said. After Rane's arrest, Vice President (Venkaiah Naidu) will be informed as the Union minister is a member of the Rajya Sabha, the official said. "While arresting Rane, police will follow all protocols with regard to a Union minister," he said adding all his privileges as Union minister will be considered. Whatever he wants to say, he can put forth before the court, the senior police official said. Meanwhile, in Aurangabad , Shiv Sena's spokesperson Ambadas Danve lodged a complaint against Rane at Kranti Chowk police station over the latter's remarks against the CM and party workers hit a photo of the Union minister with footwear. Talking to reporters after lodging the police complaint, Danve said Rane's remarks were "objectionable", and demanded action against the BJP leader. The MLC called Rane a kombdi chor' (chicken stealer) -- a reference to the poultry shop he ran in Chembur five decades ago during his initial stint with the Sena -- a released a couple of hens at the Kranti Chowk square. The women's wing of the Shiv Sena will also undertake an agitation in Aurangabad, Danve said. "Earlier, Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray used to call Narayan Rane as 'Naru', which is the name of a disease in Marathi. The Shiv Sena has a remedy for this disease," he said. He claimed Rane made the statement to provoke the Shiv Sena. The Shiv Sena will protest against Rane's statement through the constitutional process as well as by taking to the streets, the MLC said. An official at the Kranti Chowk police station in Aurangabad said they have received the Shiv Sena's complaint and action will be taken as per the instructions of senior officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||PAGD meeting underway to discuss way forward for restoration of JK's special status||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) began a meeting here on Tuesday to discuss the prevailing situation in the Union Territory and have wider consultations on the way forward for the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The PAGD is an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Centre in August 2019. The meeting started at alliance chairman Farooq Abdullah's residence at Gupkar here at 11 am. Apart from the heads of the constituent parties, several middle and lower rung leaders are also participating in the meeting. Speaking to reporters outside Abdullah's residence, senior vice president of Awami National Conference -- which is a constituent of the alliance-- Muzaffar Shah said the agenda of the meeting, apart from the restoration of the Article 370, is to launch a mass contact programme. Asked about the reports of the administration having denied permission for the meeting, he said a democratic meeting cannot be denied. "We are holding a democratic meeting and the government can't stop us from doing it. We will discuss how to reach out to every region's aspirations," Shah said. Earlier, a leader of the alliance had said that the meeting would be different from the earlier ones. "This time it is not only the top leadership of the constituent parties which has been invited for consultations, but the middle rung leadership as well," he had said. The meeting has been called to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir and "have wider consultations on various issues", he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||Rahul meets Baghel, Singh Deo in bid to resolve differences in Chhattisgarh||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday met Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and state Health Minister T S Singh Deo in an effort to resolve the power tussle between the two senior leaders in the state. AICC in-charge for Chhattisgarh P L Punia and AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal were also present during the meeting convened by Rahul Gandhi at his residence. Singh Deo and Baghel have been at loggerheads with the former claiming that the leadership at the time of the election victory in 2018 had proposed a rotation of the chief minister's post after 2.5 years. Both have said they would abide by the decision of the party high command. "Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are our leaders and we would abide with whatever they say," Singh Deo told reporters before the meeting. Baghel has also said that whatever decision the leadership takes will be followed. While the two have met Rahul Gandhi earlier on the issue, Baghel has also met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. The Congress has been facing similar troubles in Punjab and Rajasthan, with senior leaders facing off on a range of issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||India brings back 78 people as part of evacuation mission from Afghanistan||India on Tuesday brought back 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and a number of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated from Taliban-besieged Kabul to the Tajik city. The group along with three copies of the Sikh scripture, Guru Granth Sahib, was airlifted from Kabul to Dushanbe by a military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force on Monday. With Tuesday's evacuation, the number of people brought back to Delhi reached over 800 since August 16 when the first group was airlifted from Kabul, a day after the Taliban seized control of the Afghan capital city. The evacuees were received at the Indira Gandhi International Airport by Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and V Muraleedharan. "Blessed to receive & pay obeisance to three holy Swaroop of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji from Kabul to Delhi a short while ago," Puri tweeted. An Air India flight brought back the people from Dushanbe. "Joined Minister Shri @HardeepSPuri ji at Delhi Airport in receiving Swaroop of Shri Guru Granth Sahib ji arrived from Afghanistan along with evacuees," Muraleedharan tweeted. Earlier, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said 78 people are being brought to Delhi on an Air India flight. "Helping in the safe return from Afghanistan. AI 1956 en route to Delhi from Dushanbe carrying 78 passengers, including 25 Indian nationals. Evacuees were flown in from Kabul on an @IAF_MCC aircraft," he said on Twitter. On Monday, India brought back 146 of its nationals to Delhi in four different flights from the Qatari capital Doha, days after they were evacuated from Kabul by NATO and American aircraft. India has stepped up efforts to evacuate its citizens as well as its Afghan partners from Kabul in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital and other parts of the country after the Taliban swept to power last week. On Sunday, India evacuated 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers in three different flights under the evacuation mission. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days of the Taliban's capture of Kabul, India evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on August 17. India carried out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||India logs over 25,000 fresh Covid cases, 354 casualties in a day ||India added 25,467 new COVID-19 cases, while the active cases declined to 3,19,551, comprising 0.98 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The total tally of COVID-19 cases has increased to 3,24,74,773. The death toll has climbed to 4,35,110 with 354 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases were the lowest in 156 days, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.68 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 14373 cases has been recorded in the total number of active COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,47,526 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 50,93,91,792. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 28 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.90 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 60 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,17,20,112, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 58.89 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Tuesday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 354 new fatalities include 105 from Maharashtra, 90 from Kerala and 68 from Odisha. A total of 4,35,110 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,36,067 from Maharashtra, 37,155 from Karnataka, 34,734 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,792 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,584 from Kerala and 18,371 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-282
24-08-2021||India||Users can now book vaccination appointments on WhatsApp||WhatsApp on Tuesday said the MyGov Corona Helpdesk on its platform will now allow users to locate their nearest vaccination centre and book their vaccine appointments. On August 5, MyGov and WhatsApp had introduced the ability for users to download vaccine certificates from the chatbot; and so far, over 32 lakh certificates have been downloaded by users across the country. "The MyGov Corona Helpdesk on WhatsApp, since its launch in March 2020, has emerged as one of most authentic sources of COVID-related information during the pandemic and served as a critical instrument in fighting the public-health crisis for over 41 million users across India," it added. MyGov CEO Abhishek Singh said the MyGov Corona Helpdesk has been a path-breaking technological solution that benefited millions of citizens across the nation. "Since its launch, MyGov Corona Helpdesk, enabled with support from Haptik and Turn.io, has evolved into a go-to platform that is not only helping citizens with authentic Corona-related information but is now also aiding them in the process of vaccine booking as also finding vaccination centers and slots and downloading vaccination certificates," he added. It is enabling digital inclusion in the true sense as most people find the AI based interface enabled on WhatsApp easier to navigate, he further said. "Our collaboration has unlocked technology's potential to extend benefits to citizens at scale. Judging by the large numbers of people who have placed their trust in the MyGov Corona Helpdesk chatbot and availed themselves of the benefits, this is an important step in our journey to become a digitally empowered country. As a platform, we are fully committed to supporting our Government's efforts to help fight this pandemic, WhatsApp Public Policy Director Shivnath Thukral said. To contact MyGov Corona Helpdesk chatbot, citizens can save the WhatsApp number +91 9013151515 on their phones; start a chat by typing Book Slot and send it to the number. This will generate a six-digit one-time password on the respective mobile phone number. Users then choose a preferred date and location, based on the pincode and vaccine type. All users can follow this sequence to get a confirmation of their centre and day of their vaccine appointment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Two Naxals killed in encounter with security forces in Chhattisgarh's Sukma||Two Naxals were killed in an encounter with security forces in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district on Tuesday, a police official said. The gunfight took place at around 8 am in a forest near Gompad and Kanhaiguda villages under Konta police station limits, over 450 km from the state capital Raipur, when a joint team of security forces was out on an anti-Naxal operation, Sukma Superintendent of Police Sunil Sharma told PTI. Personnel belonging to the District Reserve Guard (DRG), the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and its elite unit Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) were involved in the operation, that was launched based on the movement of Naxals in the interiors of Konta, he said. After guns fell silent, bodies of two male Naxals along with weapons and explosives were recovered from the spot, he said. Bloodstains found at the site indicated that many other Naxals were either injured or killed in the face-off, but the rebels managed to take them inside the forest, the official said. The identity of the killed ultras was yet to be ascertained, but prima facie, one of them seemed to be Kawasi Hunga, who was active as the Konta area LOS (local organisation squad) commander of Maoists, he said. Search operation was still underway in the area, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Afghan refugees seek asylum in the West, civil society asks India not to discriminate||Civil society groups and Afghan refugees held public meetings in the capital on Monday against the new Taliban regime. Refugees, including those here since late 80s, demanded that the developed countries accept them as citizens as many have remained stateless in India. On a call of the Afghan Solidarity Committee, several refugees protested and some are staging an indefinite sit-in outside the Indian mission of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar. Their demands include that the UNHCR recommend that they be accepted by North Atlantic Treaty Organisation members and allies who participated in the civil war; rejected cases for resettlement be reviewed; and the Indian government take up their case with UNHCR as many of them are stateless. One of the organisers, Naeem Pathan, came to India when he was 11 in 1989 and is now stateless. He told The Telegraph: “We do not want to be treated like illegal immigrants any longer as most employers do not accept our UNHCR identity cards, and we can’t go back to Afghanistan either as we cannot afford the Rs 50,000 fine of the Indian government for overstaying. We are all qualified and can work hard and the UNHCR should recommend us for the emigration quotas for Afghan refugees announced by several western countries.” The UNHCR has registered 15,217 refugees in India. Hundreds more have come over the last month, and refugee groups estimate the total number to be more than 21,000. Many are camping outside embassies of Australia, Canada and European countries in India, where they are yet to get visas. Pathan, who was in construction, has not found regular employment since 2014, he said.“I fled the mujahideen, the forerunners of the Taliban back then,” he said. Several civil society groups, including front organisations of Left parties, gathered near central Delhi’s Mandi House on Monday afternoon to express solidarity with Afghans opposing the Taliban. They demanded elections under an interim UN regime, punishment for war crimes by Nato forces and the Taliban, UN intervention to protect women’s rights, acceptance of refugees by India irrespective of religion, and the return of Indians. The groups, including front organisations of the CPI, CPIML-Liberation, and SUCI (Communist), also said in a statement: “The Election Commission of India must ensure that Afghanistan and the Taliban are not used as pretexts for hate speech during campaigns for state elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab that are due soon.” Rukhsar Rahim, who has just finished her studies at Jamia Millia Islamia made a passionate speech against surrendering her rights to dress, study and work as a woman in Afghanistan. “We don’t want to wear a burqa. We respect the Islamic hijab, but we don’t want to wear a burqa. Islam doesn’t say that we must be made to wear burqas and kept at home and beaten…. The Taliban says they want to establish an Islamic government. I ask, which Islam?...  Afghanistan is already an Islamic country, we have an Islamic constitution. We don’t need a terrorist group to teach us about our religion.” She added: “…Even now if we get the opportunity to do the work we want in Afghanistan, we will go back. We will fight for the rights of the women whose rights are being taken away, even if our heads are cut, our whole lives are spent, we will never give up…. We fought for our rights that other women in the world get easily. We fought for our families and society for the right to work. What we got with such difficulty we won’t give up so easily.” Annie Raja, general secretary of CPI’s National Federation of Indian Women told this newspaper: “We are in touch with refugee groups and will support them like we did in 1992. India must keep their confidence and trust and make them feel at home, as is our tradition, as well as immediately ensure their human rights and livelihood, here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Congress crisis: Manish Tiwari questions Sidhu's advisers||Anarchy in the rudderless Congress was on display on Monday as Lok Sabha member and spokesperson Manish Tewari wondered whether the advisers of Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu deserved to live in India, let alone stay in the party. The BJP was quick to grab the opportunity and sought clarifications from Rahul Gandhi. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had also warned Sidhu’s advisers against speaking on sensitive and strategic issues. Sidhu had appointed Pyare Lal Garg and Malwinder Mali as advisers after taking over as the Punjab Congress chief. Mali posted this message on Facebook: “Kashmir belongs to Kashmiris. Going against the tenets of the United Nations resolutions, India and Pakistan have illegally usurped Kashmir. If Kashmir was a part of India, then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35-A? What was the special agreement with King Hari Singh? Tell people what were the terms of the agreement.” In another post on the Taliban, he wrote: “Now it is their responsibility to protect Sikhs and Hindus. They will rule to improve the condition of the country, not like before.” He had also posted in June a sketch of Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls and holding a gun. The caption read: “Every repression is defeated.” This was clearly a reference to the 1984 riots when hundreds of Sikhs were killed in the aftermath of Indira’s assassination. Garg had questioned Amarinder’s criticism of Pakistan. Tewari, who is close to the chief minister, took the controversy to a different plane with this acerbic remark: “Forget being in the party, do such people have the right to stay in the country?” He followed it up with a terse tweet: “I urge Harish Rawat, general secretary in charge of Punjab, to seriously introspect that those who do not consider J&K to be a part of India & others who have ostensibly Pro-Pakistan leanings should be a part of Congress. It mocks all those who shed blood for India.” The Amarinder camp was clearly exploiting this opportunity to pin Sidhu down after he succeeded in usurping the high moral ground by harping on the failures of the state government in delivering on the promises made to the people. Even on Monday, he said: “The sugarcane farmers’ issue needs to be immediately resolved amicably…. Strange that despite the higher cost of cultivation in Punjab the state assured price is too low as compared to Haryana/UP/Uttarakhand. As torchbearer of agriculture, the Punjab SAP (state agreed price) should be better!” The chief minister also launched a sharp attack on Sidhu’s advisers, describing their comments as “potentially dangerous” to the peace and stability of Punjab and the country. He asked Sidhu to rein in his advisers. A rattled Sidhu called both the advisers to his residence in Patiala, after which Mali and Garg clarified that the comments were made in their personal capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Manipur govt labels Leichobam Erendro a 'habitual offender'||The Manipur government on Monday told the Supreme Court that activist Leichobam Erendro is a “habitual offender” with four cases pending against him, including uploading a video on Facebook in which he and his friends were seen hurling eggs on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s posters. Erendro was earlier detained under the National Security Act for critical Facebook posts over cow urine and dung being a cure for Covid-19 patients. Citing a number of apex court earlier judgments, the state has pleaded that the law enforcing agencies have a right to detain and arrest offenders and criminals and there was also no instance of Erendro being subjected to any form of custodial violence, hence he was not entitled to any form of compensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Dalit youth killed for seeking wage dues of 10kg rice in Nalanda||A Dalit youth died after being beaten, tied to bricks and thrown into a stream at a Bihar village on Sunday, allegedly for demanding the 10kg rice promised to him for a day’s labour in a well-to-do farmer’s field. Prime accused Dinesh Mahto of Bahadurpur village in Nalanda — the home district of chief minister Nitish Kumar — is in hiding, police said. Upendra Ravidas, 25, of Kundali village in Patna district had been missing since Sunday evening. The police fished his body out of a rivulet outside Bahadurpur, about 25km away, on Monday morning. Upendra and his brother-in-law Sikandar Ravidas had spent a day sowing paddy at Mahto’s farm around 15 days ago. Sikandar said they were asked to come after a few days for the promised payment: 10kg rice. Police officers said the two went to Bahadurpur on Sunday evening and asked Mahto to settle their wages. Mahto and his associates began abusing them and then allegedly attacked them with sticks when they objected. Sikandar managed to escape but Upendra could not. “I ran to save my life. Upendra was hit badly and could not run. I could see Dinesh and his men kicking and hitting him with sticks,” Sikandar told reporters. “I ran to the local Chandi police station so the officers could save him.” When the police arrived at Bahadurpur late in the evening, Upendra was missing while Mahto and his associates had fled, officers said. A search for Upendra yielded no results. “Local people later spotted his body in a rivulet just outside Bahadurpur. We brought it out,” Chandi station house officer Rituraj Kumar told The Telegraph. “His hands and legs were tied with ropes. Bricks had been tied to the body so that it would stay at the bottom of the rivulet, which is in spate these days. But somehow it floated to the surface.” Kumar said the body had been sent for post-mortem and an FIR registered. Three people have been detained for questioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SC directs Centre and states on road blockage ||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre and the states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to ensure that there is no inconvenience to the general public travelling between the two states and Delhi on account of the farmers’ protest that is on since November 2020. “You have to find a solution. They (farmers) have a right to protest but there can’t be a hindrance on the inflow and outflow of traffic. The roads can’t be blocked like this,” a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy told solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre during a hearing. The bench said: “The solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and the states. If there are protests, the traffic should not be stopped in any manner so that the to and fro of people is not disturbed.” The court made the observation while dealing with a PIL filed by Noida-based  Monicca Agarwaal alleging that the travel time between Noida and Uttar Pradesh is being delayed by two hours every day on account of the protests on the borders of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Farmers are on a sit-in since November 26, 2020, seeking repeal of the three controversial farm laws: (1) Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, (2) Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and (3) Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Meanwhile, in an affidavit filed before the court on the issue, the states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have pleaded that they had made multiple efforts at persuading the farmers against blocking the roads as the authorities do not want to use force. “The farmers’ organisations had been canvassing and asking maximum numbers of farmers to congregate at various spots on 25th and 26th November, 2020, for moving further towards Delhi. “Accordingly, a large number of farmers from the state of Punjab entered the state of Haryana on tractors-trolleys and other vehicles from various routes. The Haryana police made strenuous efforts to maintain public order on ground. “Police was forced to use water cannon and tear gas shells, in order to disperse the agitators,” the affidavit filed by Haryana said. The Uttar Pradesh government also in a separate affidavit has pleaded that it was taking all steps to persuade the farmers from blocking traffic on the Ghaziabad and other routes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar meets Narendra Modi on caste census||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday led an all-party delegation to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press for a caste-based census in the country, an issue the ruling BJP appears wary of addressing. The issue brought Nitish and his principal rival, leader of Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Yadav, on the same page, as the two, part of a 10-party delegation from Bihar, met the Prime Minister. Modi was learnt to have heard the delegation leaders “patiently”, neither accepting nor rejecting the demand. “People in Bihar and the entire country are of the same opinion on this (caste census) issue. We are grateful to the Prime Minister for listening to us,” Nitish told reporters after the meeting. “Now, the Prime Minister has to take a decision on it,” he added, seeking to lob the ball in ally BJP’s court. Nitish has found himself politically squeezed by ally BJP and appears to be using the issue to regain prominence. The BJP, represented by Bihar minister Janak Ram, was also part of the 11-member delegation but the central BJP remains in a quandary over backing the demand officially. The central government, in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question in July, had said it “has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise populations other than SCs and STs in the census”. Since then, however, BJP allies like Nitish (JDU), Anupriya Patel (Apna Dal) and Ramdas Athawale (Republican Party of India) and Opposition parties such as the Samajwadi Party, RJD and many more across the country, including southern parties, have raised a strong demand for caste-based census, putting the central government in a fix. Internally, the BJP too stands divided over the issue, with a large number of backward caste or OBC leaders, favouring the need for such a census while the upper castes, who drive the party’s political and ideological line, opposed to it. The BJP faces a similar division over the women’s reservation issue. “The BJP has never been against a caste census. The BJP backed the resolutions passed in both Houses of the Bihar legislature,” said Sushil Kumar Modi, former Bihar deputy chief minister and now a Rajya Sabha MP of the party. Sushil Kumar, himself an OBC leader, shied away from firmly backing the demand. Party insiders said that in principle the BJP was not in favour of a census on caste lines but would refrain from opposing it officially, given the political sensitivity of the issue. The BJP is also afraid of opposing the demand because of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls. The government, the BJP and also the RSS are wary that a caste census could reignite a post-Mandal like situation of the nineties and spoil their ideological and political project of forming a monolithic Hindutva identity. Officially, the RSS in the past has said that a caste census could defeat the goal of forming a “casteless society”. The demand for a caste census is primarily being pitched by leaders of parties who derive their political and electoral strength from the backward castes such as Nitish, Tejashwi, Akhilesh Yadav and others. Officially, the backers argue that a caste census would bring out the exact numbers and socio-economic conditions of different sections and help the government in better targeting of welfare schemes. The BJP under Modi has incrementally enlarged support among OBCs in elections, eating into the vote bases of smaller parties, who feel threatened. Politically, these parties feel that a caste census would bring out the exact numbers of OBCs and other deprived sections of the society and lead to a churning. The Mandal Commission (based on whose report the 27 per cent reservation for OBCs was implemented) had estimated the OBC population to be 52 per cent, based on the 1931 caste census. These parties feel that after the caste census puts an official seal on the number then they can demand increase in reservation quota. “Why only 27 per cent reservation for a population of over 50 per cent while 10 per cent for upper castes who form just around 20 per cent of the population?” one Samajwadi Party MP said, referring to the Modi government’s decision of giving 10 per cent reservation to the economically weaker sections among the upper castes. “The caste census would bare the disproportionate privileges being enjoyed by Hindu upper castes in all sectors,” one Dalit BJP MP said. The Modi government is wary these questions would get fillip after a caste census and could upset its Hindutva politics. The OBC driven political parties have also been demanding the government scrap the 50 per cent cap on reservation put by the Supreme Court, another uncomfortable issue for the ruling BJP. The caste census demand had rocked the previous UPA government too. Under pressure, the UPA had conducted a separate Socio Economic Caste census in 2011 but the results were never published. The Modi government said the data collected then was full of faults. The last caste census was conducted by the British in 1931 and all estimates are made based on it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Centre to brief Opposition parties on situation in Afghanistan||The Centre on Monday decided to brief the Opposition parties on the situation in Afghanistan where India, of all the regional stakeholders, has been painted into a corner. The all-party briefing of floor leaders has been scheduled for Thursday morning. The announcement was made by external affairs minister S. Jaishankar in a tweet: “In view of developments in Afghanistan, PM Narendra Modi has instructed that MEA brief Floor Leaders of political parties. Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi will be intimating further details.” Some of the Opposition party leaders have been taken by surprise with the suo motu briefing. Since the situation in Afghanistan is still fluid and every country, including the US and other Nato members, is grappling with it, the Opposition had not begun clamouring for such a briefing. Add to this the near-complete breakdown in relations with the government during the monsoon session of Parliament when the demands of the Opposition were mostly ignored. The parliamentary minister’s office began working the phones in the morning but initially did not inform the Opposition leaders what the meeting was about. All they were asked was if they would attend a meeting on August 26. “Just now I got a call from the office of the parliamentary affairs minister, intimating about an all-party meeting. About the agenda, to my repeated questions, they had no information. Something strange! Such meetings are important for us. For the government, nothing is serious,” tweeted CPI Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam. “Later in the afternoon, a junior parliamentary affairs minister called me and told me what the meeting was about,” Viswam told this newspaper. Another batch of 46 Afghan Sikhs and some other Indians have been evacuated from Kabul by India and are expected to reach here on Tuesday. They are carrying with them three Guru Granth Sahibs from the gurdwaras of Jalalabad, Ghazni and Kabul for fear of them being desecrated if left behind. According to Puneet Singh Chandok, president of the Indian World Forum who has been coordinating with the Sikh community in Kabul, around 200 Sikhs are still in Kabul awaiting evacuation. They will try and bring as many sacred books as possible with them. The remaining Sikhs have taken shelter in Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul, Chandok said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Centre to farm out assets to private sector to raise Rs 6 lakh cr ||The Narendra Modi government plans to farm out a vast trove of assets to the private sector over the next four years to raise Rs 6 lakh crore through an elaborate asset monetisation exercise. “This is not a fire sale of government assets,” Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said, taking pains to emphasise that the government would not be ceding ownership. “We are only offering brownfield assets; no land is involved.” The privatisation plan had been announced in the Union budget in February and is designed to boost the public finances of a cash-starved government. The assets, to be offered through a variety of concessionaire models, belong to sectors like roads, ports, airports, railways, warehousing, gas and product pipelines, power generation, power transmission, mining, telecom, stadium and hospitality infrastructure. Roads and railway assets will unlock the greatest value with the estimates put at Rs 1.62 lakh crore and Rs 1.52 lakh crore, respectively. Six of the 22 road stretches on offer in the eastern region are in Bengal: Palsit-Dankuni (64km), Panagarh-Palsit (67km), Purnea-Dalkhola (36km), Dalkhola-Islampur (88km), Islampur-Sonapur-Ghoshpukur (44km), and Salsalabari to the Bengal-Assam border (26.5km). The asset monetisation plan in the railways involves handing over 400 stations (including those in New Delhi and Mumbai), 90 passenger train operations, 1,400km of tracks, 673km of dedicated freight corridor and 15 stadiums. Railway colonies will be monetised. The stations will be handed over to the private sector under 50-99 year concessions. The plan hints at farming out the heritage Darjeeling Hill Railway system — the country’s oldest mountain railway system, built in 1879 —through an operate, maintain and develop (OMD)-based public-private participation model as it may require considerable investments. Four port-related projects in Kidderpore and three in Haldia will be on offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
24-08-2021||India||Mappila Rebellion: Experts express furore over freedom ‘cleansing’||News that the leaders and participants of the 1921 Mappila Rebellion by north Kerala’s Muslims could be dropped from the Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle has triggered condemnation from scholars and politicians in the southern state. “Mappila” refers to Muslims from Malabar in north Kerala. References to rebellion leaders Variyamkunnath Kunjahamed Haji and Ali Musaliar have been recommended to be removed from the Dictionary, published jointly by the Union culture ministry and the Indian Council of Historical Research, a member of the ICHR research project committee, C.I. Isaac, confirmed to The Telegraph. Also deleted might be the names of 385 other Mappila rebels, said Isaac, working president of RSS think tank Bharateeya Vichara Kendram and a member of the committee that reviewed the list and recommended the removals. The disclosure has come at a time a debate is raging in social media in Kerala about the resurgence of the Taliban in Afghanistan. Some Right-wing proponents have sought to exploit the situation by drawing a parallel between the 1921 rebels and the Taliban. After The Hindu newspaper had reported the matter earlier in the day, Isaac had expressed the Sangh parivar view by telling a television channel that the Mappila Rebellion “was never part of the freedom movement” and that “religious conversion was its only objective”. Isaac said the revised Dictionary was expected to be released in October. The move coincides with the centenary of the rebellion, which began on August 20, 1921, in Malappuram against the British and their supporters among the landlords, most of whom were upper caste Hindus. The uprising, which lasted about six months, ended with Ali being hanged in Coimbatore jail and Haji facing a firing squad in Malappuram. Some 10,000 people, nearly 2,400 of them rebels, were killed in the rebellion, which the Sangh parivar sees as an anti-Hindu pogrom. Academic and author M.N. Karassery regretted the decision to drop the two names and offered a historical perspective. “I would say the Mappila Rebellion started off as anti-British, gravitated to become anti-feudal, and then some splinter groups went against the Hindus, many of whom were killed if not converted to Islam,” Karassery told this newspaper. “As is true with most such events in history, deviations by small groups lead to unsavoury events that tarnish the whole movement.” He added: “One may have reservations about some event or some historical character, but that doesn’t justify such bias — neither Haji nor Ali supported the communal elements that targeted Hindus.” C. Haridas, a former Congress MP, criticised the ICHR and the Centre for removing the names of “two of the greatest freedom fighters from Kerala”. “Both were captured and executed by the British, against whom they put up a valiant fight,” Haridas, who lives in Ponnani, the epicentre of the rebellion, told this newspaper. “I’m deeply pained at politics and communalism dictating who is a freedom fighter.” The Dictionary, commissioned in 2009, contains accounts of freedom fighters starting from the 1857 revolt. The first edition was published in 2019 and released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Controversy had erupted last year when netizens embarrassed the BJP by highlighting how the book released by Modi eulogised Haji and Ali, reviled by the Sangh parivar as “anti-Hindu”. Indian Union Muslim League general secretary and Lok Sabha member P.K. Kunhalikutty said the name removals were a “BJP agenda” and the party would launch protests. His party colleague Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal sought “some gratitude” for the way the Mappila rebels had sacrificed their lives and property for the nation. Isaac told the media the rebellion “was an event for forcible conversion and the killing of those who refused”. “The communists had on July 25, 1973, demanded in Parliament that the rebellion be recognised as part of the freedom struggle,” he said. “But the then home minister said it was not part of the freedom movement but (of) communal riots, and hence the demand cannot be accepted.” BJP national vice-president A.P. Abdullakutty told reporters: “They (Mappila rebels) are the Taliban of those days. Treating them as freedom fighters would be the biggest cruelty to history.” RSS leader Ram Madhav had last week described the Mappila Rebellion as “one of the first manifestations of the Taliban mindset”. Sangh parivar leaders had raised objections in June last year when filmmaker Ashiq Abu announced a Malayalam biopic on Haji’s life with actor Prithviraj in the title role. At least three others, including RSS co-traveller Ali Akbar, quickly announced their own films on the Mappila Rebellion. Akbar said he wanted to present the “correct portrayal” of Haji, whom he described as “anti-Hindu”. In 1988, filmmaker I.V. Sasi had made a film titled 1921 starring Mammootty, but Haji was not the main character in the movie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
24-08-2021||India||Hate assault on Muslim bangle seller in Madhya Pradesh||A 25-year-old man selling bangles on the streets was beaten up by a mob in Indore after he told them his name on being asked. Home minister Narottam Mishra in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh said on Monday the dispute erupted because the man had posed as a Hindu while selling bangles to women although he belonged to another community. It is unclear why the minister thinks the religion of a vendor should matter to customers. “In this connection, two Aadhaar cards were seized from him,” Mishra said. A video of the incident, that took place on Sunday in Indore’s Govind Nagar area, went viral on social media. In one of the viral clips, some people were purportedly seen thrashing the vendor, identified as Tasleem Ali, while he pleaded for mercy. In another video, a person beating up the vendor was seen accusing him of harassing women. The person was also seen abusing the vendor and inciting others to hit him while warning the man not to be seen in the area again. The vendor, hailing from Hardoi district in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, filed a police complaint on Sunday night, alleging that five-six persons from the mob asked him his name and started beating him when he told them. He also alleged that the mob used objectionable words and snatched Rs 10,000 from him along with his mobile phone, Aadhaar card, other documents and bangles worth around Rs 25,000. A police officer said based on the man’s complaint, an FIR was registered under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups), 141 (unlawful gathering), 147 (rioting), 395 (dacoity), 120- B (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant provisions. Efforts were on to nab those involved in thrashing him, he said. The officer added that on Sunday night, a large number of people along with the bangle seller reached the Central Kotwali police station where they allegedly indulged in inappropriate sloganeering. A separate FIR was registered against them on charges of rioting, forcibly obstructing a public way and other relevant sections of the IPC, the official said. District magistrate Manish Singh said members of some small outfits were suspected to be behind the ruckus in the Central Kotwali area. They have been identified and, if necessary, they might be externed and booked under the National Security Act, he said. Minister Mishra said police took action against both the sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
24-08-2021||India||Covid: Survey clue to jab shortage despite a 25% increase in supplies||A nationwide survey has found that 39 per cent of respondents knew a family member or friend unable to access a Covid-19 vaccine this month, pointing to lingering vaccine shortages despite a 25 per cent increase in supplies during August over July. The survey by Local Circles — a private entity that uses social media to seek citizens’ feedback on public issues — found 29 per cent of 9,516 respondents knew two or more persons who faced vaccine stockouts at vaccination centres over the past month. Ten per cent knew at least one such person. But the survey has also detected impacts of increased supplies of doses — a decline in the proportion of such responses from 70 per cent on May 31 to 65 per cent on July 14 to 39 per cent on August 20. A top health official had said last month that India would have around 150 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines during August, a 25 per cent increase over the 120 million doses available during July. Health officials have said they expect the quantum of available doses to increase month by month. “We’re seeing fewer shortages now than in May or July, but they persist,” said Sachin Taparia, chief executive officer of Local Circles. Residents in Bengal, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh had last week reported on Local Circles about difficulties in accessing vaccines. India’s vaccination campaign that started on January 16 this year has so far administered 590 million doses, but only around 130 million people (13.7 per cent) of the estimated 943 million eligible adults have been fully vaccinated with two doses. The campaign over the past month has administered less than six million doses daily. It would have to administer 9.9 million doses daily through the rest of the year to fully vaccinate all adults by December-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
24-08-2021||India|| Indian Air Force opposes unified theatre commands again||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is said to have again opposed the creation of the proposed theatre commands of the armed forces during a meeting held at the defence ministry last week, sources said on Monday. The Narendra Modi government had earlier asked the three services chiefs to discuss the issue, iron out differences and arrive at a consensus in the wake of the IAF’s apprehensions about the planned theaterisation. “Indian Air Force continues to oppose the proposed integrated theatre commands of the armed forces and once again put its foot down during a meeting last week to resolve the differences,” said a defence ministry official. The government, he said, has formed an expert committee to carry out consultations with the three services to decide the way forward on the theaterisation of the military and bring them on the same page over the issue. The air force is said to have reservations about unified commands because of its limited resources compared with the army’s. The IAF does not want to split its assets, which are fewer than the army’s. Besides, the IAF is said to have issues over who would lead the particular theatres and has contended that the nature of its operations is so fluid that all of India is one theatre for it. In July, the chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat had courted controversy by calling the Indian Air Force a “supporting arm” in the planned integrated theatre commands of the three armed forces. His statement had led to acrimony at the higher echelons of the military leadership as Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria disagreed with Rawat and said “airpower has a huge role”. Theaterisation means putting specific numbers of personnel from each of the three services — the army, the navy and the air force — under a common commander for a unified military approach through a rationalisation of manpower and resources. Sources say the plan is to have five theatre commands. Each will have units of the army, navy and the air force and all of them will work as a single entity looking after specified geographical territories under an operational commander. Now, the three armed forces have 19 commands, each assigned exclusively to one among the three forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
24-08-2021||India||Syed Ali Geelani camp removes Hurriyat signboard at head office||The Centre’s purported proposal to ban both factions of Hurriyat seems to have sent hardline separatist Syed Ali Geelani camp into a tizzy as it removed the signboard at the group’s head office here over fears of government seizure while moderates tried to put up a brave face and said repression could not alter the sentiments of Kashmiris. Some media reports from Delhi quoting government sources claim that both hardline and moderate factions of the Hurriyat may be banned. The proposed ban itself is corollary to the arrest of some separatists last week for allegedly selling MBBS seats allocated to separatist groups in Pakistan to Kashmiri students. Police claim the money was used for funding militancy. It is a common knowledge in Kashmir that seats are reserved for Kashmiris in professional colleges in Pakistan (with almost all beneficiaries being Muslims), much like the same way in which seats are reserved for Kashmiri Pandits in India. The admissions in Pakistan are mostly granted on recommendations of the separatists who at times allegedly sell them to meet their expenses. The fresh crackdown on separatists on MBBS seats, it is believed, has been timed to prepare the ground for Hurriyat ban. Eyewitnesses said Geelani’s family removed the signboard of Tehreek e Hurriyat, a separatist group founded by him, and Milli Trust (a charity) on Sunday evening from his Hyderpora residence. Both offices were operating from a building within Geelani’s home compound. Family sources said both Tehreek and Milli trust offices were non-operational since the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019. Geelani is believed to be ailing and the family has given no explanation for the removal of the signboards. It appears that the Geelani family took down the signboards in anticipation of the ban and to prevent the government from taking over its possession. The property can still be seized, but the government has largely spared the Geelani family after the latter’s silence. Last year, Geelani quit Hurriyat after a feud with his colleagues who he accused of “nepotism and corruption”, although it is widely believed he faced opposition within the camp for choosing silence over the 2019 developments for fear of his family being hounded. In 2014, Geelani had floated Milli Trust and claimed to have donated his house to it. His son Dr Naeem uz Zaffar and son-in-law Altaf Ahmad Shah were among its trustees. The decision earned him a snub from separatist Jamaat-e-Islami, his parent organisation, which claimed ownership of the house and said Geelani was only using it for residential and official purposes. Eyewitnesses said the signboard of the moderate Hurriyat faction at its Rajbagh office was still intact on Monday. The faction headed by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq hit out at Centre, vowing to “represent those aspirations (of Kashmiris) and seek their fulfilment through its principled stand of dialogue and deliberations among the stakeholders of the conflict”. “(Hurriyat) reiterated that the sentiments of the people of J&K with regard to the resolution of the Kashmir dispute in a peaceful and fair manner cannot be altered despite repression, legal tactics or propaganda,” a spokesman said. Mirwaiz has been under house arrest since August 5, 2019. The spokesman said it completely rejected and denounced the “propaganda being promoted in print and other media by authorities” that its leadership recommended aspiring Kashmiri candidates to medical and technical colleges in Pakistan and sold these seats for money. “APHC (All Parties Hurriyat Conference) wants to put on record that this is completely unfounded, and can be verified by those students or parents whom they have recommended, many among them being from among economically weak sections,” he said. The spokesman said Mirwaiz had all along been giving recommendation letters to students who come to him asking for it in colleges and universities in Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Turkey and elsewhere. Pakistan was not mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
24-08-2021||India||Covid: Puri Shree Jagannath Temple reopens for devotees||Puri Shree Jagannath Temple, which was closed for public since April 24 because of the Covid pandemic, reopened for all devotees on Monday. The devotees will get darshan of the deities from early morning till 7pm. The queue system will open from 7am. However, the shrine will be closed to the public on all Saturdays and Sundays in order to sanitise the temple premises and to curb the spread of Covid-19. However, its mandatory for devotees to wear masks inside the temple premises. As per the guidelines, all devotees visiting  the temple will have to produce the final certificate for Covid-19 vaccination or Covid negative certificate (RTPCR) of testing done within 96 hours prior to their visit to the  temple.  All devotees will have to produce their photo ID card like Aadhar or voter ID during the time of entering the shrine. Devotees are not allowed to take flowers, bhogs or diyas inside the temple. Lighting of diyas inside the shrine will be permitted, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
24-08-2021||India||BJD targets Centre over Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana||Odisha’s ruling party, the BJD, on Monday targeted the Centre for the failure of insurance companies to settle the claims of farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. The PMFBY was launched in 2016 with an objective to provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of crop as a result of natural calamities, pests and diseases. Though crops have failed in many parts of Odisha, the claims of farmers are not being settled by the insurance companies despite demands. Odisha, in fact, is facing a drought like situation due to deficient rainfall. The government on Monday had called an emergency meeting to formulate an action plan to tackle drought-like-situation in 27 districts due to rainfall deficiency. Addressing a press conference here, BJD spokesperoson and Rajya Sabha member  Sasmit Patra said: “Lakhs of farmers in districts like Bargarh, Sambalpur, Sonepur, Deogarh, Bolangir, Nuapada and Kalahandi districts are suffering due to PMFBY non settlement of claims. Claims amounting to more than Rs 1,000 crore have not been settled by insurance companies under PMFBY,” said He said: “Till Kharif 2020, the total premium paid to insurance companies was Rs 6163.28 crore while the payment by the insurance companies to settle claims of farmers was Rs 5098.64 crore. Thus, the insurance companies profited to an amount of Rs 1064.64 crore, which is 17.27% of the total premium paid. “ He said that till Kharif 2021 in Odisha, the insurance companies have got Rs 7510.8 crore as premiums.  “ Of  the premium, the Odisha government has paid Rs 3250.48 crore, Odisha farmers have paid Rs 1009.84 crore as premiums and the Centre’s share was Rs 3250.48 crore. Though the insurance companies have made huge profits, the claim settlement is too negligible and the farmers are suffering on account of  it,” he said. Citing the figure Patra said, “In Odisha between 2018 and 2020, the farmers filed crop insurance claims of Rs 2090 crore but insurance companies paid only 50% of those claims amounting to Rs 1026 crore. The farmers of Odisha are facing repeated harassment by the insurance companies relating to the assessment of their claims and payment under PMFBY.” Citing how the insurance companies are looting the money under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana across the country, Patra said: “Over the past five years, Rs 1.26 lakh crore have been paid as crop insurance premium across India and Rs 87,320 crore received as claims. The insurance companies made Rs 40,000 crore of PMFBY money, affecting the interests of the farmers.” Stating that the Union government should deliberate on these issues, Patra said: “The Centre should help the farmers in times of distress. It should use new technological innovations such as drones to clear assessment of claims expeditiously and allow only government insurance companies to undertake PMFBY in order to safeguard the interests of the farmers.” The BJD also reminded the centre how six states namely Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Telangana and West Bengal have opted out of PMFBY and total area insured has also gone down by 73 lakh hectares (from 567 lakh hectare in 2016-17 to 495 lakh hectare in 2019-20). The BJD regretted the fact that though the party MPs have repeatedly taken this up in both Houses of Parliament, the claims of farmers are yet to be settled. Farmer’s leader Sashadev Nanda told The Telegraph, “As per the rules a farmer is entitled to receive Rs 13,600 for crop failure in irrigated areas and Rs 6,800 in non-irrigated areas. But though the crops have failed, the insurance companies are yet to settle the claims of farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Five contractual teachers drink 'poison' outside Bengal education dept head quarters ||Five female contractual teachers of primary schools allegedly consumed poison on Tuesday while demonstrating before the state education department headquarters here seeking immediate fulfilment of their job-related demands, a senior police officer said. Four of them "drank some liquid from bottles" as soon as they were arrested for forcefully entering the premises of Bikash Bhavan and shouting slogans in violation of the disaster management act, the officer said. The fifth woman, who tried to follow suit, was stopped by a woman constable before she could gulp down much of the liquid, he said. "All five were taken to a state-run hospital, where the condition of four was stated to be serious. The fifth woman is out of danger," the officer stated. The agitating teachers, all members of a platform for contractual school teachers, 'Sikshak Oikyo Manch', had been seeking regularisation of services and revocation of transfer orders that have forced some of them to move to places that are far from their homes. The five teachers had earlier this month demonstrated before the residence of education minister Bratya Basu seeking to know why their demands were not being met with. Strongly reacting to the incident, BJP state vice president Jaiprakash Majumdar said, "Lack of concern on the part of the education minister prompted the teachers to consume poison." Kunal Ghosh, the ruling TMC's spokesperson, wished the teachers a speedy recovery. "It has to be looked into if there was any provocation from any quarter. A proper investigation will reveal the details," he added. The education minister and his department officials were not available for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy defection case leaves Trinamul in a bind ||A division bench of the Calcutta High Court comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj on Tuesday iterated that the disqualification of an  MLA under the anti-defection law rested with the office of the Speaker and not the court while hearing a PIL filed against the appointment of Mukul Roy as chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). Roy, elected on a BJP ticket from Krishnagar North, as the PAC chairman would have been in consonance with parliamentary traditions where the key position that holds the government accountable is entrusted to a member from the Opposition benches. Complications arose when Roy was welcomed back into the Trinamul fold with much fanfare on June 11, little over a month since Mamata Banerjee returned as chief minister for a third time. Since then the question whether Roy is with the Trinamul or the BJP has been hanging in the office of the Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee. Never before in over two decades since it came into being has the Trinamul faced such a quandary over engineering defections of which the party is a past master. Trinamul insiders say any adverse ruling from the court on the appointment of the PAC chairman will bring a bad name to the government, a move that could have been easily avoided. “If the PAC chairman has to be removed on the court’s ruling it won’t go well with Mamata di’s attempt to portray herself as a national leader. By convention the PAC chairman is from the Opposition, it would have been better to leave the post to the BJP,” said a Trinamul source. Over the last couple of weeks, Roy has embarrassed himself and his party twice with his comment that the BJP stood a better chance of winning the bypolls in the state, including his own, though Roy is yet to resign as an MLA. His son Shubhrangshu attributed the repeated faux pas to Roy’s mental state sine he was grieving the passing of his wife in a Chennai hospital over a month ago. Trinamul sources said Mamata had advised her oldest confidante in the party to get treated earliest after an MRI revealed the presence of a fluid in Roy’s brain. Roy’s inclusion in the Trinamul has put both the government and the Speaker’s office under pressure. “The problem is she cannot remove him now on health grounds as that would be construed as an escape route for the government to avoid legal embarrassment,” said a Trinamul legislator. A section of the BJP pointed to a compromise candidate from the party who could have helped salvage the situation for the government, namely, the former chief economic adviser to the Union government and Balurghat MLA Ashok Lahiri, who would have been acceptable to Mamata as well. “Lahiri would not have made life difficult for the government as PAC chairman. For the BJP getting the post was more important than anything else. Now it has become a prestige battle,” said a BJP leader. There is a buzz that Mamata could try to lure Lahiri to the Trinamul fold to replace the incumbent state finance minister Amit Mitra, who is not keen on continuing in office.  The leader of the  Opposition and BJP MLA from Nandigram Suvendu Adhikary is firm on taking the fight on the defection to the court if necessary. Speaker Biman Banerjee has scheduled the next hearing in the matter on September 17. In the high court today, senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan appearing for the petitioner and BJP MLA Ambika Roy said the disqualification petition against Roy had been filed before the Speaker on June 17. “The Speaker has made an incorrect assumption that Mukul Roy belonged to the BJP at the time of filing his nomination papers for chairmanship (of the PAC),” said Vaidyanathan. Roy was appointed chairman of the PAC on July 9. Vaidyanathan reminded the bench that the Supreme Court had set a time limit of three months to decide cases of defection. In January 2020, a three-judge bench comprising Justice Rohinton F Nariman, Aniruddha Bose and V Ramasubramaniam had ruled that Speakers of Assemblies and the Parliament must decide on disqualification pleas within a period of three months. “I will proceed on the assumption that Mukul Roy has defected from the BJP and has joined the TMC during my arguments. Thus, constitutional convention has been breached,” he said. “Disqualification petition filed in June should not be delayed unnecessarily.” The court reminded him, “That is not before us, it is before the Speaker.” The matter has been adjourned till September 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Four illegal immigrants from Bangladesh held in Murshidabad||Four illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, who had allegedly entered Bengal to smuggle cattle to their country, were arrested from Suti in Murshidabad on Sunday evening. Karim Sheikh, 25, Mannan Sheikh, 50, Alamin Sheikh, 20, and Joharul Sheikh, 26, were produced at Jangipur ACJM court on Monday and remanded to three days of police custody. “We arrested four illegal Bangladeshi immigrants, who entered India without passports, from Suti. We don’t yet have the necessary evidence to prove if they were involved in cattle smuggling. We have taken them into three days custody for interrogation,” said Y. Raghuvamshi, the SP, Jangipur police district. An officer of Suti police station said the accused were residents of Shibganj in Chapainawabganj district of Bangladesh. Shibganj and Suti are situated on opposite sides of the Ganga. “These accused had crossed the river to India to smuggle cattle back home. They took advantage of the high water-level of the Ganga to swim to India,” a police source said. In the past week, eight Bangladeshi immigrants including these four, have been arrested in Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal State Transport Corporation plans to launch 60 buses and new routes before Durga Puja||The North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC) plans to launch 60 buses and introduce bus services in some new routes of north Bengal before Durga Puja. Partha Pratim Roy, the new chairman of NBSTC, said they also sought to engage more manpower. Roy, who recently assumed office at the state-run NBSTC headquarters in Cooch Behar, said: “We have asked for 60 new buses from the state and hope the government provides them before Durga Puja. These buses would be introduced in some new and old routes.” As of now, NBSTC has a fleet of around 600 buses in over 350 routes. For the new buses, NBSTC has also sent a proposal to the state transport department, seeking approval to hire drivers and conductors. “It will be a new job opportunity for youths of north Bengal and the state as a whole,” said Roy. The NBSTC, sources said, will seek advice from experts to augment revenue collection. “Collections have gone up in the past 10 years…we want more to ensure that the (now-profitable) corporation does not incur losses. We want to modernise the ticketing system and come up with a mobile app for online ticket booking. The official website will also be improved,” an official said. Ahead of introducing the new buses, authorities have also taken up the task to survey some prospective routes. “Roads have improved and many bridges and culverts have come up to improve connectivity. We are surveying these routes to check their economic viability,” added the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary issues order on assistance for filling up forms of Lakshmir Bhandar in rural areas||Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi has asked district magistrates to ensure that elected panchayat members, clubs and villagers are kept out of assisting women in filling up application forms of Lakshmir Bhandar in rural areas and asked the DMs to use Kanyashree beneficiaries, members of self-help groups and college students for the purpose. “Some instances have come to notice that some local villagers etc are assisting women to fill up LB (Lakshmir Bhandar) forms. This is leading to undesired problems. We should rope in Kanyashrees in a big way for filling up forms,” a WhatsApp message sent to the DMs by the chief secretary reads. The instruction from Dwivedi is considered to be significant in the backdrop of reports that Opposition parties like the BJP, CPM and at some places, Trinamul workers are helping women fill up forms for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. The state government from the very first day wanted to keep away political interference from the Duare Sarkar camps. That is why the state government had restricted issuance and receiving of forms in bulk at the camps that had started on August 16. “Elected panchayat functionaries/clubs etc should be scrupulously kept out DS (Duare Sarkar) programme. Kanyashrees/SHGs/College students may be used generously,” reads the fresh instruction from the chief secretary. The Telegraph had pointed out that it was not possible for the government to keep political parties away until a system was put in place to fill up forms for poor women in rural areas. “No such arrangement could be made to help the poor women and general beneficiaries to fill up the forms in the areas where literacy rate is low. So, the beneficiaries were forced to go to political parties to seek help,” said an official. At several Duare Sarkar camps in south Bengal, workers of the CPM and the BJP are seen explaining to people the details of the schemes and helping them in filling up forms. They are also offering them a glass of water as they stand in long queues for hours. Despite Nabanna’s missive to the district magistrates, both the CPM and BJP leaders said they were helping common people avail themselves of the government scheme using taxpayers’ money. “The government is offering several schemes for the people using taxpayers’ money. We are performing as a watchdog at the camps so that the ruling party cannot misuse them and people are not deprived of the scheme,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member. Sources also said the state government wanted to keep away political interference from the camps only to ensure that complaints of demanding cut money did not raise its head. “Now, the Trinamul Congress may not like that Opposition parties are using the programme to reach out to common people. Keeping an eye on the 2023 panchayat polls and 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the ruling party would not like to leave any open field for the Opposition,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Jaldapara wildlife division celebrated 25th birthday of Raja||The Jaldapara wildlife division of the state forest department on Monday celebrated the 25th birthday of Raja, a royal Bengal tiger from the Sunderbans and brought to the rescue centre in South Khayerbari, Alipurduar district. The event was organised to create awareness on tiger conservation, said foresters. Sources said back in 2008, Raja was brought to the rescue centre on August 23, after being treated by vets in Calcutta for his wounds from a crocodile attack in the Sunderbans. THe was 12 years old then. “In India, Raja is probably the senior-most tiger in captivity. We have information that there is a female tiger that is at a zoo in Texas, the US, which is 25 years and 319 days old,” said a forest officer. On Monday, a picture of Raja was put at the entrance of the rescue centre with details about his life. “We also organised an online drawing competition and quiz . Many children participated in the events,” said Deepak M., the divisional forest officer of Jaldapara wildlife division. The forest department also uploaded pictures and video footage of the tiger on its official website. “We however, did not disturb the tiger,”  the DFO said, adding Raja was inside his enclosure and in good health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||John Barla breaks silence on plots but could not show any document to prove ownership||Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla made a feeble attempt to defend charges of land encroachment against him but could not show any document to prove his ownership of the two plots on which he has properties. Barla, the BJP MP from Alipurduar, but hails from the Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat of Jalpaiguri, had recently demanded statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal. Barla built a house where he used to stay at a worker’s quarters on a plot leased out to the tea company that runs the tea garden in Lakhipara. He is also building a multi-storey commercial complex at Chamurchi More in Banarhat on a plot owned by the PWD. The charges had first been levelled by the Trinamul leadership of Jalpaiguri. Then, the district administration held a probe. “It was found he does not own either of these plots,” said a source. The parliamentarian, who was in Delhi for a prolonged time after his induction into the Narendra Modi cabinet, was silent for weeks. He broke his silence on Sunday evening. “I built the house at the tea estate as I need to accommodate my security personnel (after becoming an MP in 2019)…. the earlier quarters were inadequate....I have taken permission from garden authorities,” he said. However, representatives of the tea company earlier had told the Jalpaiguri district magistrate earlier that they said they had not given any land to Barla to build a house. On the commercial complex at Banarhat, Barla said: “There were a number of shanties on the land and none was bothered. As I started constructing the complex, I got electricity and drinking water connections from authorities concerned. The panchayat charges tax for the property. It is only recently that Trinamul started raising the issue with political interest in mind,” said Barla, but could not furnish any ownership papers. Trinamul district leaders have asked the state government to take suitable action. “It is unfortunate that being an elected representative and a member of the Union cabinet, he has indulged in an illegal activity and encroached on (government) land in two locations. Instead of admitting his fault, he is coming up with weak clarifications. We want the state government to take necessary steps against him,” said a district Trinamul leader. Sources in the administration said they had forwarded all relevant details to state secretariat Nabanna. “As he is an MP and a Union minister of state, the state government will have to take the call,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Wrong selection of Assembly poll candidates did us in: Bengal BJP workers lash out||A Bengal BJP meeting at the party’s Hastings office here on Monday on how to politically exploit the Calcutta High Court order of a CBI probe into post-poll result violence turned into an open session where ground-level workers aired their pent-up anger against the “wrong” selection of Assembly poll candidates. BJP’s joint national general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty, state general secretary Sayantan Basu, vice-president Pratap Banerjee and others were present at the meeting, the first-ever since the party’s poll debacle. The party could win only 77 seats when its biggest names like Amit Shah had predicted over 200 seats. Sources in the party said the chiefs of several mandals, BJP’s smallest organisational unit, said how unpopular leaders, including Trinamul turncoats, were made candidates without anyone consulting party workers. “This was the first opportunity to speak to our leaders, which we got since the poll results. We couldn’t let it go,” a party member from the Mathurapur organisational district said. “Many of us told Shivprakashji that we lost in most seats because those fielded were the very people we had campaigned against when they were in Trinamul.” A mandal chief from Calcutta North Suburban district also had a heated argument with Ghosh. “Dilipda asked the leader why his mandal committee had not been set up. The leader replied that under the current circumstances that wasn’t possible,” a source said, adding that when Ghosh tried to silence the mandal chief, the latter exploded and demanded he be heard first. Shivprakash handed out an email id and a phone number for party workers to share suggestions on how to “revive the organisation” after the poll debacle. Workers can also share their ideas about upcoming civic and panchayat polls, a BJP leader said.“Our suggestions will be shared with the party’s election board in Delhi, Shivprakashji assured us,” said a leader. On CBI probe into post-poll result violence, the party has appointed a convener, a co-convener and a lawyer for each of the 39 organisational districts of the party who will get in touch with CBI investigators and inform them about the party’s grievances. “The conveners will provide investigators with all the details they need,” a source present at the meeting said. Party leaders also pointed out that the revival of the party's organisation in the state was the need of the hour. Thousands of booths remain unmanned by BJP. The post-poll result violence allegedly unleashed by Trinamul goons had affected the organisation further. Several party workers from Mathurapur, Diamond Harbour, Baruipur East, Calcutta North, Calcutta South and Calcutta North Suburban organisational districts were absent at the meeting. A source from the Mathurapur organisational district said only about 60 of the 112 mandals of the district were represented at the meeting. “Some mandal presidents have been jailed in trumped-up cases. Some are homeless. Many of them are still scared of being tortured by the ruling party,” the source alleged. Shivprakash reportedly said: “There are many states in India where either our party or some other has formed a government with about 38 per cent votes. But that didn't happen in Bengal. However, that shouldn't depress us. We have to work to rebuild our organisation for the civic and panchayat polls.” He also asked the state leadership to draw up a plan to ensure that unlike 2018 the party could field candidates in all panchayats of Bengal. A ward-level committee at each municipality will also be set up with an eye on the civic polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress daily’s pat for Anil Biswas to slam CPM||The Trinamul Congress in an editorial in Jago Bangla on Monday mounted a scathing offensive on the CPM over its decision to suspend academic Ajanta Biswas, daughter of deceased Left Front chairman Anil Biswas, for penning a series of articles for the ruling party’s Bengali mouthpiece. In the editorial, Trinamul lavished praise on the deceased Left leader — anathema to Mamata Banerjee while he was alive — and lambasted Alimuddin Street for being unable to recover from its allegedly insular mindset. The CPM’s Calcutta district committee had suspended the 41-year-old Ajanta from the party for six months. “You cannot win hearts through punishment. The new generation does not want the CPM. The party is being taken from shunyo (zero) in the direction of mohashunyo (outer space) by its failed leaders,” read the editorial in Jago Bangla in firm support of Ajanta. “… a strange party, the CPM. It sank itself. It sank its allies. No lessons learnt, despite going down to zero (seats in the Bengal Assembly),” added the editorial in the mouthpiece. The series of articles authored by Ajanta was titled “woman power in Bengal politics”. It chronicled the contributions of the likes of Basanti Devi and Sarojini Naidu. In the series finale, Ajanta praised Mamata, who came to power in 2011 ending the Left Front’s 34-year hegemony. The editorial underscored the fact that the series was based on history, not politics, and mentioned many Left leaders as well and that in the present, keeping the Bengal chief minister out of the ambit of such a topic was impossible. Trinamul asked that if Jago Bangla could accept the author’s freedom and, without omitting even one word, could publish the names of Leftist leaders in the series, why the CPM was unable to recover from its “narrow” mindset of a “well-dwelling frog”. Jago Bangla also demanded answers on why the CPM did not take Ajanta’s articles for Ganashakti, its Bengali mouthpiece. When the CPM had showcaused Ajanta, she had replied that she had only tried to uphold the contributions made by women in politics without judging any political colour. Clearly, her answer didn’t go down well with the leadership. “Hence, frantic fury from a section in the CPM. Ajanta must be punished. Which Ajanta? Anil Biswas’s daughter,” read the editorial. The CPM politburo member, deemed instrumental in replacing Jyoti Basu with Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee as Bengal chief minister in 2000, passed away from cerebral haemorrhage at the age of 62 in the run-up to the 2006 Assembly election. “Without whom (Anil Biswas), Ganashakti would not have run. Without whom, the party would not have returned to power in 2001. Without whose convincing, nobody would have been able to get Jyoti Basu to retire. Without whom, Subhas Chakraborty would’ve quit the party. Riding the sympathy-wave of whose untimely demise the CPM won again in 2006,” it added. The editorial asserted that the disagreement within the CPM, over this, was clear. “Despite that, some unknown, irrelevant leaders, who dragged the party down to zero seats in the Lok Sabha (from Bengal) and in the Assembly – having taken a suicidal decision regarding Ajanta, in the name of discipline – want their names in the media for a day,” it read. “… they have to catch the feet of the Congress and a controversial force (the ISF) to contest elections, their discipline!” it added, touching what would be a raw nerve in the CPM. The editorial kept rubbing salt into the smarting Sanjyukta Morcha wound of the CPM. “None of those who worked as the BJP’s B-team to split (anti-BJP) votes, got rejected by the people by taking the “BJmul (implying that the BJP and Trinamul are two sides of the same coin)” line, got condemned within the party by upholding the Bhaijan-Salimbhai (ISF leader Peerzada Abbas Siddiqui and CPM politburo member Mohammed Salim) partnership, were punished or removed. Ajanta was punished,” read the editorial. “It was proven that there is no personal liberty in the CPM,” it added, going on to list a slew of past examples of the Marxists distancing themselves from leaders in Bengal, which were proven later to be mistakes. It cited the instances of Somnath Chatterjee, Nripen Chakraborty, Saifuddin Chowdhury, Samir Putatunda, and even Sujit Bose, stating that now Ajanta’s name was added to the list. Asserting that Ajanta would not suffer in the least because of the CPM’s decision, the Jago Bangla editorial claimed that there were strong, latent currents within the Marxist party. “Instead of making the party more liberal, in keeping with the times, games of factional equations underway,” it read, attacking the CPM over the duality of some of its leaders allegedly reaching out to Mamata and accepting benefits, yet coming down heavily on Ajanta over the series. “Eventually, when the time comes, the CPM will get a fitting response to Ajanta Biswas’s punishment,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Four teenagers engrossed in phone games mowed down by train||Four boys, including two minors, were mowed down by a speeding express train in North Dinajpur district late on Sunday evening when they were huddled on tracks and glued to games on a cellphone. The deceased were Rahul Singha, 16, Rahul Singha, 17, Sourav Singha, 18, and Prashanta Singha, 19, of Dhumdangi-Kanagach of Haptiagach panchayat under Chopra block. The two boys with identical names as well as Sourav and Prashanta were hit by the Deoghar-bound express train from Agartala, police said. The four friends, sitting on railway tracks, were so engrossed in playing games on Sourav’s new phone that they did not notice the speeding long-distance train. They were instantly killed. “One of them (Sourav) had recently bought a cell phone. His friends assembled to check out the phone and all four walked up to the rail tracks. They sat on tracks to enjoy a game on the cell phone and got so engrossed that they did not notice the train. All four died instantly,” said a police officer. Their bodies have been recovered from the site. The district police as well as the Northeast Frontier Railway are conducting inquiries. As the news spread, police and residents rushed to the spot. The mutilated bodies and remnants of clothes, slippers and the cell phone and earphones were also recovered. Rabilal Singha, the father of the 16-year-old Rahul, said the teen was home till called by his friend to check out the cell phone. Abina Tudu, the pradhan of Haptiagach panchayat, said they had alerted people, especially youngsters, to stay away from tracks. “There is no point in taking such risks. We are with the bereaved families,” said Tudu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati rusticates 3 students for three years for ‘gross indiscipline and misconduct’||Visva-Bharati on Monday night rusticated three students for three years for alleged “gross indiscipline and misconduct” in January this year. The three students — Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan of the economics department and Rupa Chakraborty of Hindustani classical music — received letters about their rustication on Monday night. The letter stated the decision was taken following an inquiry report by a varsity committee set up to look into the role of the trio during a campus protest on January 9. They had been under suspension for the past nine months. Varsity authorities had accused them of “forcibly” breaking a lock at the faculty chamber of the economics department during the protest against the suspension of economics professor and varsity teachers’ body president Sudipta Bhattacharyya. The three students have been the face of protest on campus against the “wrongdoings” of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his alleged attempts at saffronising the varsity. While Sow and Chakraborty are active members and leaders of the CPM-backed Students’ Federation of India (SFI), Pan represents the Left-wing Students’ Unity for New Society. The letter addressed individually to the three states: “The consideration of the said enquiry report (on allegations against the students), the competent authority of the University proposes to impose upon you the punishment of rustication of your studentship in Visva-Bharati for a period of three years.” These three students had lodged dozens of complaints against the VC for his “moves to saffronise the campus” that began with the varsity organising a lecture by BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta in support of the Narendra Modi government’s controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in January last year. Sow and Pan were among students who had lodged police complaint against the VC after he was allegedly found in a purported video (the authenticity of which has not been checked by The Telegraph) plotting an attack on students who had gheraoed him and Dasgupta. Reacting to the varsity’s decision, Sow said: “He (VC) rusticated us only because we had raised our voice against his wrong doings...” Varsity authorities on Monday night also suspended two teachers of the physics department — Arani Chakravarti and Pijush Kanti Ghosh — for lodging police complaints against the VC for allegedly confining a dozen of English teachers during a meeting in February. The varsity’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text message from this correspondent. “The VC is ruining the culture of Santiniketan and punishing teachers and students who protested against Visva-Bharati authorities. Interestingly, ministers are visiting the campus but have failed to react to Chakrabarty’s undemocratic ways. Now the time has come to launch a mass protest against the VC to stop him from ruining Rabindranath Tagore’s legacy,” said a senior varsity professor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt to form inquiry panel if it gets complaints of false SC, ST applicants||The Mamata Banerjee government will set up an inquiry commission if it receives complaints that ineligible people were among the recipients of 21 lakh caste certificates issued during the first edition of the Duare Sarkar drive rather than cancel such papers. The issue of issuing caste certificates to ineligible people came up during a meeting of the West Bengal Tribal Development Council that the chief minister convened at Nabanna on Monday. “Junior forest minister Birbaha Hansda raised the issue first and informed the chief minister that scores of non-tribal people had been provided with caste certificates and some of them even secured government jobs based on the fake papers. The junior minister had brought some fake certificates with her and showed the chief minister the same,” said a source. Before Mamata Banerjee could intervene, sources said, tribal development department secretary Sanjay Thade said the fake certificates could be cancelled if the complaints were true. “The chief minister stepped in and said caste certificates couldn’t be indiscriminately scrapped based on complaints only. The department can set up an inquiry commission if such complaints are lodged,” said an official. Bengal has a sizeable population of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and they are eligible for benefits like cash scheme, scholarships for students and reservation in jobs among others. Sources in the tribal development department said complaints of issuing fake caste certificates couldn’t be ruled out particularly after the rules for the process had been eased during the Duare Sarkar camps held between December 2020 and January 2021. “Earlier, an inspection was required to be carried out before issuing caste certificates. But since a huge number of people applied through the Duare Sarkar camps, the chief minister asked district authorities to ease the standard practice and issue caste certificates based on the certificates of the applicants’ family members,” said a source. The issue was discussed at length at the meeting on Monday. If there is any delay in issuing caste certificates in the name of procedure or formalities, it goes against the government as the potential beneficiaries consider it as an attempt by the administration to deny them what they deserve. At the same time, if certificates are issued to ineligible people, it also goes against the government as it means depriving genuine people of their dues. “That is why the chief minister initiated a cautious step by asking the department to set up an inquiry commission before cancelling any certificate,” said a source. The state doesn’t have the history of setting up a commission to tackle the issue of false caste certificates. “The liberal distribution of caste certificates helped the ruling party in the Assembly polls... That’s why the chief minister is treading with caution,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Voice clip on GNLF president Mann Ghisingh’s ‘betrayal’ surfaces||A voice message in Nepali, purportedly by estranged GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards and sent to the party’s WhatsApp group, alleges how GNLF president Mann Ghisingh betrayed and sidelined him. The 37.21-minute-long voice message, supposedly by Edwards to the “GNLF parivar (family)”, says he has nothing against others. Edwards, currently in Ladakh, purportedly says: “My grouse is with Mann Ghisingh.” One of the most known faces of the GNLF, entrepreneur and social worker Edwards, in the purported message, said Mann betrayed him despite their friendship of “32 to 33” years. “I feel I was only used (by Mann),” the message says. Edwards alleged Mann asked him to prepare for MLA elections given the purported “unpopularity” of Neeraj Zimba (Darjeeling MLA) almost a year back. But Zimba was again asked to contest in the 2021 polls, said Edwards. Edwards’ purported voice message claims that their relationship took a nosedive in August. “I was told to go to Delhi (in early August) but from the day before which I was to leave for Delhi, Mann stopped taking my calls or responding to my messages.” Edwards, who has not yet resigned as the GNLF Darjeeling Branch Committee’s president, also purportedly says that while he was in Delhi, Mann came to the capital to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on August 6 but neither contacted Edwards nor met him. Instead, Edwards alleged, Mann repeatedly changed his number, told other leaders not to give them to Edwards, and held a central committee meeting in Darjeeling on August 15 without telling him. Zimba was made the new secretary general in the meeting. “Sometime back he (Mann) had told me to be the secretary,” the voice message says. The GNLF is now an ally of the BJP. Edwards in the purported voice message claimed Mann in 2015 had asked him to request chief minister Mamata Banerjee to give him (Mann) a “government post”. “She smiled at my request…I am not someone to beg, but within seven days, she did make the appointment.” Mann was made a vice-chairman of a sports body for north Bengal in 2015. Mann refused. Edwards alleged Mann felt it was too small for him. Edwards alleged “money has changed hands”, but he would give details later. He added he had not “rejected the GNLF parivar but they left no road for me to return”. He said he would not join any party, but would be “in politics.” Mann did not respond to the allegations. Zimba said they had not got any official letter from Edwards. “This is an issue between Ram and Laxman of our party, how can Hanuman comment,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Tiger drags away fisherman in the restricted zone of Sunderbans Tiger Reserve||A 50-year-old fisherman, Niranjan Kayal, went missing after he was dragged off by a tiger while catching crabs in the restricted zone of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve at Gosaba’s Satjelia in South 24-Parganas early on Sunday. This comes on the heels of another incident where fisherman Anna Das, 50, was killed by a tiger at Jhila (1) area of the Sunderbans while returning home in his boat on Friday. Forest and local officials said four fishermen, including Niranjan, had got down from their small boats to collect crabs, violating the forest department’s caution not to venture into the restricted zone. A tiger pounced on Niranjan and took him inside the forest, eyewitnesses said. “We are yet to spot him (Niranjan) and going by our experiences we fear he may not be alive,” a forester said. “However, search is on,” added the forester at the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Niranjan’s sister-in-law Anita Kayal, who lives in Satjelia, said the fisherman was the second person in their extended family to be a victim of tiger attack. Anita’s husband Anathbandhu was also killed by a tiger in 2015 while he was collecting crabs. “The tiger was probably waiting inside a bush for hours to catch its prey. The four fishermen, along with my brother-in-law Niranjan, were collecting crabs at two different locations. Suddenly a tiger pounced on him and took him away inside the jungle,” said Anita. Foresters in the Sunderbans said that since a large number of migrant workers had lost their jobs during the pandemic since last year and have had to come back home and remain jobless, the number of people venturing into the tiger reserve to catch crabs for a livelihood had increased manifold. After Sunday’s incident forest officials have started an extensive campaign in the vicinity of the tiger reserve, asking people not to move enter the restricted zones to catch fish or crabs. In 2020, five persons were killed in tiger attacks whereas this year the count is two so far. “We have started an extensive campaign requesting local residents not to enter the restricted zones illegally to catch fish or crabs. The fisherman, who has gone missing, had ventured into the restricted zones illegally. We are also intensifying our vigil to prevent such human intrusion into tiger reserve areas,” said Jones Justin, the deputy field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid ‘under control’, Mamata Banerjee seeks pending bypolls to seven Assembly seats||Bengal on Monday recorded 64 straight days of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee again demanding that the pending bypolls to seven Assembly seats be held at a time “the Covid situation was totally under control”. With 510 new infections, 628 recoveries and seven deaths in the state on Monday, active cases fell by 125 to touch 9,336. “Again, our request to the Election Commission (of India) would be that four months are already over, and our Covid-19 situation is totally under control. The people have the right to cast their votes, and they have the right to be elected to the Assembly…. They (the EC) have already sought the opinions from all the political parties (on the bypolls),” said Mamata, adding the last day for the parties to reply was August 31. “I think the Election Commission must announce the by-elections immediately. Because we should not curtail the democratic rights of the people,” she added. These bypolls assume more importance than usual as Mamata lost a contentious election from Nandigram to the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari by a margin of 1,956 votes or 0.85 per cent of vote share, a result being challenged in court. However, she led her party to win 213 of 292 seats and returned to power for a straight third term.. Having taken oath as chief minister on May 5, she needs to get elected to the House before November 5. She is now likely to return to her home turf Bhowanipore, vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay for her. Mamata and her party have repeatedly underscored that if the Bengal polls  could be held in eight phases during a viral peak, when the positive confirmation rate of Covid-19 cases reached 33 per cent by phase eight of the polls, there was no ground to stave off pending Assembly bypolls in seven seats when that rate is below 2 per cent, 1.88 on Monday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.2 per cent now, its highest ever this pandemic and ahead of the national rate of 97.62. Mamata said the impact of Covid-19 wasn’t very strong in areas of scheduled bypolls. A day after the Assembly poll results of May 2, the commission suspended all bypolls indefinitely, with dates for Jangipur and Samserganj Assembly by-polls already announced, following the deaths of candidates before polling. Besides these, bypolls will be in Dinhata and Santipur, where BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, resigned from the Assembly to continue as members of the Lok Sabha, and Khardah, where Trinamul’s victorious candidate Kajal Sinha died of Covid-19 before results, and Gosaba, where Trinamul’s victorious candidate Jayanta Naskar died of post-Covid-19 complications in June. On Monday, Calcutta logged 77 new infections and two deaths. No district has reported a three-digit figure of new Covid cases in a day for 18 days on the trot. Twenty Bengal districts have reported zero deaths on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation stayed put at 1.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||North East||Assam Congress chief meets Akhil Gogoi for talks on bypolls||Assam Congress chief Bhupen Borah has met Raijor Dal supremo Akhil Gogoi to evaluate possibilities of jointly fighting the assembly bypolls likely to be held by the end of this year. However, the late-night deliberations at Sivasagar on Monday remained inconclusive and both parties vowed to carry forward the discussions in the coming days. "It was just a courtesy meeting as I am in his (Gogoi's) constituency for our party meeting...we both are against the BJP's divisive policies. We discussed how we will fight the saffron camp in future," Borah told reporters. He appreciated Gogoi, an Independent MLA from Sivasagar, for joining hands with the Congress inside the Assembly to raise voice against the "anti-people decisions" of the state government. "Earlier, we had tried to be united against the BJP and we will try again in future," Borah said without elaborating. On the other hand, Gogoi said that the two anti-BJP parties should unite for a long term instead of a shorter period. "We discussed how to defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls and how to form a government in Assam after the 2026 Assembly elections. We also evaluated options regarding the bypolls, but nothing has been decided yet," he said. This was the second round of meetings between top leaders of the two parties. On August 8, Congress working presidents Rana Goswami and Jakir Hussain Sikdar had visited the Raijor Dal's headquarters in Guwahati to meet Gogoi and other senior leaders. On August 16, another opposition party Assam Jatiya Parishad's vice presidents Shamsher Singh and Kamal Nayan Choudhury had met Borah and discussed a proposal to put up common candidates against the BJP-led alliance in the Assembly bypolls. AJP and Raijor Dal had formed a 'Regional Alliance', which was not part of the Congress-led 'Grand Alliance' in the assembly election this year. The Raijor Dal won one seat, while AJP drew a blank. Before the assembly polls, both the groupings had called for establishing a united platform of all opposition parties but the 'Regional Alliance' had shied away from joining the 'Grand Alliance' due to the presence of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in it. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, formed the 'Grand Alliance' with AIUDF, BPF, CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD, Adivasi National Party (ANP) and Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP). In the 126-member Assam Assembly, the BJP bagged 60 seats, while its allies AGP won nine and UPPL six. In the opposition camp, the Congress won 29, AIUDF 16, BPF four and CPI(M) cornered one seat. Raijor Dal won one seat as an Independent. As per the seat arrangements of assembly at present, byelections will take place in five seats. One MLA each of United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) and Bodoland People's Front (BPF) has died, while two Congress legislators have resigned to join the BJP. Former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who joined the Union Cabinet as a minister, is yet to submit his resignation paper in the assembly, but is likely to do so in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
24-08-2021||North East||Snatched INSAS rifles fished out of Umkhrah river in Shillong||A team of the Meghalaya Fire and Emergency Services on Monday afternoon recovered from Umkhrah river the three INSAS rifles that were snatched on August 15 from police by unidentified persons. An eleven-member team scoured the area under the Umpohliew bridge on the river in Shillong for about an hour before fishing out the rifles, sources said. The search was conducted based on an anonymous letter addressed to the headmen of Mawlai Town Dorbar, claiming the weapons were dumped in the river. The letter also claimed the rifles were found in the possession of a few teenagers in Lawmali. To save the teenagers from trouble, the rifles were thrown into the river, the letter, a copy of which was sent to the East Khasi Hills police chief and the media, claimed. The bridge is about a kilometre away from Shillong’s Mawlai locality from where a police vehicle and the rifles were snatched reportedly by four unidentified men. The rifles were left behind in the police vehicle that the masked men had hijacked from the Mawlai area. They later drove around the city on the vehicle while brandishing the weapons before setting the car ablaze in Shillong’s Jaiaw. They were protesting against the killing of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, a former leader of the proscribed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council, by a police team in the wee hours of August 13 at his residence in Mawlai. The deceased’s family claimed it was a staged encounter, fanning anger and resentment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
24-08-2021||North East||Assam Civil Society slams 'pro-Taliban' social media posts||Assam Civil Society, an apolitical organisation of prominent Muslim residents of the state, on Monday appealed to the people of the state to inform the authorities or the police if they come across any “pro-Taliban” social media posts from any member of the minority community as such messages will only “disturb” peace in the state. Formed in 2016, the society’s reaction follows Friday’s arrest of 14 persons from the Muslim community, including a medical student, a police constable, a politician and three maulanas, for their social media posts in support of the Taliban. The police have also warned the masses to be “careful” with what they post or what the like on social media platforms. “What is happening in Afghanistan is their internal matter. Why should Muslims in Assam celebrate or support what is happening there?  What the Taliban are doing there in name of Islam is completely un-Islamic and undemocratic. Supporting Taliban is unwarranted and condemnable as such posts will only lead to communal disharmony,” H.R.A. Choudhury, working president of the Civil Society, told The Telegraph. The Taliban have been in the news since their recent take-over of Afghanistan and are known for their extreme views, especially on women’s rights, and also for their harsh steps against those who do not toe their line. Choudhury also said that strict action should be taken against those posting pro-Taliban posts. “There is no sympathy for  those who are either supporting the Taliban directly or indirectly. We welcome the government action against them,” Choudhury said. Newly appointed Assam PCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah in a statement on Monday evening too  “strongly” condemned those in “our” country expressing support for the Taliban. “We also condemn those in our state that have extended moral support to the Taliban and demand that the government take strict action against them. We want strong action against the AIUDF leaders who support Taliban,” he said. Through the statement, Borah also tried to check the ruling BJP from dragging the name of the Congress in any matter related to the AIUDF. The Congress had stitched an alliance with the AIUDF in the recently-concluded Assembly polls which was won by the BJP-led coalition to get a second straight term at Dispur. “They (BJP) must remember that people are also aware of the fact that an alliance between the two parties is still on in the districts of Nagaon, Darrang and Karimganj Zilla Parishad’s. They are also close in the Soksoka Anchalik Panchayat of Sorbhog, the previous home constituency of BJP minister  Ranjit Das. Such alliance has raised questions among the people and their hypocrisy.  The BJP should make its stand clear on this issue,” Borah said. Nadeem Akhtar, 23, a medical student from Hailakandi district and Maulana Fazul Karim Qasimi of Darrang district, a general secretary of the Opposition AIUDF, were among those arrested for their posts in favour of the Taliban. AIUDF suspended Qasimi on Saturday. They have been booked, among others, under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IT Act and that they were closely monitoring social media platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
24-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: All work||The kids are not alright, especially in an India reeling under the effects of a global contagion. This has been borne out by a report by the International Labour Organization and Unicef — it was published earlier this year — that estimated that 16 crore children around the world were working as labourers at the beginning of 2020. That is not all. Nearly half of the minor workers, numbered at 7.9 crore, were employed in hazardous occupations, with reports suggesting that a further 89 lakh children would become child labourers by the end of 2022. The last census had pegged the number of child labourers in India at 1.01 crore; this figure would have grown exponentially in the past decade with the intensification of the causal factors pushing children into the worst forms of labour. Poverty, inequality, social discrimination and the lack of access to schooling have always been driving forces in the perpetuation of child labour and allied evils such as child marriage and trafficking. In 2017, the Centre had released data regarding such challenges plaguing children in 409 districts in India and had laid out guidelines for action under headers such as ‘survival’, ‘education and development’, and ‘protection and participation’. However, plans for giving children healthy lives and universal education are being consistently derailed by large-scale institutional failures. The resultant irony is stark: India has the highest number of laws against child labour in the world while also having the highest number of minor labourers. There are chinks in the law too. For instance, while the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Amendment Act prohibits children under 18 from being employed in hazardous occupations, they are allowed to work in ‘family enterprises’. Such loopholes allow for children — especially those from poor families trapped in intergenerational debt bondage — to slip through the cracks. The pandemic has exacerbated these problems. The closure of schools and the advent of online classes have put education beyond the reach of children with little or no access to the internet or digital gadgets. They, along with those who lost one or both parents to Covid-19, have been at increased risk of being pushed into work deemed illegal. The problem is layered and needs interventions at multiple levels. Campaigns against child labour and early marriage must be accompanied by the realization of universal education as well as economic security for the underprivileged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Nod to three-dose Covid vaccine for kids||Hopeful moment Sir — The Drug Controller General of India’s approval for ZyCoV-D, the three-dose DNA vaccine manufactured by Zydus Cadila, comes as a relief for parents. Children aged 12 years and above can now be vaccinated (“Nod for first jab for 12-plus kids”, Aug 21). But the Ahmedabad-based company is expected to be able to produce only 30 to 40 million doses by December as opposed to the 50 million demanded by the government. The company has stockpiled three to five million doses and hopes to start working on large-scale production by the second half of September. It is encouraging that the company has a well-thought-out plan for steady production. The government must not pressurize Zydus Cadila to produce vaccines quickly at the expense of safety and quality control. The health of the citizens, especially children, must be prioritized over everything else. Md. Yousuf Kamal, Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — It is great news that Zydus Cadila’s DNA vaccine,  ZyCoV-D, made especially for children between the ages of 12 to 17, is going to hit the market soon. ZyCoV-D would be the first available vaccine for children in India and the fourth overall to be approved. Although the government has proclaimed that it plans to vaccinate the entire adult population by December 31, this is unlikely to happen in reality. Nevertheless, if more vaccines are approved — ZyCoV-D can be administered to both children and adults —  it would certainly speed up the process. Manisha Panwar,Ujjain Sir — Scientists at Zydus Cadila must be lauded for creating the world’s first DNA vaccine against Covid-19. The vaccine, ZyCoV-D, uses a section of genetic material from the virus that gives instructions as either DNA or RNA to make the specific protein that the immune system recognizes and responds to. The three-dose vaccine is expected to kick-start the inoculation process for children in India. S. Sarkar,Berhampur Sir — School-level education in India has suffered immensely since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. It is hoped that schools can resume once children are vaccinated. The government must ensure that children from all socio-economic backgrounds are inoculated on an equal footing. The Centre must come up with a comprehensive plan in collaboration with the state governments so that the vaccination programme can reach vulnerable children in all corners of the country. Nisith Mazumder,Calcutta Rare gem Sir — No discussion on Bhanu Bandyopadhyay would be complete without remembering the iconic line, “Mashima, malpoa khamu”, from the film, Sharey Chuattar (“Comicbabu”, Aug 22). There was a time when the comedic duo of Bandyopadhyay and Jahar Roy was as celebrated in Bengali cinema as the romantic pairing of Uttam Kumar and Suchitra Sen. In each of his performances, Bandyopadhyay would steal the limelight with his comedic talent and acting skills. Co-actors like Madhabi Mukherjee remember Bandyopadhyay being just as witty off-screen. Bandyopadhyay was truly one of the greatest comedians of Bengali cinema. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas True legend Sir — The demise of the legendary German footballer, Gerd Mueller, has shaken football fans across the world (“‘Bomber’ Mueller no more”, Aug 16). The ace striker who helped West Germany win the 1972 European Championship and the 1974 World Cup was regarded as one of the greatest players of his generation and was nicknamed “Bomber der Nation”. Mueller scored 566 goals in his 607 appearances for Bayern Munich and continues to hold the record for the most goals — 365 — in the Bundesliga. He also notched up 68 goals in 62 matches for West Germany between 1966-74. The football world has lost one of its iconic athletes. His contributions to the game will always be remembered by football fans. Sourish Misra,Calcutta  Lost intrigue Sir — There was a time when writers of spy fiction feared that the collapse of the Soviet Union meant the drying up of interesting material for their books. They could not have been more wrong. The recent Pegasus scandal is proof that there is more than enough material when it comes to espionage to fire the imagination of authors. Yet, something is missing. Travelling to foreign lands and exotic settings were synonymous with spy fiction. But with spying now happening on the world wide web, James Bond can ditch the dapper suits and lounge in front of his laptop in his pyjamas.Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Free to marry||The intent of a law must be clear in its phrasing. So, when the advocate general, Kamal Trivedi, told the division bench of the Gujarat High Court that the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021 did not prohibit interfaith marriage per se, the court reportedly said that its language did not make that clear. Rather, the law was like a sword hanging over interfaith couples. Therefore, in response to two petitions against it, the Gujarat High Court put an interim stay on several crucial provisions. The popular perception of the law was closer to its intent: it is against ‘love jihad’, a phenomenon invented by the Bharatiya Janata Party to punish unions between women from the majority religion and men from the largest minority religion. The premise is that such marriages are conducted for religious conversion; the men use force, allurement or deception — fraudulent means — to get the women to marry them. Love jihad was shown to be non-existent by government agencies and the police. Yet BJP-ruled governments continue to formulate laws against ‘illegal conversion’ through marriage. Gujarat gave the law a veneer of constitutionality by referring to the freedom of religion in its name, while destroying freedom through the amendments. The high court reportedly ruled that an interfaith marriage cannot be termed a marriage for unlawful conversion if force, fraud or allurement is not employed. The relevant provisions have been stayed, together with the provision that places the onus of proof on the accused. So have the provisions that make permission of the district magistrate mandatory for conversion and for prosecution, as has been the one that says that a family court would declare a marriage between members of two faiths void in case of unlawful conversion. The ambiguity about who decides on the ‘unlawfulness’ is deliberate and dangerous. Not only can anyone — from the immediate family to remote relatives — complain about unlawful conversion, but anyone found to have abetted it is also to be punished together with the groom. The amended law, therefore, could target a community while destroying women’s agency and a couple’s right to privacy. The Gujarat High Court’s interim order is thus more than welcome. It can protect interfaith couples from ‘unnecessary harassment’ while asserting constitutional rights and the principles of coexistence in a diverse society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Opinion||The history of a code||While hearing a divorce case, the Delhi High Court directed the Centre to take the steps necessary to bring in a Uniform Civil Code in order to avoid conflicting realities coming in the way of the delivery of justice. Various other courts have expressed similar views. Gender justice and equality were the primary concerns for Jawaharlal Nehru and B.R. Ambedkar when they championed the cause of the UCC originally. They were forced to retreat, calibrate and eventually re-strategize in the face of stiff opposition from religious conservatives. The UCC remains a contentious and politicized issue in a polarized India. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s election manifesto has pledged the UCC. Other political parties are either opposed to it or ambiguous about it. The cherished goal of equality for India’s women citizens thus remains distant and marred by politics. India won independence after a prolonged freedom struggle that saw the participation of women and men from all backgrounds. Democratic principles and such values as justice, equality and pluralism guided the deliberations in the Constituent Assembly as the newborn republic strived to create a Constitution by which to rule its citizens. The archives of the Constituent Assembly debates on the question of the UCC are fascinating. The idea was rejected outright by luminaries — all men — of the Hindu Mahasabha, traditionalist Congressmen and Muslims. They united to protect personal laws based on religious identities. The UCC was perceived to be an assault on Hindu civilization as well as a threat to the identity of a religious minority. The opposition to the UCC grew both inside and outside the legislature, forcing Nehru to abandon the plan to the utter disappointment of the All India Women’s Conference and Ambedkar. Patriarchy masquerading as religion ensured that the status quo of male domination over women would remain undisturbed. The UCC was included as Article 44 of the Directive Principles in the Constitution. However, proof of the statesmanship of Nehru, Ambedkar and a few others lay in the Hindu code bills being introduced in Parliament. Massive reforms followed. A spate of Hindu family laws governing marriage, divorce, guardianship, succession and the ownership of property were enacted through the 1950s even as opposition from some quarters persisted. Although Indian women continue to face injustices, Hindu women enjoy greater legal protections in family matters thanks to the progressive laws passed by Parliament in 1954-55. Muslim women were denied similar protections owing to resistance by the conservative clergy towards reforms in Muslim personal laws. All women are entitled to comprehensive legal protection drawn from affirmative religious and cultural practices. The practice of meher in Muslim society is one example. There are other examples of progress, ranging from the Shah Bano case to the women-led movement against instant triple talaq, the latter culminating in a favourable verdict from the Supreme Court. The Centre fulfilled its constitutional obligation by filing its affidavit supporting the women but it has lost considerable goodwill since then. It chose to disregard the women-led, peaceful protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and arrested women students instead. The CAA as well as the National Register of Citizens defy the idea of unification of India and among Indians, fuelling separation and division. The government must also clarify its position on Sabarimala and unequivocally defend women’s rights. The love jihad laws and other coercive measures must be stopped forthwith. The Centre must appreciate that gender equality is a goal of paramount importance and that the UCC is not the agenda of a political party. It can learn from Nehru, who honoured his commitment through incessant opposition and dialogue. It took many years for Nehru to build a conducive climate that led to the acceptance of the Hindu code bills. Gender equality is too important a goal to be sacrificed at the altar of electoral politics and communal ideologies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Opinion||Background noise||For those of us privileged enough to be able to work from the comfort of our homes, one of the biggest things the pandemic has brought into our lives has been Zoom and other similar video-conferencing applications. The basic concept is not new; Skype, Google Chat and, more lately, smartphone video-calls, have been around for a while; what Zoom et al have added to the mix is the possibility of several dozen or more people being able to see and hear each other at the same time. Had there been no Covid-19, the usage of these apps would have spread unevenly and perhaps at a slower pace, chiefly being used by commercial corporations while the rest of the world went about its Zoom-free business. What the pandemic has ensured is the rapidly multiplying usage and the absolute centrality of these web-conferencing programmes in many of our lives. As with any new technology, gizmo or fashion, the Zoomiverse has produced its own protocols, etiquettes, tropes, absurdities and hilarities. In India, we’ve now become used to the verbal brawls that pass for television debates; therefore it is really funny how quickly participants on Zoom calls have learnt not to interrupt each other; everyone seems to have understood that the limits of digital sound mean that a bunch of people speaking together turns into incomprehensible static; it’s wonderful how quickly we have reverted to being well-behaved Class VIII students, raising our hands for permission to speak. The other thing we’ve instinctively grasped is the need to sit quite still, from seeing others fidgeting and moving around, creating a cell of distraction in the mosaic of faces. What Zoom has also done is made us physically schizoid. Now there is the whole business of what you wear for a Zoom meeting, about how one pays detailed attention to what is visible on camera and completely ignores what is out of frame and below the desk. All sorts of jokes abound on the internet about how high-end tailors are now selling half-suits or ‘Zoom suits’, with several cartoons showing a man or woman sporting colourful pyjamas or slovenly track pants and slippers, but attired on top in the crispest of formal office-wear. The entire presentation of the self becomes distilled into the frame being captured by one’s computer camera. The advice goes that at the start of any Zoom session, you should only switch on the camera and mike after having made sure of how you look and what is visible and audible. Sometimes, of course, there are accidents. There is the unfortunate journalist in New York who turned himself into a world legend when his camera caught him vigorously pleasuring himself during an office meeting; there is the staff member of a city council in Brazil who decided that the municipal committee meeting he was attending was too tedious and entered into coital action with his partner, neglecting to switch off his camera first. The journalist in New York lost his job, the world-weary woman hosting the municipal meeting merely used her over-ride to switch off the staff member’s camera and everybody continued as though nothing had happened. There are also subtler, less dramatic pleasures to be derived from what one can only call Zoom-watching. Take, for instance, the whole business of background and lighting. Apparently people spend a lot of time ‘sculpting’ their faces with light in preparation for important Zoom meetings. It seems that an ordinary old lamp or room illumination will no longer do; ring lights used by professional photographers have now made their way into academics’ studies. As for the backgrounds, suddenly we have become like mannequins in a puppet theatre. It’s not just about one’s face or costume, it’s also about giving oneself the ensconcement of an illusory environment. People know just how much time they themselves spend checking out what is visible behind other Zoom participants. It stands to reason, therefore, that others will have the same prying, judgmental gaze focused on your frame. The special effects concept of the green screen from cinema has now been imported into video-conferencing and people can digitally insert different backgrounds. So, a cousin living in a Manhattan high-rise sits in a thick tropical jungle; every time she gets up to get a glass of water she disappears into the foliage; a well-known Covid-expert doctor sitting in Gurgaon has a huge American ranch-style living room sprawling behind him, complete with a grand piano. Then there are the people who couldn’t care less — veritable vessels of insouciance who leave their surroundings untouched. These characters fall into two categories. There is, for instance, the famous desi tenured academic sitting in the study of his house near his Ivy League university. Unlike the good doctor in Gurgaon, this is a real American house, large, airy, rooms opening into rooms, bookshelves marching away as far as the eye can see. Unlike the mensongious backdrops of people who photograph their friends’ bookshelves to use for their green screens, you know this background is real because you can see the curtains fluttering in the large picture windows. Then there are those people who actually don’t give a damn. On a much-forwarded meme there is a still from the Zoom ‘window’ of the Arab academic, Talal Asad, which shows the epic chaos of the study behind him, including his exercycle being used as a clothes rack. The text above it concludes: “Talal is not worried about log kya kahenge regarding his Zoom background. Be like Talal.” An academic friend of mine has become a fan of a senior English scholar she follows in Zoom seminars. Having spent her whole life in wild landscapes, this professor, too, dries her laundry within the frame of her camera. While my friend values the deep scholastic knowledge and insights, her voice takes on the excitement of a bird-watcher at the changing laundry in the background: “Today she’s hung red pyjamas!”, “Oh, she’s washed that polka dot t-shirt again!”, “Oh-ho, she really needs to dump those torn argyle socks!” Only time will tell if this Zoom moment is just that — a freakish point in our history when we were obliged to work with a fairly primitive digital interface solution — or whether it was a hinge point when we transitioned from being a (semi-intelligent) species that mostly interacted face-to-face to one that increasingly began to use technology to abbreviate most of our essential exchanges, most of us happily or unwillingly reducing ourselves to a screen inside our room, to an obsessively arranged, minutely observed box within a box.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: eggs six days a week in meals for Anganwadi children||Children between three to six will now get one boiled egg along with meals at least six days a week at anganwadi centres across Jharkhand under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) of the Centre, the state cabinet decided on Tuesday. So far, children were provided eggs three days a week at the over 30,000 anganwadi centres run across the state, officials from the Women, Child Development and Social Security department of Jharkhand said, adding that the cabinet move would help the state fight malnutrition among children in rural Jharkhand and address the protein deficit in their daily diet. Under the ICDS, children between six months to six years and pregnant and lactating mothers are provided dry ration, supplements and meals at Anganwadi centres to meet their daily nutritional needs to combat malnutrition, which has been a growing concern in the Jharkhand hinterland. However, while the government had earlier announced to provide three eggs per week to children at anganwadi centres, right to food activists claim that many Anganwadi centres were yet to receive regular supplies of eggs to meet the demand. “As per an earlier government decision, children at anganwadi centres were supposed to get at least three eggs every week. But most anganwadi centres have not received sufficient supplies to meet the demand,” said Siraj Dutta, an activist associated with the Right to Food campaign in Jharkhand. All anganwadi centres in Jharkhand have remained closed as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. However, children and mothers are being provided food at home during this period, the government claims. Besides adding more eggs to the meals provided to children at anganwadi centres, the Jharkhand Cabinet on Tuesday also approved several road construction projects worth over Rs 150 crore in various districts of the state, Cabinet Secretary Vandana Dadel said. The Cabinet also hiked the House Rent Allowance (HRA) and Dearness Allowance (DA) of state government employees under fifth pay commission, seventh pay commission and those under unrevised pay grade, officials said. The Cabinet gave its approval for setting up a Pharma Park at Bijupara in Barhi worth over 34.94 crore. The Pharma Park will be a hub of various pharmaceutical companies, officials said. Besides, in a bid to encourage easy and accessible higher education, the Cabinet approved setting up an open university in the state, said the Cabinet Secretary. Through this open university, working professionals will also be able to pursue higher studies without having to attend in-person classes, sources said. The Cabinet also approved recruitment of professors and assistant professors for the government medical colleges in Jharkhand to address the shortage of teachers in the medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Theft at Jamshedpur mobile shop||Jamshedpur: Criminals decamped with cash and headphones worth over Rs one lakh from a wholesale mobile phone accessories shop at Sakchi in the dawn on Tuesday, despite a night watchman doing his rounds in the area. Owner Vijay Singh, who found out about the incident at 9 am on the day, said, “On opening the shop, my attention went to the dismantled ceiling. Soon I checked the cash box where about Rs 10,000 was found missing. All the cartons containing the headphones were missing too.” CCTV cameras installed inside the shop covered the act of the loan thief who had broken into the shop at about 4 am. Sakchi Police said they have started the investigation into my case after receiving an FIR from the owner. "As the shops have to be shut down by 8 pm in view of the Covid-19 protocol, we had intensified foot patrolling in the market the whole night. But the theft at the wholesale mobile phone accessories shop took place at 4 am,” officer-in-charge Kunal Kumar told The Telegraph Online. Significantly, thefts and burglaries have increased considerably in the city with police doing little to check them. Thefts are taking place in residences and shops, but the police are neither checking such crime nor being able to detect the cases. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: Dhanbad traders have demanded the state government and the district administration to carry out the repair of Bank More flyover and also complete the broadening of Gaya Bridge situated near the railway station given the traffic jam in several areas. They have submitted a letter to DC Sandeep Kumar, principal secretary of state road construction Sunil Kumar and Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar. Bank flyover and Gaya Railway overbridge are adjacent to each other but due to a large number of potholes lying under the railway over bridge as well as the Bank More flyover, the bank more area often witnesses during the office hours due to huge rush of vehicles. Earlier on Monday, Rajiv Sharma, General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, also raised the issue of delay in widening of the Gaya Railway overbridge. (Praduman Choubey)  Hazaribagh: The dead body of 15-year-old Lilawati Kumari, who was missing for the last two days, was found in a well in Sulmi village under Katkamsandi block on Tuesday, situated around 15kms away from district headquarter. Her parents didn't inform the police after she went missing on Saturday. They were searching for her. This morning, a few villagers spotted the dead body in the well after which police were informed. The dead body was fished out and sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Officer-in-charge of Katkamsandi police station, Arun Kumar Rawani said once a postmortem report will come, they will know the exact reason behind her death. He said police have also started a probe keeping in mind various angles to reach to the facts of this case. He said they will soon disclose this case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Ramgarh: BJP  MP-cum-Chairman Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance Jayant Sinha is working to complete the process of merger of Ramgarh Cantonment in the civil area at the earliest. He has told Defence Minister Rajnath Singh that Ramgarh is an aspirational district of his parliamentary constituency, Hazaribagh.Ramgarh Cantonment Board acts as the civil administration body and is responsible for the operation of various institutions as well as people's health, water supply, sanitation, street lighting and other civic amenities.  Therefore, the scope of the functions of the board extends to the functions performed by the municipal administration. The Cantonment Board has clearly defined which areas can be transferred to the municipality.  By doing so, there will be no inconvenience or hindrance in defense and military operations.  The process of approval for the merger is now in the final stages.  After the merger, the residents of the civil areas of Ramgarh Cantonment will get better financial assistance and also benefit from urban governance. (Manoj Sinha)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Central Hospital sets up PSA oxygen plant in Bokaro||In its efforts to combat Covid-19 and be future-ready, Tata Steel commissioned a state-of-the-art Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant at Tata Central Hospital in West Bokaro on Tuesday. Pressure Swing Adsorption is a technology used to absorb nitrogen from ambient air to concentrate oxygen for supply to hospitals or industries, as the case may be. The oxygen thus generated can be supplied straight to the site of use either through a dedicated pipeline or compressed to fill cylinders. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel was the chief guest at the inaugural function. Dr Sudhir Rai, general manager, (Medical Services), Tata Steel, Dr Rajan Chaudhry, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel and Sourav Roy, chief (Corporate Social Responsibility), Tata Steel and Manish Mishra, general manager, West Bokaro Division, Tata Steel were also present. Set-up by the Tata Steel Foundation, the PSA Oxygen Plant is spread over 726 sq ft. in area and has a capacity of 833 Liters per minute. Besides, the plant acts as the storage area for keeping filled and empty oxygen cylinders. The PSA oxygen plant will not only make Tata Central Hospital a fully self-sufficient hospital in terms of medical oxygen supply but will also enhance the medical facility by providing continuous oxygen support to all 50 beds inside the hospital during peak time. Significantly, Tata Central Hospital in collaboration with Tata Steel Foundation has been monitoring the Covid-19 situation at West Bokaro and is making all possible efforts to serve the community in the best possible manner. In May this year, an 80-bed Covid Care Centre was inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren at West Bokaro. Apart from setting up a full-fledged oxygen plant, Tata Steel plays a major role when it comes to Covid care support. So far more than 33,000 people from in and around West Bokaro have been vaccinated and in days to come Tata Steel Foundation will provide vaccination at the doorstep in the peripheral villages. Data available from Tata Steel Foundation revealed that in Jharkhand, more than 1.83 lakh people have been counselled on Covid-19 related issues, more than 34000 food packets served to the community, 18000 masks distributed among the community and 3.5 lakh Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits have been distributed so far to combat Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC to take part in Durand Cup in Bengal next month||Jamshedpur FC is heading to Calcutta next month for the 130th edition of Durand Cup to be played between September 5 to October 3 in Bengal. The prestigious tournament, the oldest existing fixture in Asia and the third oldest in the history of football, will be organised by the Indian Army on behalf of the Armed Forces, as is the tradition. The Jamshedpur FC squad will comprise of five senior team players (Niraj, Vishal, Jitendra Singh, Sandip Mandi and Bhupender Singh) along with the under-18 cadets of the club’s academy (Tata Football Academy). The team will be playing under the guidance of Noel Wilson who has been named head coach for the tournament. The Durand Cup will be a 16-team competition divided into 4 groups. Jamshedpur FC will be participating along with 4 other Indian Super League (ISL) clubs (FC Goa, Kerala Blasters, Bengaluru FC and Hyderabad FC), 3 I-League teams (Mohammedan SC, Gokulam Kerala, Sudeva FC), 2 Second Division I-League clubs (FC Bengaluru United and Delhi FC), along with Indian Army teams (Red & Green), Indian Air Force, Indian Navy, CRPF and Assam Rifles. “It’s going to be a good experience for the team. The young players are craving to play in tournaments and the Durand Cup could not have come at a better time for us. The tournament will provide a good platform for the players to know where they stand and gain competitive minutes,”  said Noel Wilson. The Durand Cup is one of the most anticipated and renowned competitions in the world. Due to the raging pandemic, the tournament had to be put on hold keeping in mind the safety of the players and staff. Now, after a year’s break, the tournament is all set to make a comeback and kick-off the games once again with the support and encouragement from the All India Football Federation (AIFF), IFA (West Bengal) and the government of West Bengal. The winning team in the Durand Cup gets their hands on 3 trophies: The President’s Cup, the Durand Cup and the Shimla Trophy. The Jamshedpur side include Niraj Kumar, Vishal Yadav, Arman Tamang, Mohit Singh Dhami (goalkeepers), Sandip Mandi, Rishi, Piyush Thakur, Kojam Beyong, Saphaba Singh Telem, Aryan Sonowal, Gopal Hembrom, Raj Mukhi, Ankit Toppo (defenders), Jitendra Singh, Bhupender Singh, Anand Kumar, Keisam Angelo Singh, Nayan Tamang, Robin Das, Advait Sumbly, Hijam Lenin Singh, Khullakpam Sakir Ali, Sorokhaibam Nongpoknganba Meitei, Phijam Vikash Singh,Deepak Hansda (midfielders) Nikhil Barla and Lalruatmawia (forwards), Noel Wilson (head coach), Akshay Das (assistant coach) and Subrata Dasgupta (goalkeeping coach). Table Tennis Bistupur Badsha won the Ultimate table tennis tournament which concluded at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Monday evening. Telco Twister stood runner-up while Sonari Super finished third. East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association (ESDTTA) vice-president Mukul Choudhari and OP Mishra handed over the prizes. The event was organised by ESDTT in association with Tata Steel sports wing.District Chess The East Singhbhum District Senior Women's Hybrid Online Chess Championship will be played on August 27 between 10 am and 4.30 pm. Top 10 finishers will receive trophies. Entry fee has been fixed at Rs 300 per participant. The event marks the birth anniversary of Sir Dorabji Tata, the first president of Indian Olympic Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Union health minister launches OPD facilities at AIIMS-Deoghar||Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurated OPD facilities at the new Ayush building at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Deoghar and also launched a night shelter facility on Tuesday, ending days of wait for a formal start of the facility. An official of the AIIMS-Deoghar said that the OPD facilities would include general medicine, pulmonology (TB and respiratory diseases), psychiatry, dermatology (skin), surgical and allied specialties, orthopaedics, ENT, ophthalmology, paediatrics (vaccination of new born and children), obstetrics & gynecology, dentistry, pathology & microbiology, and radiology to begin with. An AIIMS official said that because of the pandemic, the registration window for availing OPD services will be open for two hours from 8.30 am everyday except Sunday. Registration charges are Rs 30 with a validity of one year. "There are 40 rooms earmarked for different OPD services. The centrally air-conditioned waiting hall for patients can accommodate 80 persons. We have also tied up with Amrit Pharmacy, an Union government entity for medicines at subsidised rates," he said. Mandaviya, who abruptly cancelled the formal inauguration on June 26, did the honours online from Delhi on Tuesday as local BJP MP from Godda Nishikant Dubey and state art and culture minister Hafizul Hassan were present at the venue. State health minister Banna Gupta attended the proceedings virtually. Speaking on the occasion, Mandaviya said the people of Jharkhand and adjoining areas could now avail of best medical facilities in Deogarh, the land of Lord Shiva. “Besides OPD services, the night shelter will be useful for people coming here for treatment from faraway places to stay back. The institute will serve not just the 15 lakh residents of Deoghar. It will cater to 3.19 crore people of Jharkhand,” he said. Bharati Pawar, minister of state for health and family welfare, added that AIIMS-Deoghar once fully ready would be a boon for medical services in eastern India. “The entire project will comprise a 750-bed hospital (including 30 AYUSH beds). It will have 100 MBBS seats and 60 nursing seats. The project is on in full swing,” she added. Notably, in the 2017-18 Union Budget, the Centre announced the establishment of an AIIMS in Jharkhand. Later, the state government zeroed in on 236.92-acre land in Deoghar to finalise the project. In May 2018, the Union cabinet approved funds to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore for the project after which Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone. AIIMS-Deoghar has been inducting MBBS students since 2019. It admitted 50 students in the first batch and increased it to 62 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Poshan Sakhis demonstrate in Dhanbad against non-payment of salaries||Around 30 Poshan Sakhi, a group of people who focus on the nutrition needs in rural India, on Tuesday carried out a demonstration at the district headquarters of Dhanbad demanding the immediate release of their pending salaries of six months. The protesters, including those from Dhanbad, Dumka, Godda, Koderma, Giridih, and Chatra, met Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar and submitted a memorandum containing 10-point charter of demand, including  the regularization, release of salary cuts made during their last strike held in 2019, increase in their salaries, reservation for them in recruitment process for higher posts like Sevika and Sahayiaka, etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the sidelines of their demonstration, Soni Paswan, the state president of Jharkhand Pradesh Anganwadi Karmchari Poshan Sakhi Sangh said  “At a time when almost every section of society is facing financial constraints due to job losses, salary cut, closure of industrial and trading units, the non disbursement of salaries since the last six months have pushed us on brink of starvation.” “Anjali Devi, one of Poshan Sakhi posted at  theKendua-based Anganwadi Kendra, is unable to secure treatment for her ailing husband due to lack of salaries and despite advising nutritious food for the lactating and expectant mothers, she could not secure the same for her husband required for his good health at the moment,” said Paswan. “My family and I are in no better condition. My husband Ashok Paswan, who works as a fourth grade staff at a local firm in Dhanbad, is also getting irregular salaries due to the pandemic and we are finding it difficult to eke out the living of six,” she added. Rini Singh, another protester who took part in the demonstration said, “The minimum educational qualification required for the recruitment of Poshan Sakhi is graduation but they are working at the meager salary of Rs 30,00 which is equal to that of a Sahayika, for which no qualification is required as they are entrusted with the task of cooking Khichdi for the children studying in Anganwadis.” “Whenever there is any talk at the government level about the salary hike or regularization of services of Anganwadi Kendra staff there is talk of only Sevika (entrusted with the task of educating children) and Sahayika and there is no mention of Poshan Sakhi who undergo greater hardship by visiting houses and suggesting expectant and lactating mothers about nutritious food,” said Singh “The DC during the meeting assured us to take up the issue with the state government and ensure our pending salary release,” said Singh, adding that if the salary is not made within 10 days they will be compelled to go on a one day strike at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Newly-constructed Jamshedpur road link caves in||Jamshedpur:The newly-built Dobo-Kanderbera road in Seraikela-Kharsawan district linking Jamshedpur to NH-33 has started caving due to plying of greater number of vehicles than estimated earlier. As a result of the road's deteriorating condition, especially the heavy vehicles tend to evade plying through the middle of the road otherwise the vehicles get tilted to the left side. The Dobo-Kanderbera road was built by the state's road construction department's (RCD) Seraikela division simultaneously with a road-bridge, known as Domuhani bridge, was set up over Subernarekha in 2019. Though considered to be an approach road from the Domuhani bridge to Kanderbera on the NH-33, a large number of vehicles, including trucks, trailers, dumpers and multi-axel vehicles started playing from the industrial hubs in Jamshedpur as well as Adityapur. (Kumud Jenamani) Jamshedpur: Semir Stilic is on the radar of Jamshedpur Football Club (JFC) which is trying to complete the quota of signing foreign players for the upcoming Indian Super League season of 2021-22. Stilic, the 33-year-old attacking midfielder who has represented the Bosnia and Herzegovina Olympic team, can fulfil the requirement of JFC head coach Owen Coyle who is looking to field a solid and experienced player in the midfield. With the ISL transfer window closing on August 30, clubs are rushing to rope in the best players. (Jayesh Thaker)  Dhanbad: The construction of shades over the seating arrangements in front of the SSLNT women’s College is being carried out at the initiative of Nishi Singh, president of Inner Wheel Club, more than two years after the beautification of the oldest and most green road of Dhanbad. Out of the two shades, construction of one of shades situated in front of the college is almost complete while the construction work of another shade over the bamboo made seating arrangement is likely to begin soon. (Praduman Choubey)  Dhanbad: More than 600 jewellers of Dhanbad and Bokaro on Monday shut their shops and refrained from trading by participating in a nationwide strike as per the call given by All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council to protest against the new hallmarking rules.The protesters also held a meeting at a hotel in Dhanbad under the banner of Dhanbad Zila Sarrafa Vyavsai Sangh during which they expressed reservation over the specific provision pertaining to hallmarking ID (HUID) as per which mandatory hallmarking has come into force and those selling non certified products are to be fined from September. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt begins recruitment process in varsities||The department of higher and technical education in Jharkhand, acting on the express directive of chief minister Hemant Soren, is working on the roster clearance for over 2,000 existing vacancies for the post of professors and assistant professors in various state universities, sources in the chief minister’s office said. This gives a ray of hope to Jharkhand varsities which are among those having the poorest student-teacher ratio in the country because of pending vacancies of professors and assistant professors in various faculties. “There has been no recruitment of faculties in state universities since 2008 which has led to a dismal student-teacher ratio. This ultimately hampers higher education in the state,” said director of higher education, Jharkhand, A. Muthu Kumar. “Acting on the directive of the chief minister, we are working on the roster clearance based on the number of vacancies in different universities. We will be clearing the roster and sending it to the concerned universities and the universities will then approach the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) for the conduct of examination for the recruitment,” he said. According to University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines of 2010 for post-graduate programmes, the regulations make it mandatory for universities to have at least one teacher for every 10 students for science, and media and mass communication studies; and one teacher for every 15 pupils for humanities, social sciences as well as for commerce and management. The same UGC guidelines mandate a teacher-student ratio to be 1:30 in social sciences at undergraduate programmes and 1:25 for the science streams. “However, long-pending vacancies of faculties in colleges under universities ever since the creation of Jharkhand, a teacher has to cater to over 200 students in both science and humanities streams,” said a retired vice-chancellor of Kolhan University preferring anonymity “This adversely hampers higher education in almost all the colleges under varsities. The state has the worst teacher-student ratio in the country. Though the previous government started the process of recruitment but it could not materialise because of litigation with one or another candidate filing civil suits in protest against the recruitment process of the JPSC,” he said. According to the exercise to fill up vacancies, the chief minister gave a nod for the proposal to fill up vacant posts of faculties in the tribal languages of Kurukh, Kurmali, Santhali, Ho and Mundari for different constituent colleges of Chaibasa-based Kolhan University which caters to the district of Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum and East Singhbhum. According to an official communique from the chief minister’s office, 159 teachers’ post will be filled up out of which 147 are for assistant professors, four of professors and eight of associate professors. “The chief minister will soon gave nod for filling up 49 vacancies for the posts of professors, associate professors and assistant professors in tribal languages for Vinobha Bhave University, Hazaribagh,” the source in the chief minister’s office said. Soren tweeted in the evening about the vacancies, stating that the government was not only serious on the recruitment of tribal candidates but also on improving the education of tribal languages in different universities of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Activists oppose medical protection bill in Ranchi||A small group of activists in Jharkhand lodged protest against the proposed medical protection bill and burnt symbolic copies of its draft in Ranchi on Monday. While the activists lodged their protest against what they termed as “the anti-people bill” at Albert Ekka Chowk, the nerve centre of Ranchi, some others took to social media for opposing it. Health minister Banna Gupta had recently mentioned about the state government’s intention of bringing the bill, aimed at giving protection to doctors and medical facilities, at a programme meant for felicitating healthcare personnel for their commendable role during the Covid-19 induced pandemic. But the activists started protesting against it only after a news agency (ANI) tweeted on August 20 that the Jharkhand government (was) to bring Medical Protection Bill in upcoming monsoon session. “We’re concerned about safety of doctors, health workers. They have done a tremendous job during Covid-19. We are committed to providing them a secure environment,” the agency quoted Gupta as saying. Immediately after this, the members of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan Morcha, a civil organisation working in health sector, met on Saturday and decided to lodge protest by burning symbolic copies of the bill on Monday. “The bill is actually aimed at encouraging loot in corporate-run hospitals in the guise of protecting the doctors,” alleged Bhuvaneshwar Keyot of the morcha, adding it would actually “benefit the health mafia”. “Hope voices of people for whom you are the HM (honourable minister) will be heard,” tweeted Atul Gera who is well known for organising voluntary blood donation camps. “While you are so happy to bring medical protection bill, please simultaneously bring bill to regulate medical fees, hospital and lab test charges,” Gera added. “Sir, please also bring bill to regulate medical fees, lab test fees and mandatory prescription of generic medicines so that healthcare facilities be affordable to everyone in the society,” one Anand Kumar tweeted, echoing Gera. “Yes, u shd (you should) bring patients protection bill,” one Sushil Kumar Tiwari joined them in tweeting. “We wanted to create awareness and mobilise public opinion,” activist Nadim Khan replied when asked about the thin attendance of the protesters and the impact of their protest would have. “The morcha actually comprises of many activists and organisations and they all will join whenever needed,” he further said. “Had it been so, why should the doctors spend thousands of rupees for engaging private security personnel for ensuring their own safety?” questioned Dr Bharati Kashyap, president of the women doctors wing of the state branch of Indian Medical Association, adding the bill was required for ensuring safety of healthcare facilities and personnel. The proposed medical protection bill is nothing new. It was initiated a few years ago but was shelved following public protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
24-08-2021||Jharkhand||Industrial training students protest delay in exams||More than two hundred students of two consecutive batches of 2018-20 and 2019-21 from over two dozen private and government Industrial Training Institutes of the district took out a rally and staged a demonstration in front of Randhir Verma Chowk, protesting over the delay in examinations and late academic sessions. The protesters who carried out slogan shouting against the state government and Director General of Training for the delay in their examination leading to late sessions depriving them the opportunity to apply for various recruitment exams, took out the rally at around 11.30 am and reached near the Randhir Verma Chowk at around 12 noon where they staged demonstration for more than two hours. The protesters later also met the magistrate deputed at the district collectorate who assured them to forward their concern with the state government. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday after the demonstration, Saurav Sao, a student of fitter trader of 2018-20 of KK ITI institute at Bekar Bandh in Dhanbad said, “As per the normal schedule our final result after the completion of final year examination should have been completed  before August last year but even after the announcement of examination schedule four times earlier our final examination is yet to conducted depriving us of the opportunity to apply for various recruitment exams.” “Majority of students pursuing the ITI courses in different trades lie fitter, electrician, plumber, carpenter, machinist, turner, welder, draughtsman, wireman belong to the economically and socially deprived section of the society and their parents have invested their hard earned money in hope of their children becoming the source of their family income but due to undue delay in examination  many  students will not be able to apply for recruitment examination due to crossing the upper age limit for such jobs,” said Sao. “We have carried out similar protests several times earlier including on February 8 and July 10 this year after which some of the examination of the 2019-2021 batch including the first year examination of 2019-2021 batch were held but the final examination of 2018-2020 batch is still pending depriving us our degree certificate on the basis of which we can apply for the final examination,” said another protester requesting anonymity. “We can’t understand the reason for the delay in examination at the time when even the schools for the class IX to XII have been opened as per the government orders and even the university exams are taking place under the strict observance of the Covid norms,” said the protester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
