25-08-2021||Business||Does Rahul Gandhi even understand the monetisation move, asks Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on those criticising the Rs 6 lakh crore monetisation plan, wondering if Congress leader Rahul Gandhi even understands what such a move entails. Speaking to reporters in the financial capital, Sitharaman said it is Congress that received kickbacks by selling resources such as land and mines. She reminded that the governments headed by the Congress raised Rs 8,000 crore by monetising the Mumbai-Pune expressway, and in 2008, it was the UPA government that floated the request for proposal to lease out New Delhi Railway Station. Recalling an incident where Gandhi tore off an ordinance he didn't agree with, Sitharaman questioned why he didn't tear off the RFP. "If he indeed is against monetisation, why was the RFP on the monetisation of NDLS torn to pieces by Rahul Gandhi? And if this is monetisation, did they sell off the New Delhi railway station? Is it owned by jijaji (brother in law) now? Does he understand what is monetisation," she asked. Seeking to address concerns on cronyism and sell-offs of assets created over 70 years, Sitharaman reminded the Congress of the Commonwealth games. "What did happen during CWG? Within one CWG, they finished all that which can be creamed out into the accounts of their cronies," she said. Sitharaman reiterated that the asset monetisation plan does not involve selling off assets, and the assets will be handed back to the government. "They are brownfield assets which are completed but under-utilised. If the government has to utilise it better, it has to be through monetisation process wherein it will be put to effective use with a bit more addition to spruce it up to bring it up to utilisation," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Markets end flat, Nifty scales fresh closing peak||Equity benchmark Sensex ended on a flat note after scaling a new lifetime peak on Wednesday amid mixed cues from global markets. After touching its all-time high of 56,198.13 in early trade, the 30-share index ended 14.77 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 55,944.21. The broader NSE Nifty, however, ended 10.05 points or 0.06 per cent higher at its new closing record of 16,634.65. It touched an all-time high of 16,712.45 during the day. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Infosys, Reliance Industries, HUL, Nestle India and ITC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Titan, Maruti, Bharti Airtel and Tata Steel were among the laggards. "Domestic equities traded in a range bound ahead of futures and options (F&O) expiry. Barring IT, metal and FMCG, most sectoral indices turned red towards the final session of the day," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Investors continued to remain upbeat on IT stocks in the backdrop of sustained earnings visibility, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai and Seoul were positive. Equities in Europe were also trading on a mixed note in afternoon trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.36 per cent to USD 70.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Govt only talked about supporting automobile industry, no step taken: Maruti Suzuki chief||Maruti Suzuki India Chairman RC Bhargava on Wednesday said that while a lot of statements were made by government officials supporting the automobile industry, but when it comes to taking actual steps nothing has really happened. Speaking at industry body SIAM's 61st Annual Convention, the veteran industry leader noted that the automobile sector in the country was at a very crucial juncture with declining fortunes in the last few years and it would not revive either with conventional engine vehicles, CNG, biofuels or EVs, unless the question of affordability of cars for the customer is addressed. "We have been going through a situation where this industry has been declining over a long period of time. And despite various very important people in government, we just heard Mr. Amitabh Kant (NITI Aayog CEO)... There have been a lot of statements made about the importance of the automobile industry. But in terms of concrete actions, which would reverse the decline in trend, I haven't seen any action on the ground," Bhargava said. "I am afraid words don't get us very much in the terms of extra sales but you need concrete action to make this happen," Bhargava noted. He pondered whether this kind of outlook for the industry culminates from the old belief that car industry and passenger cars were a luxury product, to be owned only by the rich. "Because if the mindsets have changed, I think people planners, economists, thinkers, writers, journalists, everybody should have been worried long ago about what was happening to the growth of the automobile industry....," he said. The figures are there for everybody to see but no measures taken to rectify the situation. "I am sorry to say that there are very few steps taken that could reverse this trend. And that is what worries me," he noted. Bhargava stated that the car industry in India actually became a model industry and started growing after Maruti came into existence. "The change in policy to set up a public sector company to make cars was not because there was a change of thinking amongst the planners that we need a car industry to grow our economy to grow manufacturing, like what happened in the United States or in the UK, or Germany or France or Italy, or Japan or Korea or even China, that kind of thing did not happen," he noted. Bhargava noted that the auto industry has developed so much because the people in this country have a great aspiration to own a car, and not because there was any deliberate policy which led this to happen. "And which again, I think supports my view that the change in the mindset of planners about the importance of the car industry and generally of the automobile industry, remains confined to words and doesn't get translated into action. "The situation today is that if we take into account what has happened in the last 18 months of COVID, already, the industry actually is on a decline if you look at the last five years, and how to reverse this," he said. Bhargava said he supports the fact that the Indian customers should get safe and clean vehicles. "To get those clean vehicles, if we follow all the European standards with the costs which are involved in those times, how do we make it affordable with a much lower income level which exists," he questioned. Bhargava said he totally supported the view put forth by Amitabh Kant about the importance of moving to electrification. "I totally agree that we have to move to electrification, there's no question. But along with a decision to move for electrification, again, the whole question of affordability of the EVs and I'm talking about four-wheelers at the moment comes into question," he stated. Bhargava said that if the auto industry is to drive the economy and the manufacturing sector, the penetration of cars in India has to move from 25 or 30 per 1,000 to even 200 per 1,000. It requires millions of cars to be made every year. "Are we sure that we have enough customers in India who have the means to buy these millions of cars every year? Is income going up that fast? Are jobs growing up that fast? I think those aspects are often ignored when we make our plans of what we are going to do and what's going to happen," he noted. "We have always forgotten customers in the centralised planning system because the customer didn't matter... And we still don't think of the customers when we plan. Will the customers be able to afford this product or not?," Bhargava said. Giving an example, he said that Maruti Suzuki had to do away with the Maruti 800 model, which drove the motorisation of India, because of new safety regulations. He further said: "We have seen that small increases like what happened two years ago, and small increases in price led to fall in the growth of the car market. The new regulations for BS-VI, have added 22,000 rupees to a car again, making the car unaffordable". Even before the COVID in 2019-20, the car market declined in India by 18 per cent, Bhargava said. "I don't think the car industry would revive either with ICEs or with the CNG and biofuels or EVs unless we address the question of affordability of cars for the customer," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Centre launches programme to support IT start-ups||The government on Wednesday launched a programme to support 300 IT start-ups under which it will provide seed funding, mentorship and market access with a view to creating 100 unicorns out of the selected start-ups. Ministry of Electronics and IT special secretary Jyoti Arora said that the concept of the Startup Accelerator of MeitY for Product Innovation, Development & Growth (SAMRIDH) has been developed on the lines of silicon valley based accelerator YCombinator. IT and Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that he has mentored over 20 start-ups earlier and understands the need of mentoring them during the most important part of their journey when their idea is getting converted into products. He said the lack of funds for start-ups is not a big issue. "Lack of getting the idea into a real product or lack of collecting the skill sets which are needed to convert an idea into an enterprise is a bigger challenge for most of the start-ups. If we are able to start-up in that journey then probably our value addition will be huge," Vaishnaw said. Under the Samridh programme, the Meity will provide seed funds of up to Rs 40 lakh for the selected start-ups and mentorship for six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Sitharaman asks banks to push for one district, one product agenda||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said she has requested banks to work with all state governments to push the one district, one product' agenda. Banks have also been requested to have interaction with export promotion agencies, chambers of commerce and industry to understand and address the requirement of exporters in a timely manner, Sitharaman said while addressing media here on Wednesday. The Finance Minister, who is on a two-day visit to the financial capital, said between public sector banks, there should be some kind of a simple approach so that exporters are not made to run between one bank to another scouting for a better offer. During the day, she met heads of public sector banks (PSBs) to review their financial performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
25-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points to hit fresh high||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points to scale a fresh intra-day record in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank.  After touching a lifetime high of 56,188.49 in the opening session, the 30-share index was trading 211.23 points or 0.38 per cent higher at 56,170.21. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 67.75 points or 0.41 per cent to 16,692.35.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 1 per cent, followed by NTPC, L&T, HDFC, Nestle India, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finserv.  On the other hand, Titan, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, Asian Paints and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 403.19 points or 0.73 per cent higher at its lifetime peak of 55,958.98, and Nifty surged 128.15 points or 0.78 per cent to its all-time closing high of 16,624.60.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,644.91 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "The resilience in global equities continues with the Nasdaq and S&P 500 closing at fresh record highs. In India market momentum and sectoral rotation are taking the indices higher, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  The Jackson Hole Symposium and the US Fed chief's commentary expected on August 27, will be keenly watched by global markets. If the Fed commentary indicates an earlier-than-expected tapering, FIIs are likely to press further sales. Investors may wait and watch, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was positive.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.62 per cent to USD 69.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business|| Simple Energy to raise funds to tune of $100 million||Bangalore-based EV maker Simple Energy on Tuesday announced its plans to raise funds to the tune of $100 million in Series A funding. The startup, which earlier this month launched its flagship electric scooter, Simple One, also said it is in talks with some global investors for this round, which is expected to be completed by later this year. Simple Energy eyes to become a unicorn firm as the valuation would increase post-closing Series A, it said in a release. The company has been aggressive about its expansion plans and has raised a total sum of $15 million before the launch, Simple Energy said. Khatabook raises $100m Khatabook on Tuesday said it has raised $100 million (about Rs 741 crore) in a funding round led by Tribe Capital and Moore Strategic Ventures (MSV) that valued the fintech company at close to $600 million. The series C round — which was oversubscribed — also saw participation from Alkeon Capital, with continued investment participation from B Capital Group, Sequoia Capital, Tencent, RTP Ventures, Unilever Ventures, and Better Capital, a statement said. In addition, Balaji Srinivasan and Sriram Krishnan participated as independent investors, among others, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Exporters feel let down by RoDTEP rates||Exporters who are disappointed with Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) rates and product exclusion have asked the commerce ministry to revisit it. Sources have indicated that the issue was flagged by the industry and exporters during the recent interaction with  commerce minister Piyush Goyal. He had reportedly informed them that sectors including steel and pharma could be considered to be part of the RoDTEP. Goyal had, however, said that higher rates would lead the country being dragged to the WTO. He urged the industry to look at the RoDTEP not as an export incentive but as a remission of duties and taxes. The exporters’ body FIEO in its letter has pointed out that when the RoDTEP Scheme was announced on January 1, iron & steel, pharmaceuticals and chemicals were not in the excluded categories. “Moreover, all the exporters of the product groups have made shipments under the RoDTEP and also have the notional RoDTEP rates in their shipping bills,” the letter said. The pricing of the export items has been done assuming that they would get RoDTEP benefits. Now if these categories will not get RoDTEP benefit, their profits may take a hit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Optiemus Electronics pact with iPhone maker ||Home-grown mobile phone contract manufacturer Optiemus Electronics Limited (OEL) on Tuesday said it will partner the Indian arm of $30-billion Taiwanese giant Wistron Corporation to manufacture mobile devices, IT hardware and automotive-electronic vehicle products. Wistron, a contract manufacturer of Apple iPhones, and OEL, a multibrand mobile handset maker, were among the 16 entities that will get production-linked incentives (PLI) from the Union ministry of electronics and information technology. The PLI scheme offers an incentive of 4-6 per cent on incremental sales for a period of five years from 2019-20. The stocks of Optiemus Infracom gained 4.98 per cent on the BSE following the announcement. The current partnership is a second calling for both the companies. OEL was earlier formed as a joint venture of stock market-listed Optiemus Infracom  and Wistron in 2016. Optiemus Infracom in April this year announced that OEL has become a wholly owned subsidiary and the joint venture with Wistron Corporation has ceased to be effective. OEL said in a statement on Tuesday that there are plans to invest Rs 1,350 crore in the next 3-5 years taking advantage of the PLI scheme. The investment is aimed at catering to both capex and opex and company officials said the amount can be scaled up in the future. The company is targeting a revenue of Rs 38,000 crore across multiple product segments while ramping up its manpower to 11,000 in the next 3-5 years. OEL said the joint venture will explore both the domestic and overseas markets from its manufacturing facilities. The company further said that OEL and Wistron alliance will be able to offer Taiwanese technology at optimised cost and PLI sharing under one roof. “A world class design and manufacturing infrastructure in India is the need of the hour to fulfil the untapped demand from global players where quality is paramount,” David Shen, president and chief executive officer, Wistron Smart Devices said. “PLI will be a key enabler to bridge any gaps in the developing ecosystem for the next decade. It is time to extend our support to our Indian partner as we embark on a wonderful and exciting journey together,” Shen said. Noida base OEL has two factories in Noida and the company’s managing director A Gururaj said that the plan is to first utilise the 2 million handsets per month capacity first before planning on further expansion. “Our expansion plan will largely depend on what the customers would want. If there is a requirement for further capacity, we will do that,” said Gururaj. Wistron, which has a manufacturing base in Karnataka,had faced worker’s discontent over wages last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Govt urges investors to check antecedents of Nidhi companies||The government on Tuesday again urged investors to check the antecedents of Nidhi companies before putting in their money, as at least 348 entities have failed to meet the criteria to be declared as Nidhi companies. This is the second time in six months that the corporate affairs ministry has come out with an advisory as there are a large number of companies, which, though functioning as Nidhi companies, have not applied for such a status under the relevant rules. Nidhi companies are non-banking finance entities that are into lending and borrowing with their members. Under Section 406 of the Companies Act, 2013, and amended Nidhi Rules, companies incorporated as Nidhi need to apply to the ministry in form ‘NDH-4’ for declaration as Nidhi entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Tata Consumer Products extends water portfolio to UK market||Tata Consumer Products Ltd (TCPL) on Tuesday said it has extended its water portfolio to the UK market with the launch of its premium natural mineral water brand Himalayan Water. This is the first water brand to be launched by TCPL in the UK, said a statement from the Tata Group FMCG firm. Initially, Himalayan Water will be available online only and distribution will be expanded gradually, it added. “The UK launch is in line with the company's strategy to cross-leverage its brands across markets and maximise brand potential,” the company said. Himalayan Water in the UK is carbon negative and water positive and uses fully recyclable packaging, said TCPL adding its bottling facility in the Shivalik Range in the Himalayan mountains uses 100 per cent renewable energy. Commenting on the development, TCPL managing director and CEO Sunil D'Souza said Himalayan Water is a brand with significant potential. “The brand is well known in India and launching it in the UK will help us cross-leverage and augment our beverage portfolio in one of our key international markets,” it added. TCPL (earlier Tata Global Beverages Ltd) was renamed after the merger of the consumer products business of Tata Chemicals, with an ambition to become a leading FMCG player. The company, which owns Tata Tea, Tetley, Tata Salt, Eight O'Clock Coffee, Himalayan Water and emerging brands like Tata Sampann, Tata Soulfull, Tata Gluco Plus and Tata Water Plus, is present in over 40 countries across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Supreme Court reprieve for Airtel on Videocon dues||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the department of telecommunications (DoT) not to invoke the bank guarantees (BGs) of Bharti Airtel for three weeks for recovering Rs 1,376 crore in AGR-related dues of Videocon Telecom Ltd (VTL) which had sold its spectrum to the Bharti group. The top court, which refused to entertain Airtel’s plea that VTL dues are not payable by it, permitted the telecom major to approach the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) with the grievances. “The DoT shall not invoke the bank guarantee of Respondent...(Bharti Airtel) for the period of three weeks from today,” a bench comprising justices L. Nageswara Rao, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah said in its order. At the outset, the bench made clear to senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for Airtel, that it will not interfere with the earlier judgment. “We are making it very clear that we will not interfere with the judgment and we will give you the liberty to withdraw to approach the appropriate forum,” the bench said. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta pleaded that the DoT was of the view that the TDSAT has no jurisdiction to entertain the plea as the apex court’s earlier order had finality. The court said the parties are free to raise their rival contentions before the TDSAT. In the meantime, it however, restrained DoT from invoking the bank guarantee. Airtel said a DoT communication of August 17 has directed it to pay AGR related dues of VTL within a week, failing which the telecom body will invoke BGs. Divan referred to various documents including the spectrum trading guidelines and said that the dues — arising from the adjusted gross revenue or AGR of VTL, the seller of the spectrum — were known at the time of the sale and hence the seller and not the buyer can be fastened with the liability to pay.VTL had sold its spectrum to Bharti Airtel in pursuance of agreements entered into in 2016. The Bharti group has already paid Rs 18,004 crore in AGR-related dues to the DoT by March 31, 2021 which is much more than 10 per cent of its total AGR dues of over Rs 43,000 crore, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Bajaj group all set to step into mutual fund arena||The Bajaj group is all set to  step into the mutual fund arena. The Securities and the Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has given its in-principle approval to Bajaj Finserv to sponsor a mutual fund, the company said on Tuesday. Bajaj Finserv said it would also  setup an Asset Management Company (AMC). “Accordingly, the company would be setting up an asset management company (AMC) and the trustee company, directly or indirectly i.e., itself or through its subsidiary in accordance with applicable Sebi regulations and other applicable laws,” Bajaj Finserv said in an exchange filing. The shares of Bajaj Finserv jumped 7.91 per cent on the Bombay Stock Exchange following the announcement. Bajaj Finserv is the holding company for the businesses dealing with financial services of the Bajaj group. Its business verticals include NBFC Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance. Other businesses include health tech platform Bajaj Finserv Health, digital marketplace Bajaj Finserv Direct and digital stockbroker Bajaj Financial Securities Limited . The expansion comes at a time the Indian mutual fund industry, comprising 44 companies, breached the Rs 35 lakh crore landmark for net assets under management for the first time ever in July 2021. According to industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India, retail investors held 8.72 crore accounts (folios) with the mutual funds at the end of July, which are an all-time high with 55 lakh folios added from April. By contrast, there were just 18 lakh new folios in the whole of the last fiscal. The trend projects an affinity towards mutual funds as an asset class for retail investors. Analysts said the Bajaj group’s foray into the rapidly growing industry will complement its other businesses in insurance and lending. For the quarter ending June 2021, Bajaj Finserv reported an over 31 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 833 crore. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 1,215 crore in the same quarter of the preceding fiscal. The consolidated total income also plunged to Rs 13,949 crore in the first quarter against Rs 14,192 crore in the year-ago quarter. On July 21, 2021, the board of directors of Bajaj Finserv had approved a Rs 342-crore investment by the company in Bajaj Finserv Direct (BFDL), a wholly owned subsidiary .  BFDL is primarily engaged in the business of distribution of financial products through the digital marketplace. Stocks break records Equity benchmarks darted up to fresh lifetime highs on Tuesday, propelled by heavy buying in banking, finance and metal stocks amid supportive global cues. Rising for the second straight session, the 30-share BSE Sensex soared 403.19 points or 0.73 per cent to end at its lifetime peak of 55958.98. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty surged 128.15 points or 0.78 per cent to its all-time closing high of 16624.60. Bajaj Finserv was the star performer in the Sensex pack. Equity investors became richer by more than Rs 2.79 lakh crore .  The market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies jumped to Rs 2,40,47,079.99 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki chairman asks India Inc chieftains to embrace frugality||Maruti Suzuki chairman R.C. Bhargava has advised the chieftains of India Inc to embrace frugality in the face of the pandemic and “curtail expenditures on themselves”, wading into a controversy that erupted last week when shareholders of two-wheeler maker Eicher Motors rejected a resolution to re-appoint Siddharth Lal as managing director with a substantial increase in his remuneration. Advising companies to build internal resources, Bhargava said shareholders were no longer prepared to ratify large payouts to top executives. “I think that's a good development for the whole of industry,” Bhargava told shareholders at Maruti Suzuki's annual general meeting that was held virtually. The Eicher board on Monday decided to approach the shareholders to sanction Lal’s re-appointment with changes in his salary. Commenting on the learnings from the pandemic, Bhargava said companies which had strong financial reserves, which were generating internal resources and kept reserves were the ones best able to tide over the difficulties created by Covid-19. Bhargava, who had in the past stated that the high tax regime is slowing down car demand, reiterated the need to address the issue. “I am quite clear that if a strong industrial base has to be built in India, the auto industry and the car industry has to reach double digit growths and at present the conditions do not permit that we have it,” he said. The auto industry veteran cited examples of state governments replacing the annual taxation by one time taxation on automobiles “in order to meet the immediate requirements of money”. This made the cost of acquisition for customers very high, Bhargava said.. “It restricts the ability of people to buy cars and therefore, it restricts the industry,” Bhargava said. The semiconductor shortage problem faced by the industry is temporary and is expected to be over by 2022. Maruti Suzuki India hasn't had a major impact due to it though its production has been hit partly, Bhargava said. The country's largest carmaker is also looking at the electric vehicle (EV) space but will enter it only when it is feasible for customers in terms of affordability and also for the company to operate without making a loss. Bhargava also said Maruti Suzuki India has outlined a capital expenditure plan of Rs 4,500 crore in the ongoing fiscal for its various business purposes but the actual expenditure by the company will be known only at the end of the year. No EVs for now Responding to a query on the company’s plans for EVs, he said Maruti Suzuki is the leader in the conventional car industry and the company’s intention is to achieve leadership position in the EV sector . However, he added that in India, EVs will be able to penetrate in large numbers only when these become affordable. He said the government's focus is now on the electrification of the two-wheeler segment. In passenger vehicles , a few manufacturers have brought EVs “but the sales volume is very small and it has had no impact on the market share of Maruti Suzuki”, Bhargava said. On the issue of climate change, zero emission and carbon neutrality, Bhargava asserted that India has to follow its own timelines and not be forced by what the West has set.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
25-08-2021||India||411,810 tonnes of grains lost in transit in four years: Report||Around 411,810 tonnes of wheat and rice were wasted as transit and pilferage losses in the past four years, a Standing Committee report on food, consumer affairs and public distribution, tabled in Parliament earlier this month, revealed. The report also highlighted that the loss of foodgrains led to an estimated Rs1,109.82 crore in the past four years, till October 2020, and subsidised commodities were enough to feed 82.3 million people if distributed properly. The Centre provides around 5kg of wheat of rice at subsidised rates under its Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. “The government should take significant steps to mitigate transit and storage losses and save taxpayers’ money,” the committee stated in its report. The report also showcased the condition of the country’s food storage and transit infrastructure, as well as the decentralised procurement scheme (DCP). Under the DCP, the states procure, store and distribute foodgrains themselves under the Centre’s targeted public distribution system (TPDS) and other welfare schemes. The decentralised system of procurement has the objectives to ensure that Minimum Support Price (MSP) is passed on to the farmers, to enhance the efficiency of procurement and to encourage procurement in non-traditional states, thereby extending the benefits of MSP to local farmers as well as to save on transit losses and costs. The Standing Committee report shows that so far only 23 states have implemented it – 15 to procure rice and eight to procure wheat – despite the scheme being in place for the past 23 years. The Parliament panel raised questions on the actions taken against the officials responsible for the transit losses. It found out that around 153 cases were filed in 2018-19 while 144 were lodged in 2019-20 and 44 in 2020-21 (till September 2020). Of these, 18 cases of unjustifiable losses are still pending while a total of 89 cases of storage losses registered till September 2020 are pending. Reacting to the findings, the Standing Committee suggested the Food Security of India (FSI) come up with new standards, guidelines and checklists to mitigate the transit and pilferage losses of foodgrains and make officials and workers more aware. Moreover, it asked for a framework to deal with pending cases of corruption, excise duty and related matters against the officials. Meanwhile, the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution responded to the report in Parliament to say that it has taken several steps to check corruption in FCI godowns. “Farmers are now provided with the MSP online while the agencies are paid through an online system. The quality-related parameters of cereals are put up on public domain,” Union minister Piyush Goyal said, adding, “Procurement process is being inspected regularly and action taken against those who are found guilty of adulteration. The produce is tagged at every step of the process – from the mills to depot.” Several steps have also been taken to monitor the distribution including regulating selling in the open market by limiting it through a modulated e-auction, Down To Earth reported quoting the ministry. “CCTV cameras are also installed in all the godowns. In addition, committees have been formed to redress the grievances of the contractors.” However, despite measures taken by the Centre, losses to the tune of Rs 280.94 crore was incurred due to transit wastage in 2020-21 (till October 2020), the committee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
25-08-2021||India||US INDOPACOM commander holds talks with India's top military brass||China's military build-up has been the largest since World War II and the real question is the intent behind the expansion as words of the Chinese PLA do not always match its deeds, Commander of the US Indo-Pacific Command Admiral John Aquilino said on Wednesday. Admiral Aquilino, on a visit to India, held extensive talks with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh, and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar with a focus on further strengthening the bilateral defence partnership. The Commander said the US's relationship with India is based on "aligned values" and presents an important model for building enduring partnerships. "As we increase interoperability, information-sharing, and access with allies and partners across the globe, this partnership enhances our capabilities, improves our coordination, and shows that we are stronger when we stand together," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Indo-Pacific Command (INDOPACOM). In an interactive session at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), Admiral Aquilino spoke about key challenges facing the Indo-Pacific and delved into China's rapid military build-up including in the maritime domain. He also hinted at the possibility of increasing the number of participants at the Malabar naval exercise if leaders of the four countries that are part of it at present concur with it. "I do not really look specifically at the nuclear threat. What I would look at is the entire Chinese way forward with regard to military expansion, the largest military build-up in the history since World War II (in) both conventional and nuclear, in all domains," he said in presence of Gen Rawat. "I do not think I will try to explain what their intent is but trying to understand their intent is a little concerning. The articulation of defensive capabilities is what we continue to hear," he said. Admiral Aquilino was asked about reports of China's rapid expansion of its nuclear stockpile. "We also continue to see that the words from the PLA (People's Liberation Army) do not always match the deeds. So it is one of the reasons that we are concerned. That expansion, the real question is not why but what they intend to do with it and that remains to be seen," the Commander added. He described the "attack" on the rules-based international order in the maritime domain as one of the "most critical challenges", in a clear reference to China's military aggressiveness in the Indo-Pacific. To a question, he said coordination among Quad countries from a military perspective happens every day.  Admiral Aquilino's visit to India came nearly four months after he took charge of the oldest and largest combatant command of the US that is responsible for American military activities in the Indo-Pacific. Without naming China, the Commander also talked about "economic coercion", corruption, actions against Taiwan, new rules that were foisted upon people of Hong Kong and the challenges that the Indians saw with regard to "sovereignty on the Line of Actual Control". "The attack on the rules-based international order that allows freedom of navigation for all is certainly one of the most critical challenges. That freedom of navigation allows two-thirds of the world's economy to flow through the South China Sea," he said. "One-quarter of the world's liquid natural gas flows through the area. It is critical for the prosperity of all the nations and when it is challenged and potentially confronted, that will negatively impact all the nations in the region. Those are the foundational security concerns that I see. There are many more," he added. Describing the Indo-Pacific as the most consequential region for the future, Admiral Aquilino said there was a need for like-minded countries to work together to confront various challenges facing the region. Asked about China's increasing its nuclear arsenal, Gen Rawat said these strategic weapons are weapons of deterrence, "We are concerned about whatever is happening anywhere in the region because it is not only our northern neighbour, but our western neighbour too has these nuclear systems," he said in a reference to Pakistan. "We are evolving our strategies accordingly. We are studying these carefully and we are quite capable of dealing with both adversaries with conventional forces," he said. On Chinese Navy, Gen Rawat said China is expanding its naval forces "exponentially" "Today, possibly it is the largest expanding Navy in the world. We see the threat emerging in the Indian Ocean Region," he said adding India has to counter the threat by developing our naval prowess accordingly. Gen Rawat also talked about the need for having some commonality of communication equipment among the navies of the Quad countries for greater interoperability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
25-08-2021||India||Government panel to meet soon on roadmap for Zydus jab introduction in vaccine drive||The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) will soon hold a meeting to devise a roadmap for introducing Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine in the inoculation drive and prioritising beneficiaries focusing on those aged 12-18 years with comorbidities. The indigenously developed world's first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20 making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. NTAGI Chairman Dr N K Arora said it is estimated that there are around 12 crore adolescents in the age group of 12-18 years in India and less than 1 per cent of them may have comorbidities. The three-dose vaccine available for those in the age group of 12-18 years besides adults, will be rolled out in October. "The NTAGI's meeting will be held soon to chalk out a roadmap for introducing the three-dose ZyCoV-D vaccine in the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive. The meeting will also focus on prioritisation of beneficiaries as this vaccine is approved for both adolescents and adults," he said. "The aim is to develop a priority list with the focus being on adolescents aged 12-18 years with comorbidities," Dr Arora said. The NTAGI will provide the protocol and framework for the introduction of this vaccine in the COVID-19 immunisation drive. On the issue of reopening of schools, Dr Arora said it should be done in a phased manner. "Besides parents and other members of the family, it has to be ensured that all the support staff whether it be school bus drivers, teachers or other staff in the schools are vaccinated against coronavirus to create a protective ring around children," he said, adding children mostly contract mild infections. Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V vaccines are being given to only those above 18 years and unlike ZyCoV-D, which is three-dose, these are administered in two doses. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) has said that ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA-based vaccine against coronavirus and when injected produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance. It said interim results from phase 3 clinical trials in over 28,000 volunteers showed primary efficacy of 66.6 per cent for symptomatic RT-PCR positive cases. This has been the largest vaccine trial so far in India for COVID-19, the DBT said. The vaccine had already exhibited robust immunogenicity and tolerability and safety profile in the adaptive phase one and two clinical trials. Both phase one/two and phase three clinical trials have been monitored by an independent data safety monitoring board, it added. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
25-08-2021||India||Kerala logs over 30,000 Covid cases,  positivity rate 19 per cent||Kerala on Wednesday reported over 30,000 daily virus cases, after a gap of three months, while its Test Positivity Rate (TRP) rose to 19 per cent. The southern state on Wednesday logged 31,445 fresh coronavirus infections and the toll mounted to 19,972 with 215 new deaths. The last time Kerala crossed the 30,000 mark was on May 20 when it reported 30,491 cases. The TPR on Wednesday crossed the 19 per cent mark, according to a state government release. While the latest surge pushed the the total infection count to 38,83,429, the government announced an intensive screening programme to reduce further spread of the contagion. After the Onam festivities, medical experts had predicted that the TPR would go beyond 20 per cent and the number of infections would rise further. Since July 27, after the Bakrid celebrations when restrictions were relaxed for a few days, Kerala has been logging more than or close to 20,000 cases almost every day. The release further said that as many as 20,271 people have been cured of the infection since Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 36,92,628 and the number of active cases to 1,70,292. In the last 24 hours, 1,65,273 samples were tested and the TPR was found to be 19.03 per cent. So far, 3,06,19,046 samples have been tested, it said. Among districts, Ernakulam recorded the highest number with 4,048 cases, followed by Thrissur (3,865), Kozhikode (3,680), Malappuram (3,502), Palakkad (2,562), Kollam (2,479), Kottayam (2,050), Kannur (1,930) Alappuzha (1,874), Thiruvananthapuram (1,700), Idukki (1,166) Pathanamthitta (1,008) and Wayanad (962). Of the new cases, 123 were health workers, 138 from outside the state and 29,608 infected through contact, with the source of the contact not being clear in 1,576 cases, the release said. There are currently 4,70,860 people under surveillance in various districts. Of these, 4,44,278 are in home or institutional quarantine and 26,582 in hospitals. With the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, state Health Minister Veena George said an intensive screening/testing program has been launched to detect as soon as possible who all are infected with coronavirus and to reduce further spread of the pandemic. In a Facebook post, she said testing will be maximised in low vaccination districts and people should voluntarily get tested. She said that sample collection will be done directly in the cluster areas and through camps and steps have also been taken to provide the test results without delay. Kerala has adopted the scientific method of test per million by case per million and therefore, as the number of cases increased, so did the number of inspections, she said. All those who are suffering from fever, cold, and sore throat or are susceptible to these diseases and those who have been in contact with Covid positive persons should be screened for the virus, the minister said. She further said that people with respiratory problems and serious illnesses should be examined to make sure they are not infected by Covid-19, even if they have only minor symptoms, as such people can be severely affected if they are infected with coronavirus. If anyone who has attended a public ceremony or event, like a wedding or funeral, tests Covid positive, everyone who was there at such events should get tested, she said. Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress picked holes in the virus management system in the state and urged the LDF government to immediately release the health data in this regard. Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly, V D Satheesan alleged that the Covid control system in the state has failed and wanted the government to revive its existing strategies and methodology for the disease management. "Though the total number of Covid patients had crossed 38 lakh mark in the state, the government is still hiding the health data related to it. This will prevent evolving strategies to fight the third wave of the disease," he told a press meet here. The lack of data analysis has seriously affected even the research activities in the southern state, the leader added. Alleging that the contact tracing system in the state is a failure in finding out the infected, he said its ratio in Kerala is just 1:1.5, though at least 20 people have to be tested if a person is found to have been affected with the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
25-08-2021||India||Kerala Minister M K Muneer gets death threat for anti-Taliban post||Senior Muslim League MLA and former Kerala minister M K Muneer on Wednesday received an anonymous threat letter for posting on the social media a message against the brutality allegedly committed by the Taliban against the people of Afghanistan. Muneer said the letter he received this morning said that if he failed to withdraw the anti-Taliban post from his Facebook page in 24 hours, he and his family would be eliminated. The letter, written in the name of "Taliban Oru Vismayam" (Taliban, an amazement), said Muneer's Facebook post was based on his "anti-Muslim" views. The letter, posted from the Government Medical College area here, also warned that Muneer will meet the fate of Professor T J Joseph in Thodupuzha, whose hand was chopped off in 2010 on allegation of blasphemy. Muneer said he would file a complaint with the police, seeking an investigation into the matter. The Indian Union Muslim League leader had come under severe online attack for the anti-Taliban post last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Punjab Assembly polls to be fought under leadership of Amarinder Singh, says Rawat||AICC general secretary Harish Rawat on Wednesday said the next year's Punjab Assembly polls will be fought under the leadership of CM Amarinder Singh as four state ministers wanting the "ouster" of the chief minister met the Congress leader in Dehradun. Punjab ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi besides several Congress MLAs had on Tuesday sought the CM's removal, saying he failed to fulfil some key poll promises. The announcement by Rawat, who is the in-charge of Punjab affairs at the AICC, is being seen as a setback to the dissident leaders. There is no threat to the Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab and the party's victory prospects for the upcoming Assembly elections, Rawat told reporters in Dehradun. Before meeting the Punjab ministers and three party MLAs at a hotel in Dehradun, Rawat said, "We will fight the (Punjab) elections in 2022 under the leadership of Amarinder Singh." After meeting the Congress leaders, Rawat said they told him that they were not against any individual but were concerned about winning prospects of the party in the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Medical student from Uttar Pradesh gangraped in Mysore||A medical student studying in a private college in Mysore was allegedly gang-raped by unidentified people on the outskirts of the city near Lalitadripura, police said on Wednesday. The student, riding pillion with her male friend, was on her way to Chamundi Hills when a few people waylaid them on Tuesday. "The gang initially demanded money, but when they found nothing, attacked her friend and dragged her to a place where they committed the crime," police said. "The victim has been admitted to a hospital. Based on her complaint, a case of gang-rape has been registered against unknown people," police added. The Mysore police commissioner Dr Chandragupta visited the spot and formed multiple teams to probe the case. Reacting to the incident, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters in Delhi that he has directed the Director General of Police Praveen Sood to initiate steps to nab the culprits. "Based on the statement, a case has been registered. I have directed the DGP that whoever has perpetrated it, they should be identified and stringent action should be taken against them," Bommai said. Terming the incident unfortunate, State Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said he has directed the police to conduct a thorough inquiry and take stern action. Citing a preliminary report, he said four persons were involved in the crime. The Minister said he would visit Mysore on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Assaulted bangle seller in Indore arrested on molestation charges||A 25-year-old street vendor of bangles who was beaten up in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh a few days ago by a group of people has been arrested for allegedly touching a girl inappropriately and also for forgery, police said on Wednesday. Taslim Ali was thrashed in Govind Nagar here on Sunday for using a `fake' name while selling bangles to women in the locality. Four persons were arrested in connection with the assault. Ali, a native of Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh, himself has now been arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (POCSO) Act for allegedly touching a 13-year-old girl inappropriately, Indore Superintendent of police Ashutosh Bagri said. A police team has been sent to Hardoi to verify the two Aadhaar cards with different names recovered from Ali's bag, he said, adding that a burnt voter's identity card was also found in which the name of his father was mentioned as "Mohan Singh". Ali was produced through video link before special judge for POCSO cases Suman Shrivastav who remanded him in judicial custody till September 3, sources in the public prosecution department said. According to the police, a Class 6 student had lodged a complaint at Banganga police station here alleging that Ali had introduced himself as Golu, son of Mohan Singh when he arrived at her house to sell bangles on Sunday, and after describing her as very beautiful, he tried to touch her inappropriately. As per Ali's own complaint lodged at Central Kotwali police station on Sunday, five to six persons, who were part of a mob, started beating him up after asking his name. They also snatched away Rs 10,000 in cash, a mobile phone, Aadhaar card and other documents besides bangles worth over Rs 25,000, he alleged. A video of the assault also went viral on social media. On Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra had said that "those who carry two-three different identity cards are criminals". "Those who hide their names are criminals. Police have registered a case against those who have beaten up the man and arrested them, he said," responding to AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi's allegation that the BJP government in MP was shielding the accused who beat up Ali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||MiG 21 aircraft crashes in Rajasthan's Barmer||A MiG-21 fighter jet of the Indian Air Force crashed in a village in Barmer district on Wednesday following a "technical malfunction" during a routine trainee sortie but the pilot ejected safely, officials said. It is the fourth MiG-21 crash this year. The plane crashed in a largely uninhabited area in village Matsar at about 5.30 PM, they said, adding the IAF has ordered a Court of Inquiry. Defence spokesperson Lt. Colonel Amitabh Sharma said that the plane was on a routine training sortie. The pilot sustained minor injuries and was assisted by the local villagers. He was later taken to a hospital. "No loss of life has been reported. The debris of the plane, some of it on fire, was scattered in a large area," said a district official. The IAF tweeted, "At around 1730 hrs today, an IAF MiG-21 Bison aircraft airborne for a training sortie in the western sector, experienced a technical malfunction after take off. The pilot ejected safely." "A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause," it said. Sub-inspector Narpat Dan, who reached the spot, said that a thatched house in Dhani caught fire in the incident. Senior officials of the district administration and police also rushed to the crash site. Two pilots were killed in separate MiG-21 crashes in March and May in Gwalior (MP) and Moga (Punjab), respectively. Another MiG-21 Bison fighter plane had crashed at Suratgarh airbase of Sri Ganganagar district in Rajasthan in January, but the pilot survived. The Soviet-origin Mi-21 Bison is an upgraded version of the MiG-21 aircraft that the IAF began inducting in the 1960s. The IAF has lost many MiG-21s and other aircraft in accidents in the last few years. In June 2019, the Ministry of Defence informed Parliament that 27 IAF aircraft have crashed since 2016. At present, the IAF has around six squadrons of Mig-21 Bisons. A squadron comprises around 18 aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane: Not afraid of Shiv Sena, won't take back my words||A day after he was arrested for making controversial remarks against Uddhav Thackeray, Union minister Narayan Rane said even the Maharashtra chief minister had used unpalatable words while referring to BJP leaders Amit Shah and Yogi Adityanath. Speaking to reporters after securing bail from a Mahad court on Tuesday and further relief from the Bombay High Court on Wednesday, Rane also asserted that he is not afraid of the ruling Shiv Sena in the state. "I am not afraid of anyone and I am not backing out. My words were an expression of anger against the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) who forgot the year of India's Independence. I only told reporters what he had already said, so how can it be a crime," Rane said. Rane made the controversial remarks on Monday after which Shiv Sena workers lodged police complaints against him in several districts. Acting on these complaints, police arrested Rane and produced him before the Mahad court where he was granted bail late Tuesday night. Asked how he will criticise Maharashtra's Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance government, he said, "I will criticise using good words." Rane said Thackeray had ordered his party workers to break the jaws of people attacking the Sena Bhavan (party headquarters in Mumbai). "Thackeray had also said that Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath should be beaten up with sandals," Rane claimed. "Uddhav Thackeray also called Union Home Minister Amit Shah shameless. He even said he was using unparliamentary words deliberately to describe Shah. What a civilised language," Rane said. Referring to Shiv Sena leaders referring to his alleged crimes, Rane said, "If I was a gangster according to the Sena, that party made me the chief minister. Was it ok with the party? I will not sit quietly. We will use all parliamentary tools and legal powers and corner the MVA government in coming days." Asked about some Shiv Sena MLAs issuing verbal threats, Rane said, "I wonder whether they had ever killed a mouse."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Manish Sisodia cites Centre's letter, says it asked Delhi not to probe oxygen deaths||Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has told them that there is no need to form a panel to probe oxygen shortage-related deaths in the national capital as the Supreme Court-appointed task force is there to look into the matter. Sisodia said he had written to the Union Health Minister regarding the formation of the panel. Delhi LG Anil Baijal has twice rejected the city government's demand to form the panel, he said. "The Health Minister has written to us saying that there is a Supreme Court-appointed task force to probe the matter and has said there is no need for a probe panel. But the task force has the mandate to probe the demand and supply issues for the pandemic," he said in an online briefing. Mandaviya has said that out of the 12 points for reference for the SC panel, five are related to oxygen, the deputy chief minister noted and pointed out that none of these five points pertain to oxygen shortage-related deaths. "Such a big fraud has never happened in the country. If the SC-appointed panel is probing the deaths, why did the Centre ask states to give data on oxygen-related fatalities," Sisodia said. Centre does not want a probe into the deaths due to oxygen shortage because truth of their negligence will come out, he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Centre asks states to vaccinate school teachers ahead of Teachers' Day||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday said more than two crore additional Covid-19 vaccine doses are being made available to states this month and they have been asked to vaccinate all school teachers on priority before Teachers' Day on September 5. Schools across the country were closed in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of novel coronavirus infection. The Centre had allowed the reopening of schools as per the Covid-19 situation in October last year. While several states began partial reopening of schools, there was a complete closure again in April when an aggressive second wave of Covid-19 hit the country. With an improvement in the Covid-19 situation again, several states have begun reopening schools now even as concerns have been expressed over the staff and teachers not being completely vaccinated. “In addition to the plan to provide vaccines to every state this month, more than 2 crore vaccine doses are being made available. We have requested all states to try to vaccinate all school teachers on priority before Teachers' Day, which is celebrated on September 5,” Mandaviya said in a tweet in Hindi. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Wednesday with all states and Union Territories to review the progress of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. At the meeting, the states were advised to focus on enhancing second dose coverage as well as immunization of school teachers and staff, both government and private. States were apprised on prompt utilisation of Emergency Covid Response Package (ECRP) funds and also advised to ensure compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and other precautionary measures ahead of the upcoming festival season. Bhushan stressed on having a definite district-level plan to increase the coverage of the second dose. In line with the announcement made by the Union health minister, more than 2 crore additional vaccine doses will be dispatched to the states from August 27 to 31 to vaccinate school teachers and non-teaching staff on a priority basis, an official release said. States and Union Territories may use Unified District Information System of Education data and co-ordinate with the state education departments, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Navodaya Vidyalaya Sangathan and others providing a necessary fillip to this vaccination programme, it said. With the 50 per cent fund of ECRP-II package already disbursed to the states and UTs, they were advised to process procurement and supply orders immediately to procure equipment, machinery, beds and drugs in a time-bound manner. At the meeting, the states were also requested to make a month-wise expenditure plan and oversee corresponding physical progress on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Over 60 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India, says govt||The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 60-crore mark on Wednesday, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said. "Under PM @NarendraModi ji's #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine initiative, India crossed the 60 crore vaccination mark. Congratulations everyone!" he said in a tweet. India took 85 days to touch the figure of 10 crore. It then took 45 days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach 30 crore, the minister informed. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore and then 20 more days to cross 50 crore vaccinations on August 6. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark, Mandaviya said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Maha govt won’t take coercive action against Narayan Rane on Nashik FIR||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that it would not take any coercive action against Union Minister Narayan Rane in the FIR lodged in Nashik over his controversial remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar was hearing a petition filed by Rane, seeking to quash the FIR registered in Nashik and all other cases that may be lodged in future. Rane in his plea, submitted before the HC on Tuesday through his advocate Aniket Nikam, also sought interim protection from arrest. The Union minister was arrested on Tuesday afternoon from Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district following his remarks made during his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in Raigad on Monday that he would have slapped Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. He was granted bail by a court at Mahad in Raigad late Tuesday night and directed to appear before the office of Alibaug Superintendent of Police on August 30 and September 13. Following his remarks, four FIRs were registered against Rane - in Mahad, Pune, Thane and Nashik. Senior counsel Amit Desai, appearing for the state government, said no coercive action will be taken against Rane in the in the Nashik FIR till September 17, when the plea would be heard. Rane's advocate Satish Maneshinde sought protection in all cases that may arise out of the alleged statement. "We are yet to receive copies of the FIRs lodged in Pune and Thane. We are seeking protection in all cases that may emanate from the alleged press conference," Maneshinde said. Desai, however, said a blanket statement of protection cannot be made as the petition only mentions the Nashik FIR. The high court agreed and posted the matter for further hearing on September 17. The court said the petitioner (Rane) can amend the plea and bring on record all the FIRs. "You (Rane) amend the plea and bring all the FIRs. Then we will consider the issue of protection," Justice Shinde said. Desai told the court that the petitioner (Rane) should also desist from making such statements in future which may have some repercussions in the society. "The government's statement of no coercive action should not be misused and the petitioner should not make more such remarks," Desai said. Maneshinde, however, said he cannot give any such undertaking as the question is about his client's freedom of speech and liberty. Rane in his plea said he was falsely implicated in the case and that he was innocent. He also claimed that by registering multiple FIRs, the state government was causing harassment. "There is a possibility of many more such FIRs to be registered against the petitioner in different parts of the state out of political vengeance and grudge," the plea said. It further said the alleged statement made by him does not attract provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 153-B (1)(c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill-will). Rane's remarks against CM Thackeay triggered a political row and protests in parts of the state on Tuesday. The FIR in Mahad was registered under IPC sections 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 504 (intentional insult to provoke break of public peace) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief). The Nashik police have issued a notice to Rane, asking him to appear before them for questioning on September 2 in connection with the FIR registered against him there over his remarks against the CM. The FIR against Rane in Nashik was registered under IPC Sections 500 (defamation), 505(2), (public mischief) and 153(B) (1) (c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill-will), a police official earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-277
25-08-2021||India||Chidambaram arrives in Goa, to discuss strategy for 2022 polls||Former Union minister and newly-appointed AICC election observer for Goa, P Chidambaram, on Wednesday arrived in the coastal state for a two-day visit during which he is likely to discuss the party's strategy with local leaders for the Assembly polls, due in February next year. A senior Congress leader didn't rule out the possibility of Chidambaram holding pre-poll alliance talks during his visit. This is Chidambaram's maiden visit to Goa after he was appointed the AICC election observer for the coastal state. Earlier in the day, Chidambaram was received at the Goa airport by state Congress chief Girish Chodankar, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat and other leaders. Chidambaram, however, refused to answer the questions of reporters. Later later I am here, he told media persons. Chidambaram also didn't reply when asked if Congress will retain Girish Chodankar as the Goa unit president or replace him with an eye on polls. Meanwhile, Chodankar didn't rule out the holding of pre-poll alliance talks during Chidambaram's visit. "Everything related to upcoming elections would be discussed," he told PTI when asked about the possibility of Chidambaram holding pre-poll discussions. The Congress won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, restricting the main opponent BJP to 13. But the saffron party moved swiftly to ally with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. Over years, Congress's strength in the Legislative Assembly dwindled to five after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP. Chodankar had resigned last year after Congress fared poorly in Zilla Panchayat elections in Goa, but the party is yet to accept his resignation. As per speculation, Chodankar is likely to be replaced with another senior leader in the run-up to the Assembly polls. A Goa Congress functionary had said Chidambaram will meet leaders and discuss a party strategy for the polls during his visit. Chidambaram will interact with PCC office-bearers, frontal bodies of Congress, district and block presidents and receive inputs, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee vice president (Organisation) M K Sheikh had said. He will visit the Congress House in Panaji on August 25 and travel to the South Goa District Office of the party for a meeting on August 26, according to Sheikh. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already thrown its hat in the ring ahead of the polls, with the party's national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing free power up to 300 units per month if his party is voted to power during his visit to Panaji in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Majority of Indians experienced no or mild side effects after vaccination, says survey||Majority of Indians experienced no or only mild side effects after taking two doses of COVID-19 vaccines Covishield and Covaxin, a survey conducted across the country said. A massive COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched in India on January 16, with two vaccines -- Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech. Community social media platform LocalCircles said that according to its nationwide survey, "70 per cent of Indians after taking the first dose of Covishield and 64 per cent with Covaxin experienced no or mild side effects." Similarly, 75 per cent inoculated with the second dose of Covishield and 78 per cent with the second dose of Covaxin experienced no or mild side effects, it added. However, 30 per cent of those who were given the first dose of Covishield experienced side effects. Out of this, 29 per cent experienced fever and 1 per cent reported getting COVID infection, the survey said. Thirty per cent of those who took the first dose of Covaxin experienced fever while 1 per cent reported having a more serious condition than fever, and no one reported having a post vaccine COVID infection, it added. After having the second dose of Covishield, 20 per cent experienced fever, 4 per cent reported getting post vaccine 'COVID infection' and 1 per cent reported having a more serious condition than fever, the survey said. After getting inoculated with the second dose of Covaxin, 17 per cent experienced fever, 2 per cent reported getting post vaccine 'COVID infection' while 3 per cent reported having a more serious condition than fever, it added. "The survey received more than 40,000 responses from citizens residing in 381 districts of India. 62 per cent respondents were men while 38 per cent respondents were women," LocalCircles said. Forty-four per cent respondents were from tier 1, 31 per cent were from tier 2, and 25 per cent respondents were from tier 3, 4 and rural districts, it added. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India's COVID-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed the cumulative figure of 59.55 crore as per provisional reports till 7 am on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Afghan nationals must travel to India only on e-Visa henceforth, says Centre||The Union home ministry on Wednesday announced that all Afghan nationals henceforth must travel to India only on e-Visa in view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. The decision comes days after the government introduced a new category of visa called "e-Emergency X-Misc visa" for the Afghan nationals after the Taliban captured power in that country. "Owing to the prevailing security situation in Afghanistan and streamlining of the visa process by introduction of the 'e-Emergency X-Misc visa', it has been decided that all Afghan nationals henceforth must travel to India only on e-Visa," a home ministry statement said. The home ministry also announced that keeping in view some reports that certain passports of Afghan nationals have been misplaced, previously issued visas to all Afghan nationals, who are presently not in India, stand invalidated with immediate effect. "Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India may apply for e-Visa," it said. Officials said since Indian missions in Afghanistan are shut, the applications will be examined and processed in New Delhi. The "e-Emergency X-Misc visa" will initially be valid for six months, they said. All Afghans, irrespective of their religion, can apply for the travel document. Thousands of Afghans rushed into Kabul's main airport after the fall of the city to the Taliban, some so desperate to escape the insurgents that they held onto a US military plane as it took off and plunged to their deaths. India has evacuated all its embassy staff and several hundred Indians staying in Afghanistan. New Delhi has also evacuated many Afghans, including two MPs, Hindus and Sikhs who faced threats from the Taliban. The Taliban have already enforced their rule over the capital of five million people after a lightning advance across the country that took just over a week to dethrone the country's Western-backed government in mid-August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Delta Third Wave unlikely In India with sero-positivity at 86 per cent, say experts ||“I am predicting that, as of now, a Third Wave caused by the highly transmissible Delta variant is most unlikely,” says leading virologist Dr T. Jacob John, former head of ICMR’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology. John’s firm belief that a Third Wave caused by the Delta variant is unlikely to happen is backed by a CSIR study of its employees which is about to be released. In Delhi, the study found, 86 per cent of its unvaccinated employees and their families who were tested had Covid-19 antibodies. Similarly, Lucknow had high numbers and also Ghaziabad, on Delhi’s outskirts. Says Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, who headed the survey: “It wasn’t unique to Delhi. There were many other places with high numbers.” In Delhi, 850 unvaccinated CSIR employees took part in the survey. Most virologists say that 86 per cent positivity should be enough to create “herd immunity” even for a highly infectious virus like the Delta variant. But there is still the worry of variants that are more dangerous than the Delta emerging over time and experts say the war against Covid-19 is far from won. Virologist Shahid Jameel explains why the earlier herd immunity calculations were thrown out of the window because of the fast-spreading Delta variant. “The better the transmission of any pathogen, the higher is the threshold of herd immunity. The simple fact is that the faster something transmits the more immunity in a population will be required to prevent its spread,” he says. Dr Jameel is director, Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. Calculations out of gear When the Covid-19 pandemic erupted in 2020, most virologists and epidemiologists predicted that herd immunity would be attained when around 65 per cent to 70 per cent of the population had Covid-19 antibodies. But such calculations were thrown out of gear by the devastating Delta variant. ICMR’s fourth serosurvey conducted between May and early July, showed that 67 per cent of Indians were seropositive or had Covid-19 antibodies. But there were sharp regional variations with 79 per cent of people in Bihar having Covid-19 antibodies and only 44 per cent in Kerala. Since then, there have been further cases and this is certain to have pushed up the percentage of people with Covid-19 antibodies considerably. Hence another serosurvey is being done to gather the latest numbers. Demise of Delta Says John: “Now the question is supposing that serosurvey comes out to be 75 per cent? Will that preclude a third wave?” He continues: “It will preclude a third wave by the Delta variant. That’s because the Delta variant has died or dried out. Because the numbers are not sufficient.” On a similar note, World Health Organization’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan also in a TV interview said: “India could have reached some sort of endemicity.” She added: “It is feasible we may continue like this with a few local ups and downs.” Still, there remains the worry that more dangerous variants might emerge over the coming months and years. One possibility is the Delta variant antibodies could be ineffective against an even faster-spreading and nasty variant that challenges the effectiveness of existing vaccines. “The virus could mutate and become more lethal,” says Dr Partha Majumder, National Science Chair and distinguished professor, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics. Adds Dr Sandeep Juneja, dean, TIFR School of Technology and Computer Science: “Nobody envisaged the (Delta) variant that was so much more infectious.  That was very unexpected. For a couple of months, we were struggling to understand what was going on.” TIFR collaborated with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to conduct serosurveys in three city wards last year. The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency said Tuesday it reckoned that the Delta transmission is 1.6 times more than that of the Alpha variant and about twice as much as the original version of the virus. Second wave What’s called the Covid-19 ‘second wave’ began in late March and peaked on May 8 when a staggering 403,405 cases were reported. The number of daily cases fell below 1 lakh on June 7. Different government agencies have, however, forecast that a third wave could be round the corner. A Home Ministry panel warned on Monday that a Covid-19 pandemic could peak in October and might impact children more than in previous waves. Children are considered a “vulnerable population” as vaccinations for kids has not yet begun. The ministry recommended that paediatric wards get ready for such a contingency. More cautiously, Samiran Panda, chief of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research last month told The Hindu that a third wave, “is a distinct possibility although not inevitable as it is dependent on the scale and quality of appropriate public health measures.” He predicted this could possibly begin anywhere between August and October. No permanent herd immunity The CSIR study also points out that, “despite high seropositivity, Delhi was amongst the most affected cities during the second wave.” Adds Agrawal: “To create an outbreak in a city with such high antibodies you need something that will break through immunity.” However, he warns: “As we know by now there is nothing called permanent herd immunity. Our paper speaks of reinfections.” The study showed that 27 per cent of the cases were reinfections. At the other end of the spectrum, the CSIR survey reckons that seropositivity is still low in Kerala because the state was able to control infections there. Jameel points out crucially that a serosurvey only measures the presence of antibodies and that can be different from having immunity. “Just having antibodies doesn’t mean that you are protected. It depends on the quality of the antibody. It depends on whether you have good neutralising antibodies and good titres,” he said. “None of that information comes from a serosurvey. A serosurvey only tells you that 67 per cent of India on average has been exposed to the virus. It doesn’t mean 67 per cent is protected from the virus.” John, however, is confident that the Delta variant has done its worst in India. “I am predicting that as of now the third wave by the Delta variant is most unlikely.” He said there will be no further wave “unless a new variant appears on the scene.” Pace of vaccination In addition to the people infected by the Delta variant, in the last few months, the pace of vaccinations has also been picking up. John is highly critical of the vaccine programme, pointing out that only 13 per cent of the total population has received two doses. “Seven months after the approval of the vaccine, this is most disappointing,” he says. Nobody believes Covid-19 is about to do a disappearing act. One expert predicts: “It will slowly turn into influenza. It is here to stay and not about to vanish.” There could also be a dire scenario that could put us back at square one and undercut all the country’s Covid-control efforts. Says Juneja: “There is also a bad scenario: a variant that doesn’t respect any immunity we currently have.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Delhi HC to decide on Rakesh Asthana's appointment as top cop within 2 weeks||The Supreme Court Wednesday asked the Delhi High Court to decide within two weeks the plea pending before it challenging the appointment of senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner. The 1984-batch IPS officer, who had shifted to Union cadre from Gujarat and was earlier serving as the director general of Border Security Force, was appointed Delhi Police Commissioner on July 27, four days before his superannuation on July 31. He will have a tenure of one year as the police chief of the national capital. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant permitted NGO 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' (CPIL) to move to the Delhi High Court to intervene in the pending plea against the appointment of Asthana. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that some more time be given to the high court as the government will have to file its response to the pending plea there. The petition, moved by advocate Prashant Bhushan, urged the court to set aside the Centre's order to appoint Asthana after extending his service period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Modi says India firmly committed to move forward with goal of clean, modern mobility||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said holistic steps are being taken for the value chain associated with automobile manufacturing so that the industry becomes more productive and sustainable. In a message to the auto industry body Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) on its 61st Annual Convention, the Prime Minister also stated that India remained firmly committed to moving forward with the goal of clean and modern mobility while lauding the role of the industry in the country's progress. "The role of the automobile industry in India's economy and progress has been remarkable. From contributing significantly towards manufacturing to furthering exports, from creating numerous employment opportunities to adding to the ease of living for people, the sector has been a partner in India's growth story," Modi wrote in his message which was read out by SIAM President Kenichi Ayukawa. He further said, "Even during the nation's fight against COVID-19, the sensitive and active effort of the sector is deeply valued." Stating that modernity in mobility brings about a positive impact in almost every industry and every sector of the country, Modi said, "The 21st century India remains firmly committed to move forward with the goal of clean and modern mobility. Holistic steps are being taken for the value chain associated with auto manufacturing so that the industry becomes more productive and sustainable." He also reassured the auto industry that "all the stakeholders have an important role in our government's steadfast efforts to transform India into a global manufacturing hub". The presence of manufacturing units of global automobile manufacturers in India is reflective of a thriving ecosystem, Modi added. Reiterating that there are rapid changes taking place in technology, lifestyle and economy and old approaches and old practices have to be changed, he said "It is also crucial to protect our environment, resources and raw materials." For this reason, Modi said, "India is not only emphasizing on exploring new possibilities but also encouraging a circular economy. Recently launched National Automobile Scrappage Policy exemplifies this vision." The Prime Minister said as India celebrates the 75 years of Independence, the next 25 years are very important for the country. "We have to work together for the next generation infrastructure, world class manufacturing and new age technology. India is committed to providing its citizens with global standards in terms of quality and safety," he asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Maharashtra court grants bail to Narayan Rane||A court at Mahad in Maharashtra while granting bail to Union Minister Narayan Rane said his arrest over his controversial remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was justified, but his custodial interrogation was not necessary. The order was passed by the court late Tuesday night and a detailed copy of it was made available on Wednesday. "Considering the reason for the arrest and other reasons, I found that the arrest is justified," magistrate S S Patil said in the order. The court noted that while a few sections under which Rane was booked were non-bailable, they were not punishable with life or death. Considering these factors, no prejudice would be caused to the prosecution if the accused is released on bail, the court said, adding that "the accused shall not commit a similar type of offence". Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon from Ratnagiri district in Maharashtra following his remarks that he would have slapped Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. The Union minister was produced before magistrate Patil at Mahad in Raigad on Tuesday night. The police sought his custody for seven days, which the court refused and remanded him to judicial custody till September 4. Rane's advocates then moved a bail application. The plea was heard and Rane was granted bail on a surety of Rs 15,000. He was directed to appear at the office of the Superintendent of Police in Alibaug (Raigad) on August 30 and September 13. Rane's advocate Rajendra Shirodkar argued that the police had not followed the mandate of law laid down under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which says in cases where the arrest is not warranted, the police ought to first issue a notice/summons to the accused for questioning. However, the court in its order noted that in this particular section there are grounds given when the police officer can arrest a person without notice/summons. The magistrate, while refusing to grant Rane's custody to the police, noted that the alleged statement of the accused (Rane) was made before the media. "The informant (complainant in the case) himself alleged in the FIR that the accused made the statement before the media and it was viral on social media. Considering the nature of the offence, I do not find it necessary to hand over the accused in police custody," the magistrate said in the order. While arguing on Rane's bail plea, Shirodkar told the court that the accused was a senior citizen with roots in the society and hence, would not abscond. He further told the court that he had advised his client (Rane) not to make such statements in public in future, but Rane did not concede to such an undertaking quoting his liberty. The police opposed the bail plea, arguing that the accused was a Union cabinet minister and was making such irresponsible statements which would create disharmony in the society. The court in its order directed Rane to cooperate with the probe into the case and if police want a voice sample of the minister, then he (Rane) shall assist. The only rider is that the police shall give seven-day prior notice to the accused, it said. The court also noted that the police had not followed directions given by the Bombay High Court with regard to maintaining a proper case diary. Admittedly, the case diary produced before me are two papers which are not paginated, the magistrate said. Rane faces four FIRs in Maharashtra over his remarks, which triggered a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday. The FIR at Mahad was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 504 (intentional insult to provoke break of public peace) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||India logs over 37,000 fresh Covid cases, 648 casualties in a day||India logged 37,593 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases increased marginally to 3,22,327, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The total tally of COVID-19 cases increased to 3,25,12,366 and the death toll climbed to 4,35,758 with 648 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.99 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.67 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 2,776 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,92,755 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 51,11,84,547. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 30 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.92 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 61 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,17,54,281, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 59.55 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Wednesday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 648 new fatalities include 288 from Maharashtra and 173 from Kerala. A total of 4,35,758 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,36,355 from Maharashtra, 37,184 from Karnataka, 34,761 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,794 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,757 from Kerala and 18,383 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Woman who had set herself ablaze outside Supreme Court dies||A 24-year-old woman who had set herself on fire along with a man outside the Supreme Court here died on Tuesday, police said. The body was handed over to her family after post-mortem following which they cremated her at the Nigambodh Ghat here, they said. The woman had suffered 85 per cent burns in the incident on August 16. The man, 27, had suffered 65 per cent burns and succumbed to injuries on Saturday. Both were admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, "The woman succumbed to injuries during the course of treatment on Tuesday." Following the incident, police had registered a case under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. They suspected that the man had convinced the woman to take the extreme step. Police said she was from Uttar Pradesh''s Ghazipur and was allegedly raped by Bahujan Samaj Party MP Atul Rai in 2019. The MP has been in judicial custody in the case for the last two years, police said. According to police, before attempting suicide, the woman, together with her associate, had recorded a Facebook Live video in which she disclosed her identity and claimed that she had filed the rape case against Rai in 2019. She had alleged that some senior Uttar Pradesh police officers were supporting the accused. Earlier, a senior police officer had said that the man and the woman took the extreme step as a court had issued a non-bailable warrant against them in a case of forgery for allegedly submitting wrong proof of age in the rape case. In her Facebook video, the woman had mentioned the warrant and that she had been summoned by the judge, police said. According to police, in March, the woman had filed a plea in the Supreme Court, seeking transfer of her rape case from Allahabad to Delhi for a fair trial and claimed that she faced a threat to her life. Later in August, a local court in Varanasi issued a non-bailable warrant against her in the forgery case based on a complaint filed by Rai's brother, they said. Following the suicide attempt, two Varanasi policemen including Varanasi Cantt SHO Rakesh Singh and investigation officer Girija Shankar, probing the case of forgery against the rape victim were suspended and an inquiry was initiated into the matter, police had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Minimum temperature in Delhi settles above normal||The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 27.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, a notch above the normal, said the India Meteorological Department. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 64 per cent, they said. According to MeT officials, the maximum temperature will settle around 37 degrees Celsius. The weather department has predicted strong surface winds during the day time. Delhi's air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 8 am stood at 112. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-278
25-08-2021||India||Rahul alerts India’s youth to 'sale of national assets'||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked every patriotic Indian to oppose the “sale of national assets” and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of “attacking the future” of India’s youth to help a handful of industrialists. “Modi is not a Prime Minister. He is an instrument for doing a particular job for a few industrialists. He is attacking the future of our youth to serve the interests of three-four industrialists,” the Congress leader told a news conference. “Narendra Modiji ka ek aur BJP ka ek naara tha, ‘Sattar saal mein kuchh nahin hua’. Aur kal finance minister ne jo bhi sattar saal mein iss desh ki poonji bani thi usko bechne ka decision le liya. Matlab Pradhan Mantri ne sab kuchh bech diya (Narendra Modiji and the BJP had a slogan, that nothing was done in 70 years. And yesterday the finance minister took the decision to sell whatever wealth the country had created in 70 years. Meaning, the Prime Minister has sold everything),” he added. Rahul was referring to the government’s plans to farm out a vast trove of infrastructure assets to the private sector, announced on Monday. The Congress MP described the move as a direct fallout of the mishandling of the economy by the Modi government and a clear sign that it did not know what to do. “As a last resort, they are selling everything that we had helped create,” he added. Rahul contended that the youth would not get jobs after Modi succeeded in creating huge monopolies. “The whole idea behind this is to create monopolies... for three or four people. And my young friends who are today searching for a job cannot find a job… The reason you cannot find a job is that the entire small and medium industries are destroyed because the Prime Minister insists on building two or three monopolies that own everything in this country,” he said. “This is not just a gifting of India’s assets. This is going to ensure that the young people of India will not be able to find employment in the future.” Underlining that when he had warned about the coronavirus, he was ridiculed, Rahul added: “This thing (the farming out of assets) is going to ensure our young people do not get jobs. This is going to ensure that our entire industrial structure is controlled by two or three people. “So as a youngster, it is your duty, and my duty, to fight this and to make people understand what the Prime Minister is doing. The Prime Minister is not working for the people of India. The Prime Minister is working for two or three monopolists.” The Congress leader warned of profound social consequences. “When you cannot give jobs to people, it leads to social tension, social anger and then social explosion. So you will see dramatic increase in violence, a dramatic increase in anger, millions of youngsters who simply cannot have a future, who will look at the houses of these monopolists and wonder what went wrong with India. That is what is happening.” Rahul equated the Prime Minister’s perceived belief that a few large monopolists can transform India with the situation that led to the enslavement of India by the East India Company. “This is very dangerous for India. We saw a monopoly that the East India Company was. It enslaved India. We are again moving towards slavery. It is a huge tragedy. I urge every patriotic person, every nationalist, to oppose this. It is my duty and the duty of the youth to fight it.” Rahul dismissed the government’s claim that infrastructure assets that had been languishing were being used for resource mobilisation. “(Are) the railways languishing? Are trains not in use? National highways, telecom, gas pipelines, warehouses, the power sector — (all) languishing?” he said. Rahul contended that Modi’s policies were aimed at creating monopolies in the formal sector while destroying the informal sector. He countered the Centre’s argument that the assets were not being sold and only leased out, with the ownership remaining with the government. “Leasing is an excuse. The Indian people have put in thousands and thousands of crores of rupees to create such assets. Now you are going to take a little bit of rent and gift the assets to these people. “They don’t have the courage to say, ‘We are selling’. Who knows what will happen after 40 years? So the discussion on ownership will begin after 40 years. By that time the game is over. The reality is, Modi is gifting national assets built with enormous resources and labour by Indians to his friends.” Explaining the Congress perspective on privatisation, he said: “We had a logic. Strategic assets will never be privatised. We consider the railways strategic because (they are) the backbone of India and give jobs to a large number of people.” He added: “We sold industries which were chronically loss-making, had minimal market share and didn’t create private monopolies. All small and medium enterprises will (now) close down because of huge monopolies and jobs will disappear.” Without naming any industrialists, he said: “We all know who the airports and ports are going to. We know who is interested in warehouses. All these assets will go to three-four people.” Rahul wondered how the government decision would affect reservations and asked the Congress to examine the issues involved in detail and present its findings to the people. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram, who too was at the news conference, said: “What are the goals (of the handover exercise), what is the consultation with the stakeholders? They say they want to raise money. Can that be a goal in itself?” He added: “Can you sell assets built over 70 years with humongous amounts of money to raise money? It is closing-down sale. Virtually no public sector will remain after this.” Chidambaram, known as a champion of the free market and an advocate of privatisation, went on: “The government will get (Rs) 6 lakh crore in four years. The Prime Minister announced repeatedly that the national infrastructure project is worth Rs 100 lakh crore. What mathematics is this? This is a scandal. Unions, workers, the youth, citizens must start debating this. This is dangerous. The country must wake up.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Maha police arrests Narayan Rane for 'slap' threat to Uddhav ||Maharashtra police arrested Union minister Narayan Rane on Tuesday afternoon, the dramatic development threatening to escalate the war between the BJP and the Shiv Sena and wreck the oft-speculated possibility of a reconciliation between the estranged allies. The arrest in Maharashtra came after Rane threatened to “slap” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a speech on Monday night at a rally over the Sena leader’s Independence Day address. Rane was granted bail by a local court on Tuesday night. Rane was arrested at former RSS chief M.S. Golwalkar’s ancestral village of Golwali in Ratnagiri district. Maharashtra’s ruling coalition, always on tenterhooks over the recurring conjectures about a Sena-BJP patch-up, exhaled in relief while gearing for retribution from the Centre over the state government’s challenge to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s authority. Both the NCP and the Congress stayed off the controversy but condemned Rane’s indiscreet remarks. “(Uddhav) Thackeray forgot the year of India’s Independence during his August 15 address and had to check with his aide mid-speech,” Rane, Union minister of micro, small and medium enterprises, had said. “It’s shameful that the chief minister doesn’t know the year of Independence. He leaned back to ask about the count of years since Independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given him a tight slap.” Rane, 69, a former Shiv Sena chief minister of Maharashtra who had come to the BJP via the Congress, was arrested after a sessions court in Ratnagiri rejected his plea for anticipatory bail and Bombay High Court denied him protection. Earlier, as Sena workers filed a series of FIRs against him, Rane had boasted he couldn’t be arrested as he was no “normal (ordinary) man”. There’s no legal bar to arresting a Union minister or an MP. The police will now have to inform Rajya Sabha Chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu of the arrest. Although Centre-state confrontations have become routine at a time central agencies have been raiding Opposition politicians at the drop of a hat, a Union minister’s arrest is a rare occurrence. Chennai police had under the late Jayalalithaa arrested sitting Union ministers T.R. Balu and Murasoli Maran two decades ago. Union ministers like Kalpnath Rai, Sukh Ram and A. Raja had been arrested in corruption cases only after quitting their posts. A Congress leader gleefully argued that the rising tensions were political insurance for the state government. “Modi either digests this insult or burns his bridges with Uddhav; the choice is his,” he said. Rane’s comments touched a raw nerve among Shiv Sainiks because they were seen as a show of disrespect for the Thackeray family. Sena workers burst crackers and danced on the streets after his arrest. Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut has written to Modi demanding Rane be sacked for his remarks against Uddhav. Rane, who had been chief minister for a few months in 1999 with Balasaheb Thackeray’s blessings, quit the Sena in 2005 amid serious differences with the family, joined the Congress and held cabinet positions. He left the Congress to float his own party in 2017 before joining the BJP in 2018. The state BJP, which lacks much emotional attachment to the former Congress leader, initially appeared uninterested in protesting his arrest after distancing itself from the “slap” remark. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that though he disapproved of Rane’s comment, he was “personally” with Rane in this crisis. However, the Centre cannot take the issue lightly. Earlier, when the Uddhav government had arrested TV anchor and BJP favourite Arnab Goswami, the ruling dispensation at the Centre had hit back hard, forcing the exit of state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Modi talks to Putin on Afghanistan situation ahead of G7 meet ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin conversed over the phone ahead of Tuesday evening’s G7 meeting on the Afghan situation, and decided to establish a permanent channel of communication between their countries for bilateral consultations on Afghanistan. “Had a detailed and useful exchange of views with my friend President Putin on recent developments in Afghanistan,” Modi tweeted. “We also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including India-Russia cooperation against Covid-19. We agreed to continue close consultations on important issues.” The tweet was silent on the permanent channel of communication, which was later mentioned by the Kremlin in a statement that was translated by the Indian embassy in Moscow. “During the exchange of views on the situation in Afghanistan, the importance of coordinated efforts contributing to the establishment of peace and stability in the country, ensuring security in the region as a whole, was noted,” the Kremlin said. “The intention was to increase cooperation in countering the spread of terrorist ideology and the drug threat emanating from the territory of Afghanistan. It was agreed to form a permanent bilateral channel of consultations on this issue.” The Modi-Putin conversation was India’s first high-level engagement with regional stakeholders in Afghanistan. The Indian deputy national security adviser had met his counterpart in Moscow last week and discussed Afghanistan. Russia is among the few countries that have kept their missions in Kabul operational. Just as India fears that the Taliban’s control over Afghanistan might give a fillip to anti-India terrorist organisations, Moscow wants to secure its allies in Central Asia. As head of the Moscow-led military alliance — the Collective Security Treaty Organisation — Russia is obligated to ensure the defence of its allies. Although the Taliban are a banned organisation in Russia, the two have met —  including once in Moscow —  and the Islamist outfit has promised not to violate the borders of the Central Asian countries. While addressing the special session of the Human Rights Council on Afghanistan in Geneva, India’s permanent representative to the UN there, Indra Mani Pandey, said: “We hope the situation in Afghanistan does not pose a challenge to its neighbours and its territory is not used by terrorist groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed to threaten any other country.” On Afghanistan’s future, Pandey iterated that India hopes for an “inclusive and broad-based dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society”. “Voices of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities must be respected. A broad-based representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy,” he said. India has given the name “Operation Devi Shakti” to its evacuation/ repatriation exercise from Kabul. Another flight has brought in 78 evacuees via Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Among them were 44 Afghan Sikhs who brought along with them three Guru Granth Sahibs. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri was at the airport to receive one of the Guru Granth Sahibs, which were taken in a procession to the Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara at New Mahavir Nagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Covid: Kerala HC seeks explanation on Covishield 84 day dose gap||Kerala High Court has issued a notice to the Union health ministry seeking an explanation why the minimum gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine, the most widely used in India’s inoculation campaign, is 84 days in most cases. “The court asked the government whether the 84-day gap had been prescribed because of increased efficacy or shortage of vaccines,” said senior counsel Blaze K. Jose, who appeared for Kitex Garments Ltd. The court issued the notice after hearing a petition filed by Kitex, one of the biggest garment manufacturers in Kerala, which has sought permission to administer about 10,000 second doses of Covishield to its employees and their family members at a shorter interval. Jose told The Telegraph after Tuesday’s hearing that the sole argument the petitioner had offered was about the discrimination being made between segments of the population in determining the gap between the two doses. “Our only argument is that since sections of the population, such as those travelling abroad for studies and work, are being allowed to take two shots 28 days apart, why not allow those who are ready to purchase vaccines to follow the same regime?” Jose said. The case was adjourned to Thursday for the government to respond. Sajeev T.K., general manager of Kitex Garments, which is based at Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district, said the company had bought 10,000 doses of Covishield about a month ago to administer second shots. The doses were brought through a private hospital. The vaccine stocks are lying in the cold storage of the hospital at Muvattupuzha in Ernakulam. The company had administered the first dose to its employees and their family members in June. “No amount of requests to the state health department or the district medical officer has been of any help in speeding up the second dose. That’s why we went to court, seeking the same relaxation allowed to some sections of the population,” Sajeev told this newspaper. Sajeev questioned the logic of allowing a certain segment of the population to take two doses in under a month while the majority was being made to wait 84 days. “We are not asking for free vaccines. In fact, we are also paying the hospital a service fee of Rs 150 per dose from our coffers. All we need is permission to administer the second dose so that all our employees and their kin feel that much safer,” Sajeev said. Kitex has around 7,000 employees, many of them in the tailoring units. The company is apprehensive about outbreaks at the units in the absence of complete vaccination. “We have a fully certified vaccination centre that meets all parameters prescribed by the health department. The centre has resting areas and even facilities to handle any emergency. I don’t understand the government’s obstinacy in not reducing the gap, especially with Covid cases so high in Kerala and a third wave appearing imminent,” he added. Kerala has been reporting the highest number of daily Covid cases in the country for over a month, with the figures mostly staying above 20,000. Although the fatality rate is low at 0.51 per cent, the test positivity rate has remained high — around 15-18 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Scientists discover mathematical law in how elephants use trunks||Scientists have discovered a mathematical law in how elephants use their trunks and a physics principle in how ants build underground tunnels. The researchers said these studies could throw up lessons in engineering from the natural world. Two research groups independently announced on Monday the results of efforts by one to probe the biomechanics of trunk manipulation by elephants and by the other to investigate how ants build complex networks of tunnels to create underground cities. Biologist Michel Milinkovitch and his colleagues at the University of Geneva, Switzerland, have found that the myriad movements of an elephant’s trunk emerge from a combination of a set of around 20 basic movements, such as the propagation of inward curvature and the formation of virtual joints. While elephant trunks are continuous and flexible along their entire length, coordinated contractions of the muscles during trunk movements lead to twisting, bending, lengthening and stiffening without any bone support. The Geneva group has found that elephants use a unique strategy to reach for objects on their sides — they turn their otherwise flexible and continuous trunk into rigid segments as if connected by joints, just like the human elbow or the wrist. The scientists have also found that the trunk obeys a mathematical law similar to one observed in human hand drawings. “How much the trunk slows down when following a curve can be predicted precisely on the basis of local curvature on that path,” Milinkovitch said in a media release from the university. “Remarkably, such a mathematical relation between speed and path curvature also exists for human hand drawings.” The researchers, who have published their findings in the journal Current Biology, said their results could find use in the development of bio-inspired robots that could detect, reach, grasp or manipulate objects using elephant trunk mechanics. At the California Institute of Technology in the US, civil engineer Jose Andrade and his colleagues used 3D X-ray CT imaging devices and other equipment to observe ant tunnelling mechanisms. They expect their findings to help in robotic excavations. “Subterranean-nesting ants execute an innate tunnelling behavioural programme that can lead to remarkably stable tunnel excavation,” the researchers said, describing their findings in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. In laboratory setups intended to mimic underground soil, the scientists observed that the ants tried to be as efficient as possible. They dug their tunnels as straight as possible and as steeply as they could, right up to what engineers would call the “angle of repose”. The angle of repose is the steepest angle at which a granular material — such as soil grains — can be piled up before it all collapses. Ants appear to sense how steep that angle is for whatever they’re digging through and do not exceed that angle, Andrade said in a media release from the university. The scientists also found something that could help engineers in tunnel building. As the ants remove soil grains, they cause a rearrangement in the force chains around the tunnel, strengthening the tunnel walls and relieving the pressure at the end of the tunnel, allowing safer excavation. But, the scientists say, how hundreds of ants work in unison during tunnel construction remains unknown. They believe the digging plan does not exist within any single ant. “It is emergent colony behaviour of all these workers acting like a super-organism,” Andrade said. “How that behaviour is spread across the tiny brains of all these ants is a wonder of the natural world we have no explanation for.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Bhupender Yadav launches logo of National Database of Unorganised Workers||Mohammad Arif, a wedding singer from Meerut who is paralysed below the waist, has had no work since the Covid second wave hit in early summer. The 48-year-old father of five used to sing at weddings sitting in a chair and earned about Rs 7,500 a month. His wife Sayeeda, who has a paralysed right arm, is a homemaker. Arif is happy that the Centre will on Thursday start registering informal workers to create a long-awaited national database, but said the government “must also ensure that workers, particularly urban workers, get work”. “The database is a good initiative. But there should also be job schemes for the urban poor,” he said. Labour minister Bhupender Yadav on Tuesday launched the logo of the new portal for the creation of the National Database of Unorganised Workers (NDUW). A presentation made at the meeting said every registered worker would get a unique 12-digit number and be linked to the government’s social security schemes. The huge exercise, which aims to register the country’s estimated 38 crore unorganised-sector workers, will be spearheaded by the states in collaboration with the trade unions. Tapan Sen from CPM workers’ wing Citu said several past laws like the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, and the Building and Other Construction Workers Act, 1996, too mandated the registration of all the workers in their domains but were never implemented properly. The absence of such registration had deepened the stranded migrant workers’ misery during last year’s lockdown, hobbling efforts to reach them with food and relief. “This database is being created because of a Supreme Court directive,” Sen said. He cautioned that the government should do everything to make the database thorough, especially with the apex court having set a short deadline of December 31 for its completion. Ashok Singh of Congress labour arm Intuc too said the government should start a job scheme for urban people on the lines of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. “Unorganised-sector workers, including migrant workers, make up 90 per cent of the workforce. A database of workers is important,” he said. “But some income assurance opportunities too must be started to help them during a lean period,” Singh said. A parliamentary standing committee on labour has supported the idea of an urban employment scheme similar to the MGNREGA. Amarjeet Kaur, a leader of CPI labour arm Aituc, said the government must not rely on the existing but incomplete databases maintained by its workers’ boards. “The existing data with the construction workers’ board or the beedi workers’ federation cover only 10 to 15 per cent of the workers in these fields,” she said. “The new database should be a fresh exercise covering all.” Arif got his Ayushman Bharat card just four days ago, three years after the Centre launched the health insurance scheme that aims to cover 10 crore poor families. He hopes the NDUW card will not take that long.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Gupkar alliance warns Centre against humiliation of Kashmiris||The six-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on Tuesday warned the Centre of “harmful” consequences if it continued to “humiliate” Kashmiris. The alliance leaders stepped up the ante three days after PDP leader and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti referred to the developments in the neighbourhood while telling the Centre to rectify its “mistake” in Kashmir, appearing to refer to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The leaders of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration who met on Tuesday at chairman Farooq Abdullah’s residence did not mention the happenings in Afghanistan but sent out a stern warning to the Centre and criticised the judiciary for the alleged delay in starting the proceedings in petitions challenging the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. “We will take this petition (seeking redress of issues related to Kashmir) to the country and its people. Through you, we are telling civil society, media houses, journalists and Parliament that Kashmiris are being humiliated. It should stop. Its consequences won’t be good but harmful for the country and the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” alliance spokesman and CPM veteran M.Y. Tarigami told reporters after the meeting in the presence of Farooq, Mehbooba and other leaders. Tarigami said the people of Jammu and Kashmir wanted their rights and also to live like others, with their heads held high. “We don’t want a life of humiliation. The government has pledged that it will continue to humiliate us. They see our humiliation as their glory, which is not acceptable to us,” he said. In a resolution, the Gupkar alliance said the August 5, 2019, decision to nullify Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and turn it into two Union Territories, the other being Ladakh, had created a big political void and deep uncertainty. “It is most unfortunate that the judicial challenges against this abrogation as a violation of the Constitution continue to remain pending before the Supreme Court even after two years,” the resolution said. The court is hearing multiple petitions challenging the decisions. The resolution said suppression of civil liberties and democratic rights continued unabated in Jammu and Kashmir as hundreds remained in detention although charges had not been framed under the anti-terror UAPA and the Public Safety Act. “New orders are being passed like non-clearance of passports and government services to anyone involved in ‘law and order’ or ‘stone pelting cases’. This negates the principle of natural justice by equating a police report with being guilty and being denied all these services. Jurisprudence underlines that everyone is innocent till proven guilty,” the alliance resolution said. It said the protection of jobs and land rights had been snatched arbitrarily from locals, which had deepened the sense of insecurity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Many OBC students miss out on scholarship for higher education||Thousands of Other Backward Class students are missing out on a scholarship for higher education because the government hasn’t taken the trouble to tell them about it. Thousands of others are being denied the assistance because of a stringent income cut-off. Pankaj Kumar of Rupsagar village in Bihar’s Buxar district had not even heard of the Post-Matric Scholarship when he needed the money the most. Nor would it have helped if he had. For his parental income was higher than the threshold Rs 1.5 lakh a year, making him ineligible for the scholarship. Pankaj is the eldest of the three children of a clerk in the Bihar government’s irrigation department. His father, however, could not pay for his higher studies in Delhi after he finished his schooling from a Bihar government school. “I worked with the administrative wing of a Delhi NGO to pay for my living and study expenses. Had I got the scholarship, I would have performed better in my exams,” Pankaj said. After earning his BA from Dyal Singh College, Delhi University, Pankaj did his LLB from Delhi University’s faculty of law and is now an intern with a Delhi law firm. He has been selected for the LLM course this year. “I’m the first in my family to study at a central university. Apart from the issue of eligibility, nobody had ever told me about this scholarship,” he said. “Many of my friends in Bihar who would have met the income cut-off never applied because they hadn’t heard of it, either.” While the income threshold is Rs 1.5 lakh for OBC students, it’s Rs 2.5 lakh a year under the Post-Matric Scholarship scheme for Scheduled Caste students. For Rosalini and Rubina, daughters of Prasanna Pradhan, an OBC farmer from Kapileswarpur village in Odisha’s Puri district, the problem has solely been of a lack of awareness. Rosalini is a BA student at Puri’s SCS College while Rubina is enrolled in the Plus II course. Prasanna said he had to borrow from neighbours to pay for his daughters’ education. Had the sisters applied with all the necessary documents for the scholarship, the elder would have received a monthly aid of Rs 400 and the younger, Rs 260. Hostel boarders are eligible for Rs 260 to Rs 750 a month — depending on the  course — while day scholars get Rs 160 to Rs 260. Both sisters are in  hostel. “I didn’t know of any scholarship for OBC students to pursue higher studies,” Prasanna said. An official said the Odisha government’s ST & SC development, minorities and backward classes welfare department uploads the details of all scholarships on its website. OBC activists, however, said the central and state governments should do much more to spread awareness about the scholarship. “When OBC students are in school, we take the initiative to get them to fill in the application forms for the Pre-Matric Scholarship and attach the necessary documents,” Dwarikanath Biswal, a teacher at the Atibadi Jagannath Das High School in Puri district, said. “But once they leave school after the board exams, they don’t get any guidance  and mostly don’t apply.” Biswal’s comments carry an ominous implication at a time schools have been closed because of the pandemic. Rabi Behera, president of the Samajwadi Party’s Odisha unit, blamed the “indifference” of the bureaucrats their political masters and the colleges. “The Scheduled Castes are well aware of the Post-Matric Scholarship meant for them because it’s been there from before Independence,” he said. “But the equivalent scholarship for OBCs was started in 1998.” Nearly 60 lakh Dalit students got the Post-Matric Scholarship in 2019-20 while only 41 lakh OBCs did. Behera said OBCs made up 43 per cent of the country’s population while the Dalits were 16.6 per cent. According to the official All India Survey on Higher Education, 3.85 crore students were enrolled in higher education, of whom 1.42 crore (36.9 per cent) were OBCs and 56.57 lakh (14.7 per cent) were Dalit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Centre opposes Bombay High Court skin contact sexual assault verdict||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court the much-criticised Bombay High Court ruling that groping a child’s breasts without “skin-to-skin contact” did not amount to sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was “outrageous” and would have “far-reaching consequences” if not quashed. “For tomorrow, any person who wears a surgical glove and feels the entire body of a woman… without penetration, then the minimum punishment of three years wouldn’t apply to him. This is outrageous. The judge clearly didn’t see the far-reaching consequences,” attorney-general K.K. Venugopal told an apex court bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi. The Supreme Court had in January stayed the judgment passed by Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, acquitting a man convicted of pressing the breasts of a 12-year-old over her dress. The Centre had rushed to the top court, seeking a stay on the judgment. When the matter came up for hearing on Tuesday, Venugopal argued that the high court order could not be sustained as the legislative intent of the Pocso Act would be defeated. He pointed out that in the past one year, 43,000 Pocso-related cases had been filed, indicating that there was a rising trend of sexual assault on children. “It’s an outrageous judgment so far as Pocso is concerned. She (the judge) said skin-to-skin contact is required, which would result in a person wearing gloves and getting an acquittal,” Venugopal said. “…The girl was taken by the man, (he) touched her breast and pulled her salwar. (She) yelled. The mother found her daughter and filed a complaint,” the AG said, reading out from the high court judgment. The Maharashtra government had challenged a similar verdict by Bombay High Court in another case, which was also listed before the top court. In the second case, also heard by Justice Ganediwala, the high court had ruled that an accused opening the zip of his trousers before a five-year-old girl would not amount to sexual assault under the Pocso Act. The Supreme Court adjourned the two matters till September 14 as the accused persons were not represented by any lawyer despite notices being served on the duo in January. The court had earlier appointed senior advocate Sidharth Dave as an amicus curiae to assist it in the matter. The Supreme Court passed the following order: “According to the Office Report dated 23.08.2021, service of show-cause notice is complete in all the matters. However, none has entered appearance on behalf of the accused. Since the accused are not being represented, we direct the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee… to make available services of any Senior Advocate from the Panel of the Committee along with any other Advocate-on-Record to appear on behalf of the accused. “It may be stated here that there are two sets of accused in these matters. It will be entirely up to the Committee to have different sets of Counsel representing the accused or to have the same set of Counsel representing the cause of all the accused. “Let the papers be submitted to the Committee today itself to enable it to take appropriate steps in the matter. List all these matters for final disposal on 14.09.2021.” Justice Ganediwala’s judgments in January had triggered outrage among the civil society and women’s rights organisations. In the first case, Satish had been handed a three-year jail term by a lower court for sexually assaulting the 12-year-old girl. But Justice Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court had ruled there must be “skin-to-skin contact with sexual intent” for it to be considered sexual assault under the Pocso Act. “The act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of sexual assault,” the judge had said. However, Justice Ganediwala had added that under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 354 (assault or criminal force to outrage a woman’s modesty), “the act of pressing breast can be a criminal force to a woman/ girl with the intention to outrage her modesty”. Punishments for sexual assault under the IPC tend to be lighter compared to those for similar offences under the Pocso Act. In the other case, Justice Ganediwala had acquitted a 50-year-old man of charges under the Pocso Act on the ground that the offence of opening his trousers’ zip before the five-year-old girl did not invite an offence under this law since there was no actual penetration. A trial court had sentenced the man to five years’ imprisonment under the Pocso Act. The high court had, however, sentenced him to five months in jail for outraging the girl’s modesty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Veterans question Rajnath Singh's defence manufacturing hub claim||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said India would emerge as the defence manufacturing hub of the world under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, prompting some veterans to point to India’s still-nascent indigenous capabilities in production. Addressing a gathering on the handing-over ceremony of “Made in India” multi-mode grenades to the Indian Army in Nagpur, Rajnath said: “The speed with which our industries are progressing and contributing to our defence production, I am sure soon India will become the defence manufacturing hub of the world.” The hand grenades have been manufactured by the Nagpur-based Economic Explosive Ltd, a private entity, in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Rajnath said: “Our private industry is coming of age when it comes to defence production. It is an important milestone not only in defence manufacturing but also in achieving Atmanirbhar Bharat as envisioned by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” A military veteran said later that in August last year the Centre had said it would stop importing items, including weaponry, in a phased manner to strengthen the country’s defence production. “India does not have enough indigenous capability to produce artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars, but the government has been claiming to make India the world’s defence manufacturing hub,” he said. Artillery, guns, sonar systems and light combat helicopter radars are still at various stages of development by the DRDO. Another veteran said: “The defence minister should talk in detail on how India can be self-reliant in the defence sector without developing robust indigenous manufacturing capabilities.” A retired lieutenant general said if critical components continued to be imported and assembled in India, the country could not be called self-reliant in defence. “We need to first build indigenous capability and develop new technologies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-279
25-08-2021||India||Biju Janata Dal rakes up issue of caste-based census in Odisha||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) on Tuesday raked up the issue of caste-based census in Odisha, putting the ball into the Centre’s court. With the BJD joining Nitish Kumar-led JDU in seeking caste-based census, the demand is getting louder. Some other allies of the NDA have also raised the issue of caste-based census in the country. However, political analysts think that the Centre is reluctant to do so as this could open a Pandora’s box, changing political equations and affecting the NDA’s support base. The BJD roped in two of its senior ministers Ranedra Pratap Swain and Arun Kumar Sahoo to raise the issue of caste-based census. Earlier on August 13, the party had announced to give 27 per cent reservations to people belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in panchayat elections scheduled to be held in February. Raising the issue of caste-based census, Swain said: “Chief minister Naveen Patnaik had earlier raised the issue. We must know the exact population of the backward classes so that steps can be taken up for their development. NDA allies have also raised the issue.” Targeting the Centre for its failure to take up a caste-based census, Swain said: “After the Centre rejected Odisha’s demand, the state cabinet meeting was held under the chairmanship of chief minister Naveen Patnaik on January 11, 2020, and the cabinet approved a proposal for caste-based census. Later the state government on February 12, 2020, had constituted the state commission for OBC.” The two ministers said: “Later, on February 17, 2020, the Naveen Patnaik government had passed a unanimous resolution to amend the Odisha State Commission for Backward Classes Act 1993 to enable the state government to make a survey of the social and educational condition of the people belong to the backward classes.” Both the ministers asserted that the number of OBC and the socially and economically backward classes is more than half of the population of Odisha and it is high time to remove the 50 per cent cap on reservation. Stating that it’s the job of the Centre to organise a caste-based census and move the Supreme Court for repeal of the provision of 50 per cent cap on reservation, the ministers said: “While political parties with allegiance to the BJP have raised their voice in support of repealing the 50 per cent cap on reservation, the silence of the BJP on the caste-based census shows its apathy towards OBCs.” However, the state BJP demanded that the Odisha government should fist implement 27 per cent reservation for OBCs in jobs. “The Odisha government is cheating the people. The Centre has implemented 27 per cent reservation for OBCs in jobs but state’s existing OBC quota is 11.25 per cent,” BJP’s OBC Morcha state president Surath Biswal said. Meanwhile, former union minister Srikant Jena in a letter to the chief minister urged him to take an all-party delegation to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. “The Odisha government should pass a resolution in the state Assembly for a caste-based census and to go above the 50 per cent stipulated reservation policy,” Jena said. At present people belonging to the SC and ST categories are availing 39 per cent reservations and the OBCs are getting 11.23 per cent reservation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
25-08-2021||India||Mustard oil worth Rs 40 lakh looted from truck in Bihar||Mustard oil, with its prices skyrocketing, is the latest target of criminals in Bihar. They looted a truck loaded with mustard oil bottles, pouches and cans worth Rs 40 lakh from Muzaffarpur, around 75km from the state capital, and made good their escape, only to be nabbed by the police a day later on Tuesday. However, by that time they had sold around 500 cartons or 20 per cent of the total 2,500 cartons being transported in the truck. Efforts are on to trace out the people or traders who purchased them from the desperados. The mustard oil-laden truck was taking the consignment to Chhapra in Saran district. It halted at a place on National Highway 28 in Muzaffarpur and its driver Rajesh Kumar stepped down to visit his nearby residence for dinner and catch some sleep. His helper Mahendra Kumar slept in the vehicle. A group of six people came in a car. Some of them boarded the truck, held Mahendra captive and fled with the vehicle. When the helper resisted, he was badly beaten-up and thrown on the road. A police patrol car noticed Mahendra lying unconscious on the side of the road on Monday morning and took him to a nearby government hospital. He regained consciousness after some time and told the police about the incident. Muzaffarpur (town) deputy superintendent police (DSP) Ram Naresh Paswan told reporters that the police officials swung into action and discovered from footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area that the looted truck was being taken towards Vaishali district. They also contacted truck’s owner Rajesh Kumar. “We got some leads and guessed that the truck was being taken towards Patna. We issued an alert all around so that it could be apprehended. We also relayed a message about the truck’s registration number,” Paswan said. The truck was traced to Nawada on Tuesday. The police recovered it and arrested seven persons, including four accused of looting it and three traders. “Around 500 cartons of mustard oil are missing from the truck. The robbers had struck a deal to sell the remaining oil to traders in Jharkhand and were on the way with the vehicle. We are interrogating them further,” one of the police official said. Truck’s owner Manoj said that he had never heard about mustard oil being looted. “Mustard oil is a cooking essential in several states of the country and its retail price has jumped to around Rs 200 per litre these days. It seems the people involved in looting the truck were lured by the high price and demand of the commodity,” Manoj added. Retail price of mustard oil in Bihar has increased by around Rs 40 to 50 per litre over the last two months. Marijuana seized A joint team of excise and police officials apprehended a container truck in Barachatti in Gaya district of Bihar and seized 1,100kg of marijuana on Tuesday. One person has been arrested with the vehicle, while two of his accomplices managed to escape. The seizure was based on intelligence inputs and the contraband was being transported from Cuttack in Odisha to Haryana. It was hidden in a specially constructed secret chamber in the container. Excise officials said that the marijuana consignment would be worth between Rs 2 crore and Rs 3 crore in the market. Earlier, a truck carrying 700kg was seized at Rajapakar in Vaishali district of Bihar on Monday. The sacks of narcotic weed were hidden in a consignment of papayas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-280
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams Centre over National Monetisation Pipeline policy||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday slammed the Centre over its National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) policy, claiming that it is a ploy to sell assets that belong to the country and not to Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the BJP. Terming the NMP as a "shocking and unfortunate decision", the Trinamul Congress supremo alleged that the money raised by selling those assets will be used during elections against opposition parties. "We condemn this shocking and unfortunate decision. These assets belong to the country. It is the property of neither Modi nor the BJP. They (central government) can't just sell a country's assets as per their whims and fancies," Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat Nabanna. The entire country will stand together and oppose this "anti-people" decision, she said. "The BJP should be ashamed. No one has given them the right to sell our nation's assets," she said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Class 10 syllabus to reduce by up to 35 per cent||The syllabus for the class 10 board exams in 2022 will be substantially reduced, the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education announced. Teachers said that the decision was taken as no classes were held on school campuses for over a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, the board said on Tuesday there will be 30-35 per cent reduction in the curriculum of all seven subjects for class 10 students who will appear in the Madhyamik Pariksha next year. The decision has been brought to the knowledge of headmasters, teachers and students of all affiliated schools, it said. The headmaster of a state-run school in Jadavpur said students were facing difficulties due to the suspension of classes on campus, and online classes were less than adequate for an average student to complete the entire syllabus. "In such a situation, the board has taken a pragmatic decision," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||February 17 Nimtita railway station blast aimed to kill then minister Jakir Hossain: NIA||The blast at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad on the night of February 17 was aimed at killing Jakir Hossain, the then Bengal minister of state for labour, and explosives used were high-grade IEDs, the National Investigation Agency said in its chargesheet. The NIA has slapped charges under the UAPA on the two prime accused. The blast occurred around 10pm when Jakir and 26 others were about to board the Sealdah-bound Teesta Torsa Express from  Nimtita station. All the injured, including Jakir, had received multiple splinter injuries and were rushed to Calcutta’s SSKM hospital. In its chargesheet submitted to Bankshall court here on Tuesday, the NIA said Shahidul Islam  and Abu Samad, the two prime accused, had “hatched a criminal conspiracy” to kill Jakir and his supporters “in order to strike terror in the minds of the people” and to derail the Assembly elections between March and April, 2021. Immediately after the incident, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had set up a special investigation team while handing over the probe to the state CID. The CID arrested Shahidul and Samad and recovered pieces of iron containers, capacitors and parts of batteries used in two-wheelers from the site. The NIA, which took over the probe on March 2, said in its chargesheet that improvised explosive devices were used in the blast. Shahidul allegedly procured items for making the IED from shops in Suti, Murshidabad. “He held several meetings with Samad for the final selection of the site for executing the conspiracy,” the chargesheet said. “Both the accused persons had also unsuccessfully tried to destroy the phones used by them for misleading the investigating agency.” Officers said the two had tried to destroy a mobile phone and, unable to do so, had dismantled it and hidden the parts in a tree in a mango orchard in Suti. The NIA also sought the court’s permission to continue with the probe and unearth the bigger conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Torsha river erodes homes in Cooch Behar town ||Residents in two municipal wards of Cooch Behar town have been spending sleepless nights for the past couple of days because the Torsha river that skirts the district headquarters has started eroding land from these two wards. In the past 24 hours, at least 55 houses have been damaged in erosion in wards 16 and 18. The dwellers have moved to safer places with their belongings as the river is continuously gobbling up chunks of land. “A few days back, the water level of the Torsha river increased with consistent rainfall. Since Sunday, the water level receded but simultaneously, erosion started in wards 16 and 18. The river damaged my house and I became homeless overnight. We could save some of our belongings. The way the river is eroding land, it seems a considerable portion of these wards will vanish from the town’s map,” said Harish Roy, one of the affected residents. He said erosion was the worst in Phansir Ghat of ward 16, where he stayed. From Phansir Ghat, some take boat rides to the district headquarters, he said. Rapid erosion has also damaged a portion of the embankment that guards the town from the river. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, most of us have lost our earnings considerably and somehow run our families with difficulty. Now we have lost our homes too and don’t know where to go with our families. The district administration should help us so that we can set up at least a hutment at a safer place,” said Minati Roy, another affected resident from ward 16. In Cooch Behar town, hundreds of families live along the banks of the Torsha and face floods during monsoon. This time, erosion is a fresh poser. Officials of the district administration said they were keeping watch. “We are extending all possible help to the affected families. Our officers are vigilant to ensure there is no mishap because of erosion,” said Sheikh Rakibur Rahaman, Cooch Behar SDO. The other major town by the Torsha is Phuntsholing in Bhutan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Four students’ associations back Visva-Bharati’s rusticated trio||At least four students’ associations in Bengal have called for rallies in support of three students rusticated by Visva-Bharati authorities on Monday night. Old-timers of the varsity also dubbed the rustication as part of an “anti-student” environment being created during the tenure of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, who allegedly has saffron leanings. The three students — Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan of the economics department and Rupa Chakraborty of Hindustani classical music — were rusticated on Monday night for their alleged “gross indiscipline and misconduct” in January last year. The rustication letters stated the decision was taken based on an inquiry report by a varsity committee set up to look into the role of the trio during a campus protest on January 9, 2020. They had been suspended nine months ago. CPM’s students’ wing SFI called for a two-day protest across the country from Tuesday. The Bengal chapter of the All India Students Association (AISA) called for statewide protests for two days from Wednesday. The Progressive Democratic Students’ Federation (PDSF) has called a protest rally at the Shyambazar five-point crossing in Calcutta on Wednesday. The Presidency University Students’ Council demanded the rustication be rescinded and announced a protest rally on Wednesday. Srijan Bhattacharya, SFI state secretary, said: “On Tuesday, our unit at Jadavpur University campus held protests. They will also start a campaign to boycott a book written by Bidyut Chakrabarty, which is part of the syllabus. Protests will be held at Presidency University. We will wait till August 27 for Visva-Bharati to come up with a solution.” The three students have been asked to appear before the varsity authorities on August 27 in case they have anything to say on the rustication. Old-timers on campus pointed out several instances of alleged anti-student measures by the varsity during Chakrabarty’s tenure. In January 2020, Visva-Bharati evicted a student from his hostel on the charge of video-recording vice-chancellor Chakraborty’s Republic Day speech, in which he made comments on the Constitution in the backdrop of protests against the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Sow and Pan were among students who had filed a police complaint against the VC, after a purported video had him remarking that students who gheraoed him and BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta in a January 9, 2020 lecture to support the citizenship matrix of the Narendra Modi government should be given a dose of medicine. “It is really rare to see students being rusticated here since Rabindranath Tagore’s time. I can hardly recall if any one of our students was rusticated even in the early 1970s (a tumultuous time of unrest for Bengal),” said Sabuj Kali Sen, former officiating vice-chancellor and an old-timer. “Is this how Rabindranath Tagore envisaged the institution he founded?” asked Sudripta Tagore, a member of the Tagore family and principal of an English medium school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Heritage tag worry for ‘privatised’ toy train ||The Centre’s plan to lease out the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway — a world heritage site recognised by the Unesco — to private players under its National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) project has raised concerns on whether its heritage status would be preserved though some tourism stakeholders think the move may result in bettering the services. “What concerns us is whether the heritage status of the DHR can be maintained if handed over to a private company,” said Raj Basu, secretary general, DHR India Support Group, adding the Centre has to ensure the private group concerned does it. Set up in 1879, the DHR is the sole heritage property of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) zone. In 2017, when the statehood agitation had rocked the hills, the world heritage committee of Unesco had expressed concern about the DHR and had written to Indian Railways. The railways signed an agreement with Unesco for a comprehensive conservation and management plan (CCMP). “Now, the railways should confirm if the private company concerned will adhere to the CCMP. Also, it will be odd if in due course, billboards and banners of products hang outside coaches or at the century-old stations,” said a tourism stakeholder in Siliguri. The DHR apart, other signature mountain railways such as Nilgiri (Tamil Nadu), Kalka-Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) and Matheran (Maharashtra) are up for grabs as part of the NMP that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Monday. According to the broad contours of the NMP project, the Centre intends to provide the four mountain railways of India under the OMDA (operation, management and development agreement) based private-public partnership mode. Rolling stocks as well as the stations and adjoining land of these mountain railways will be offered to private players for 30 to 50 years. Private firms can earn revenue from passengers and rents from tenants on sub-leased land. Private players may improve the quality of services of DHR, some tourism stakeholders feel. “A major complaint against the toy train is irregular services. If run by a private party, services will improve,” said a tour operator. However, the Centre’s plan to monetise public assets has drawn flak from the Opposition. On Tuesday, Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said: “The (central) government is behaving like the East India Company and handing over Indian Railways to private players.” Additional reporting by Avijit Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Attempts to polarise electorate on basis of religion didn’t work in secular Bengal: Shivprakash||A key backroom strategist of the BJP for Bengal Assembly elections reportedly admitted at a closed-door meeting of the party on Monday that the central leadership had made a mistake by not heeding advice that the state couldn’t be won by replicating the Uttar Pradesh model. Shivprakash, the joint national general secretary (organisation) of the BJP, made the admission more than two-and-a-half-months after the Bengal election results had surprised the party, which was bullish about bagging over 200 seats. Shivprakash, multiple BJP sources said, even went to the extent of admitting that attempts to polarise the electorate on the basis of religion didn’t work in “secular” Bengal as the “Hindutva brand of politics” didn’t appeal to most of the voters. “Bengal has to be won in its own way,” Shivprakash was quoted to have said at one of the multiple meetings of the BJP he presided over at its Hastings office here on Monday. “We were told that Bengal couldn’t be won in the UP model, but we refused to believe that.…Now we realise that it is true....People here are mostly secular and hence, didn’t fall for the Hindutva brand of politics...,” a source quoted him saying at the meeting. One swallow doesn’t make a summer, but the realisation of Shivprakash — a senior leader in the saffron camp in terms of the resources deployed in Bengal, but a minnow in the national hierarchy — is bound to intensify the debate in the BJP on its political strategy in the state that the party is desperate to win. Even after the poll debacle, scores of central and state leaders had indicated that the party would pursue the path of communal polarisation in Bengal to ensure that it bags the majority of votes of the Hindus, who comprise around 70 per cent of the electorate, in future poll battles. “In some of the internal analyses, it was stressed that the party’s polarisation agenda did work and that was why it got around 2.38 crore votes in a state where Muslims comprise around 30 per cent of the electorate... Some leaders had felt that if more efforts were given at polarising the voters along communal lines, the party would get at least six to eight per cent more votes and that would be enough to beat Trinamul,” a source in the state BJP had said in the immediate aftermath of the elections. The fact that the strategy of pursuing the Hindutva line even after the poll drubbing had the blessings of Delhi leadership became clear in recent months as Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, who is the leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, became more aggressive in toeing the Hindu-Muslim line. Against this backdrop, Shivprakash’s comments have added to the confusion prevailing in the state unit on how to go about expanding the BJP in Bengal. “We are confused. So long, we were under the impression that our leaders are happy how polarisation has worked in the state. But now Shivprakashji came up with a different opinion,” a state BJP functionary said. Shivprakash’s comments have come at a time when he is the sole representative of the central leadership in the Bengal unit. The party’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya has not been to the state since May 2. One of his two deputies, Arvind Menon, has recently tied the knot and believed to be busy with his family life. “For the workers at the grassroots like us, Shivprakashji is the man representing Delhi at the moment. When he says something contrary to what we have been asked to do so far, it gets very confusing,” said the chief of a mandal, the BJP’s smallest organisational unit, present at the meeting. Another group of leaders strongly objected to Shivprakash’s comments later while speaking to this correspondent. They said he was trying to deviate focus from the original reasons behind the poll debacle, which was faulty candidature. “Many of us in the state BJP don’t believe in fiery Hindutva politics. People would have voted for us if the candidates were alright,” a state BJP vice-president said. Some other leaders present at Monday’s meeting, such as Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta, purportedly argued that the BJP failed to establish its Bengal connect and lost because of the inability to comprehend the complex Bengali ethos, which considers “Jai Shri Ram” chants alien. “Sabyasachi suggested that we invoke deities like Durga and Kali, who are essential to Bengal, more than Ram.…He was not allowed to speak much after that,” a source present at the meeting said. He also purportedly suggested that the party continue with the Durga Puja it had begun last year. Otherwise, people would think that last year’s Puja celebrations were only with an eye on the polls and the party had little respect for the goddess.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 613 new cases, 720 recoveries and 12 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 65 straight days of a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases, with 613 new infections, 720 recoveries and 12 deaths. Active cases fell by 119 to touch 9,217 on Tuesday. Calcutta logged 95 new infections and no new death. For the 19th consecutive day, no Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure of new cases. Calcutta apart, 15 other Bengal districts also reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.21 per cent now, its highest this pandemic. The national rate is 97.65 per cent. “Measures are being put in place so that the outbreak does not get out of hand in some zones in certain districts that have reported a bit of a spike in the past couple of weeks,” said a minister. “We are being very cautious, leaving no stone unturned to keep the (potential) third wave from assuming the devastating proportions of the second.” The state's daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.49 per cent on Tuesday. Bengal is currently 15th on the list of states with the highest positive confirmation rate based on a weekly average. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation stayed put at 1.34 per cent. Bengal is currently 24th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. The state currently has over 15.44 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year, including more than 15.16 lakh recoveries and 18,383 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court seeks affidavits on Mukul Roy’s Public Accounts Committee post||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday asked Krishnagar North MLA Mukul Roy and Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee to file affidavits stating their stand with regard to the BJP’s contention that the appointment of the former as the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee was “invalid and illegal”. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal fixed the next hearing on September 6 when Roy and the Speaker would have to clarify their stand. Roy, formerly Number Two in the Trinamul Congress, had switched to the BJP in 2017 and was its national vice-president. He returned to Trinamul after the Assembly elections this summer and won from Krishnagar North. BJP MLAs, led by the leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, had walked out of the Assembly soon after Roy’s appointment had been announced by the Speaker. The BJP’s Kalyani MLA, Ambika Roy, moved the case on behalf of his party. His lawyer C.S. Vaidyanathan argued that in the past 54 years, Opposition leaders had been  appointed chairpersons of the PAC. Roy rejoined Trinamul and yet, he was appointed to the post, said Vaidyanathan. The lawyer claimed that by that, the ruling establishment had violated the convention and said the court should immediately strike down the appointment. Vaidyanathan also claimed the BJP had approached the Speaker and requested him to take proper action, but there had been none till date. The state government’s lawyers were present in court but did not take part in the argument. “Whatever we have to say, we will tell the court in the next hearing of the case,” said a government lawyer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal labour department holds virtual meeting on tea garden staff pay revision||The state labour department on Tuesday held a virtual meeting of tea garden owners and trade union leaders to discuss the salaries of the staff and sub-staff, about 10,000 of whom work in the brew belt of north Bengal. “Our salaries have not been revised since 2015. As the state government has not yet fixed the minimum wage of workers and our salaries, an agreement should be inked for revision,” said a representative of the West Bengal Tea Garden Employees’ Association. In January this year, the state government had announced an interim hike in wages and the salaries of workers, staff and the sub-staff. While the daily wage was raised to Rs 202 from Rs 176, the staff and the sub-staff got a hike of 15 per cent in their salaries. “It is true that there had been an interim salary hike. But if we consider the rate at which our salaries were revised till 2015, what we earn today is much lower,” said a clerk serving in a tea garden in the Terai. The state government, sources said, wants stakeholders of the tea industry to reach on a consensus and fix the minimum wage of workers and salaries of the staff and sub-staff soon. “On August 31, the labour department will hold a meeting of the minimum wage advisory committee in Calcutta. It would be the 15th meeting of the committee. We hope some decisions would be made there as five years have passed since the committee was formed and till now, the minimum wage has not been fixed,” said Alok Chakraborty, a senior trade union leader and the Trinamul Congress’s Darjeeling (plains) district chairman. Frequent meetings convened by the state labour department to discuss the wages and the salaries of tea estate workers and employees indicate that Trinamul has recast its focus on the north Bengal tea belt, a region from where the party has failed to draw support in back-to-back elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Message on Gorkha unity on Balidan Diwas today||Forty-six apolitical organisations from Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Bangalore and Gurgaon will come together to mark “Balidan Diwas” on Wednesday to tell politicians and all Gorkhas to stay united at a time political parties in the hills are falling apart at the seams. Indian Gorkhas across the country mark August 25 as Balidan Diwas, the day freedom fighter Major Durga Malla of the Indian National Army (INA) was sent to the gallows by the British in 1944. Malla’s statue had been unveiled on Parliament premises in 2004. “Twenty-four apolitical organisations are coming together in Darjeeling, 12 in Kalimpong, three in Bangalore and seven in Gurgaon to mark Balidan Diwas,” said Anjani Sharma Bhujel of the event’s organising committee. Blood donation camps will be organised at all four places. Asked about the aim behind bringing together 46 organisations under one platform, Sharma clarified a twin purpose. “The first reason is to promote our unsung heroes. If we don’t have the courtesy to remember them then what is the worth of freedom,” said Sharma. “The second reason is to underscore that all Gorkhas have to come together shedding their differences, whether political, cultural or geographic. It is a message for all politicians, too,” she said. The organising committee has listed out 20 Gorkhas and their contributions to India’s struggle for independence. The list includes leaders like Dal Bahadur Giri, who died in prison in 1924 after his anti-British activities in the hills. Mahatma Gandhi on Giri’s death termed it a national loss and wrote an article in his famed weekly journal Young India. Gandhi had also called Giri’s family to Sabarmati Ashram. “In Darjeeling we will also felicitate the family members of freedom fighters Gaga Tshering Dukpa and Pratiman Singh Lama,” said Sharma. Gaga Tshering from Sukhiapokhri was a teacher in Sukhiapokhri and Mirik but following his role in the freedom movement, his job was terminated by the Britishers and he was jailed. Pratiman is also credited for being the first India Gorkha novelist with Mahakal Jasoos. In Darjeeling, apart from the blood donation camp, a run for children and members of Darjeeling Hill Runners association will also be organised. “From 10am, a bike rally led by Darjeeling Enfielders will also start from Ghoom. We plan to start the blood donation camp by 10.30am tomorrow (Wednesday),” said Sharma. While apolitical organisations are coming together, political parties are disintegrating in the hills. The Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League is divided into three factions, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha into three, the Gorkha National Liberation Front has also split and some Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM) leaders have resigned and are floating a new platform for hill issues. A similar platform called Hill Youth Forum has also come up. Anit Thapa who is currently heading a faction of the Morcha will float a new party in the first week of September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||North East||Relief for Assam women borrowers||The BJP-led Assam government on Tuesday signed an MoU with 38 microfinance institutions and banks to provide incentive and relief to women borrowers, a pre-poll commitment of the ruling party. Officials said the state government now has a roadmap on extending relief to about 14 lakh borrowers. The total loan size is of about Rs 12,000 crore but has been brought down to about Rs 7,200 crore after exhaustive discussions with the lending organisations. The MoU for the implementation of Assam Micro Finance Incentive and Relief Scheme (AMFIRS), 2021 will remain in force till March 31, 2023. The borrowers have been divided into three categories. ⚫ Those paying their EMIs regularly. They will be getting am incentive of Rs 25,000 each ⚫ Those paying regularly but have an overdue after hearing of waiver. The government will provide them a relief amount not exceeding Rs 25,000 each. ⚫ Those whose loans have turned into NPAs. They will have to apply for relief. They will get partial or full waiver based on detailed evaluation. Though the BJP and its allies had promised complete waiver of loan to poor women borrowers during poll rallies, it formed a committee after retaining power in May under cabinet minister Ashok Singhal to examine the issue in detail and suggest a roadmap. The loan waiver/relief promise many believe was one of the game-changers for the ruling coalition. The havoc wreaked by Covid had impacted lot of businesses and women borrowers were one of the most affected. Reports of recovery agents harassing borrowers appeared frequently. Sensing an opportunity, the ruling BJP made loan waiver one of the key poll planks during the last leg of the campaign. And it paid handsome dividends. However, the government decision to categorise the borrowers has not gone down well with a section. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma asserted they are trying to help as many poor women as possible and those trying to pay regularly. Incentive and relief are not for those who are well-off, he said on Tuesday, adding from now on loan will be extended to those who can pay. “A person, say a tea garden worker, will not be extended loan. They will be given government welfare schemes to improve their economic condition. “Lending institutions have to make detailed assessment before extending loan. A borrower can also borrow an amount not exceeding Rs 1.25 lakh from three banks. The incentive/relief scheme is designed to support economic activities of low income and poor households in the state,” Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
25-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Caste count||Politics is a strange animal; contestation can thus masquerade as consensus. Consider the all-party delegation led by the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, that met the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to press the demand for caste enumeration. The last time such an exercise had been undertaken was in pre-Independent India. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which is ruling Bihar in an alliance with the Janata Dal (United), Mr Kumar’s party, was part of the delegation. But there is no denying the tug-of-war that is unfolding between Mr Kumar and the BJP under the veneer of unity. Mr Kumar, whose party’s wings had been clipped by the BJP, now the dominant partner in the coalition, has an axe to grind and he has chosen a potent weapon: the caste card. Caste, a perennial feature of Indian society and politics, is the principal capital of provincial parties that are, more often than not, representatives of communities rather than regions. Demanding a realignment in the architecture of reservation — Mandal 2.0? — these parties are hoping, would be one way of cementing their political futures. It must be noted that there has been unprecedented political unity when it came to making sympathetic noises to raise the court-imposed ceiling on reservation in recent times. The BJP’s challenge is unique in this respect. It must be conceded that among all political outfits, it is the BJP that has been the most successful in stitching together a formidable electoral constituency blending the interests of not just the upper castes — its traditional vote bank — but also segments among the other backward classes that had not been mobilized by its rivals. The party itself is divided on the issue. Its representatives from disadvantageous groups may be in favour of such a census but the upper caste lobby — always the dominant force ideologically — is unlikely to be supportive. There is legitimate fear that a caste census could also prove that the BJP’s claim of empowering, or even being representative of, OBCs is rather hollow. Mandal-I may have been neutralized by the rhetoric of the Mandir, but the BJP is circumspect about repeating that success given the changing ground realities and aspirations of India’s marginalized social groups. The real tragedy, of course, lies elsewhere. Even after 74 years of Independence, progress is still predicated upon ascriptive identities in the republic. This is anathema to the principle of collective welfarism. But none of India’s political parties seems to be ready to acknowledge this failure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
25-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Public libraries in India||Turn the page Sir — It is true that public libraries in India, which served as reservoirs of knowledge for ages, are struggling to remain relevant and sustain themselves in the digital age (“Dust off the forgotten shelves”, Aug 24). The government must take urgent steps to improve their condition. Once revitalized, these libraries could, once again, cater to the needs of those who do not have access to other sources of knowledge. Digital books may come and go, but the joy of finding a physical book, stacked among thousands of others in a library, evokes a nostalgia that is priceless for book lovers. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Misery ahead Sir — A heartbreaking video, in which an American marine was seen lifting a baby over a razor-wired wall of the Kabul airport, recently caught global attention. This was shot as a huge crowd of Afghans was trying to enter the airport to escape the Taliban. It was later reported that the American troops were requested to help the baby as it was sick. The infant was treated and then returned to the family (“Afghan baby reunited with family”, Aug 22). This was truly an act of compassion. Such visuals are becoming increasingly common. This is cause for concern. The American military released several other officially approved photographs of soldiers helping out Afghan children — one of these shows a soldier in his combat gear, sitting with a blanketed baby in his arms as fellow soldiers stand nearby on alert. The plight of the common people will surely foment anger among the global population against Taliban rule. One hopes that the day is not far off when all countries will unite to end the suffering of the Afghan people. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Some moments, captured as images or videos, become emblematic of the crisis during which they were taken. Take, for instance, Kevin Carter’s iconic photograph of the Sudan famine. The image of an infant being held up by an Afghan to be lifted by US troops has become the symbol of the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan. It was a relief to learn that the child has been returned to the father after being provided medical care. Yet, one cannot help but shudder at the plight of the many other children — the future of the nation — who must grow up under the Taliban regime. Given the Taliban’s treatment of girl children, one especially worries about their future. Baisakhi Mitra,Calcutta Divisive tactic Sir — Instead of fulfilling the Centre’s avowed objective of bringing people together, the observance of the ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ on August 14 — coinciding with Pakistan’s Independence Day — will do just the opposite. Digging up the wounds of one of the greatest tragedies in human history with the potential to ignite communal passions and mutual distrust cannot be a good idea. The obvious agenda behind this well-thought-out decision is dangerous. But communal polarization is a policy that the right-wing thrives on. While M.A. Jinnah and the Muslim League must shoulder the major share of the blame for Partition for their uncompromising stand on Pakistan, other stakeholders cannot evade responsibility for their failure to avert the catastrophe. The right-wing holds the Congress and its bête noire, Jawaharlal Nehru, accountable; the Congress points its fingers at the mentor of sangh parivar, V.D. Savarkar, for allegedly formulating the two-nation theory. With the ‘Ram temple’ card having already been played, the BJP has little to bank on before the Uttar Pradesh elections. Given the UP chief minister’s appalling incompetence at handling the second phase of Covid-19, the BJP was desperately looking for another emotive issue to further polarize the electorate. It found one such in the Partition. Should we as a nation not put such tragic events behind us and move forward, addressing more pressing issues affecting the lives of millions? Surely this is possible without undermining the sufferings caused by the Partition. The prime minister needs to demonstrate a certain degree of statesmanship, rising above the agenda of winning elections. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — The prime minister’s tweet that August 14 would now on be observed as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ is yet another instance of his old habit of trying to cover up his government’s failures — Covid mismanagement, inflation, farm laws and many others — by using diversionary tactics. It is high time he acted wisely. Once the voters see through his ploy, he would face difficulty retaining his chair after the 2024 general elections. Murtaza Ahmad,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
25-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Odd reward||Logic is sometimes not enough. The Madras High Court reportedly described the reduction of Lok Sabha seats from Tamil Nadu as ‘unfair and unreasonable’. Until 1962, Tamil Nadu had 41 seats in the Lower House, but this number was reduced to 39 in 1967 because Tamil Nadu’s success in implementing birth control measures had lowered its population numbers. The logic behind the reduction lay in the need to maintain some equivalence in the number of electors that each legislator represents. Delimitation, or the redrawing of the boundaries of constituencies, is thus related to changes in population size. Although this should be conducted after each census, a constitutional mandate has held it up till 2026 when the population is expected to stabilize. The Madras High Court’s response exposed the failure of the logical approach since states reduced population at different rates. As a result, those states that successfully implement the Centre’s policy — Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh in this case — are in effect penalized by reduced representation in the Lok Sabha. The Opposition fears that the Narendra Modi-led government might bring about a constitutional amendment to conduct delimitation before 2024, which would lessen the representation of the southern states and increase that of states such as Uttar Pradesh. The Madras High Court’s focus, however, was on the need to change the unfair situation. It reportedly suggested that Article 81 of the Constitution, which mandates that the ratio of the number of Lok Sabha seats and the population of a state should be the same in all states, could be reviewed. Compensation, too, could be considered, one being an increase in Rajya Sabha seats against those lost in the Lok Sabha. This would mean other calculations, for Rajya Sabha seats cannot be simply equated to Lok Sabha ones. Since one seat could topple a government in 1999, the Madras High Court saw the loss of two seats through no fault of the state as a serious matter. It also suggested monetary compensation, reportedly fixing a notional amount of Rs 200 crore for a legislator’s contribution for five years; the loss of two members and 14 elections since 1967 meant Tamil Nadu should receive Rs 5,600 crore. The Madras High Court laid bare the problem underlying the rules of representation. Addressing it before 2026 would be unavoidable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
25-08-2021||Opinion||It takes two to tango||With India emptying out its embassy in Kabul and flying its official personnel back home in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover of the Afghan capital, the parallels with 1996 are impossible to ignore. Then, when the Taliban first grabbed power in Kabul, India shuttered its diplomatic mission and refused to recognize a regime that then — and now — counts Pakistan as its chief international sponsor and patron. But as Afghanistan grapples with the discomfiting reality of returning to Taliban rule, India must learn from its experiences and avoid repeating its mistakes from the 1990s. And it must do so with the knowledge that if there’s one area where the hardline Sunni militant group appears keen on treading new ground, it’s on the issue of international relations. The Taliban once killed Iranian diplomats. Now it’s talking with Tehran. It formed the core of the mujahideen that fought and defeated the Soviet Union in the 1980s. Today, Russia is one of a handful of countries — along with Pakistan and China — that have kept their embassies in Kabul open, confident that a newly-built relationship with the Taliban will serve its interests there. China, which — like India — refused to recognize the Taliban in the 1990s, now hosts teams of Taliban leaders for publicized meetings with Beijing’s top diplomats. And don’t forget how the Kabul collapse all started: with a ‘peace’ deal signed by the United States of America and the Taliban in 2020. The current Joe Biden administration in the US might blame the former president, Donald Trump, for that pact, but the new government in Washington has chosen the roadmap for withdrawal from Afghanistan as one of the few legacies of its predecessor that it too has followed. Indeed, India has, over the past year, slowly initiated diplomatic and security contacts with the Taliban. Qatari officials have revealed that an Indian team met with the Taliban’s political leaders in Doha in June. And while it was sensible to pluck Indian officials and personnel from Afghanistan for the time being, New Delhi hasn’t ruled out sending diplomats back there. It’s tempting for the Indian government to sit back, wait and watch what unfolds in Afghanistan, and then take a decision on its next steps. That would be a folly. It must proactively continue to seek engagement with the Taliban — without committing to anything in return just yet. It must build on that engagement, dangling the carrot of economic and other incentives if the Taliban agrees to India’s core red lines, even if New Delhi eventually decides it can’t formally recognize a government run by the group. In part, this should be a lesson India has learnt from its past blunders. By not engaging with the Taliban in the 1990s, India didn’t succeed in pressuring the group to mend its ways. On the contrary, when Pakistani hijackers took IC 814 to Kandahar, New Delhi had no contacts in the Taliban to speak with. It’s a lesson America appears to have learnt too. While there’s no love lost for the Taliban in Washington, the US has clearly reached an arrangement with the group that’s allowing America to retain control of Kabul airport long enough for it to evacuate its citizens and Afghan partners. In other words, if New Delhi’s primary goal in Afghanistan is to ensure that the country’s territory isn’t used to attack India, it stands a better chance by keeping lines of communication open with the Taliban. But there’s another reason for India to approach its equation with the Taliban differently this time. Unlike earlier, the Taliban’s relations with multiple other nations — Russia, Iran, China, among others — means that the group is likely to want to gain some degree of independence from Pakistan. It’s unlikely that the militants will ever really break with Rawalpindi, home to Pakistan’s military headquarters. But if it is looking for more elbow room, India should be willing to join a careful dance with the Taliban. To be sure, all of this depends on whether the Taliban has learnt lessons from its first stint in power in the 1990s. While the world was shocked by the public stoning and the moral police that whiplashed women who dared to step outside without male relatives, the Taliban’s biggest strategic weakness was Osama bin Laden, al Qaida’s founder and Saudi tycoon, who was bankrolling it. It was bin Laden who placed the Taliban in the crosshairs of the US and its allies. In 2021, with a range of other nations ready to do business with it, the Taliban doesn’t need a terrorist financier. India has the strategic clout and economic heft to give the Taliban enough rational reasons to behave responsibly with it. Given the group’s ties with the Pakistani military, that will be a difficult task and might not work. But to not try would be worse. In 1996, the Taliban was a global pariah. In 2021, if India doesn’t try and talk with the Taliban, New Delhi is the one that could be isolated. When the future of South Asia’s security is at stake, the region’s largest nation can’t be a bystander.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
25-08-2021||Opinion||The Kabuliwalas||Should copies of Deshe Bideshe, Syed Mujtaba Ali’s memorable chronicle of the one-and-a-half years he spent as an educator in Afghanistan, be sent to Washington DC and New Delhi where, the grapevine says, the mandarins apparently watched, bewildered, as the Taliban strolled into Kabul without having to fire a shot? The suggestion is not being made in jest. Neither is this another mutation of that contagion known as Bengali exceptionalism. Even though scholarly works on, what an American Colonel christened, the ‘Afghan Puzzle’ are voluminous — Ahmed Rashid’s Descent into Chaos is one notable example — Mujtaba Ali’s book has an advantage over these. It is his gift of prescience. Some of the passages in Deshe Bideshe — Nazes Afroz translated it into In a Land Far from Home — blur the border between past and present, lending Mujtaba Ali’s experience of events that took place between 1927 and 1929 a remarkable degree of contemporaneity. The closing chapters of the book evoke a Kabul besieged by the fear of civil war. Mujtaba Ali’s Kabul could well be the Kabul we are reading about, or whose images we are devouring, in our time. In Mujtaba Ali’s Afghanistan, Amanullah Khan, the sovereign, attempts to introduce ‘Western’ reforms — doing away with the purdah for women, introducing the dereshi, as well as modern education for boys and girls and so on — but enraged clerics mobilize public opinion as well as the dreaded outlaw, Bacha-ye Saqao — the Taliban’s poster-boy? — forcing Khan, much like Ashraf Ghani, to flee the nation. Mujtaba Ali, his 117th birth anniversary falls in a few weeks, also brings to life the desperation of expatriates and Kabulis trying to escape the yoke of imminent brutality, with the British Ligation — an ancestor of the Indian Mission? — being notoriously leaden-footed when it came to anticipating the unrest and, then, in its rescue and repatriation mission. That the Afghanistan unveiled by Deshe Bideshe echoes with its readership decades after Mujtaba Ali’s sojourn makes it a perfect text for the wise men in Washington and New Delhi to pore over. Mujtaba Ali was alert to some of Afghanistan’s quandaries that seem to have foxed the United States and its allies as they went about rebuilding that strife-torn nation in their own image. The maulvi — the mullah, a scourge in the Western eye — Mujtaba Ali argues, functions as the lynchpin of Afghan society no matter who possesses the sceptre in Kabul. The clerics’ conservatism, he writes, did not dull their anti-colonial sensibilities. A report in Forbes has revealed that in the course of its 20-year occupation, the US has spent a total of $2 trillion — around 300 million dollars per day for two decades — on Afghanistan. A bulk of these expenditures, Brown University’s ‘Costs of War Project’ estimates, must have gone into war expenses as well as training the Afghan National Army. It would be interesting to speculate the outcome of a proportionate investment by the West in social reform and religious moderation, especially in rural Afghanistan. Interestingly, Ahmed Rashid attributed the Taliban’s resurgence after its defeat in 2001 to the international community reneging on its commitment of bringing equitable development — educational and cultural — to large swathes of Kabul’s hinterland, especially in the southeast. The sharp-eyed Mujtaba Ali spots another anomaly; the tension between the collective —Afghan — fidelity to ethnicity and the imperatives of the nation-building project. One of the pearls of wisdom in Afghan Statecraft, Mujtaba Ali writes cheekily, is to exploit fissures among tribal entities and turn these groups against the sovereign — be it an autonomous Emir or a puppet of the West. This pearl continues to sparkle. One curious manifestation of the persistent ethnic pulls and pressures has been the changing nature of the Afghan national anthem: perhaps no other country has had to change its national anthem five times in 95 years to honour the political ascendancy of a particular ethnic constituency. The “Milli Surud”, the anthem adopted to celebrate the spirit of a new, united Afghanistan, evidently fell on the proverbial deaf ears of the squabbling warlords. Even a pan-Islamic identity, such as the one that the Taliban lays claim to, is not immune to these contestations. Panjshir — the home of Bacha-ye Saqao as well as of Ahmad Shah Massoud — a stronghold of the Tajiks, Afghanistan’s second-largest ethnic group, has pledged to resist the Taliban. And yet, conquerors, deshi or bideshi, force a non-representative national unity upon a land that has imagined nationhood to be a complicated, usually competitive, solidarity among clans. What gives Deshe Bideshe its distinct flavour is Mujtaba Ali’s joyful communion with people and their politics that challenges some of the modern — mischievous — misconceptions about Muslim society. The Bengali reader, so enchanted with Rabindranath Tagore’s politically benign kabuliwala, is suddenly confronted with Kabulis spiritedly opposed to dogmatism, orthodoxy and bigotry. Among Mujtaba Ali’s friends is Dost Mohammed, a Socratic figure, detached from all else but the spirit of liberty: he conscripts himself to defend Kabul from the approaching fanatics. There is Mir Aslam, a scholar of shastras, who fearlessly denounces the rebellion by Islamists as anti-progressive at considerable personal risk. And, of course, who can forget Abdur Rehman? More friend and confidante than man-servant to Mujtaba Ali, Rehman, who could not stop talking about the silvery snowfall in Panjshir, thinks nothing of leaving Afghanistan to find refuge in hot and humid Hindustan. Even as the shadows of a regressive orthodoxy lengthen in Afghanistan, on its women as well as on the pockets of progressive, liberal constituencies, just as they had in Mujtaba Ali’s time, the Indian foreign minister has tweeted to let the nation and the world know that the repatriation of Hindus and Sikhs would be New Delhi’s priority. The concern for Afghanistan’s minorities is not unwarranted, especially at a time when Kabul has fallen prey to a regime infamous for inflicting medieval barbarity on ethnic and religious minorities. But the Afghans who believe in upholding the inclusive dreams of those visionaries — Dost Mohammed, Mir Aslam, Abdur Rehman — need the attention and assistance of New Delhi and of the world. Mujtaba Ali had to leave Rehman behind in Afghanistan. As the ancient mechanical bird with a propeller became airborne, he recalls watching Rehman’s diminishing figure searching the sky. New Delhi, hopefully, would not abandon its well-wishers, assets — Afghans recruited for missions, covert and overt — and those who still dream of liberating Kabul from yet another long night. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Foundation stone of electric crematorium laid in Jharia||Dhanbad: The foundation stone of an electric crematorium to be constructed at a cost of Rs 1.56crore by the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner was laid on Wednesday by Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh at the Shamshan Ghat in Mohabani area on the bank of river Damodar in Jharia. The crematorium equipped with a 200 KVA generator set will be constructed in six to eight months. Notably, the new electric crematorium being established at a distance of around 50 feet from the old crematorium established way back in 1997 will also be equipped with a 100 feet chimney and a scrubber as per the laid environmental norms. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Bengal police with the help of intelligence officials recovered 30 crude bombs from a Gaya bound passenger bus on Tuesday night at the Jharkhand Bengal border at Kulti under the West Bardhaman district of Bengal and apprehended three persons for questioning including the driver, conductor and the cleaner. The 30 crude bags packed in a black plastic sack were kept under the seat of the bus and police also recovered a note from the bag indicating the total price of the bomb as Rs 30,000 and Rs 1,000 per piece. An advance payment of Rs 5,000 made for the consignment was also mentioned in the note. Two names,  including one probably of the sender of consignment and another a receiver of consignment of Jharkhand were also mentioned in the hand written note in which a code 12461 was also mentioned. Meanwhile, all 18 passengers on board the bus were sent to their respective places through another bus. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The Tata-Kandra four-lane which was lying unlit since the past two years will be illuminated soon. The Jharkhand Accelerated Road Development Corporation Ltd (JARDCL) which had constructed the four-lane and was entrusted to maintain it has on Wednesday decided to replace the underground cables that have been worn out that caused most of the street lamps to remain non-functional. JARDCL's project manager, Satya Pramod said that they were having problem in the underground cables of the street lamps along the Tata-Kandra four-lane since the past five years, but somehow were managing to keep the lamps illuminated. "But now the cables are damaged to such an extent that these cannot be repaired anymore. This is why we have decided to get the entire underground cables replaced with new ones, "said Satya to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: A nine-year-old girl who went to a computer shop with her mother to apply for Aadhar card was raped by the owner Rohit Kumar. The incident took place in a village under Markachcho police station in Koderma district. Her mother said she took her daughter to the computer centre but Rohit said due to thumb verification process, she had to take her to block office. Mother allowed to Rohit to take her daughter to block office. But Rohit took her to a Aksia forest and raped her on Monday. Family when came to know about this incident, reported the matter to Markachcho police on Tuesday evening after which an FIR was lodged. Police officials said hunt on to nab the culprit. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt approves Rs 271 crore highway projects||The Jharkhand government has approved six highway projects to be executed at a cost of around Rs 271 crore, a state government official said on Wednesday. The projects include a Rs 114.83-crore proposal for widening, strengthening and reconstruction of a 38.56-km stretch, and another Rs 39.34 crore for bolstering a 30.67-km stretch, he said. The state cabinet, during a recent meeting, cleared the projects, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Heat and humidity discomfort for three days across state||The muggy moments have returned in Jharkhand, thanks to high humidity. Sultry weather due to a weak monsoon activity has upped the discomfort index in most places across the state. Such weather conditions are likely to continue for another 72 hours before Jharkhand can hope for some rain relief, weathermen said on Wednesday. The average discomfort index, measured on the basis of temperature, humidity and wind patterns, was as high as 65 degrees, 10 notches above normal, in Jharkhand on Wednesday. Head of IMD’s Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand, said the weather would continue to be unpleasantly warm and humid for the next two to three days, atleast. "No significant weather condition prevails over Jharkhand. The westerly wind is dominating in lower levels of atmosphere. Monsoon will continue to be weak over the state for the next 72 hours,"he said. On Wednesday, the discomfort index in Jamshedpur touched 67 degrees, 12 notches above normal. In capital Ranchi, it was 63 degrees, eight notches above normal. In places such as Daltonganj, Bokaro and Dhanbad, the discomfort index ranged between 65 and 66 degrees, higher than normal. The head of the Met office said no warning had been issued for Jharkhand till this weekend, as they had found no significant changes in the weather condition. The sky would be cloudy in several districts during the next 72 hours. At very few isolated places, light showers accompanied by moderate thunder and lightning were likely. Data revealed that maximum temperature across the state witnessed an abrupt rise. Most districts for the second consecutive day on Wednesday recorded day's reading three to four notches above normal. Statistics revealed that so far Jharkhand had received a cumulative rainfall of 543.4mm against a normal of 771.7mm, a deficit of four per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant to showcase Jharkhand's new industrial policy in Delhi||The Jharkhand government will unveil its new industrial policy in New Delhi during a two-day investment meet from Friday. Chief minister Hemant Soren, along with battery of  key officials, is scheduled to leave for Delhi on Wednesday night. He  will personally remain available during the meet scheduled to take place at the Taj, his office has said. The state cabinet cleared the policy titled,  Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP) 2021, on july 6. It replaces the policy  prepared by the former BJP government that was in power in the state between 2014-19. The Hemant government aims to attract investments up to Rs 1 lakh crore as per the new policy. State industry department secretary Pooja Singhal said, “Through the new policy, we are trying to maximize  incentives available to investors and ensure they enjoy a business-friendly ecosystem in Jharkhand.” Another official  maintained that the upcoming investor’s meet will see the chief minister holding one-on-one meetings with  stakeholders/representatives from different business houses to listen and understand  their proposals. Citing on the key focus areas of the government,  he said, “The state government is looking to promote  business opportunities in textile and apparels, automobile, auto-components and electric vehicles, food and meat processing, pharma, electronic system design and manufacturing, tourism, health, IT & ITeS, education and technical institutes and other MSMEs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand focus on increasing manpower for possible third wave||While Jharkhand has already achieved its target of setting up at least 1,000 ICUs for children to combat a possible third wave of Covid-19, the health department in the state is now focusing on ways to increase  manpower in medical facilities across districts in a bid to ensure that no patient goes unattended due to a crisis of doctors or healthcare workers, officials said on Wednesday. The health department has sent proposals to all  medical colleges in the state to seek services of nursing students, undergraduate medical students and junior resident doctors in treatment of patients during a possible third wave of the pandemic, state epidemiologist and the head of Jharkhand’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Dr Praveen Karn, said. “Under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, we have decided to seek services of medical and nursing students in case a third wave arrives and triggers a major spike in cases of infection,” said Karn, adding that as per the basic requirement, the state would need at least 32 doctors to treat 400 Covid patients on an average. Another highly-placed official in the health department admitted that recruiting doctors in a short notice was not possible under the current circumstances, and seeking the help of medical students was a reliable way of combatting any kind of health crisis due to the pandemic. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dr Karn said that the state has set up surplus ICU beds for children, so it is unlikely to face an infrastructural crisis if a third wave hits Jharkhand. “We have set up surplus ICU beds for children as well as adults to avert any crisis. The availability of medicines for treatment of Covid-19 has also been ensured,” said Karn. As per records with the health department, the state has so far set up 1180 oxygen-supported beds for paediatrics patients and a total of 445 High Dependency Unit (HDU) beds for adults and children. Over 1,200 ICU beds for children have been readied across the state, a source from IDSP said. It is feared that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave in Jharkhand. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are likely to be symptomatic, about 8610 of them may show severe symptoms and need intensive care, an expert committee for tackling the third wave of Covid-19 in Jharkhand has predicted on the basis of trends across the world and in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela village teams to keep  elephants at bay||The Seraikela forest range office will shortly form teams of villagers who will drive away elephants from their respective pockets. Jumbos from neighbouring Odisha are anchored in the jungles of Seraikela for some months now and have also killed two people and damaged homes and farms. While one Kalicharan Mardi was killed by a herd when he had gone to pluck leaves at a jungle under Kandra thana on August 6, Ramchandra Mahto met with similar incident when he was trampled by elephants at a jungle in Ichagarh on Tuesday. The elephants have also destroyed some homes and wiped out food stock as well as damaged standing crops. Seraikela range officer Prakash Ram said over phone from Seraikela that 10 villagers will be part of each team which will drive away the elephants from their respective areas. "It is known as elephant drive teams. The teams will be shortly formed since it would not be a wise idea to keep the matter pending. It is essential to protect the lives of people as well as their property," he added. The team members will be armed with mashals (torches) and drums. "The villagers have gained a fair amount of idea about how to drive away the elephants as they have been bearing the brunt of jumbo attacks for quite some time now. The villagers know how to drive away the elephants. We are serious in shepherding the elephants back to Odisha," Ram said. Separate herds of about 30 elephants, including 11 in Rajnagar, 7 in Gamharia and a lone tusker in Kandra, are presently stationed in Seraikela. The Seraikela range office is on high alert and keeping a watch over the movement of elephants. "We are alert and trying hard to drive away the elephants," the range officer said. However, forest team cannot control things on their own due to manpower crunch. "It is not possible to cover the entire range owing to lack of resources, including manpower. So, it is better to form team of villagers for driving away the herds. We can always give technical support to the teams," a forester said on condition of anonymity. According to him, elephants generally don't attack unless teased. "For instance, the lone tusker in Kandra is cool and never enters villages. The jumbo satiates its thirst at a pond in Kandra and moves into the jungles. Villagers simply watch the elephant and never teases it by throwing stones. We always tell villagers to not make elephants angry," the forester added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||A fawn separated from his mother is rescued by Palamau tiger reserve ||A 20 day-old fawn of an antelope who got separated from his mother and had walked down with a flock of goats has been kept in the iron mesh set up in the sambhar enclosure in the Bareysanr range of the Palamau tiger reserve. The fawn got separated from his mother in a meadow close to Netarhat a few days ago in a very piquant situation, said the deputy director south division of the tiger reserve Palamau, Mukesh Kumar. He said the mother antelope has a habit to hide her fawn in shrubs and bushes before foraging into the forests and here too the mother antelope did the same with her male fawn. He said the mother on completion of the forage gives a call that makes fawn hiding in the shrubs and bushes to come out and join the mother gleefully. Here a strange episode took place which proved no less a tragedy as this fawn got separated from his mother by mistake. A flock of goats had come for grazing at the place where this fawn was hidden by the mother, said Mukesh Kumar. The goats were of a local man Madan Kissan who lives at Bar Toli barely a kilometer away from Netarhat. The bleating of goats resembles the call of the mother antelope and the fawn hearing the bleatings of the goats thought his mother was calling him and so this fawn joyfully joined the flock of the goats nonchalantly hoping to get his mother there in the passage but finally came down to the house of the goat owner Madan Kissan without finding his mother at all. On counting of the goats Madan found this fawn of the antelope in his flock. He gave milk to the fawn and even slept with him for two nights, said Mukesh Kumar. His wife used to carry this fawn in her lap 'like her own child,' said Mukesh Kumar. He said the goat owner Madan tried to unite this fawn with his mother. He took the fawn to the same place twice where his goats were grazing on the day when he got separated from his mother. The mother antelope was nowhere around when Madan had taken down the fawn on two successive days. Madan Kissan informed the forest guard about the fawn which took him. Mukesh Kumar said, “When our forest guard Sunil Oraon took the fawn in his hands there were tears rolling down the cheeks of Madan and his wife.” He said the two day rearing of the fawn had made Madan and his wife profoundly attached to the fawn and when parting time came the couple were emotionally disturbed. Mukesh Kumar said, “We respect Madan and his wife for the love, care and milk that they gave to this fawn.” He said we would facilitate this couple at some suitable time. The fawn is given 100ml of cow milk thrice a day in his iron mesh in the sambhar enclosure where trackers keep a close eye on him. Mahuadanr ranger Brinda Pandey said, “Our forest guard Sunil Oraon kept the fawn in his lap all through the 75km road journey in the official vehicle of the PTR from Netarhat to Bareysanr sambhar enclosure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town Covid health workers demand salary dues||More than 150 outsourced lab technician, lab attendants and ward boys deputed at different Covid testing points including at Dhanbad Railway Station, Interstate Bus Terminus at Bartand, Interstate border as well as in six mobile teams have been deprived of their salaries for the last two months due to lack of allotment from the state government. A group of over 15 technicians, part of a mobile vaccination team of the district operating from Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad on Wednesday carried out a demonstration at the office of Dhanbad Civil Surgeon, Shyamkishore Kant demanding immediate release of their salary. One of the protesters, Dhanraj Kumar Paswan, claimed they are getting irregular salaries ever since their joining in May 2020 and resultantly facing a lot of difficulty in managing the family expenses and sometimes even face difficulty in managing the auto fare to reach the workplace. Echoing his sentiments, another lab attendant deputed as part of one of the mobile Covid testing team requesting anonymity said, “We are getting a meagre salary of Rs 7,400 per month carrying out Covid testing in the covid hotspot zones and other sensitive places like railway station, bus terminus risking our life but instead of getting incentives being provided to other health workers we are even deprived of our regular salary.” “Why can‘t a system be developed for the disbursement of incentives ahead of every month so that the regular payment of our salary be ensured,” said a lab attendant and added seven members of the his family including his wife, two children, elderly parents and a college going younger brother are dependent on his salary. Raju Mahto, state secretary of Jharkhand Para Medical Sangh said, “The non-payment of salary of working staff shows the negligence of the government towards the health workers giving their service during the time of pandemic risking their life.” Subhash Sharma, Manager of Frontline Business Solution Pvt Ltd said, “We are facing fund crunch due to lack of allotment from government since March this year and though we made salary payment from March to May but due to lack of funds we can’t make payment for two months.” “We had a talk with the health department officials in Dhanbad who assured provision of fund soon and the pending salary is likely to be disbursed by end of this month,” said Sharma||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
25-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand online class survey by outfit paints grim picture  ||Very few students from poor backgrounds are availing online classes in the primary level (till Class VIII) during the Covid pandemic with the offline mode of studies disrupted for over a year (17 months) in Jharkhand. A survey carried out by a national-level social outfit Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samity (which claims to espouse cause of human rights) on the suggestion of acclaimed economist and visiting professor in Ranchi University Jean Dreze between July 24 and August 10 of primary school students in nearly 5,118 households primarily from tribal, Dalit, contractual workers, OBC and minorities families paint an alarming picture with nearly 93.6 per cent children not having their own mobile and have to depend on family members mobiles to pursue their studies. Only 5.3 per cent of the students surveyed are able to attend regular online classes as they do not get mobiles regularly. Only 12.8 per cent of students are able to grasp subjects properly in online classes while 93.1 per cent of the parents surveyed admitted that there has been deterioration in the education standards of their wards and a huge majority (92 per cent) supported the conduct of regular offline mode of classes. “We got a suggestion from a well-known economist and a member of the Tamil Nadu economy advisory council, Jean Dreze, to find the ground realities of primary education status in Jharkhand and in fact Jean had drawn out the questionnaire for the survey. “The survey was carried out in 115 blocks of 17 districts by our 662 volunteers and among those surveyed were 43.77 per cent farmers, 30.93 daily wagers, 9.89 per cent were dependent on agriculture and petty business, 4.28 casual workers under private contractors and 1.47 regular workers,” said Kashi Nath Chatterjee, national secretary of the samity while releasing the survey booklet at Ranchi on Tuesday afternoon. Among those surveyed 45.39 per cent were girls, 54.55 boys and 0.06 transgender. Nearly 84.27 per cent were from government schools and only 16.32 per cent were from private schools. “We have sent the survey copy along with our suggestions to the chief minister Hemant Soren and the state education secretary Rajesh Sharma on Tuesday. “We have strongly demanded that offline classes for primary schools (as of now only Class 9, 10, 11 and 12 are having offline classes in Jharkhand) should begin at the earliest with abeyance of Covid protocols. All teachers should be vaccinated with proper availability of masks and sanitisers in schools. “There should be door-to-door survey to ensure that all students return to school and the government should carry out changes in pedagogy and syllabus so that students can cope with the academic loss during 17 months,” added Kashi Nath Chatterjee. The outfit members felt that if the students are only promoted to the next class without changes in pedagogy and syllabus then it will lead to a threat of drop out in the coming years as they might not be able to cope due to the academic loss suffered during online classes as the students might have forgotten the teachings they had learnt earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
