27-08-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2007: CG Block gets a community hall on August 25. The hall, in their green verge, is inaugurated by chairman of Bidhannagar Municipality Biswajiban Majumdar and becomes the new meeting point for residents, hosting cultural events as well as Durga Puja. National 1876: Pingali Venkayya is born on August 2 in what would later become Andhra Pradesh. He grows up to become an educationist and freedom fighter and designs the flag on which the Indian National Flag is later based. Venkayya is said to have presented the same to Mahatma Gandhi is 1921 and the same is modified for official use in 1947. 1925: M.S. Swaminathan is born on August 7 in Madras Presidency. He grows up to become a geneticist and is famous as the "Father of Green Revolution in India" for his efforts in introducing and developing high-yielding varieties of wheat in the country. 2007: Dashrath Manjhi dies on August 17. Years ago his wife had fallen from a mountain near his village in Gaya and died before she could be taken to the nearest town with a doctor, 75km away. For the next 22 years, Manjhi, a labourer, breaks through the mountain with only his hammer and chisel. Though ridiculed for his ambition, Manjhi succeeds in carving out a road that cuts the distance from 55km to 15km. The “Mountain Man" is given a state funeral by the Bihar government. Global 14AD: Augustus, the first Roman emperor, dies on August 19 at the age of 75, probably of natural causes. Augustus came to power after his great uncle Julius Caesar was assassinated and founds the first phase of the Roman Empire, because of which he is regarded as one of the greatest leaders in history. His reign sees tax reforms, new road networks and relative peace. 1896: The shortest recorded war in history takes place in Zanzibar, Africa, on August 27 for about 38 minutes. The Anglo-Zanzibar War breaks out when the United Kingdom attacks the Zanzibar Sultanate. They want to dethrone the new sultan, Khalid bin Barghash (picture right), and attack his forces. The sultan’s forces sustain some 500 casualties and a lone British sailor is injured. The war ends when the British shoot down the sultanate’s flag. 1906: Hazel Bishop is born in New Jersey on August 17. She grows up to become a chemist, founds a cosmetics company named after herself and invents the “kiss-proof lipstick”. This long-lasting, no-smear product debuts in 1949, sells out on the first day, and revolutionises the industry. In 1951, Bishop becomes the first woman to appear solo on the cover of Business Week. Sports & entertainment 1896: Gostha Pal is born on August 20 in Faridpore, Bengal Presidency. He grows up to become a footballer, and is one of the best defenders of his time, even earning the nickname “Chiner Pracheer” (Great Wall of China). Pal becomes captain of Mohun Bagan and in 1924 the first captain of the Indian national football team. He is conferred a Padma Shri in 1962. 1997: Pakistani singer and composer Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan dies of a heart attack in London on August 16. The 48-year-old belonged to the Qawwal Bacchon Gharana, that had been passing down in his family for 600 years. Khan was considered one of the greatest Sufi singers of all time and is credited for introducing the qawwali style to international audiences through collaborations with global artists. 2014: Actor Robin Williams commits suicide by hanging at his California home on August 11. The incident shocks fans who loved him in comic roles such as in Mrs. Doubtfire, thrillers such as Jumanji and intense films as Good Will Hunting, for which he won an Oscar for best supporting actor. Investigation concludes that Williams, 63, was suffering from Lewy body disease, a form of dementia. What is your most treasured personal memory of August? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-4
27-08-2021||Business||Rupee climbs to 10-week high, rallies 53 paise against US dollar||The Indian rupee on Friday rose to a level not seen in over 10 weeks, surging 53 paise to close at 73.69 against the US dollar taking cues from bullish equities ahead of the key speech from US Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. At the interbank forex market, the local unit opened strong at 74.17 against the greenback, then gained strength and settled for the day at 73.69, higher by 53 paise over its previous close of 74.22. This is the best closing level for the rupee since June 16 this year. The domestic unit moved in a range of 73.69 to 74.20 in the day trade. On a weekly basis, the rupee has appreciated 70 paise against the American crisis. "The Indian rupee marked single biggest day gain after April 16, 2021 on back of month-end rebalancing and foreign fund inflows ahead of the Jackson Hole symposium later tonight," said Dilip Parmar, Research Analyst, HDFC Securities. The global forex market remained calm ahead of the event while the domestic market took this as opportunity and has given range breakout, Parmar said adding that "the bias for the rupee has turned bullish after today's price action". According to Sriram Iyer, Senior Research Analyst at Reliance Securities, the local unit was range-bound for the whole week but had its biggest single session rise in over four months, on dollar sales by foreign banks amid anticipated inflows. "The Indian Rupee appreciated against the US Dollar on Friday and had its best week in four months, as the central bank's absence from the market prompted exit of long positions on the dollar," Iyer said. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, dipped 0.04 per cent to 93.02. On the domestic equity market front, the BSE Sensex ended 175.62 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 56,124.72, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 68.30 points or 0.41 per cent to 16,705.20. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, increased 1.32 per cent to $72.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Ritwiz Tiwari, founder Bizgurukul is all set to turn the tide of the Indian EdTech industry  through 5000+ courses in the next 5 years.||The Indian education system today massively lacks the modern skillset and practical knowledge for modern businesses. Most of the things students learn today are outdated and do not match the requirements of employers. Bizgurukul was initiated to bridge that gap and offer an easier chance to people who wish to upskill themselves and be industry-ready. Although Bizgurukul initially started with just two courses- personality development and public speaking, they have added more technical courses such as Instagram Marketing, Digital marketing, video editing, and many more. It is founded by three young minds who aim to change the Indian education space by offering modern skill-based courses at a highly affordable rate. Ritwiz Tiwari, a young man who is currently CEO and founder of the Bizgurukul, laid the foundation with a dream to upskill Indian youth and make them market-ready. He had a thing for entrepreneurship since his childhood and wanted to build something of his own. He had always been a creative and opportunistic child who believed that if life has given you an opportunity, the first and the only step is to accept it and work for it. His inclination towards business brought him to Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, where he pursued his bachelor of business administration degree. He learned the academic and technical parts of business management. During his college life, he took upon various opportunities and got hands-on experience. Those opportunities helped him learn what the industries are looking for and how the Indian education system lacked. Ritwiz, after his graduation, joined a multinational company. He wasn’t delighted with his position there. However, he believed that he was built to do something big in his life and put in tremendous efforts to climb up the corporate ladder. Throughout the period, he felt that he wasn’t rewarded adequately for his actions and that no matter how hard he worked, there were still certain restrictions that hindered his growth in corporate culture. Despite these factors, he has always expressed his gratitude towards his corporate job, as it helped him learn a lot about the marketing field. After a few years, he then left his job to build something of his own and create an environment where everyone has a chance to grow without any set limit. Ritwiz, during his course of work, realized how massively India lacks in terms of modern skillsets and practical knowledge that today’s industry needs. He could envision the massive potential that EdTech holds for this country and desired to change the old model of “people reaching out to education” and “taking education to people.” He wanted to bridge the gap between what people are taught and what the industry needs. India is a young country and can cater to the world’s needs but what we are taught in our educational institutes is highly outdated, but very few people tend to observe it and work to change it; Ritwiz was one of them. So he reached out to his two like-minded friends- Rohit Sharma and Keshav Lal- and explained his vision to change India’s EdTech industry. They both jumped the bandwagon without any hesitation and joined Ritwiz hands; these three together laid the founding stone of Bizgurukul. Bizgurukul was established on 24th March 2020 and had been running for over a year. The company was founded during the uncertain times of COVID-19, where people were losing jobs, and almost every sector had no idea of their future. Sailing through these tough times, Bizgurukul passed with flying colors under the leadership of Ritwiz Tiwari. He has been spinal cord for his team and guided them during the tough times, which is the reason for the company’s immense success. Bizgurukul has touched a million-dollar mark in just one year, and they plan to reach out 1 lakh students mark before this year ends. Ritwiz recently announced that he plans to add on more than 5000 advanced courses that can help Indian youth to upskill themselves and work in the high-paying sector. Their education portal would also support live training and one-on-one mentorship programs so that if anyone has any doubts even after their courses, they could be addressed and solved. Ritwiz dream is to have a significant impact on India’s growth through education that matters the most. The way Bizgukul has performed till now under his leadership, the company will surely turn tides in the Indian education sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty close at fresh highs||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 175 points to close at its new lifetime high on Friday, boosted by gains in TCS, L&T and HDFC amid a largely subdued trend in global markets.  The 30-share index settled 175.62 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 56,124.72.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty gained 68.30 points or 0.41 per cent to finish at a record 16,705.20.  UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by L&T, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finserv, Sun Pharma, TCS and Kotak Bank.  On the other hand, Infosys, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Nestle India and HCL Tech were among the laggards.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with gains, while Hong Kong and Tokyo settled in the red.  Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.94 per cent to USD 71.74 per barrel.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,974.48 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Supreme Court asks Sebi not to take coercive action against NDTV promoters||The Supreme Court Friday asked markets regulator Sebi not to take any coercive steps against NDTV promoters Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy till it hears their pleas on September 3 against the penalty proceedings related to alleged violation of securities norms by concealing information from shareholders on certain loan agreements. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana was requested by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) that the hearing on the pleas of the NDTV promoters be adjourned till next Friday. "We will adjourn, but do not take any coercive step," the bench, which also comprised Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who was appearing for the Sebi. The bench inquired from senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the Roys, about the status of hearing on the NDTV promoters' appeal before the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). The third member of the SAT is not there and the hearing on the appeals is stuck, Rohatgi said, adding that now the proceedings to levy the penalty have been initiated. The apex court on February 15 disposed of the pleas of the Roys asking the SAT not to insist on deposit of half the amount of fines as a pre-condition for hearing their appeals against the Sebi orders. The NDTV promoters challenged the SAT order directing them to deposit 50 per cent of the alleged unlawful gains which Sebi found to have been made by them. "Having heard the matter for some time, we pass the following order by consent: The appellants' Appeal nos...shall be heard by the SAT at Mumbai without insisting on any deposit of amount... It is directed that no amount shall be recovered coercively from the appellants in the absence of any deposit. This order shall not be treated as a precedent in any other case. The appeals are, accordingly, disposed of," the top court had ordered. The Solicitor General had said the deposit of money is a condition precedent for grant of stay on the direction of Sebi. The SAT had directed the NDTV promoters to deposit 50 per cent of the disgorged amount before Sebi which had imposed a penalty on them for alleged violation of various securities norms by concealing information from shareholders regarding certain loan agreements. While hearing their appeal against Sebi, SAT had further said that if NDTV were to deposit the amount, the balance would not be recovered during the pendency of the appeal before it. In two separate orders passed on January 4, the tribunal had noted that the appeals filed by the Roy couple needed consideration and directed the appeals to be listed before the tribunal for final disposal on February 10, 2021. This had come following appeals filed by the couple against a Sebi order passed in November last year, whereby the markets regulator had barred them from the securities market for two years and also directed them to disgorge illegal gains of Rs 16.97 crore for indulging in insider trading more than 12 years ago. However, the charges were denied by the company. Sebi had noted that the duo together made the gains by indulging in insider trading in the shares of New Delhi Television Ltd (NDTV) while in possession of UPSI relating to the proposed reorganization of the company. Prannoy Roy was the chairman and whole time director and Radhika Roy was the managing director during the period under investigation and were part of the decision making chain that had led to crystallization of the UPSI. Discussions pertaining to reorganisation of the company started on September 7, 2007 and the disclosure was made on April 16, 2008. Hence, September 7, 2007 to April 16, 2008 was unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) period. "The couple sold shares on April 17, 2008, when the trading window for them was closed and made a profit of Rs 16.97 crore," as per the Sebi order. 'By doing so, they violated Prohibition of Insider Trading (PIT) norms and also acted in contravention of NDTV's code of conduct for prevention of insider trading which prohibited them from trading at least till 24 hours after the information was disclosed to the stock exchanges," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||How to Save Tax with ULIPs?||Over the next two months, most of us would be filing our tax returns for the financial year 2020-21. This is the time when many realise how they could have done a little more to save a little more money in taxes through different deductions that are available under the Income Tax Act 1961. While the time that has gone cannot be brought back, you can definitely review your tax planning for the current financial year, so you do not find yourself in a similar situation again next year. In terms of tax saving instruments, life insurance is often at the top of the list for most people[1][2]. However, lately, ULIPs, or Unit Linked Insurance Plans, are emerging as one of the most preferred instruments among the life insurance schemes, according to a survey by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance[3]. This trend is natural given the fact that ULIP insurance policies offer market-linked wealth creation alongside protection in the same policy. Moreover, since these plans have the option to invest in both equity and fixed income asset classes, they have the potential to deliver good returns over time. What is a ULIP scheme ULIP or Unit Linked Insurance Plan is a type of life insurance plan, which offers you, the policyholder, the benefits of both investment and insurance. A ULIP gives you an opportunity of market linked wealth creation while providing you the security of a life insurance cover. Moreover, with ULIPs, you can select the type of fund (with varying degrees of risk-return potential) where you want your premium to be invested. With the incidence of untimely deaths rising, especially in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic[4], life insurance seems to become a necessity. Buying a life insurance policy takes up financial resources and resources are always limited. What if one could get the protection of life insurance along with market-linked returns? Return on your investment is as critical as achieving long-term life goals like children’s education, buying a dream car, or owning a house for which the investment has been made. A unit-linked insurance plan has the potential to accumulate market-linked wealth to achieve such life goals along while ensuring a fall-back option in case of any unfortunate event. Tax-benefits that come with ULIPs Investment in ULIPs offer substantial tax benefits at different stages of the policy. Let’s look at some of the ULIP tax benefits. Tax benefit on premium: The benefit of investing in a ULIP is that the entire premium that you pay can be deducted from your taxable salary, up to a limit of Rs 1.5 lakh, under section 80C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 subject to conditions specified therein.  If policy is not satisfying the Section 10(10D) conditions, amount of deduction under Section 80C is restricted up to 10% of capital sum assured for policies issued on or after April 1, 2012 and for policies issued before April 1, 2012 amount of deduction is restricted up to 20% of capital sum assured.   Tax benefits on maturity (for ULIPs issued before February 1, 2021): As per section 10(10D) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, benefits received from ULIPs are tax-free. This is applicable only if the annual premium is less than 10% of the capital sum assured for the policies purchased after April 1, 2012 (for the policies purchased before the said date, it is 20%). Tax benefit on maturity (for ULIPs issued on or after February 1, 2021): You invested in the ULIP and saved some tax at the time of making that investment. But what happens when you liquidate your investment after it has matured? The good thing is that ULIPs offer a tax-free maturity amount as per Section 10 (10D) of the Income Tax Act 1961, subject to conditions specified therein and as long as the annual premium does not exceed Rs 2.5 lakh for policies issued after Feb 1, 2021. Tax-free partial withdrawals If you wish to withdraw money from your ULIP plan after the five-year lock-in period, you don’t have to pay any taxes on that withdrawal, provided the amount withdrawn is less than or equal to 20 per cent of the sum assured. Tax-free pay-out in the event of death In the unfortunate event of the untimely demise of the policy holder, the nominees receive the entire sum assured, or the total value of the fund in which the policyholder had invested, whichever is higher as per the terms and conditions of the policy. As the family deals with the loss of the loved one, at least they do not need to worry about their life goals as the lump sum payment would help in taking care of those. Moreover, the entire pay-out in the event of the death of the policyholder is exempt from any taxes. Getting the right ULIP policy So, if you are looking for the right investment vehicle to save some tax in the current fiscal, ULIPs could be the right choice for you. You could choose from the various ULIP plans offered by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance. The Bajaj Allianz Life Goal Assure - A Unit-linked Non-Participating Life Insurance Plan could be an option that not only offers you a combination of life insurance and investment, along with tax benefits, but also returns the life cover charges on maturity#. If you go with this plan, you can choose from four different investment strategies and eight funds to find the approach that best suits your financial goals and risk appetite. Not only can you buy their plans from their extensive offline network of 509 branches and over 80,000+ agents (as on 30 June 2021)[5], you can also buy Bajaj Allianz Life plans online from the comfort of your home by logging on to www.bajajallianzlife.com. With a claim settlement ratio of 98.48%~, you could be assured that not only your investment needs, but also your insurance needs would be served efficiently.  References: [1] https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/personal-finance-news/life-insurance-most-preferred-investment-for-affluent-indians-survey/articleshow/45890123.cms?from=mdr [2] https://www.financialexpress.com/money/indians-invest-primarily-in-life-insurance-fds-for-retirement-survey/2110069/ [3] https://www.business-standard.com/article/pf/ulips-gain-traction-as-preferred-insurance-schemes-amid-pandemic-survey-121070201367_1.html [4] https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/ [5] https://www.bajajallianzlife.com/about-us.html # Return of life cover charges = return of mortality charges (ROMC) which is payable on maturity, provided all due premiums have been paid. ~ Individual Claims Settlement Ratio for FY 2020-2021  BJAZ-WEB-ECNF-01759/21||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Sensex slips 95 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 95 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid unabated foreign fund outflows.  The 30-share index was trading 96.18 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 55,852.92. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 23.70 points or 0.14 per cent to 16,613.20.  M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by HDFC, Tech Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Infosys and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finserv, L&T, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finance and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers.  In the previous session, the BSE index ended just 4.89 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 55,949.10. And the broader NSE Nifty advanced 2.25 points or 0.01 per cent to its fresh closing peak of 16,636.90.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,974.48 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red.  Equities in the US ended on a negative note in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 1.03 per cent to USD 71.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Steel Authority of India aims to bring down borrowing to Rs 20,000 crore||Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) aims to bring down its borrowing to Rs 20,000 crore by the end of this fiscal taking advantage of a robust margin. Soma Mondal, chairman of SAIL, said the PSU had brought down borrowing by around Rs 5,000 crore in the first quarter itself and the plan is to reduce it to Rs 20,000 crore depending on the market conditions. During 2020-21, SAIL had cut net debt by Rs 16,131 crore to Rs 35,350 crore. In aggressively reducing the debt overhang, SAIL joins top private sector steel majors such as Tata Steel and Jindal Steel & Power Ltd in deleveraging its balance sheet during the commodity upcycle. Speaking on the sidelines of an event to inaugurate the new headquarters of MSTC Ltd in Calcutta, Mondal said the PSU has a capital expenditure plan of Rs 8,000 crore this fiscal. Commenting on the domestic demand, which has moderated during the second wave of Covid-19, Mondal said there appeared to be a pick-up. “Flat products are stable and long products are showing indications of an increase.” she said. The MSTC office was inaugurated by Union steel minister Ram Chandra Prasad Singh. When asked if the government or SAIL would reconsider the decision to dismantle the raw material division of SAIL from Calcutta, the minister said the process was complete. “There is no scope for a rethink now,” Singh said. Market forces The government is unlikely to intervene in reining in steel prices even as some of the user industries in the MSME sector have been complaining about the high prices. While prices have come off from the record highs, they are still at elevated levels. “It is a cyclical industry. Covid had impacted supply even in the international market, which led to the increase in prices. We are focusing on increasing capacity, which should enhance supply and bring down prices,” said Singh. However, he pointed out that international prices were still 15-20 per cent higher than the domestic rates. He also did not offer to intervene in the export of iron ore and pellets which has created a shortage in the domestic market, spiking prices. “We are keeping a watch. But prices have started coming off now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Industry expects Bengal’s warehousing potential to improve||Industry expects Bengal’s warehousing potential to improve with a tweak in rules on ground coverage — the percentage of covered area against the total plot area. The industry is also in favour of faster approvals and clearances. At a seminar organised by Assocham on Thursday, Darshan Hiranandani, managing director and CEO, H-Energy, said the state could consider raising the ground coverage levels to allow industry to unlock more land without the need to buy and develop additional land. The Hiranandani group is developing a logistics and data centre park in Bengal. “Land acquisition is a difficult subject in any part of the country. Industrial warehousing land is in big demand. Wherever land is there, giving restrictive ground coverage for industrial land does not make sense,” Hiranandani, who is also the chairman of the Assocham national council on hydrocarbon, said. “Where land is available for industry, please allow 55 per cent for ground coverage, don’t restrict it to 35 per cent. Other states are allowing it. It’s a small change but it could double the availability of warehousing and logistics which bring in a lot of jobs,” he added. Rajiv Sikka, CEO of Indian Oil Adani Gas Ltd, said there are significant expansion plans in the piped natural gas distribution business in Bengal with industry players looking to set up more than 400 CNG stations in the next 5-7 years and supply piped gas to cities. But this requires faster approvals from the state government. “By forming a high-powered committee headed by the chief minister, any inter-departmental problem will be solved and clearances will be done very quickly,” Bengal industries minister Partha Chatterjee said at the event. Those who have experienced delay in having clearances of their projects in the past, I assure them it will not happen once again,” Bengal industries minister Partha Chatterjee said at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Barclays to pump more than $400 million into India arm||Barclays said on Thursday it is pumping in more than $400 million (Rs 3,000 crore) into its India arm to tap rising corporate and investment banking activity in the country that is now recovering from the pandemic. This is Barclays’ single largest capital infusion in its Indian business in the last three decades. It comes after the British lender pulled out of the retail business in Asia’s third-largest economy in 2011 and exited its equity investment business in 2016. Barclays said the investment would help grow its corporate and debt investment banking as well as private clients businesses. Revenue from investment banking in India so far this year was $498 million, versus $339 million in the same period last year and $538 million in 2020, according to Dealogic. Barclays leads India’s debt capital market by dollar bond volume, with a year-to-date share of 14 per cent, according to Dealogic. Rivals such as JP Morgan and StanChart have a share of 13 per cent each, while HSBC has 12 per cent. “As economic activity gathers momentum, there is increased demand for capital from clients,” said Jaideep Khanna, Barclays country CEO for India. Barclays India mainly lends to corporate houses with exposures largely to highly rated clients and subsidiaries of multi-national companies, according to Fitch unit India Ratings & Research. “Last year was a very good year for debt capital market in India, particularly as domestic bank credit didn’t take off much. There was a lot of interest in global credit and the overall market has been robust,” said Ananth Narayan, associate professor of finance at S.P. Jain Institute of Management and Research. With the fresh capital infusion, Barclays India’s Tier-1 capital is up 55 per cent. “According to central bank norms, there are limits placed on what a lender can do with respect to their balance sheet, but now that the bank’s overall capital base has expanded, its ability to lend more has increased,” said a source familiar with the matter. Barclays inaugurated its international banking unit branch at GIFT City in Gujarat in February, as part of its expansion plans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||Yahoo to shut down news and current affairs content operations in India||Stringent foreign direct investment rules have forced US web service provider Yahoo to shut down its news and current affairs content operations in India. The Yahoo website said effective Thursday, it has stopped publication of content in India and has shut down content operations here, which include Yahoo News, Yahoo Cricket, Finance, Entertainment and MAKERS India. “We did not come to this decision lightly,” said Yahoo. This is not the first time the Indian FDI norms in digital media with all its associated conditions have sounded the death knell for a global media content provider. Huffington Post too reportedly shut its operations in India last year because of the tough rules. The spotlight is on a clarification on the FDI policy for uploading/streaming of news and current affairs through digital media that was laid out by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade in October 2020. The department had clarified that the decision of permitting a 26 per cent FDI through the government route will apply to three categories of entities registered or located in India — digital media entities, news agencies and news aggregators. The existing entities were given one year to align their FDI levels to 26 per cent. Further, these entities would need to have an Indian CEO, majority of the directors would have to be Indian citizens and they would also have to obtain security clearance for foreign personnel to be deployed in India for more than 60 days in a year through appointment, contract or consultancy. “There have been changes in the rules limiting foreign ownership of media companies that operate in the news and current affairs space, including a digital media entity that streams/uploads digital news and current affairs content in India and news aggregators,” a Yahoo spokesperson told The Telegraph. “Having evaluated the operational and economic challenges in restructuring the media business within the specified time and in the absence of requisite government approvals to operate our news and current affairs content business in India, we have decided to shut down these operations. This does not impact our ad tech business and Yahoo Mail and Yahoo Search, which will continue to operate,” the spokesperson said. Need for review Industry observers said there is a need to review the rules  and ease out the low cap of 26 per cent through the government approval route. “We have worked with a lot of clients and there is really a strong sense of disappointment because this has limited the operational flexibility. This kind of narrow control really hampers overseas investment coming into India,” said Probir Roy Chowdhury, partner, J. Sagar Associates. Earlier on May 3, 2021, Verizon and Apollo Global Management had announced an agreement whereby funds managed by affiliates of Apollo will acquire Verizon Media for $5 billion. Verizon Media owns brands like Yahoo and AOL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
27-08-2021||Business||NCLAT admits application filed by McLeod promoter Aditya Khaitan||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal has admitted an application filed by Aditya Khaitan, the promoter of tea planter McLeod Russel India Ltd (MRIL), seeking a stay on the formation of a committee of creditors but did not put immediate fetters on the ongoing insolvency process. In its order published on Thursday, the tribunal said it would adjudicate on the McLeod plea only after respondent Techno Electric & Engineering Ltd, the creditor who had taken McLeod to court for a Rs 100-crore loan default, files a reply. The next date for hearing has been set for September 8. The consensus legal view emerging from the NCLAT order is that the interim resolution professional, appointed by the lower tribunal, would continue with the corporate insolvency resolution process as mandated by Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. If a strict timeline is maintained, the CoC has to be formed within 30 days of the court order, which would precede the next hearing date. NCLT Delhi had sent McLeod to insolvency on August 6. “The appeal is admitted for hearing. However, we will consider the application for stay after filing a reply by the respondent,” the bench of Justice Jarat Kumar Jain and member technical Ashok Kumar Mishra ruled. Lawyers Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal had a face-off at the NCLAT, representing Khaitan and Techno, respectively, on Wednesday. Udit Gupta, counsel for Techno who assisted Sibal, said under regulation 17(1), the interim resolution professional ought to file a report before the adjudicating authority (NCLT) certifying the constitution of the CoC within 30 days from the appointment of the IRP. Once the CoC is formed, McLeod can only come out of insolvency if 90 per cent of the creditor agree to it under Section 12A.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
27-08-2021||Business||SC directs Unitech duo be shifted to Mumbai jail||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra be shifted from Tihar Jail to Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail and Taloja prison in Maharashtra after the ED said they were conducting business from the premises in connivance with the staff. The top court, which perused two status reports of the Enforcement Directorate, said Tihar Jail superintendent and other staff are “absolutely shameless” for conniving with the Chandra brothers to flout the court orders and undermine its jurisdiction. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the brothers will be lodged separately in Arthur Road and Taloja prisons. “Materials on record indicate that despite the orders of this court, activities are taking place within the Tihar Central Jail, where the two are lodged, which have the propensity to undermine the authority of the court, as also to derail the investigations which have been ordered to be done by the ED,” the bench said. During the hearing, the bench told additional solicitor- general (ASG) Madhavi Divan, appearing for the ED, “Tihar jail officials have actively connived with the accused to flout the orders of this court. We have to say that the Tihar Jail superintendent and his staff are absolutely shameless...Can you imagine it is happening right in the Centre and in the capital? We will certainly take them to task.” According to the ASG, despite being in jail the Chandra brothers managed to dispose of several properties and handle original documents, including the sale deeds of various apartments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
27-08-2021||Business||New drone rules announced, to pave way for air-taxi operations||The new drone rules announced on Thursday will pave the way for air-taxi operations in the country, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said. “That time is not far when taxis, like the ones of Uber etc that you see on roads, you will see in the air under the drone policy. I believe this is very much possible,” he said, “Air taxis are being researched and invented globally and many startups are coming up,” the minister said . Scindia said the defence ministry, the home ministry and BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security) have been working together so that “counter rogue drone technology” can be developed and adopted quickly. In a notification, the ministry of civil aviation eased the rules regarding drone operations by reducing the number of forms that need to be filled to operate them from 25 to 5 and decreasing the types of fees charged from 72 to 4. The Drone Rules, 2021, were issued on Wednesday and they supersede the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, which had come into force on March 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
27-08-2021||Business||India’s aviation regulator lifts ban on Boeing 737 Max planes||India’s aviation regulator has lifted the ban on Boeing 737 Max planes after almost two-and-half years. On March 13, 2019, all Boeing 737 Max planes were grounded in India by the Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) after the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max on March 10 near Addis Ababa which had left 157 people, including four Indians, dead. In its order dated August 26, 2021, the DGCA stated that the operation of Boeing 737 Max planes are permitted “only upon satisfaction of applicable requirements for return to service”. Hours before the announcement, Budget carrier SpiceJet  said it expects Boeing Co’s grounded 737 MAX jets in its fleet to return to service at the end of September following a settlement struck with lessor Avolon on the leases of the aircraft. Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, who plans to launch an airline by early next year, was said to be in talks with Boeing for a fleet of B737 Max. No checks in India The regulator’s move came in for sharp criticism from analysts as it did not carry out any independent safety checks, simply riding on the shoulders of the other regulators. “Based on design changes by Boeing, (America’s) Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued an airworthiness directive on November 18, 2020, mandating actions for 737 Max airplanes return to service, ” DGCA chief Arun Kumar said. Following this, the US regulator lifted the ban on Max. “Subsequently, European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) also issued its own airworthiness directive on February 17, 2021 which has been mandated by the DGCA for compliance on Indian registered fleet,” Kumar said. Mark Martin, aviation consultant, said: “The DGCA should have conducted its own independent safety audit of the aircraft and not gone by the directives of other regulators.” The Indian regulator should allow the pilots to fly the B737 Max only after they are re-trained on the new modifications that Boeing has carried out following the crash, he said. Around 175 countries have allowed the 737 MAX to return to service, with 30 airlines already restarting their MAX aircraft services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
27-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala reports over 30,000 cases for 3rd consecutive day||Kerala continued to report over 30,000 cases for the third consecutive day on Friday and showed an increased Test Positivity Rate, while 179 deaths took the toll to 20,313. The state logged 32,801 cases today, up from 30,007 on Thursday. The figure was 31,445 cases on August 25. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours increased to 1,70,703, health minister Veena George said, compared to 1,66,397 on Thursday. The Test Positivity Rate stood at 19.22 per cent, an increase from 18.03 on August 26. "Out of those found infected today, 144 reached the state from outside while 31,281 contracted the disease from their contacts. The sources of infection of 1,260 are yet to be traced. Among the infected are 116 health workers, " the minister said in a release. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of cases (4,032), followed by Thrissur 3,953 and Ernakulam 3,627, Kozhikode 3,362 and Kollam 2,828. Meanwhile, 18,573 persons recuperated from the disease on Friday, taking the total cured in the state to 37,30,198. Currently, there are 1,95,254 persons under treatment in the state. The health department said there are 353 wards across 70 local self-government bodies where the weekly infection population ratio was above eight per cent. The steady rise in cases had seen Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla review the situation with top officials on Thursday and the steps taken to contain the alarming graph of the virus in the state. The central government had said that the southern state is the only one reporting over one lakh active COVID-19 cases, while four states have 10,000 to one lakh active cases and 31, less than 10,000 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
27-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Cong crisis: Baghel holds detailed meeting with Rahul||Amid the power tussle in Chhattisgarh, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday held a detailed meeting with Rahul Gandhi and conveyed "everything I had to say" to the former Congress chief, who will be visiting the state next week on his invite.  Baghel held a series of meetings at Rahul Gandhi's residence for over three hours, where party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and party's Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia were also present, and he gave a detailed account of the development schemes being initiated by the state.  Asked about any change of guard, he said the party high command has made him the chief minister and he will continue to hold the position till the time they wanted.  Baghel also stated that the party's in-charge for the state had already mentioned earlier that there was no discussion on the leadership and nothing more was left to be said, indicating that he has got a breather.  After the meeting, Baghel told reporters, "I have said everything that I had to say to my leader. Discussed politics and briefed him on the state's policies and governance. I invited him to the state and he has accepted the invite and will be visiting Chhattisgarh next week."  Trouble has been brewing in the Chhattisgarh Congress ever since Health Minister T S Singh Deo sought a change in leadership citing a power-sharing agreement on rotating chief ministership after the party came to power in the 2018 assembly polls.  This is Baghel's second meeting with Rahul Gandhi this week, after he met him on Tuesday, amid talk of a possible leadership change in the state.  Baghel later held a meeting with over 40 MLAs and ministers of Chhattisgarh who had arrived here in solidarity with the chief minister.  These legislators put up a show of strength in Baghel's support and wanted him to continue as chief minister. They have been camping in the national capital since Thursday.  They met Punia in the morning at his residence and later again at the AICC headquarters, where the chief minister was also present.  After meeting the legislators at the AICC, Baghel said they had come to meet their leaders and have met some of them.  He said they wanted to meet Rahul Gandhi, but will now meet him in their own areas when the former Congress chief visits the state.  "Rahul Gandhi ji will make a few visits to the state and see for himself the schemes that have been initiated by the Congress government in Chhattisgarh at his instance. He will visit Bastar, Sarguja, Bilaspur, Raipur and will see for himself the schemes being implemented in the state," Baghel said.  "The Gujarat model has failed and now the Chhattisgarh model has to be presented to the country now," he said.  Rahul Gandhi had earlier separately met Deo on Tuesday.  Both Baghel and Deo had also met Venugopal on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
27-08-2021||India||Supreme Court raps Gujarat government over report on fire incident that killed 13 last year||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Gujarat government to table on the first day of its next Assembly session a report of commission of inquiry headed by Justice (retd) DA Mehta which had probed two incidents of fire at hospitals in Rajkot and Ahmedabad that happened last year, in which 13 patients were killed. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to inform the Gujarat government about the view of the court, so that the report can be tabled in the house. Mehta said that it will be appropriate that the report before being given to anyone is allowed to be tabled in the House or it will set a wrong precedent. "The next session is scheduled to be held in September. I will request the government to table the report in the house as early as possible, Mehta said," and sought a time of three weeks. The bench said that counsel for victims of the fire incident have been seeking the report of the commission, which will not be appropriate to give unless it is tabled in the house. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for some victim families, said that they be given compensation and the report of the commission should also be shared with them, so that they can file their response. Dave said that the commission has prepared the report without even talking to the victims and they are not privy to the report. The top court direction came while hearing a suo motu matter on the proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies in the hospitals in which it had taken cognizance last year about fire incidents in hospitals. During the hearing, the bench asked senior advocate Manisha Lavkumar, also appearing for Gujarat government, under what provisions this notification which extended the deadline by three months for hospitals to rectify the violations of building by-laws, was issued by the State and how can such notification be sustained. She replied that under section 122 of Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, the notification was issued and added that the government has taken a pragmatic approach in view of likely third wave of the COVID-19. Under section 122, a power is vested with the state government to facilitate the efficient administration of town planning and urban development legislation, orders can be passed. The bench told Lavkumar that by the notification building which did not have valid permission or were violating the by-laws or development control regulations, have been condoned and municipal bodies have been restrained from taking any coercive action against them. I"t has come down to this that there are no building control regulations in operation during this period in the state of Gujarat. It is suspended. It is a Windfall to developers and developers, which has no nexus to the pandemic," the bench said. On July 19, the top court had said hospitals have become like huge real estate industries instead of serving humanity in the face of COVID-19 tragedy while directing that 'nursing homes' running from 2-3 room flats in residential colonies which pay little attention to fire and building safety norms should be closed. It had pulled up the state government for extending the deadline till July next year for hospitals to rectify the building by-laws violations, and said the "carte blanche" notification was in teeth of its order of December 18 last year and people will continue to die in fire incidents. The top court had indicated that the state government will have to withdraw the notification or it will examine the issue. On December 18 last year, the top court had directed all the states to constitute a committee in each district to conduct fire audit of COVID-19 hospitals at least once a month, inform the management of medical establishments about any deficiency and report to the government for taking follow up action. It had said that COVID-19 hospitals, which have not obtained any no objection certificate from the concerned fire department, should be asked to immediately apply for NOC and after carrying necessary inspection, a decision shall be taken in this regard. The top court had directed that all states and Union Territories should appoint one nodal officer for each COVID hospital, if not already appointed, who shall be made responsible for ensuring compliance of all fire safety measures. The apex court had last year taken cognisance of the fire incident at a COVID hospital in Gujarat's Rajkot in which five patients had died. It had also taken note of similar incidents which had happened earlier in other COVID hospitals. It had taken note that Gujarat government has appointed Justice D A Mehta led commission to undertake enquiry with regard to fire in Shrey Hospital, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad, in addition to enquiry into the incident of fire in Uday Shivanand Hospital, Rajkot. The top court noted that the Centre has also directed the states and UTs to update their respective local building bye laws/fire services, synchronising them in line with the Model Bill on maintenance of fire and emergency service, 2019', circulated by the Ministry of Home Affairs on September 16 last year. The issue of Rajkot fire incident had cropped up in the top court which was hearing a suo motu case on proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and dignified handling of bodies in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
27-08-2021||India||EC writes to parties on fund creation after SC order on criminal candidates||Days after the Supreme Court directed that political parties have to publish information regarding criminal antecedents of candidates on the homepage of their websites, the Election Commission has written to heads of recognised political parties saying that it has created a fund in which fines for contempt of court can be deposited for failing to comply with the apex court's directions. It also reminded the political parties that the Commission was directed by the apex court to carry out an extensive campaign to make every voter aware about his or her right to know and the availability of information regarding criminal antecedents of all contesting candidates. For this purpose, a fund was to be created within four weeks. The EC was also directed to create a separate cell which will also monitor the required compliances so that the court can be apprised promptly of non-compliance by any political party of the directions contained in the court's orders. The court had said that if such a political party fails to submit such compliance report with the EC, the poll panel will bring such non compliance by the political party to the notice of the court "as being in contempt of this court's orders/directions, which shall in future be viewed very seriously". The letter sent out on August 26 said in compliance of the Supreme Court directions, the Election Commission has created the "fund" in which fines for contempt of court can be deposited. It also gave out details of the bank account where such fines can be deposited. On August 10, the Supreme Court had said that political parties have to publish information regarding criminal antecedents of candidates on the homepage of their websites. The apex court had directed the Election Commission to create a dedicated mobile application containing information published by the candidates regarding their criminal antecedents so that voter gets information on his or her mobile phone at one stroke. A bench of justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai passed these directions in its verdict on a plea seeking contempt action against several political parties including the BJP and the Indian National Congress for non-compliance of its February 13, 2020 directions during Bihar assembly polls last year. The bench modified one of its earlier directions given in its February last year order on furnishing of details about the criminal antecedents of candidates. "We clarify that the direction in paragraph 4.4 of our order dated February 13, 2020 be modified and it is clarified that the details which are required to be published, shall be published within 48 hours of the selection of the candidate and not prior to two weeks before the first date of filing of nominations," it said. It also directed the EC to carry out an extensive awareness campaign to make every voter aware about his right to know and the availability of information regarding criminal antecedents of all contesting candidates. The apex court held several political parties guilty of its contempt in 2020 Bihar assembly polls for disobeying an order requiring them to publish antecedents of candidates within 48 hours of selection or not less than two weeks before filing of nominations and imposed varying fines on them. It directed that fine imposed for contempt of court in the matter may be directed to be paid in the fund which must be created within four weeks. In its February last year verdict aimed at decriminalising Indian politics, the apex court had directed the political parties to upload on their websites and social media platforms the details of pending criminal cases against their candidates and the reasons for selecting them as also for not giving ticket to those without criminal antecedents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
27-08-2021||India||Ziqitza Healthcare Ltd emphasise on the role frontline health workers like Paramedics for pregnant women in Ambulances||At Ziqitza Healthcare Ltd, we believe that, Transport of pregnant women to an appropriate health facility involves its own set of challenges & guidelines and plays a pivotal role in preventing maternal deaths. Dr. Santosh Datar, at Ziqitza Healthcare Ltd, remarked, “Most maternal deaths could be prevented if women are assisted by skilled EMT in ambulance at birth and those experiencing complications could reach quality emergency obstetric care in a timely manner. It is estimated that at least 15 % of all pregnancies will encounter complications and 7 % will be serious enough to require referral to a higher level of care.108 ambulance services are transporting pregnant women routinely and obstetric emergencies in India. Ziqitza operates ‘108’ ambulance systems in multiple states in India, consists of Trained Paramedics & skilled EMT in ambulance that provide transport services for pregnant women. It all starts when 108 receive a call for the transfer of pregnant women to the hospital for delivery or any other problem related to pregnancy. An ambulance moves to the location with well skilled EMT who deals with any kind of emergency during the transfer of patient. EMT carefully board the patient in the ambulance with use of stretcher and advice patient to take left lateral position so she can feel comfortable during transfer. Thoroughly examination of the patient and vitals are taken by EMT while moving towards the hospital.  Ziqitza Healthcare Limited’s Dr. Santosh Datar, said, “EMT or Paramedic plays a very important role to deals with any kind of emergency during the transfer of pregnant women like delivery of baby in ambulance or to handle any other complication and similarly take care of baby after birth, hence play a major role to lower down the maternal mortality in India. Our efforts have always been to implement all safety norms both at the call centre or ambulance is being followed as staffs & patient’s safety is our key priority while dealing with emergencies. About Ziqitza Healthcare Limited Ziqitza Health Care Limited (ZHL), has been one of the leading players in India’s Emergency Medical Services industry since 2005. ZHL Rajasthan & Ziqitza Limited Rajasthan appreciates Ziqitza for its frontline workers exceptional work in India. Ziqitza Limited is a “one-stop integrated healthcare solution” for corporate or government that include Integrated Emergency Services and Corporate Health Solutions. The service network includes 3,300 ambulances, state of art Helpline centres and medical mobile units that services 2 customers every second in India. We work with multiple state governments and 75 corporate clients in India and Gulf. Ziqitza is winner of Global Real impact Awards and Times Social Impact Award.  For further information please contact:  visakh.dayanandan@zhl.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||Why does Remote Work feel so laborious and inorganic? Jackstien Practices’ Nishant Shah explains||We go on speaking about the endless benefits of Remote Work till we reach the inevitable question… if it was just so good, why didn’t we do it earlier? Well, aside from the obvious fact that technology has caught up recently over the last decade, the key issue is, simply, that we just didn’t dare. We didn’t want to upset an apple cart of that size and probably wouldn’t have managed it even if we wanted to. That is a figurative kart that could have only bowed to something as big as a pandemic. Think of a child who gets into a pool only after much trepidation. Having experienced the joys of the pool, the child then refuses to get out. That’s remote work in a nutshell. It’s hard to imagine and even harder to look forward to going back to the old ways. That probably explains reports of the ‘great waves’ of resignation in western nations where companies are asking people to come back in. This is being reflected here as well. Other companies insisting on a return are losing their people to companies offering remote work as a competitive advantage. So, is it all so easy? Not quite. Nothing so revolutionary can be. Companies are often in a quandary. While employees are closer to the benefits of remote work, senior management is closer to the troubles and problems caused by remote work, so much so that there is temptation to disregard the massive cost benefits because of inability to predict and manage the problems. One explanation is that companies have basically continued to do remotely what they did in the office collectively. While that’s understandable in the hurried rush to somehow deal with COVID, it did continue to feel like a square peg in a round hole. Further, at the time of the hurried rush, no one bothered about cost effectiveness of what they are doing. After all, most people didn’t realize that this was how it was going to be long term. They struggled to get by, to adapt processes and make do with just enough – after all, who could ask for more in such circumstances? Moreover, everyone understood and accommodated – your customers, the tax authorities and even your creditors and billers. But no more. Expectations will swing back to the old ones. And then keep heading north. The impact of the problems with remote work will keep feeling bigger, stronger and ever more difficult to manage. Jackstien Practices and Consulting International have evolved from the traditional management consulting firm to having developed a unique, rarified and much needed skill set. Under the leadership of their Managing Partner, Nishant Shah, they have specialized in all things remote work. Nishant has spent twenty years across multinational banks, most recently as Executive Director in charge of three portfolios of JPMorgan Chase in India, including Operational Risk for India. Regarded as the foremost expert in his field, he has applied his breadth of skills to help businesses evolve into the future. And we don’t use the term ‘breadth’ lightly – multiple facets of remote work from every perspective and aspect have been researched, studied and solved for. Jackstien Practices advises clients on logistics (think space management to hot-desking), technology (think virtualization to automation), asset reallocations (think space redesign to collaborative workspaces), statutory management (from taxation to labor law), financials (from cost management to restructuring), people (from supervisory changes to employee morale), training (virtual participation to asynchronous communications), process re-engineering (botification to customer service) and legal aspects (data confidentiality to employee codes). The scope of services was comprehensive, a consolidated offering under one roof so that clients do not run pillar to post trying to cobble together different inefficient and often conflicting solutions. The new world needs new consultants, and as Nishant says, “What helped us survive the pandemic won’t be enough to thrive post-pandemic – it’s a much higher bar. More than simply realigning, it needs reimagining so we don’t waste the opportunity” The road to the vast benefits of remote work is mined with pitfalls. We reckon that specializations like Jackstien Practices’ will be critical but till then, many of us may need to struggle with the square pegs and round holes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||IMD predicts heavy rainfall in Kerala, 6 districts put on orange alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued orange alert for six districts of Kerala on August 28 and 29 and forecast extremely heavy rainfall. The weatherman has also issued a Yellow alert to all other districts in the state tomorrow. Orange alert was issued for the districts of Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur on August 28 by the IMD, which predicted "extremely heavy rainfall" of around 20 cm. Also, the IMD issued Orange alert for the districts of Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram and Wayanad on Sunday while other districts in the state have been warned with a Yellow alert. "The southwest monsoon has been vigorous over Kerala," the IMD website read and said rain occurred at most places in Kerala and Lakshadweep. The weatherman recorded 13 cm rain at Kozha in Kottayam district, 12 cm rain at Cherthala in Alappuzha district, 11 cm each at Aluva and Keerampara ARG, both in Ernakulam district. The IMD has also warned the fishermen against venturing into the sea till August 30. "Strong wind with speed reaching 40-50 Kmph gusting to 60 Kmph is likely over Southwest and West Central Arabian Sea. Fishermen are advised NOT TO venture into these sea areas during the period mentioned," the MeT said. A Red alert indicates heavy to extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours, while Orange alert means very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm of rains. A yellow alert means heavy rainfall between 6 to 11 cm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane warns Shiv Sena, says he will bring out cases 'one by one'||In a veiled warning to the ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, Union minister and BJP leader Narayan Rane, who is locked in a bitter fight with it, on Friday said he knew a lot of things about the party and its leaders and would bring out cases "step by step". Without taking anybody's name, he said he knew who had asked whom to throw acid on brother's wife. Rane was speaking at a rally in Ratnagiri district as a part of his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. Earlier this week, he had made remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, which kicked up a row and led to his arrest on Tuesday before his release a few hours later. The episode had sparked off clashes between Shiv Sena and BJP supporters. "I have worked with them for 39 years, I know a lot of things. I know who asked whom to throw acid on his own brother's wife. What kind of 'sanskar' is it?" the BJP leader said on Friday. In a veiled attack on Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the president of Shiv Sena, Rane said, "What did one achieve by arresting a union minister? I will bring out cases step by step." "A Sena boy - Varun Sardesai - had come outside my home (in Mumbai) and threatened me. If he comes next time, he won't go back," the former Maharashtra chief minister added. Sardesai is a leader of the Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena. The Yuva Sena workers had protested outside Rane's bungalow in Mumbai on Tuesday over his remarks. Rane, who started off his political career as a Shiv Sena worker, became the state CM in 1999. However, in 2005, he was expelled from the Sena for "anti-party activities". After that he joined the Congress and stayed there till 2017. After quitting the Congress, he launched the Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha in October 2017. In 2018, he declared support for the BJP and was elected to the Rajya Sabha on that party's nomination. In October 2019, he merged his party with the BJP. He was made the Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) last month in the cabinet reshuffle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||Carefully monitoring developments in Afghanistan, says India||India on Friday said a vast majority of its citizens who wished to return home from Afghanistan have been evacuated and it is carefully monitoring the situation in the neighbouring country. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India's focus has been to evacuate its citizens who are stranded in Afghanistan. "We continue to monitor the situation very carefully. It is an evolving situation," he said at a media briefing. Asked whether India will recognise a Taliban dispensation in Afghanistan, Bagchi said there is currently a lack of clarity or no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. "The situation on the ground is uncertain. The prime concern is the security and safety of the people.... Currently, there is a lack of clarity or no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul," he said. Bagchi said India is in touch with various parties regarding operating evacuation flights from Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel meets Rahul Gandhi again amid Chhattisgarh crisis||Amid an ongoing power tussle in the ruling Congress in Chhattisgarh, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel met Rahul Gandhi at the latter's residence on Friday for the second time this week. Baghel arrived here from Raipur and reached Gandhi's Tughlaq Lane residence around 4 pm for the meeting, which was also attended by AICC in-charge for Chhattisgarh P L Punia. This is the Chhattisgarh chief minister's second meeting with Gandhi this week, as the two had met earlier on Tuesday. Gandhi had also separately met Chhattisgarh Health minister T S Singh Deo on Tuesday. Both Baghel and Deo had also met AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal on Wednesday, amid talks of a leadership change sought by Deo following differences between the two state leaders. Trouble has been brewing in the Chhattisgarh Congress ever since Deo sought a change in leadership citing a power-sharing agreement on rotating chief ministership after the party came to power in the 2018 assembly polls. Meanwhile, several legislators including a host of ministers in Chhattisgarh, camping in the national capital since Thursday, put up a show of strength in support of the chief minister. The ministers and MLAs met AICC in-charge P L Punia at his residence and are learnt to have put their weight behind Baghel, saying the state government is providing good governance under the incumbent chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||Delhi schools to reopen in phased manner from September 1||Schools for classes 9-12, colleges and coaching institutions will reopen in the national capital from September 1 following prolonged closure in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Delhi government announced on Friday. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). A panel set up by the DDMA had earlier this week submitted its report recommending phase-wise reopening of schools in the national capital. The decision came following a marked improvement in the COVID-19 situation in Delhi, following a recent brutal second wave of the infection which claimed many lives, with the shortage of oxygen at hospitals across the city adding to the woes. "In view of decreasing COVID cases, schools are being slowly reopened in Delhi with complete precautions, so that the learning loss for students can be reduced. We have to bring back life on track and take care of studies as well as health of students," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said teaching and learning activities will continue to be conducted in a blended mode. "No child will be forced to attend physical classes and there will be no compulsory attendance. Consent of the parents will be must for students to attend physical classes," he said during a press conference. While Sisodia said no final decision has been taken regarding junior classes and a call will be taken after analysing the effect of reopening schools for senior classes, sources indicated that schools for classes 6 to 8 may reopen from September 8. Schools in the national capital were ordered shut last year in March ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. While several states started partial reopening of schools from October last year, Delhi government allowed reopening in January only for classes 9 to 12. However, schools were again completely shut in April following an aggressive second wave of COVID-19. University Grants Commission (UGC) had also left the decision about reopening of colleges and varsities with respective state governments depending upon the COVID-19 situation. The Directorate of Education (DoE) will soon notify the detailed SOPs for reopening of schools. Separate entry and exit to avoid crowding, calling 50 per cent students of classroom seating capacity, increased facility for cleaning and sanitisation, availability of quarantine room and random collection of samples of students and staff on regular basis are among the SOPs recommended by the DDMA committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||Congress MLAs loyal to Bhupesh Baghel stage show of strength in Delhi||Ahead of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's meeting with the top Congress leadership, a section of party MLAs known to be loyal to him staged a show of strength here Friday. Amid a talk of leadership change in Chhattisgarh, a number of legislators from the state has arrived in the national capital in support of Baghel, who is also reaching Delhi. Around 20 party legislators called on AICC in-charge for the state P L Punia and are learnt to have told him that the Baghel government was working well. The chief minister is himself set to arrive in the capital Friday and will call on AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, even though his meeting with former party president Rahul Gandhi has not been fixed yet. Sources said that Baghel has been called to Delhi by Venugopal for further talks to resolve the crisis in the Chhattisgarh Congress. The state's Health Minister T S Singh Deo has been seeking the rotation on the chief minister's post, claiming there was an agreement made in this regard when the Congress assumed power in 2018. Deo has also said that every member in a team aspires to be the captain, making it clear that he is eyeing the top post in the state. Earlier, Baghel and Deo had met Gandhi Tuesday before holding discussions with Venugopal the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu asks Congress to give him the freedom to make decisions||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has urged the party leadership to allow him freedom to take decisions, else he will give a befitting reply. The Congress, however, said state chiefs are free to take their decisions within the party's norms and constitution. Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of party affairs in Punjab, said if the state chiefs will not take decisions, who else will. Sidhu had said earlier that the party high command should give him the freedom to take decisions and he will ensure that the Congress remains in power in Punjab for the next 20 years. He said he has prepared a roadmap in this regard. "The party high command should allow me the freedom to take decisions, else I will give a befitting reply," he said addressing a meeting in Amritsar. Meanwhile, under fire for his controversial comments on Kashmir, Malvinder Singh Mali on Friday quit as adviser to Sidhu. However, Mali did not term it as a "resignation". In a statement posted on his Facebook page, Mali said, "I humbly submit that I withdraw my consent given for tendering suggestions to Navjot Singh Sidhu". Mali, in another Facebook post, claimed that the question of his resignation does not arise as he never accepted the post. Neither accepted any post, nor resigned from any post, Mali said in a post in Punjabi. Amid a power tussle in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked Sidhu on Sunday to "rein in" his advisers after two of them made "atrocious" comments recently on sensitive issues like Kashmir and Pakistan. Rawat had also said that the two advisers need to go. Sidhu on August 11 had appointed Mali, a former government teacher and political analyst, and Pyare Lal Garg, a former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health and Sciences, as his advisers to seek their wise counsel. In a recent social media post, Mali had waded into the issue of revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. He had reportedly said if Kashmir was a part of India, then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35A. He had also said, Kashmir is a country of Kashmiri people. Garg, another adviser of Sidhu, had reportedly questioned the chief minister's criticism of Pakistan. The chief minister had warned against such "atrocious and ill-conceived comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-269
27-08-2021||India||Harish Rawat seeks to be relieved as Congress' Punjab affairs in-charge||Citing next year's assembly polls in Uttarakhand where he is the Congress' campaign committee chairman, Harish Rawat has sought to be relieved as the in-charge of party affairs in Punjab. He said that to concentrate on the upcoming polls in Uttarakhand, it had been on his mind to seek to be relieved of the responsibility of the party's Punjab affairs in charge. "Yes, this is the reason," the former Uttarakhand chief minister told reporters in Dehradun on Thursday when asked if he has sought to be relieved of the charge as Punjab affairs in-charge so that he could concentrate on the upcoming polls in his state. He added that he would abide by whatever direction is given to him by the party. "If my party asks me to continue (as Punjab affairs in-charge), I will continue," said Rawat. Punjab and Uttarakhand will go to polls next year. While the Congress is seeking to retain power in Punjab, it aims to return to power by defeating the ruling BJP in the hill state. Punjab is witnessing an infight between the camps of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Rawat, who is currently in Delhi to meet the party's senior leadership, had recently said next year's Punjab Assembly polls will be fought under the leadership of Amarinder Singh, delivering a snub to the leaders wanting his removal. Rawat had also said that there was no threat to the Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab. Reacting to Sidhu's statement urging the party high command to allow him the freedom to take decisions, Rawat said party chiefs are free to take their decisions within the party's norms and constitution. "I will see the context in which Navjot Singh Sidhu has made these remarks. Mr Sidhu is the respected chief of the Punjab unit. Who will have the power to take decisions if not the state presidents," he told reporters in Delhi on Friday. Rawat added state presidents are free to take decisions within the party's constitution and position. Sidhu had said earlier that the party high command should give him the freedom to take decisions and he will ensure that the Congress remains in power for the next 20 years. He said he has prepared a roadmap in this regard. "The party high command should allow me the freedom to take decisions, else I will give a befitting reply," he said addressing a meeting in Amritsar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||HC asks Centre to respond to pleas challenging IT Rules||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the Centre to reply to pleas by Facebook and WhatsApp challenging the new IT rules for social media intermediaries requiring the messaging app to trace chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of the information. The pleas have challenged the new rules on the grounds that they violate the right to privacy and are unconstitutional. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice and asked the Centre through the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to file reply to the petition as well as application to stay the implementation of the Rules. The court listed the matter for further hearing on October 22. The counsel for Centre said the main advocate was not available and sought an adjournment which was opposed by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp and Facebook respectively. The Facebook-owned company, WhatsApp, in its plea said the requirement of intermediaries enabling the identification of the first originator of information in India upon government or court order puts end-to-end encryption and its benefits "at-risk". WhatsApp LLC has urged the high court to declare Rule 4(2) of the Intermediary Rules as unconstitutional, ultra vires to the IT Act and illegal and sought that no criminal liability be imposed on it for any alleged non-compliance with Rule 4(2) which requires to enable the identification of the first originator of the information.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||Bar Council to meet on curtailing lawyers' strikes, Supreme Court informed||The Bar Council of India on Friday informed the Supreme Court that it has convened a meeting of state bar councils and proposes to formulate rules for curtailing strikes by lawyers and initiating action against advocates who participate or instigate others for abstaining from work and strikes on social media. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah was informed by senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra, who is the chairman of the Bar Council of India (BCI), that they have convened a meeting of all State Bar Associations on September 4. "We will be holding a meeting of all the state Bar Councils and Associations on September 4 and we propose to formulate rules to curtail strikes by lawyers and to initiate action against advocates who instigate strikes on social media, Mishra said. The bench recorded the submission of Mishra and said that it appreciates the action taken by BCI. On the request of Mishra, the top court posted the matter for further hearing in the third week of September. At the outset, Mishra apologised for not coming up with suggestions earlier in compliance with the court's order last year, due to the onset of pandemic. On July 26, the top court had said it had delivered its verdict on February 28 last year and the BCI and the state bar councils were directed to give concrete suggestions to deal with the problem of strikes and abstention from work by lawyers. It had noted that no response has been received from BCI and other state associations. The top court had asked Mishra to render assistance to the court in his capacity as the chairperson of the Bar Council of India. On February 28 last year, the top court was irked by lawyers holding strike every Saturday for 35 years in Uttarakhand district courts over reasons like 'bomb blast in Pakistan', 'earthquake in Nepal' or 'condolence references for family members' and had warned the advocates concerned of contempt action if they persisted with it. Holding the strike illegal, the top court had sought response from BCI and all the State Bar Councils within six weeks to suggest the further course of action to deal with the problem of strikes/abstaining from work by the lawyers. Taking suo motu cognisance of the issue, the top court had emphasised that at a time when the judiciary is facing serious problems of pendency and delay in disposal of cases, how can the institution as a whole can afford such four days strike in a month. The top court had said that every month on 3-4 Saturdays, the advocates are on strike on one pretext or the other and added that had the lawyers worked on those days, it would have achieved the ultimate goal of speedy justice, which is now a fundamental right. It had said that boycotting courts on every Saturday in the districts of Dehradun, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand is not justifiable at all and as such it tantamount to contempt of the courts. The top court had dismissed the appeal filed by the Dehradun Bar Association challenging the Uttarakhand High Court order of September 25, 2019 which had asked the lawyers' and their associations to withdraw the strike in district courts and warned them of contempt action. The top court had said that despite the law laid down in various verdicts of the apex court, the court had time and again deprecated the lawyers for going on strikes but it continued unabated. "Even in the present case, the advocates have been boycotting the courts on all Saturdays, in the entire district of Dehradun, in several parts of the district of Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar district of the State of Uttaranchal. Because of such strikes, the ultimate sufferers are the litigants," the top court had said. It had noted the information sent by the High Court to the Law Commission with respect to the state for the years 2012- 2016, which showed that in Dehradun district, the advocates were on strike for 455 days (on an average 91 days per year) and in Haridwar district it was 515 days (about 103 days per year). "To go on strike/boycott courts cannot be justified under the guise of the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. Nobody has the right to go on strike/boycott courts. Even, such a right, if any, cannot affect the rights of others and more particularly, the right of Speedy Justice guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution," it had said. Referring to the Law Commission's report, the high court had noted that strikes by advocates or their abstinence from courts varied from local, national to international issues, having no relevance to the working of the courts, and were seldom for justifiable reasons. "To mention a few, bomb blast in a Pakistan school, amendments to Sri Lanka's Constitution, inter-state river water disputes, attack on/murder of an advocate, earthquake in Nepal, condoling the death of near relatives of advocates, expressing solidarity to advocates of other state bar associations, moral support to movements by social activists, heavy rains....and even for kavi-sammelans," the high court had noted in its verdict. In its verdict, the high court had noted that "genesis of this peculiar form" of protest of boycotting work on Saturdays for over 35 years was traceable to western Uttar Pradesh, of which the aforesaid districts formed part of, before the state of Uttarakhand was created on November 9, 2000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||Royal Hotelier Digraj Singh Shahpura Artistically Shaping Hospitality Through Shahpura Hotels ||Rajasthani Heritage & Rajasthani Cultures are the exact faces of the historical era. The mesmerizing beauty of the hotels is eye-catching and equally soothes the soul. Well, when it comes to running a hotel chain as well as preserving the ancestral heritage at the same time, Digraj Singh Shahpura perhaps comes at the forefront players in India. The brand includes 10 luxury heritage hotels. Digraj Singh claimed a Platonical move by transforming the ancestral heritage properties into exquisite hotels not disturbing their magnificence. While exposing the royal culture, heritage, and distinguish traditions of Rajasthan, Digraj Singh kept the hotels equipped with state-of-the-art technology, top-notch luxury, and soothing comfort that enhances the guest experiences. While elaborating about the modern touch on the heritage properties, Digraj Singh proudly says, “Shahpura Hotels is the only chain who has embraced the modern technology in hotel heritage sector which makes us stand apart from our competitors. Our every property is equipped with modern technological facilities like Tablets, Dock Stations, and Fast-Speed Internet across the property.” Shahpura Hotels is expanding its hotel chain in many cities in the future. The new properties will be a blend of weddings, Heritage, and Business hotels. Seeing the market demands of business and MiCE hotels as much as wedding hotels, the proud owners are now en-routing their expansion strategies accordingly. The group have two awarded heritage hotel, Shahpura haveli on the delhi-jaipur road and Shahpura house in jaipur. Well, he has now enhanced his business by entering management contracts with the other property owners in the state. He selectively had chosen the properties in Jaipur, and Udaipur, as well as the business hotels near the airport in Jaipur. He also made sure that the properties fulfill the standards of 4 stars and above. The mesmerizing Shahpura Hotels are some of the finest historic hotels in the world, two of which were included in the Historical Hotels of the World List. The Shahpura House was also awarded a Luxury Heritage Hotel by World Luxury Hotel Awards 2018. Also, the brand was included in the Lifestyle Member of Preferred Hotels & Resorts. The Shahpura Brand has already expanded its empire in cities like Jaipur, Udaipur, Kumbhalgarh, and Ranthambore to name a few. Expressing his views on the future expansion of Shahpura hotels, Digraj Singh said, “By 2021 we will be able to cover four to five more cities apart from the ones in Rajasthan. We are signing new hotels in Mumbai, Goa, Gurgaon, and Agra. We are also in search of leisure destinations like Manali and Varanasi who have heritage properties. We are planning to take over old Haveli’s and refurbishing them. We are also looking forward to going global with the launch of our first International Hotel in Dubai and subsequently, launching hotels in London, China, Paris, and Santorini.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||Aura Productions announces Goa Tourism as Associate Partner for Aura Mr, Miss & Mrs India and Aura Fashion Week||Aura Productions announces Goa Tourism Development Corporation Limited (GTDC) as Associate Partner for the second season of Aura Mr, Miss & Mrs India and Aura Fashion Week. While GTDC is the most trusted guide to visitors in Goa, Aura Productions is a leading name in organising Fashion Events, Talent Hunts, Art & Literature Festivals and Exhibits. GTDC’s prestigious hotel Calangute Residency will be the Hospitality Partner for the events and will be hosting the contestants coming from across the country, for the pageant. Situated on the sands of the Calangute Beach, the Calangute Residency offers rooms overlooking the sea and the beach is just 16 km from the capital city of Panaji. While its rooms are comfortable and spacious, the cottages of Calangute Residency give an authentic feel of Goan Portuguese décor. The hotel is a perfect choice for contestants to stay, rejuvenate and get ready for the pageant. The Venue Partner for Aura Mr, Miss & Mrs India and Aura Fashion Week will be Sawalwada Indoor Stadium. Speaking about the association with GTDC, Mr. Piyush Agarwal - Founder Director of Aura Productions said, “It’s our honour to have Goa Tourism onboard as an associate for our annual properties. Calangute Residency is such a perspicuous hotel and the contestants are surely going to enjoy their stay. The surroundings are refreshing and peaceful which will bring a positivity amongst the candidates.” Adds Meenakshi Chaudhary – Director of Aura Productions, “We are thankful to Sawalwada Indoor Stadium for allowing us to hold the events. The stadium is huge and will serve as the perfect venue for our events. We are looking forward for a great and long-term association with GTDC.” The grand finale of the pageant will take place in November 2021 and winners will be announced in three categories – Aura Mr, Miss and Mrs. India. For Aura Miss India, official designer will be Sakshi Bindra. She will also be a part of the esteemed finale jury. Other renounced fashion designers who are expected to be roped in for the grand event include ​Neeta ​L​ulla​, ​Rajdeep Ranawat​, ​Dhruv Sehgal ​and​ Siddhartha Bansal. ​The show will be choreographed by renowned fashion choreographer, Kapil Gauhri. Fashion Stylist for the event will be Nishankh Sainani. Doctor turned Actor, YouTuber, Columnist and Social Media Influencer, Dr Rohan Rajput will be judging and hosting Aura Mr Miss and Mrs India Season 2. Popularly known as Apka Rohan in social media circuit, Dr Rohan is the face of several brands and has been a role model for thousands to follow their dreams. For details on GTDC, please visit – https://goa-tourism.com/start For Aura Productions, click on – https://www.auraproductions.co/index.html||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||Independence Day Tour  was successfully organized by CelebBazaar Founder Abhishek Singh ||It was an honor for renowned celebrity manager, Abhishek Singh also the founder of CelebBazaar to organize a successful Independence US tour for famous Bollywood Actress Ileana D’Cruz. The tour was organized to celebrate the fiesta of India’s 75th Independence Day in the US. Ileana, who was currently in the United States graced her presence in the ’10th India Day Parade’ as Celebrity Grand Marshal at Hicksville, New York. The actor hoisted the flag in presence of the Honorable Randhir Jaiswal, Consulate General of India, NY, and other elected city officials of America. It was an orderly designed tour by an IT professional turned Celebrity Manager Abhishek Singh. His famous event management company in India CelebBazaar well-conducted the event in New York, Dallas, and Texas. Several heads of the American states, as well as thousands of Indians, attended the auspicious celebration of the freedom of their motherland. The event was followed by a fest that included several exclusive performances and a children’s carnival. As a part of the tour, Ileana has also attended Independence Day events in various other cities of the US. Ileana was overwhelmed with the honor she has received. Post parade, the B-town diva expressed her views saying, “The sense of community and unity centers around the pride of our flag, and the celebration of our Motherlands Independence is something I always look forward to! It is truly an honor for me to be part of such a prestigious event of the IDP Parade in the US and represent India.” About Abhishek Singh A very talented guy, Abhishek Singh comes from a small town, Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. He is an Engineering Graduate from Odisha and later moved to Bengaluru to work for IBM as a Software Techie. However, his affection towards Bollywood took him to the glamorous world apart from his IT job. He eventually came in contact with many B-town celebrities that further gave him a chance to make his dream come true i.e. to step into the world of event management. Thus, CelebBazaar came into existence! Right from the beginning, Abhishek figured out the know-hows of the event management processes, and also make use of his communicative skills to build a rapport with Bollywood stars. Abhishek has worked with many celebrated stars in India and the United States of America proving his work potentials. His perfection & systematic way of work helped him in getting new projects. The reason for entering into event management is his strong connection with the celebrities and the publicity he received in the entertainment world. He was having a knack for creativity, and his accomplishments get him closer to celebrities. People knew his work, his passion & dedication in completing the work. Thus sooner he started getting clients and made him the most-touted brand in managing celebrities. His first break came with Siddharth Malhotra, one of the finest Bollywood actors! Abhishek exclusively managed the event with Siddharth, and soon he was able to manage other celebs as well. Abhishek has worked with some of the top celebrities including Ajay Devgn, Hrithik Roshan, and Kareena Kapoor Khan, Taapsee Pannu, Tiger Shroff, and Vicky Kaushal to name a few. Also, his hard work grabbed the attention of some finest Bollywood producers and directors. Abhishek Singh is surely a blend of talent & creativity. His subtly skillful handling of situations made him reach this point making CelebBazaar a widely known and esteemed event management company across the entertainment world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||Find your passion playing this fun board game by India’s Leading Digital Coach, Siddharth Rajsekar ||Can you imagine finding your purpose and passion playing a game? We found it hard to believe till we actually played this fun game by India’s leading digital coach, Siddharth Rajsekar. Following the principles of his digital coaching blueprint, Siddharth has created ‘I Can Coach’ with the promise to make families and friends bond while finding their purpose and passion, becoming real problem solvers and ultimately monetizing it. Siddharth believes that the biggest problem in the world is that the current education and employment systems are broken. With his community, The Internet Lifestyle Hub, he aims to solve this problem by empowering a new breed of digital teachers who are real world implementers equipped with the right mindset, skill sets and tools to build communities online. I Can Coach takes a fun spin on the entire process of digital coaching, focussing on the 5Ps. The game is a blueprint of how you can use your "passion" to solve a "problem" targeting a particular "persona" where there is a huge "potential" in the market, then get "paid" for it and live a more "purposeful" life. Commenting on the launch of the board game Siddharth Rajsekar said, “The game is a replica of what your life should be like - one of purpose, joy and financial freedom. I want young adults to imbibe these values at an early age so they stop thinking that they need to get educated just to get a job but actually live a more purposeful life, doing what they love.” The game takes players through the following steps: Step 1 - Find your PASSION Step 2 - See how your passion can solve a PROBLEM Step 3 - PERSONA. Decide on who you want to serve. Step 4 - POTENTIAL. See if there is a trend in the area you have picked. Step 5 - PAYMENT. Create different ways you can monetise your expertise. By playing this game, players will be able to find that sweet spot for themselves and their family members, and then hopefully start thinking about what a purposeful life would mean to them. The launch of the board game comes after the launch of Siddharth’s first book, the international bestseller, You Can Coach. I Can Coach is available on https://shop.internetlifestylehub.com/. It will be priced at INR 2999 but is currently available for pre-order for INR 1999. Link to purchase: https://shop.internetlifestylehub.com/i-can-coach-board-game.html||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||India adds over 44,000 fresh Covid cases, 496 casualties in a day||With 44,658 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has increased to 3,26,03,188, while the active cases rose to 3,44,899, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,36,861 with 496 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.03 per cent of the total infections while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.63 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 11,174 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,24,931 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 51,49,54,309. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.45 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 32 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 63 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,18,21,428 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 61.22 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Friday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 496 new fatalities include 162 from Kerala and 159 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,36,861 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,36,730 from Maharashtra, 37,231 from Karnataka, 34,814 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,794 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,134 from Kerala and 18,402 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||Two Uttarakhand officials suspended for involvement in Kumbh Mela fake testing scam||Two officials in Uttarakhand have been suspended for their alleged involvement in the fake COVID-19 testing scam during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. Then Mela officer (medical and health) Dr Arjun Singh Sengar and then officer-in-charge (medical and health) Dr N K Tyagi were suspended on Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's orders Thursday night. The action is based on the recommendation of a probe committee set up by the Haridwar District Magistrate to look into the fake testing scam. "Corruption and carelessness at any level will not be tolerated. Stern action will be taken against anyone who is found guilty in connection with the scam," Dhami said. The probe panel found the officials to have been hand in glove with the companies involved in carrying out the fake rapid antigen tests during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. It had recommended disciplinary action against them for being reckless and causing financial losses to the state. The probe committee headed by the Chief Development Officer of Haridwar had submitted its report to the government on August 16. Meanwhile, Haridwar Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S has been asked to take appropriate legal action against the companies involved in the fake testing scam through the SIT probing it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||Chugh hits out at Mehbooba over her Taliban remarks||Lambasting PDP president Mehbooba Mufti for her reference to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to call upon the government to restore Jammu and Kashmir's special status, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh has said she is daydreaming and that her wishes will never come true. Calling Mehbooba's remarks as "anti-national", Chugh said on Thursday Jammu and Kashmir has outright rejected her Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and "the Gupkar Gang", referring to the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration -- an alliance of some mainstream Jammu and Kashmir parties. Referring to popular TV series 'Mungerilal ke Haseen Sapne', Chugh said, "Mungerilal was dreaming at night, but Mehbooba Mufti does it in the day. They will never come true." Addressing her party workers earlier this month, Mehbooba had asked the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and urged the government to hold dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir and return its special status which was revoked in 2019. Referring to the Taliban seizing power in Afghanistan, the former chief minister warned the Centre to not test us" and asked the government to mend its ways, understand the situation, and see what is happening in your neighbourhood." Reacting to her remarks, BJP leader Chugh said, "It was J&K's misfortune that these dynasties (PDP and National Conference) killed development here and whenever public solicited response they started speaking in the language of China and Pakistan. Now they are talking about Taliban. It is a nation run by (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi ji. Anyone who does any misadventure will be taught a lesson. Pakistan has been already taught a lesson." He said that nepotism of the PDP and the National Conference (NC) has murdered democracy in J&K. He said Jammu and Kashmir is fast transforming into a "tourism capital from terrorism capital". "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president J P Nadda, J&K is fast transforming into 'tourism capital from terrorism capital'. Development and safety of J&K is the commitment of Modi ji and the BJP is working to reach the target," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-270
27-08-2021||India||Afghanistan crisis: Opposition broadly backs govt’s efforts||India, like much of the rest of the world, has decided to adopt a wait-and-watch policy on Afghanistan to see whether the new government in Kabul is entirely Taliban-run or has a power-sharing component with other Afghan leaders. Sharing the government’s concern about the approaching August 31 deadline for the US pullout from Afghanistan, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Thursday said the situation was fluid and that India was consulting key stakeholders, partners and regional countries to assess the ground reality. Jaishankar was fielding the Opposition’s questions on how the Narendra Modi government planned to deal with the evolving situation in Afghanistan. The Opposition was broadly supportive of the government’s efforts, calling a ceasefire to the acrimony of the monsoon session of Parliament. There was general acknowledgement of the difficulties that all countries are facing in the evolving situation. Jaishankar himself in a tweet acknowledged the spirit in which the Opposition participated in the meeting. “Briefed the Floor Leaders of all political parties today on Afghanistan. 37 leaders from 31 parties attended. Thank them all. There is longstanding national sentiment on Afghanistan. Therefore, there is national concern now at developments. We are gathered with a national spirit,” he tweeted. The briefing — which was initiated by the government itself — was mainly on the evacuation exercise, the challenges faced in the process and the measures the government had taken over the past year to prepare for such an eventuality. The government, however, was unable to provide information on the number of Indians still remaining in Afghanistan. According to the minister, 565 people had been evacuated over the past week and a half. This includes 175 embassy personnel, 263 other Indians, 112 Afghan nationals (including Sikhs and Hindus), besides 15 people from other countries. These evacuations, the government said, were done under challenging circumstances such as frequent firing near the airport and in Kabul, multiple checkpoints manned by various groups, issues at the airport, landing permission delays and the need for overflight clearances from various countries as the effort was to avoid Afghan airspace as far as possible. On the pre-emptive measures, the government said it had temporarily withdrawn Indian personnel from the consulates in Herat and Jalalabad in April 2020, scaled down the embassy in Kabul in June this year and evacuated Indians from the consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif over the past month. With the Opposition leaders expressing concern about the remaining Indians in Afghanistan, Jaishankar assured them that bringing everyone out was the government’s first priority. The minister, however, had to face flak from the Left for the pro-US alignment of India’s foreign policy. CPI’s Binoy Viswam sought to remind everyone that the Taliban were the brainchild of the US and urged India not to put all its eggs in the American basket. Viswam was, however, appreciative of the democratic manner in which Jaishankar conducted the whole meeting. “Though parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi had said that the smaller parties would get time to speak after the larger parties only if there was time, Jaishankar heard everyone out patiently and answered all our questions. This was a departure from the meetings with this government where it is usually a monologue,” Viswam told The Telegraph. Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda stressed the need for India to handle the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast properly to be able to play a bigger role on the world stage and secure “our multiple interests in the region”. Trinamul Congress leaders extended support to the government for all the steps taken in the larger interest of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Mahasweta Devi’s 'Draupadi' axed from DU course for rape narrative||Mahasweta Devi’s short story Draupadi was axed from Delhi University’s English honours course because of its description of a rape, a campus official said on a day vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi used his emergency powers to approve syllabus changes for four subjects. A university source conceded it was rare for the VC to use his emergency powers and bypass the executive council — which was to take the final decision on the controversial syllabus changes — but added that the authorities did not want any further “dissent”. A university media release that defended the changes at length, suggesting the widespread criticism had hit home, said the varsity believed its syllabuses should contain material “which do not hurt the sentiments of any individual”. It did not name any particular text. A member of the oversight committee that recommended the changes told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity that Draupadi — which portrays a tribal woman’s struggle against oppression — had been dropped since it contains the description of a rape. A statement issued by three dissenting members of the 130-member academic council — which had on Tuesday cleared the changes — slammed the comment. “To use hurt sentiments as an excuse to delete texts is a blatant attempt to impose thought control of the dominant and privileged social groups,” said the joint statement from Rajesh Kumar, Mithuraaj Dhusiya and Biswajit Mohanty. Draupadi is about Dopdi Mehjen, a Santhal woman who, along with her husband, murders rich landlords and grabs their wells, the main sources of water in their village. She is captured by an officer who orders his men to rape her. Afterwards, asked to cover up, she refuses saying: “There isn’t a man here that I should be ashamed.” Draupadi has been part of the Delhi University syllabus since 1999 “owing to its seminal academic value”, said a dissent note by 15 academic council members protesting Tuesday’s green light to the syllabus changes. They underlined that the story also figured in the University Grants Commission’s “Model Syllabus 2019” for BA (Hons) English. What Delhi University has found liable to “hurt the sentiments” in print has stirred emotions on stage and motivated in real life. In her stage performance of Draupadi, celebrated Manipuri actor Sabitri Heisnam drops her clothes in a bold gesture of protest that paralyses the security forces and moves audiences. Her performance is known to have inspired 12 Manipuri mothers to strip naked in a public protest in 2004 against the army, which was accused of raping and killing a woman. Oversight committee chairman M.K. Pandit told The Telegraph: “We received complaints against the story Draupadi. I read the story myself.” Sultana’s Dreams by Begum Rokeya has replaced Draupadi in the Delhi University syllabus. The university has also dropped from the English course works by two Tamil Dalit writers — Bama and Sukritharani — triggering condemnation from Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin and several MPs from the southern state. The dissent note by the 15 academic council members alleged that procedures were flouted while changing the undergraduate syllabuses for English, history, sociology and political science. It said the only competent authorities to frame or change any syllabus were the “committee of courses” of the departments concerned, and that varsity rules had no provision for any oversight committee in the matter. It added that the oversight committee had no members from any of the four departments whose syllabuses were changed. The dissent note criticised the replacement of the Chandrabati Ramayana — a feminist reading of the Ramayana — with Tulsidas’s version of the epic in an elective paper titled “Pre-colonial Indian Literatures” in the English syllabus. Sukritharani’s poems Debt and My Body and two chapters from Bama’s autobiography, Sangati, have been replaced with the works of Ramabai, a writer from the dominant castes. Chief minister Stalin said the university’s move was “blatantly partisan and completely unacceptable”. In a statement he tweeted along with the pictures of the two writers, Stalin said: “This practice of viewing such literary works either through the prism of party politics or communal agenda should be given up.” He urged Delhi University to restore the two Dalit feminist writers’ works to the syllabus. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan of the CPM and the Dalit MP from the VCK, Ravikumar, too criticised the varsity’s decision. The university release said: “Some issues highlighted by a section of media regarding the content of the syllabus are misplaced and unfounded as the syllabus of the course has been passed through a democratic process with the involvement of all the relevant stakeholders and necessary deliberations at appropriate forums.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Gujarat Covid death toll: A dubious ‘world record’||The excess mortality estimated for only 54 of Gujarat’s 162 municipalities exceeds the official Covid-19 death count for the entire state, researchers said in a study released on Thursday. The study has estimated 480 per cent (4.8-fold) more deaths than expected in Gujarat during April 2021, when the state’s daily new cases spiked nearly six-fold from 2,400 in early April to 14,000 by month-end. This is the highest percentage increase in deaths recorded in a single month anywhere in the world, a rise higher than Ecuador’s 411 per cent spike during April 2020 and Peru’s 345 per cent swell during April 2021. The researchers, who used data from civil death registers, have also estimated that around 16,000 excess deaths occurred in the 54 municipalities between March 2020 and April 2021. India’s health ministry, which relies on the states for Covid-19 mortality data, had until Thursday recorded 10,080 deaths in Gujarat among a nationwide count of over 436,000. “The vast majority of these excess deaths likely represent direct deaths from Covid-19 in the absence of any other known catastrophe,” the researchers at the Harvard TC Chan School of Public Health, Harvard Medical School and the University of California, Berkeley, said in their study. The new study represents the latest effort to estimate excess deaths during the Covid-19 epidemic in India amid contentions by some public health experts that the official death counts appear inconsistent with the body counts during April and May this year. The health ministry has challenged the claims of large undercounting of deaths, asserting that while some deaths could have been missed, it has repeatedly asked the states and district authorities to conduct audits to report any missed deaths. The Harvard-UCB researchers analysed civil register data from 54 Gujarat municipalities – across 24 of the state’s 33 districts --- taking the deaths between January 2019 and February 2020 as the baseline mortality data and comparing it to the deaths between March 2020 and April 2021. The registers record a total of 44,568 deaths in the 54 municipalities since March 2020, with the sharpest increase in deaths during the second wave. This represents around 16,000 excess deaths compared with the baseline count between January 2019 and February 2020. Between January and April 2021, the registers show 17,882 deaths, a 102 per cent increase over the average for the same months in 2019 and 2020. “The take-home here is that reliance on death certificates to count mortality from pandemics like this is not sufficient,” emergency medicine specialist Satchit Balsari, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and the study’s co-author, told The Telegraph. The other co-authors are demographer Ayesha Mahmud from the UCB, researchers Rolando Acosta and Caroline Buckee from the Harvard School of Public Health, and Biraj Patnaik from the New Delhi-based National Foundation of India. “Governments must look for alternative ways to better estimate mortality in the absence of a robust and nuanced death registration system,” Balsari said. “The high excess death estimate also warrants a closer look into who died, when and how, so we can mount appropriate and effective medical responses.” The health ministry has consistently denied large undercounting of Covid-19 deaths. It has said excess mortality covers deaths from all causes and that attributing them to Covid-19 is “totally misleading”. A senior infectious disease epidemiologist said civil registers represented a “standard source” worldwide for estimating excess mortality, whether from infectious diseases or heat waves. “We have to assume that the vast proportion of excess deaths were due to Covid-19 — there is no other explanation for such large increases as 4.8 times (compared with the same period in) the previous year,” the epidemiologist, who requested not to be named, told this newspaper. “Some excess deaths may be explained through deaths of patients of other critical conditions such as heart attacks who could not get treatment in time because the hospitals were overwhelmed by Covid-19,” the epidemiologist said. “But such deaths cannot explain the observed excess.” Last month, researchers at the Centre for Global Health Research, University of Toronto, Canada, had estimated on the basis of three data sources that India’s Covid-19 death counts might range between 2.7 million and 3.4 million, or at least six times the official count. The former chief economic adviser to the Indian government, Arvind Subramanian, currently at Brown University in the US, and his colleagues too had last month estimated India’s excess deaths at 3.4 million, 4 million or 4.9 million, using three different methodologies. The health ministry has, however, said India has “a robust system for recording Covid-19 deaths” and while some cases may remain undetected, “missing out on deaths is unlikely”. “Well-conducted research studies on mortality are usually done after the event when data on mortality are available from reliable sources,” the ministry had said last month. A public health specialist said it was puzzling that the excess death estimates for India were primarily emerging from academic institutions outside the country. “This is data entirely generated by our civil registration system,” the expert said. “Why aren’t Indian academic institutions analysing it?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Centre asks higher educational institutions to fill up vacant faculty posts over the next one year||The Centre has asked higher educational institutions to fill up vacant faculty posts over the next one year, nearly two years after then education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had assured the Lok Sabha that the recruitments would be done in six months. Higher education secretary Amit Khare wrote to the heads of the IITs, IIMs and central universities on Tuesday, asking them to fill up the vacant faculty posts in Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Other Backward Classes (OBC) and economically weaker sections (EWS) categories. “In order to clear this backlog, it has been decided that all CHEIs (central higher educational institutions) should fill these vacancies in a mission mode within a period of one year starting from September 5, 2021, to September 4, 2022, and to report about action taken and progress made in this regard,” the letter from Khare stated. The institutions have to send monthly progress reports to the government and also mention the status of the appointments in their annual reports. Nearly 40 per cent teaching posts are vacant at central universities, while around 30 per cent are empty at the IITs and IIMs. During the debate on the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2019, in the Lok Sabha on July 12, Pokhriyal had assured that the vacancies would be filled up in six months. “Niyuktia ke bare mein hum keh diye hai ki agle chhay mahine ke andar rikt padon ko bhara jayega. (About recruitments, I say that all the vacant posts will be filled up in the next six months),” Pokhriyal had said. The deadline ended on January 12, 2020. But the post continued to remain vacant, barring at some institutions such as Jawaharlal Nehru University that has appointed over 100 faculty members amid complaints of irregularities. Several universities are managing with guest and ad-hoc teachers. Delhi University has over 4,000 ad-hoc faculty members who are on contract and do not get promotions and leaves. Allahabad University has nearly 300 faculty members against the sanctioned strength of 850. An IIT Delhi faculty member said non-availability of qualified candidates was impeding appointments. “You need candidates ideally having proper, good quality PhD degrees. But there are not enough candidates. There has been no effort in the last several years to create a pool of qualified candidates. This needs long-term planning and academic vision, which is missing,” the faculty member said. He said many talented students were not taking interest in academics because of the “low dignity” associated with the profession. He said many talented candidates from reserved categories faced discrimination during interviews. “The ‘not found suitable’ tag is many times used arbitrarily. There is no mechanism to check it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Ram Nath Kovind issues warrants appointing nine new judges to SC||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday issued warrants appointing nine new judges to the Supreme Court, a day after the Prime Minister’s Office cleared the collegium’s recommendations. The apex court’s working strength has now risen to 33, one short of the sanctioned strength of 34 judges including the Chief Justice of India. Sources said the new judges could be sworn in on August 31, although the final decision has not been taken yet. The nine names approved by the President has three women judges, including Justice B.V. Nagarathna, a Karnataka High Court judge who is in line to become the country’s first woman chief justice in October 2027, although for a brief period of 40 days. The other names cleared are Karnataka High Court Chief Justice A.S. Oka, Gujarat High Court Chief Justice Vikram Nath, Sikkim High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwarui, Telangana High Court Chief Justice Hima Kohli, Kerala High Court judge C.T. Ravi Kumar, Madras High Court judge M.M. Sundresh, Gujarat High Court judge Bela M. Trivedi and senior advocate P.S. Narasimha. This is the first time nine names have been cleared at one go for judge’s assignments at the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court collegium has Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and four other senior-most judges — Justices U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao. The collegium proposed the names on August 18. The Centre, which had earlier been chided by the top court several times for sitting on collegium recommendations, cleared the names within a week. Sources said the government wanted some names to be reconsidered but CJI Ramana declined to concede the request. According to the sources, the Centre had till as late as Wednesday raised objections to the choice of Justice Kohli and Narasimha. The contention on Justice Kohli was said to be that Delhi already had three judges in the Supreme Court — Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Sanjiv Khanna and Ravindra Bhat. Justice Kohli’s first assignment as judge had been at Delhi High Court. In the case of Narasimha, the objection was claimed to have been raised on behalf of a senior law officer of the Centre. However, Justice Ramana, the sources said, made it clear that all the nine names must be cleared and that there would be no reconsideration. Under the memorandum of procedure that governs the appointment and transfer of judges, the Centre can raise objections over collegium recommendations but has to accept if the collegium reiterates the names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Modi govt reaches out to OBCs to decisively win UP polls next year||The Narendra Modi government is assiduously reaching out to the OBCs, including planning to give consent for a caste census, as part of its strategy to decisively win the Uttar Pradesh polls next year, sources said. OBCs account for over 50 per cent of Uttar Pradesh’s population. The BJP is trying to secure a chunk of their votes, especially that of the non-Yadav OBCs. The outcome of the election in the country’s largest state is widely believed to be crucial in setting the tone for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, and the BJP seems to be going all out to prove that it stays unbeaten. There is pressure on the BJP to win Uttar Pradesh in a big way after the massive defeat in the Bengal Assembly polls. “The central government is considering more than one move to reaffirm its commitment towards the backward classes,” a Union minister said. “We are not averse to going for a caste census,” the minister added. The sources said the Centre was considering accepting the demand for a caste census, announcing sub-categorisation of OBCs and clearing the backlog in vacancies under the OBC quota. The BJP and the Modi government are in principle opposed to a caste census on the ground that it would defeat the goal of building a “casteless society”, but electoral compulsions could see the party agree to it. “Increasing support from the OBCs has played a big role in the BJP’s major poll victories in the Hindi heartland and so the government will do everything to keep the support base intact,” a BJP leader said. Led by Modi, the BJP recently went all out to shower praise on former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, an OBC leader who passed away recently. Top party leaders gathered at Kalyan’s funeral and the state government announced that main roads in six districts would be named after the former chief minister. Apart from courting the OBCs, the BJP has also been addressing other issues to counter anti-incumbency. The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved an increased fair and remunerative price (FRP) of Rs 290 per quintal for sugarcane, a decision that was expected to mollify angry cane farmers in western Uttar Pradesh. Western Uttar Pradesh, a major sugar belt, has been the epicentre of protests against the three contentious farm laws. Apart from the farm laws, dues of sugarcane farmers and unremunerative prices have been the major complaints against the ruling BJP at the Centre and the state. The Centre’s decision will now push the Yogi Adityanath government to increase its state-advised price (SAP) for sugarcane, stuck at Rs 315 per quintal for three years. In addition to the FRP or minimum support price the sugarcane mills have to pay to the farmers, states announce their own SAP and it’s usually higher than the price fixed by the Centre. Congress-ruled Punjab recently announced a cane SAP of Rs 360 per quintal, up by Rs 50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Kerala forest official conjures false case to discredit junior||A Kerala forest official conjured a false case of illegal felling to discredit a junior with jurisdiction over the area, and to kill a probe into a genuine timber scam the junior had unearthed elsewhere, an inquiry by a senior forest officer has found. The controversy has pushed the Pinarayi Vijayan government on the back foot over its failure to punish the official indicted — Wayanad conservator of forests N.T. Sajan — and over the chief minister inviting to his Onam lunch a journalist accused of colluding with Sajan. The June 29 probe report by the additional principal chief conservator of forests (forest, land and resources), Rajesh Ravindran, implies Sajan was trying to save those whom his junior, range forest officer Sameer M.K., had nailed for illegal felling in Muttil South village in Wayanad. Ravindran says the regional head of News24 Malayalam channel, Deepak Dharmadam, deliberately played up Sajan’s false case about felling in Manikunnumala, part of the same Meppadi forest range in Wayanad. “They (the Muttil accused) orchestrated the whole episode to perfection and through Shri Deepak Dharmadam got to Shri N.T. Sajan using his office to their benefit in threshing a story the way they wanted it scripted,” Ravindran’s 18-page report, leaked to the media on Wednesday, says. Three timber merchants — brothers Roji Augustine, Anto Augustine and Josekutty Augustine — were arrested in late July in connection with the Muttil felling. But the government ignored Ravindran’s recommendation of disciplinary action against Sajan and, instead, transferred him to Kollam on August 9, inviting criticism from the Opposition. Deepak posted a Facebook picture of himself with Vijayan at the recent Onam lunch at the chief minister’s home, fuelling further controversy. The channel suspended him after Ravindran’s report was leaked on Wednesday. It had all begun with a state government order in October 2020 allowing owners of land on forest fringes — mostly tribal people — to cut any tree barring sandalwood. The timber mafia saw their chance and allegedly felled hundreds of trees, estimated to be worth at least Rs 15 crore, in Muttil South between October 2020 and February 2021, when the government revoked the order. Villagers complained to Sameer the mafia had cut down more trees than agreed — while paying them much less per tree than promised — and even felled trees on public land deeper within the forest. In February, Sameer banned the transport of whatever felled logs remained in Muttil, and confiscated 54 rosewood logs that had been ferried to a sawmill in Ernakulam, 250km away, in violation of his order. According to Ravindran, Sajan ignored the matter and, instead, cited “secret” information to begin an inquiry into the fictitious logging of teakwood in Manikunnumala — apparently to discredit Sameer whose is assigned to protect the entire forest range. Just an hour after Sajan informed divisional forest officer P. Dhanesh Kumar about the Manikunnumala investigation on February 10, Deepak called Kumar and asked him “to immediately launch an inquiry” into the matter, Ravindran’s report says. It says there’s no substance to the Manikunnumala case. It adds that call data records show Deepak had called Roji and Anto Augustine 107 times while Sajan called them 86 times between February 1 and March 31. In a Facebook message, quoted by channels, Deepak has said: “I have not supported any corruption.” Sajan has not been available to the media for comments. When the media got wind of the Muttil South scam in June and began playing it up, the state government directed the inquiry by Ravindran and also started a police probe by a special investigative team. The SIT arrested the Augustine brothers in July. On Thursday, leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan accused the chief minister of intervening to save Sajan. “The forest minister (A.K. Saseendran) had told the Assembly and me personally that he would take action. But the chief minister rejected the order,” he told The Telegraph. “A senior forest officer committed a crime to frame his upright subordinate. Yet the chief minister is silent and continues to protect the corrupt.” Environmentalist C.R. Neelakandan said Deepak’s picture with Vijayan reflected how well connected he was. “One must realise that the chief minister invited him to the Onam lunch even after his name cropped up in Ravindran’s report,” he said. CPM state committee member A.K. Balan said the government would not protect anyone found guilty in the scandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Civil liberties defenders issue legal notices to CMs on migrants’ aid||Three civil liberties defenders have issued legal notices to all chief ministers, telling them contempt proceedings would be sought against them if they failed to comply in two weeks with a Supreme Court order to supply free rations and other basic amenities to migrant labourers hit by the pandemic. Anjali Bhardwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar have also addressed a separate letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reminding him of the Centre’s duty to comply with the court’s directives and pointing to the immense suffering of the migrant and unorganised sector workers. The activists alleged that although the top court had on June 29 issued a slew of directives, including putting in place updated official websites mentioning the measures and facilities available to migrant labourers, neither the states nor the Centre had complied with the July 31 deadline. The top court had asked the Centre and the states to ensure food and social security for migrant workers and unorganised workers, the sections hit the hardest by the pandemic. The court had directed the state governments to implement a scheme by July 31 to provide dry rations to migrant workers as long as the Covid-19 pandemic continued, in addition to offering them cooked food through community kitchens. The notice sent to each individual chief minister by Bhardwaj, Mander and Chhokar stated: “We have perused the website of the food department of the state government and have been unable to locate any information with respect to the formulation and implementation of any such scheme for provision of dry rations to migrant workers pursuant to the Supreme Court’s judgment, even though the prescribed timeframe given by the Court has expired. “By this notice, I therefore call upon you to formulate and implement a scheme for distribution of dry ration to migrant labourers immediately and certainly within the next two weeks, failing which we will be constrained to approach the Court for contempt proceedings against the state government. In case the government has put in place such a scheme, kindly place the details of the same in the public domain and also share them with us via post and/or email.” The legal notices were sent on August 18 through advocate Prashant Bhushan. In the letter addressed to Prime Minister Modi, dated August 16, the activists pointed to Para 80(i) of the apex court directive of June 29: “It is directed that the Central Government develop the Portal in consultation with the National Informatics Centre (NIC) for registration of the unorganised labourers/ migrant workers. We also impress upon and direct that the Central Government as well as the respective States and the Union Territories complete the process of Portal for registration under National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW Project) as well as implement the same, which by all means may commence not later than 31.07.2021.” The court had also said, as quoted in the activists’ letter to the Prime Minister: “We also impress upon and direct that the process of registration of the unorganised labourers/migrant workers is completed at the earliest, but not later than 31.12.2021. All the concerned States/Union Territories and the Licence Holders/Contractors and others to cooperate with the Central Government to complete the process of registration of migrant workers and unorganised labourers so that the benefits of the welfare schemes declared by the Central Government/ State Governments/ Union Territories be available to migrant workers and unorganised labourers for whose benefits the welfare schemes are declared.” These measures are crucial to ensure the food and social security of migrants and informal sector workers, “who are the backbone of the economy”, the activists wrote. “They have suffered immensely during the first two waves of Covid-19 on account of loss of livelihoods, health crisis and exclusion from the social security net. Their meagre savings have been exhausted in coping with the crisis and many have gone into debt. It is imperative that the directions of the SC be operationalised on an urgent footing and details of the same be placed in the public domain. We hope that your government will immediately take concrete steps to ensure welfare of migrant and informal sector workers by implementing the directives of the apex court,” the letter to Modi stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Bihar police gets 596 women sub-inspectors||Bihar police on Thursday got 1,605 sub-inspectors, including 596 women sub-inspectors, after they passed out of the police training academy at Rajgir in the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar. This is the largest ever induction of officers in the state. Congratulating the new officers and pointing out the high number of women sub-inspectors to pass out in this batch, Nitish asserted that it was not an ordinary achievement. “Having 596 women police officers passing out among the sub-inspectors today is not an ordinary thing. We started with reserving 50 per cent seats in panchayati raj institutions for women and worked further for their education, welfare and development. It has started paying now,” Nitish said at the passing out parade. The chief minister also said that Bihar has paid special attention to recruiting women in the police force, and no other state in the country has them in such large numbers. Asked about the number of women in Bihar police, DIG personnel Ranjeet Kumar Mishra told The Telegraph that it would not be possible to give their numbers offhand. “However, there are 18 to 20 per cent women in the 80,000 strong police force. The numbers have increased sharply over the last few years due to the state government police recruiting more women to the force and also reserve 35 per cent seats for them,” he said. Remembering the condition of law and order, and the police at the time when he came to power in 2005, Nitish said that the police stations had no vehicles and adequate weapons. “We provided two vehicles to each of the police stations and worked to improve the availability of weapons. We also started recruitment of policemen in the light of the high population of the state,” Nitish said. Bihar has at present over 80,000 policemen, while the state government is working on a plan to recruit 20,000 more. The target is to take their numbers to 1.40 lakh over the next couple of years. “Bihar’s population is high so the police force should also be more in numbers to ensure a better environment and the rule of law. We cannot say that crime will not happen, but swift action should be taken to deal with it,” Nitish said. He also wished that an atmosphere of peace, love and harmony prevailed in the state. He also asked the new officers to work for the successful implementation of prohibition. He dwelt for long on the necessity to enforce the ban on liquor properly. This is what senior serving and retired police officers in the state feared. They are of the opinion that the entire police force’s focus is on prohibition leading to the neglect of attention on controlling other types of more serious offences like murder, rape, robbery and kidnapping. A former director general of police (DGP), who retired during the Nitish regime, told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity, “The entire police force seems to have become directionless and the policing has gone awry. It is indulged in either conducting raids to seize liquor or to compromise prohibition. As a result we see that heinous crimes have risen sharply in the state. Murders are happening as frequently as people use expletives here.” “The chief minister’s emphasis on prohibition in his address at the passing out parade was uncalled for as it would leave an unwanted impression on the brains of these new officers that their foremost duty is to implement prohibition. Agreed that liquor is banned in the state, but there are more serious crimes that need to be curbed,” the former DGP said. The crime data maintained by the Bihar police reveals that the state witnessed 1,399 murders, 749 rapes, 1,369 incidents of robbery and dacoity, 1,078 road robbery, 5,089 kidnappings and 3,413 riots, 17,962 thefts, and 1,918 burglaries out of total 1.32 lakh cognizable offences (registered at the police stations) in the six months between January and June this year. The crime figures surprise all the more because the state also had lockdowns of various intensities between April and June this year. It is also a well-known fact that many crimes go unreported as people avoid approaching the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Servitors of Puri Shree Jagannath temple to get homestead land||Each of the servitors of Puri Shree Jagannath temple will be given 600sqft of homestead land in the holy town and monetary assistance of Rs 2 lakh to construct their houses on the assigned plots. The decision was taken at a meeting of the management committee of the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Thursday. The meeting was chaired by the scion of the Puri royal family, Gajapati Dibya Singha Deb. Briefing mediapersons about the decision, chief administrator of the 12th century temple Dr Krishan Kumar said: “In the first phase 400 servitor families will be accommodated in eight acres. Each family will be given Rs 2 lakh for constructing the house on a 600sqftplot. They can invest more for construction and expansion of their houses.” The temple administration will invite applications from the servitors who are innately associated with the daily rituals of the deities. It has planned to give land to all the servitors associated with the rituals of the deities. In order to give quality education to the children of the servitors, the SJTA has also decided to set up Shreemandir Gurukul. “A Shreemandira Adarsh Gurukul Society will be formed with the Gajapati Dibya Singha Deb as its chairman and eminent personalities as the members to run the gurukul,” Kumar said. Officials said 17 acres have been identified at Matitola for setting up the gurukul. The state government will provide Rs 20 crore for this purpose. “The gurukul will start functioning from the 2022-23 academic year,” Kumar said. The temple administration will also urge devotees to donate funds to Shreemandir Gurukul. Sources said the state government has also initiated the process of selling more than 60,000 acres belonging to the temple located in different parts of the country. “We plan to enhance the corpus fund from the existing Rs 650 crore to Rs 1,000 crore by 2023 by selling land of the Lord and generating revenues from different sources. The temple administration has so far identified 60,426.943 acres belonging to the temple. Of this, 395.252 acres is located outside Odisha in other states,” officials said. The wheels of the Rath Yatra chariots of the deities will be given free to devotees. “A sub-committee will decide to whom the wheels will be given,” officials said. In another important development, the temple administration has decided to ask the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to formulate an integrated five-year plan for the repair and reconstruction work of the temple. “Both the ASI and SJTA will work in this direction and if required the state will also bear the cost of the repair work in the temple,” Kumar said. The shrine is an ASI protected monument and the agency has been in charge of its conservation since 1975. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to resume work on the Shree Jagannath Heritage Corridor project from September. The project aims at beautification around the shrine and intends to provide an unobstructed path around the wall of the temple. A 75-metre corridor is being developed around the shrine. Though the deadline for completion of the work was earlier fixed February 2022, it is likely to be extended, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-271
27-08-2021||India||Proposal on renaming Miyanganj village panchayat in UP's Unnao as Mayaganj forwarded to govt: DM||A proposal to rename the Miyanganj village panchayat in Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh as Mayaganj has been sent to the state government following a resolution passed by the rural body. District magistrate Ravindra Kumar on Thursday said he had forwarded the proposal to the additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, and a decision would be taken “at the government level”. Asked whether the block will also be renamed, the DM said currently only a proposal to rechristen the village panchayat had been sent to the government. “When the name of the panchayat is changed, the name of the block will also change,” he said. The DM has referred to a letter of BJP MLA Bamba Lal Diwakar demanding the renaming of the panchayat. The MLA had also claimed at a rally during the 2017 Assembly polls that Yogi Adityanath had promised to rename the panchayat. The name-change resolution was passed at an open meeting of the village panchayat on August 16 under the chairmanship of village head Nagma. The state government has already received proposals to rename Aligarh as Harigarh, Firozabad as Chandra Nagar and Mainpuri as Mayan Nagar. Deoband’s BJP MLA Brijesh Singh has demanded renaming of the place as Devvrand. Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government had renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya, Allahabad as Prayagraj and Mugalsarai as Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar. It recently renamed the Jhansi railway station after Rani Laxmi Bai. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls are due next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
27-08-2021||India||Supreme Court ripples block UP bid to drop case against Umesh Malik||A special court here on Thursday rejected a plea by the Uttar Pradesh government to withdraw a case filed against BJP MLA Umesh Malik, citing the Supreme Court’s order that no prosecution against an MP or an MLA would be dropped without the permission of the high courts. Malik, the MLA of Budhana in Muzaffarnagar district, surrendered in the court on Thursday and sought recall of the non-bailable warrant issued against him. Police had registered a case against several people, including the MLA, under IPC Sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly), among others, following a demonstration outside a meat factory off Jansath road in the district in 2006. The state had sought to withdraw the case on February 22. On the basis of the apex court’s order, Judge Gopal Upadhyay rejected the Uttar Pradesh government’s application to withdraw the case filed against Malik. As many as 77 cases related to the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots have been withdrawn by the Yogi Adityanath government, the Supreme Court had been informed on Wednesday. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court had held that state prosecutors cannot withdraw prosecution against lawmakers under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) without prior sanction from high courts. The apex court’s order assumed significance in view of the fact, highlighted by an amicus curiae on the basis of news reports, that states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and Karnataka have sought to withdraw criminal cases against politicians by using Section 321 of the CrPC that empowers prosecutors to withdraw cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
27-08-2021||India||MP: Private schools to stage protests from Sept 2 to demand resumption of physical classes||At least 45,000 private schools affiliated to the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education will stage sit-ins across the state from September 2 to demand reopening of schools for all classes in compliance with Covid-19 safeguards. The Madhya Pradesh Private School Association wants schools to reopen for all classes with a standard operating procedure in place immediately, president of the association Ajeet Singh said on Thursday. “The association will not suspend online or physical classes for students of Classes IX to XII held on different days in a week,” Singh said. He further demanded that the state government pay the dues of private schools that have provided education to unprivileged children under Right to Education. “The state government has not paid dues accumulated under the RTE in the last three years.” Among other demands, private schools want the state government to immediately scrap the annual renewals of recognition of schools. “We are being asked to pay around Rs 20,000 annual school recognition renewal fees. We have already suffered huge losses because of the pandemic and are not in a position to pay school recognition renewal fees,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
27-08-2021||India||Covid: Kerala’s low mortality rate has lessons for Modi government||Vilified by the BJP for its high Covid-19 cases, Kerala’s apparent poor record may actually hold crucial lessons for the country in containing the outbreak as authorities brace for a possible third wave of infections. The Left-ruled, densely populated southern state is currently reporting the most number of coronavirus cases in the country and accounts for the second-highest national tally — unflattering headline numbers that the BJP has seized upon as a reflection of bungled local leadership. However, a Reuters analysis of national and state data, and interviews with epidemiologists and Kerala health authorities paint a different picture. It shows the state’s containment measures have helped to catch infections early, allowing authorities to better manage the illness and dramatically lower the death rate — a stark contrast to people dying in carparks and outside hospitals for lack of oxygen and beds in big cities like Delhi at the height of the health crisis a few months earlier. “While the central government may have its views on rapid antigen tests, it is important to consider that the state’s strategies have by and large succeeded in not just keeping mortality low but also in being able to detect one in six cases compared to one in 33 nationally,” said Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at JNU. The efficient detection rate and its population density at more than twice the national average explain the high number of cases in Kerala. All the same, at 0.5 per cent, Kerala still has the lowest fatality rate among all but one thinly populated state. The national figure is 1.4 per cent and it is 1.3 per cent for the country’s most populous state, Uttar Pradesh. The difference comes down to Kerala’s reliance on rapid antigen tests to detect and strictly isolate infected people at home, an approach the Union health ministry has sharply criticised but which state officials argue has helped them to better allocate hospital beds and oxygen supplies for those who really need them. The government-recommended RT-PCR tests are more accurate but take longer to produce results, meaning by the time a positive Covid-19 case is confirmed the infected person is more likely to have developed severe symptoms and passed it on to others in a vicious cycle of more infections and deaths. Kerala’s rapid test results allow for early treatment in home isolation, which then narrows the virus’s path to infections, state officials say. These factors, along with the strained medical resources across much of India, largely explain why the overall national death rate is much higher than in Kerala. Kerala officials also say a state-run support service that includes phone consultation, provision of drugs and pulse oximeters that detect blood oxygen levels for people recovering at home provide a bulwark in the battle against the disease. Delhi had a similar support structure but it collapsed when cases surged. “We do have a different model and our fatality rate shows our model is on the right track,” Kerala health minister Veena George told Reuters. But Kerala officials acknowledge that the fast-evolving pandemic can undo even the best thought-out plans unless authorities remain nimble and flexible. When Reuters recently visited Kerala’s most populous Malappuram district, which is reporting the greatest number of infections in India, a quarter of the 344 Covid beds in its biggest hospital were vacant and oxygen supply was ample. The Indian Council of Medical Research has recommended lockdowns for districts where more than 10 per cent of the tests return positive results. The rate is over 19 per cent for Kerala and even higher in Malappuram, but shops and restaurants are open for business. Kerala officials argue that they are able to keep businesses open as the state has the best testing rate among Indian states — 86 tests per 100 people, compared with about 33 in Uttar Pradesh — meaning Kerala is able to catch infections early and ensure timely treatment. The model, epidemiologists say, can be replicated in a few other states with good health facilities, such as neighbouring Tamil Nadu. “Their surveillance is good, they detect cases early and their testing is very focused,” M.D. Gupte, a retired director of the National Institute of Epidemiology who advises the Centre on immunisations, said about Kerala. “Most people in Kerala are educated, so that helps.” India’s daily demand for medical oxygen jumped more than eight times in May from pre-pandemic levels, but Kerala avoided major shortages of hospital beds and oxygen that crippled many states when nationwide infections saw an explosive surge. The Union health ministry did not respond to emails requesting comment. Minister George said Kerala was on course to administer at least one vaccine dose to all adults by next month, the fastest pace among all states. Currently, the state has covered more than 55 per cent of adults with at least one vaccine dose, compared with 48 per cent for the whole of India, which wants to vaccinate all its adults by December. Kerala, with 35.5 million people, has so far reported 3.8 million infections, or 12 per cent of India’s total of 32.5 million. Its 19,757 deaths, however, account for only 4 per cent of the overall nationwide fatalities. The Indian government recommends 70 per cent of all Covid-19 tests be carried out by the RT-PCR method, while Kerala’s rate is less than 50 per cent. “This is not the Kerala model, this is a model of mismanagement,” BJP president J.P. Nadda, said last week. He said BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh had better managed the pandemic, though A government survey estimated in July that more than 70 per cent residents of BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh had been exposed to the virus. The figure was 44 per cent for Kerala. Kerala’s Covid-19 hospitalisation rate is only about 3 per cent, a state official said, compared with more than 5 per cent nationwide. T.S. Anish, a member of Kerala’s Covid Expert Committee, said the state was now focused on vaccination. “If you are able to vaccinate large numbers, you will get infections but your health system will not be overwhelmed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
27-08-2021||India||Madras HC says no to EWS reservation for medical colleges||Madras High Court has put on hold the implementation of the 10 per cent reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in all-India pool seats in state medical colleges and asked the Centre to approach the Supreme Court. P. Wilson, the lawyer who fought the DMK’s contempt plea against the delay in the Centre’s implementation of the 2020 Madras High Court order against setting aside seats for the EWS category within the all-India poll, said the judgment would be applicable all over India. “The judgment is not limited to Tamil Nadu. In no state can the EWS quota be implemented in the all-India pool seats,” Wilson said. An official in the Union social justice ministry said the Centre was studying the judgment. The bench of Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said in its order on Wednesday: “The inclusion of a further 10 per cent by way of vertical reservation for economically weaker sections would require the approval of the Supreme Court and, to such extent, the reservation for economically weaker sections as indicated in the (central) notification of July 29, 2021, has to be regarded as impermissible till such approval is obtained.” Quotas for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) is referred to as vertical reservation. The high court directed the Centre to go to the Supreme Court as the top court had set the quota formula related to the all-India pool seats. Under the all-India pool, 15 per cent seats are set aside in undergraduate courses and 50 per cent in postgraduate courses. The central government had on July 29 decided to implement 27 per cent reservation for OBCs within the all-India pool and 10 per cent for EWS students. However, Madras High Court had on July 27 last year allowed the Centre to implement the OBC quota in the all-India pool and made no such provision for the EWS category. Had the Centre’s move on the EWS been cleared, 550 students from the category would have benefitted in the MBBS course and 1,000 in the postgraduate courses. The all-India pool in state medical colleges was introduced in 1986, but did not have any reservation provision till 2007. In 2007, the Supreme Court introduced reservation of 15 per cent for Scheduled Castes and 7.5 per cent for Scheduled Tribes in this category. The court agreed in principle to set aside seats for the OBCs within this pool from 2021-22 on a plea by Tamil Nadu parties last year. “The notification of July 29, 2021, issued by the Union as a consequence of the (Madras High Court) order dated July 27, 2020, appears to be in order insofar as it provides for reservation for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and OBCs. The horizontal reservation provided in such notification for persons with disabilities also appears to be in accordance with law,” Wednesday’s Madras High Court judgment said. Wilson, the advocate and DMK leader, said seats should have been reserved for OBCs too in the all-India pool in 2007 when the benefit was allowed to SCs and STs. “Such a quota would have benefited 56,000 OBC students (across India),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI registers 11 FIRs||The CBI has so far registered 11 FIRs related to incidents of murder, gangrape, and attempt to murder reported during the post-poll violence in Bengal with 99 people being named in them, officials said. Some of the FIRs made public on Friday showed that one case pertained to the murder of a TMC worker, three were related to the murder and attempt to murder of BJP workers while four cases did not specify any party affinity of the victims or accused. According to the FIRs, some of the victims were hacked to death, bludgeoned, bombed, strangulated by mobs and gangraped during the violence reported across Bengal. The agency has so far registered crimes reported from Bankura, Nadia, Kolkata, Cooch Behar, 24 North Pargana, Murshidabad among others. In one case of murder, the women of the victims' family were sexually assaulted by a murderous mob, the FIR alleged. The FIRs contained gruesome details of the crimes reported between May 2 and June 14, 2021. On May 4, 2021 TMC supporters Sahinur Ahmed and Prosenjit were having dinner when four BJP supporters joined them. After the meal, Ahmed and Prosenjit were attacked resulting in severe injuries, the FIR alleged. They were dragged to a nearby maize field and left there. While Prosenjit survived, Ahmed died, it said. In a separate incident, the family of Arup Das, a BJP worker, was allegedly attacked at their house by a mob of 30 people who arrived in a pick-up truck at 3 am on May 5. Their leader, who is the prime accused, put a gamcha' around Das's neck and dragged him onto the vehicle as the mob beat his family and sexually abused the women of the house. Das was killed and his body hanged on a tree, the FIR alleged. Meanwhile, three accused have been booked on the allegations of gangrape in Murshidabad, CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said here. The CBI has taken over the cases according to the instructions of a five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court that had entrusted the agency with the task of investigating the alleged murder and rape incidents reported during post-poll violence in Bengal, they said. The High Court directives came after a committee of the National Human Rights Commission submitted a report on the violence in the state after Assembly poll results on May 2. The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress achieved an astounding victory humbling the BJP in a bitterly fought eight-phase electoral battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
27-08-2021||West Bengal||ED files chargesheet against Kunal Ghosh, journalist Suman Chattopadhyay in Saradha scam case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), as part of its probe into the multi-crore Saradha ponzi scam, filed a supplementary chargesheet on Friday against TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh and senior journalist Suman Chattopadhyay, agency sources said. The Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court has taken cognisance of the charges framed, the sources in the directorate said. "The ED has filed supplementary chargesheet against Kunal Ghosh, his company Strategy Media Plus Communications, and Suman Chattopadhyay and his companies Disha Production and Media and Ekdin Media, before the Special Judge (PMLA), Kolkata, with the prayer for awarding punishment to the accused for committing offence of money laundering and confiscation of attached assets worth Rs 96.55 crore, including Rs 2.67 crore owned by Ghosh and Rs 1.72 crore owned by Chattopadhyay," one of the sources said. Chattopadhyay is also an accused in the ICore chit fund scam. Both Ghosh and Chattopadhyay faced arrests in the past and are currently out on bail. Sudipto Sen, the owner of the now-defunct Saradha group, is serving his time in jail along with his aide Debjani Mukherjee. According to the source, Ghosh, who was the CEO of Saradha Media Group, allegedly helped Sen launder proceeds worth over Rs 2,500 crore. Chattopadhyay reportedly laundered money through bogus transactions via his two companies. The Saradha group of companies has allegedly duped lakhs of people to the tune of Rs 2,500 crore, promising higher rates of returns on their investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta University waives fees for all postgraduate students ||Calcutta University has waived fees for students of all postgraduate courses and two institute-run undergraduate programmes for the academic year 2021-22, taking into account the financial constraints families have been facing due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The institution, in a notification, also said that final-year students need not pay their outstanding dues to collect mark sheets. "This is for the information of all concerned that in view of the present pandemic situation, the university has waived off all fees like Admission fees, Tuition fees and Examination fees of the students (PG and University UG students) for the academic year 2021-2022 for different semesters. It is not required for the students to pay fees for collecting the Mark sheets/Grade sheets of different semester examinations," said the notification undersigned by acting registrar Debasis Das. Talking to PTI, the vice-chancellor of the 164-year-old varsity, Sonali Chakraborty Bandyopadhyay, said the decision was taken in the interest of students. "We want to be on their side. We wish to ensure their studies are not affected in any way due to the pandemic," she asserted. Asked about other undergraduate courses, she said affiliated colleges are run by their own governing bodies and the university cannot take any such decision for them. "Only two undergraduate courses -- B.Tech and Home Science -- are directly run by the CU on its campus. Students who have enrolled for these courses would also get the fee waiver benefit," she pointed out. Welcoming the move, the Students Federation of India (SFI) said the decision was preceded by its mail to VC, highlighting the financial plight of people amid the pandemic. "Over the past one-and-half years, many families have faced financial setbacks. This decision will be of some help to them," the CPI(M) students' wing added in its statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Nov 5: With EC holding the bypoll  card, where does it leave chief minister Mamata||For the last few days, everyone in the Trinamul is talking about November 5, the deadline for Mamata Banerjee to be elected to the state Assembly to remain chief minister, with the party's rank and file dwelling on the immediate future. What if the election commission of India doesn't announce by-elections by then? Since Mamata lost to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikary from Nandigram in the Assembly elections, she has time till November 5 to get elected to the Assembly. For that to happen, the election commission must announce the date for holding by-elections --  as of now,   seven Assembly seats in Bengal are without elected representatives. In Murshidabad’s Shamshergunj and Jangipur, elections could not be held along with the rest of the 292 seats because of the deaths of two nominees in the respective seats. Vacancies have come up in five other seats — Dinhata, Santipur, Bhabanipur, Khardaha and Gosaba — caused by either deaths or resignations. According to  Article 164 (4) of the Constitution: “A minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the Legislature of the State shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister.” Mamata has expressed her displeasure over the Election Commission's reluctance to hold the Assembly bypolls multiple times in the last few months. “They held the Bengal assembly elections in eight phases when the Covid-19 positivity rate went up to 33 per cent. Now, when it is down to three per cent, they cannot organise the bypolls,” Mamata said while interacting with newspersons on Monday. ECI under pressure? Many within the Trinamul see the reluctance of the election commission as a fallout of pressure from the ruling BJP which is using the excuse of Covid to delay the by-elections. While the chief minister’s claims on lower Covid numbers are true, the state government has done a lot to cut down most restrictions to allow the local economy to flourish. While public transport has been allowed to function, there is still a bar on running local trains. Educational institutions are yet to open. Between August 24 and August 26, the number of new cases has jumped from 613 to 717. No one can predict how the Covid situation will unfold in the coming months when more relaxations are allowed. In such a scenario, BJP leaders of Bengal are advocating a solution that no one in the Trinamul dares to even think about. Who else but Didi? “What’s the problem? She can step down once and give a chance to the 213 MLAs (a couple of them have died in recent months) who actually got elected. In Uttarakhand a  BJP-ruled state a non-MLA chief minister has resigned,” said Dilip Ghosh, Bengal BJP president. Leader of the  Opposition Suvendu Adhikary, who has become the second person after CPM’s Malini Bhattacharjee to defeat Mamata in any election, said, “I don’t know if there is any other example of a losing candidate occupying in the chief minister’s chair in Bengal or anywhere else.” For polls to be held in the seven seats,  the election commission has time only till the end of September. The following month of October is when the festive season kicks off in Bengal, and all things political are pushed off the calendar. And however desperate Mamata may be in getting her rightful chair in the Assembly, even a festive-minded chief minister like her would not like to disrupt the mood of voters of Bhowanipore or elsewhere. “This is why we are actually counting days when the election commission will announce the dates. Otherwise, what is going to happen? Nobody has ever given a thought to anyone other than Didi occupying the chief minister’s chair from our party,” said a senior Trinamul leader. The SC view The option of Mamata resigning and taking oath for another six months is bound to be frowned upon by the apex court. In a 2001 ruling,  the Supreme Court had rejected the re-appointment of Tej Parkash Singh, son of the slain Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, without being re-elected in 1995-96. It had also drawn attention to the late Tamil Nadu chief minister, J Jayalalithaa, who became chief minister despite having been disqualified to contest elections. The Supreme Court is clear that no person can be reappointed for two terms without becoming a member of the legislature either as MLA or MLC. Bengal does not have a legislative council yet though the Mamata Banerjee government has initiated the process. It is unlikely the legislative council will come into shape by early November. Two names A section of the Trinamul feels in case she must resign even if for a few days, two of the senior-most ministers in the government --  both Mamata -- loyalists could take her place. The names of Subrata Mukherjee and Partha Chatterjee are doing the rounds. Mukherjee, a minister in the cabinet of S.S. Ray in the 1970s till the Emergency, has the drawback of being arrested by the CBI in connection with the Narada sting operation. Chatterjee on the other hand has been moved from one ministry to another and so far has survived newly-appointed Trinamul all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s one-man, one-post diktat. Chatterjee continues to remain a high-profile minister and also the secretary-general of Trinamul. “There is no doubt Mamata di will win the by-election and return as chief minister. What will happen to the substitute in that case? After being a chief minister, can anyone continue as a cabinet minister? Everything is possible in our party. Whatever Mamata di says will happen,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha to protest against DHR’s monetisation bid||The Anit Thapa faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha will demonstrate at all Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) stations on Friday to protest the Centre’s decision to include the world heritage railway in its recently announced National Monetisation Pipeline plan. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, secretary-general of the faction, said protesters would wear black armbands but not use its flags so as to make the event an all-inclusive protest of the region. “This government is trying to sell the country in the name of monetisation to cover their faulty economic policies. The DHR is a pride of our place and we protest the Centre’s decision to include it in its monetisation plans,” said Pokhrel. “We want the Centre to delist DHR from the monetisation plan. If our plea falls on deaf ears and blind eyes we will decide on our future course of action.” The protest will start in all the 10 railway stations from Darjeeling to Sukna between 11am and 1pm. A signature campaign and an online petition will also start. “We will send the petitions to the railway ministry and Prime Minister’s Office. I also appeal to Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, who won the election on the identity card, to ensure that one of the identities of our place is preserved,” said Pokhrel. The DHR was inscribed as a world heritage by Unesco in 1999. The world heritage status may be revoked if the authenticity of the site is lost. The Centre has identified the DHR, the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (Tamil Nadu), the Kalka Shimla Railway (Himachal Pradesh) and Matheran Railway (Maharashtra) among the public assets that “may be monetised through the OMD (operation, management and development) based PPP (private-public participation) model”. The policy papers outlined by the Centre suggested that “the station and adjoining real estate on the railway land may be bundled along with train operations to bring in viability and commercial attractiveness”. It has also  suggested that “the heritage nature and project assets and aesthetics” be “preserved by the Concessionaire”, meaning the private player who will use the property to earn revenue. Unesco had come up with a project to develop a Comprehensive Conservation Management Plan (CCMP) for DHR as they felt that Indian Railways “has been confronted with several issues concerning the conservation, maintenance and management of these (world heritage sites)”. A senior official of the DHR said that CCMP work had been completed. “The recommendations have come to us, we have made our recommendations(observations) and sent it to Unesco, which will put it up to their advisory committee for approval,” the official said. “After the approval the final recommendations will be made to us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri hospital serves showcause notices to 5 employees in Covid death case||Authorities of Jalpaiguri superspecialty hospital have served showcause notices to five hospital employees on Thursday in connection with the death of an 18-year-old Covid patient on Wednesday allegedly from neglect. Those showcaused are a ward master, two ward boys and two security men on duty when patient Samir Munda was brought to the hospital. The teen from Joypur tea estate was diagnosed Covid-positive at this hospital and referred to the Covid hospital at the Biswa Bangla Krirangan, barely 2km away. But it took four hours for the district health department to arrange an ambulance. By then, Samir had died. Hospital superintendent Gayaram Naskar said they started a probe and “found some lapses at the ward master’s office”. That is why we served showcause notices to the ward master and some others. We are also trying to find out why it took so much time for an ambulance to reach at the hospital,” Naskar said. District health department sources said those showcaused were asked why they did not inform the superintendent and other senior health officials that the ambulance was so late. “An alternative arrangement could have always been worked out,” said a source. A senior health official said the ward master, the ward boys and the security men appeared to have dealt with the patient “casually”. “A Covid care centre for women patients is running at a night shelter just opposite the superspecialty hospital. Most beds are empty there. The ward master and others should have guided the patient to this centre where he would have been treated till the ambulance came,” the official said. The sole ambulance that carries Covid 19 patients in Jalpaiguri has technical glitches and is not running for past 10 days. The health department is using ambulances meant for Covid patients of Maynaguri and Rajganj blocks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal State Transport Corporation to decorate buses with personalities, heritage sites pictures||Authorities of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC), the state-run transport company headquartered here, have decided to decorate the buses with pictures of prominent personalities and heritage sites of the district. NBSTC chairman Parthapratim Roy said on Thursday that in each bus, they will put up pictures of Jagaddipendra Narayan, the last king of erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar, and Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshis. In the colonial era, Jagaddipendra Narayan had opened this bus service in his princely state and named it the Cooch Behar State Transport. In Independent India, the bus service was renamed the NBSTC by then Bengal chief minister B.C. Roy. “Initially, we will put up their photographs and those of different heritage sites of Cooch Behar such as the royal palace, famous temples and old buildings in the 50-odd buses of our existing fleet. The buses would be painted afresh in blue and white colours and the official logo and the name would be shown in a more prominent manner in each bus,” said Roy. As of now, NBSTC has around 400 buses which run on 350-odd routes. The reason for seeking to show the logo and the name on NBSTC buses with more prominence is because during the past few years, a number of private bus owners have also painted their buses in colours similar to the NBSTC’s blue and white. “These private buses also run with initials similar to NBSTC to draw passengers. We will not let it happen. A passenger should have a clear choice before him in case he intends to board an NBSTC bus,” the chairman said. Roy said the transport corporation will also take up the task to repair 100-odd defunct buses. “We are also surveying some routes where bus services were earlier withdrawn. There are plans to reopen some closed NBSTC depots across north Bengal,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Tea Act tweak triggers fear of oversupply and reduce profitability in the sector||A recent move by the Union commerce and industry ministry to amend a 68-year-old central act that used to restrict tea cultivation without clearances has caused many in the brew belt to believe that it would result in excess supply and reduce profitability in the sector. On August 23, the ministry issued a notification suspending seven sections of the Tea Act, 1953, “in public interest”. Sections 12 to 16 were about restrictions on tea cultivation and rules such as permission from the tea board, to plant tea in normal or special circumstances, or run a tea nursery. Section 39 was on penalty of up to Rs 5,000 in case of violation of the earlier sections. Section 40 said in case of violation, tea bushes planted in an area without permission can be removed from the plot. As these sections have been suspended, representatives of tea planters’ associations fear unbridled mushrooming of tea plantations, especially in rural areas of tea districts. “These sections used to safeguard the interests of the industry. Now that these sections will no longer be in force, we apprehend more tea plantations will come up across the country. This will lead to an abrupt rise in production of tea leaves and oversupply that can bring down tea prices,” pointed Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. A senior tea planter in Siliguri said the decision was a fresh challenge for the industry beset with many existing problems. For the past few years, the tea board stopped paying subsidies to tea estates for jobs such as rejuvenation of plantations, field mechanisation and improvement of factories. “Many tea gardens invested in these jobs but haven’t got subsidies. In addition, in Bengal, there is pressure from the trade unions and state government to revise workers’ wages. In such a situation, many tea estates have financial problems. Now if tea prices start coming down, operations will not be sustainable,” he said. Some tea planters feel this may be one of the first reforms by the Narendra Modi government as it indicates reduced power and responsibilities of the tea board. “A few days back, the tea board relaxed the norms for obtaining licences of tea distribution and export. This is also significant,” said a planter. The decision to suspend the seven sections has also led  small tea growers, who contribute close to 50 per cent of India’s tea production, to worry. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations, said they also dreaded oversupply. “Even after the tea board’s decision to fix a minimum price of tea leaves, we often sell tea leaves at lower prices and at times, it does not even cover our cost of production. Now if fresh tea plantations start coming up in rural pockets, it would only worsen the situation for us,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Three children go missing in Ganga in Murshidabad||Three children were reported missing in the surging Ganga in Murshidabad over Wednesday and Thursday, a few weeks after Jangipur police district had officially barred those aged under 15 from bathing in rivers until the end of the monsoon. The order, which the police said on Thursday had fallen on deaf ears, had underscored that children were being pulled away in currents and losing their lives in the absence of swimming skills. On Thursday, a 6-year-old and a 3-year-old went missing in the Ganga at two spots in Samserganj. In the first incident, Rudra Ghosh from Dhulian had reportedly stepped into the waters for a swim and was reported missing shortly after. In a separate incident that occurred at nearby Kamalpur, Rahid Sheikh, 3, was seen to have “toppled” into the rushing river where his mother was bathing. Rahid had reportedly been placed on a brick near the edge of the bank. On Wednesday, Class IX student Neha Khatun, 13, had been pulled into a current in the Ganga near Suti while she and her friends had gone to take a dip together. None of the three was found till late on Thursday. “Police are conducting searches in the river. We will conduct further awareness drives for parents in the area to disallow monsoon swimming,” said superintendent of the Jangipur police district, Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Flash floods hit Jalpaiguri after heavy monsoon downpour||Heavy monsoon downpour led to flash floods in Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district on Thursday, snapping connectivity between the block headquarters and a number of villages. Sukhani, a stream flowing through Nagrataka block, has washed away a makeshift bridge and damaged a culvert at Manmohandhura locality in the block. The stream’s impact also caused cracks to appear on an anganwadi and a Sishu Siksha Kendra in Manmohandhura and is flooding the area in full force. “It started raining heavily since Wednesday morning, with many streams across Nagrakata block, including Sukhani, swelling. This morning (Thursday), we found the makeshift bridge has been washed away. Around 50,000 people of different villages of Sukhani and Sulkapara panchayats and some adjoining tea gardens move through Manmohandhura to the block headquarters. That direct connectivity has snapped,” said Feroze Nur Patowari, the chief of Nagrakata panchayat samiti. Sources at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that in past 24 hours till 8.30am on Thursday, it rained around 80mm in Nagrakata. “The southwest monsoon is active across north Bengal. There is forecast of more rainfall in the region during next three-four days,” said a weather expert. Residents of Manmohandhura said they have time and again demanded a permanent bridge over Sukhani. “However, our elected representatives have not listened to our requests over the years. Also, no anti-erosion work has been done on the banks and hence these two buildings (anganwadi and Sishu Siksha Kendra) got damaged,” said Apu Hossain, a youth of the area. With roads being flooded, residents are taking risky detours via farmlands to go to the highway or to the block headquarters. “We had to trudge through muddy fields to reach NH31 and enter the block headquarters,” they said. Sources in the block administration said they had prepared an estimate for a permanent bridge over Sukhani. “The estimate has been sent to the district administration. Once we get approval, work will start through proper process,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri cricketer Richa Ghosh in Team India for Australia tour ||Promising Siliguri cricketer Richa Ghosh has received her first call from the Indian cricket team for Test and one-day international (ODI) matches against Australia. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has announced the women’s cricket squad team for the upcoming Australia tour, where the team will play a Test, three ODIs and an equal number of T20 matches. Richa, a wicketkeeper and attacking right-hand batswoman, is in the team in all three formats. Richa will appear in the entire tour of Australia as the second wicketkeeper of the team in the Test squad and stand behind the stumps as the sole wicketkeeper of the team in the ODI and T20 matches. “It is for the first time that she got selected in the Test and the ODI squads for Team India. It is indeed an achievement for her,” Richa’s father Manabendra Ghosh told this paper on Wednesday, adding that he would join his daughter at the National Cricket Academy, Bangalore, where she is participating in a conditioning camp, later this month. The team is likely to leave for Australia on August 30 and the Test will be played at Perth from September 30 to October 3, said sources. Richa debuted in international cricket in the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup held in Australia in 2020, where she appeared as a concussion-sub, meaning a substitute for a player who may retire hurt, in the final. At the recently held England tour, she stood behind the stumps for all three T20 matches. Manoj Verma, secretary of the cricket committee of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad, the sub-divisional sports body of Siliguri, hailed Richa’s inclusion in all three formats as a “major achievement”. “We have all seen her perform at the T20 matches in England in July. Her ability to attack the bowler and her quickness behind the stumps perhaps impressed the selectors,” said Verma. Siliguri’s most famous cricket export, Wriddhiman Saha, is currently touring England with the Indian Test team. “Wriddhiman’s and Richa’s successive selections in the national teams will definitely attract more budding talents of Siliguri to join cricket. We also want the infrastructure for cricket in the city to improve,” Verma added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 717 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths||Bengal on Thursday recorded 717 new Covid-19 infections, 726 recoveries and nine deaths. Active Covid cases in the state fell by 18 on Thursday to reach 9,167. Calcutta, however, logged 118 new infections, ending a 20-day streak of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. North 24-Parganas reported 97 new cases. Four districts logged a single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported one. The state now has 2.7 per cent of India’s active cases and is sixth among states with most such cases. Its recovery rate is 98.22 per cent. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34. The state currently has over 15.45 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.18 lakh recoveries and 18,402 deaths. Among the deaths, 69.7 per cent were attributed to comorbidities. Over 12,360 or 67.2 per cent of the deaths were of infected males.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court appoints 5 new judges, strength reaches 35||Five judges were appointed at Calcutta High Court on Thursday, raising the total number to 35 against the sanctioned strength of 72. Even after the appointment of the five, the posts of 37 judges will remain vacant at the court. The new judges are Kesang Doma Bhutia, Rabindranath Samanta, Sugato Majumdar, Bivas Pattanayak and Ananda Kumar Mukherjee. They would be sworn in soon. Pattanayak and Majumdar have been appointed as additional judges for two years from the date of their taking oath of office. Bhutia, Samanta and Mukherjee will retire on May 4, June 23 and August 4, 2022, respectively. Pattanayak and Majumdar were advocates, while the other three were in the higher judicial services. Filling the vacancies of judges has been a long-pending demand of high court lawyers. The court has never had its full strength of judges. In 2017, the court had its highest-ever strength of 48 judges. According to estimates, around 3.52 lakh cases are lying pending in the high court which has circuit benches in the Andamans and at Jalpaiguri. Four judges are sent to the circuit benches by rotation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MPs urge Election Commission for bypolls in seven Bengal’s Assembly seats||A delegation of Trinamul MPs met the top brass of the Election Commission of India in New Delhi on Thursday, urging it again to hold pending bypolls to seven Bengal’s Assembly seats now when the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control. The bypolls assume importance as chief minister Mamata Banerjee needs to win an Assembly seat before November 5, 2021, six months from the day she was sworn in, to stay on as chief minister. Mamata had lost Nandigram to Suvendu Adhikari, her former cabinet minister who joined the BJP last December. Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, Uluberia MP Sajda Ahmed, Krishnagar MP Mahua Moitra, Rajya Sabha members Jawhar Sircar and Sukhendu Sekhar Ray visited Nirvachan Sadan and submitted the party’s third memorandum since July 15, urging for bypolls without delay. “The meeting with the commission was quite cordial. The commission said their purpose is to hold the elections and not withhold them,” said Roy later. In Thursday’s memorandum, Trinamul attached a graph comparing Covid-19 cases in the seven Assembly seats between April and now. “We told them the situation right now is conducive for polls as the number of Covid-19 cases has declined drastically across the state. We gave them specific Covid-19 statistics for the seven constituencies. The commission said they would consider it,” Roy added. The BJP, labelling Mamata as a “non-MLA CM”, has steadfastly opposed the bypolls. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh on Thursday claimed there was “no suitable environment” for bypolls in Bengal. A day after the results of May 2, the EC had suspended all bypolls indefinitely in view of the pandemic. The decision came at the end of an eight-phase election for Bengal that took over two months, apparently desired by none of the key stakeholders other than the BJP. Trinamul fears that the EC, despite its assurances on its willingness to hold the bypolls, might cite the third wave of the pandemic as an excuse to defer the process further, something that has been the BJP’s persistent demand, apparently because it does not want Mamata to be able to shed the “non-MLA CM” label. However, the BJP at the same time has been pushing for elections to the 120-odd civic bodies in the state. Mamata Banerjee and her party have repeatedly asserted that if the Bengal polls over an unprecedented eight phases could be held during a viral peak, when Covid-19 positive confirmation rate reached 33 per cent by phase eight, there was no ground to withhold the pending bypolls now when that rate is below 2 per cent. Mamata, who lost to Adhikari by a margin of 1,956 votes, however led her party to a historic 213-seat victory in the 292 seats that went to polls. She is now likely to return to her home turf of Bhowanipore, vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May for her. Bhowanipore apart, the bypoll seats are Samserganj, Jangipur, Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah and Gosaba. “If the commission does conduct the polls, we will participate. But we have already written to the commission, detailing under several points why bypolls in Bengal cannot and should not be conducted now. We are against the idea,” said Ghosh. Several sources in the BJP state unit admitted on the condition of anonymity that the party also fears a “0:7 result” in the bypolls if they are held now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||West Bengal||ACJM court in Ranaghat issues arrest warrant against Mukul Roy||The additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Ranaghat has issued an arrest warrant against Mukul Roy for failing to appear before it personally as it had directed in connection with the murder of Trinamul MLA Satyajit Biswas in 2019. Roy, who left Trinamul to join the BJP and rejoined Trinamul recently, was with the saffron party at the time of Biswas’s murder on February 9, 2020. The arrest warrant signed by the ACJM Protyai Chowdhury was served on Thursday with the directive to execute it by September 27. The ACJM court twice directed Roy to come in person, the last on August 16. He did not, which prompted the arrest warrant. “It’s a legal course and none can avoid it. Roy should have appeared before court to surrender, complying with the ACJM's direction and appeal for bail,” a Trinamul leader in Nadia said. Roy’s lawyer Suman Kumar Roy said they came to know about the arrest warrant today (Thursday). “It is a bailable warrant. I will talk to my client and decide on the future course of action. Krishnaganj MLA Biswas was shot near his home on February 9, 2019. Five persons including Roy, who was a BJP leader then, were named in the FIR lodged by MLA’s close friend and party activist Milan Ghosh. The CID in a supplementary charge sheet filed on December 5, 2020 had accused Roy of conspiracy and murder of the Trinamul MLA. To avoid the arrest Roy had appealed to the Calcutta High Court for bail. The court had granted him protection for four months, directing him to co-operate with the investigating agency. The protection extended a number of times amid the Covid situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja momentum eludes BJP this year in Bengal ||The Bengal BJP seems to have no interest in organising its Durga Puja this year as no prominent leader is keen on shouldering the responsibility of conducting the four-day affair launched virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2020. Multiple sources in the BJP have said as of now, there is no confirmation on whether the party’s Puja will be held this time or not. “Even small local clubs have begun preparations for the Puja. We have not as yet and that’s what I can tell you as of now,” said a state BJP leader. During the Assembly election campaign, several central and state BJP leaders promised that they would take the autumn celebrations to a global scale after coming to power in the state. At meetings after meetings, Modi and Amit Shah shed tears on how the Mamata Banerjee government had compromised with Bengal’s sentiment by imposing restrictions on idol immersions in a few years when the ritual and Muharram coincided. Sources in the BJP said a section of state leaders, such as those close to Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta, thought that discontinuing the Puja would be a blunder, but that realisation hadn’t led to any action at the ground level. According to a state office-bearer, informal discussions on whether the BJP would organise a Puja this year did take place, but no decision could be reached as no senior leader was willing to take the ownership of the Puja. “We know Dilipda (state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh) is against this Puja. But some of us have spoken to other leaders about the need to organise the Puja this year as well.… Let’s see what happens...”, a state BJP functionary told The Telegraph. The uncertainty about the Puja is primarily because of the sudden decline of the faction — one of several in the bitterly divided party — led by Bengal BJP minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and Mukul Roy as they were behind the Puja last year. The BJP had held its Puja in 2020 at Eastern Zonal Cultural Complex in Salt Lake, near Calcutta. “Kailash-ji has not been seen here since the election results on May 2, and Mukul-da has gone back to the Trinamul Congress.… So, the leaders in their faction have lost prominence and are in no position to organise Puja,” said a source. Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari is yet to reveal his stand on the issue, but sources in the party said he was unlikely to take charge of an event that was started by Mukul Roy. The change in the mood about Durga Puja in the BJP can be linked to the electoral debacle that created a kind of despondency in the party. Multiple middle-level leaders in the BJP, most of whom are old-timers, told this correspondent that discontinuing with the Puja would further damage the party as several questions would be raised about what the senior leaders had been saying in public. “Until a few months ago, we had been trying to prove the BJP’s Bengali credentials.… This approach led the party to organise last year’s Puja and if we discontinue it this year, it will look so odd,” said a source. Sayantan Basu, a state BJP general secretary said: “It isn’t a political party’s job to organise a Durga Puja.… But nothing has been decided by the party as yet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: House trouble||Snatching defeat from the jaws of victory is an art that has been perfected by the Congress in recent times. Internecine conflict has been the principal reason behind these episodes. Having been reduced to electoral insignificance — the Congress is in power in only a handful of states — it is astounding to note the party’s inertia when it comes to dousing domestic flames. Consider the case of Punjab. The anger of the farming community against the Bharatiya Janata Party for its stubborn refusal to nullify the contentious agricultural laws — the Shiromani Akali Dal, which was in alliance with the BJP, has suffered collateral damage on account of this collective disenchantment — should have made it relatively easy for Amarinder Singh and the Congress to return to power. But the simmering feud between the chief minister and the coterie led by Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to impair the Congress’s electoral prospects. The tiff between Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan may have been managed for the time being but the word is that unrest is brewing in Chhattisgarh where Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is being challenged from within by T.S. Singh Deo. These strifes force the Congress’s attention away from governance and damage its credibility as a party that can manage to keep its house in order. Of course the reasons for the ‘brawls’ are not unknown. The ideological moorings of the party have been corroded. This has made it possible for its chief rival, the BJP, to repeatedly topple the Congress from the perch of power by engineering defections within its ranks. What the Congress’s leaders and the rank and file need is a renewed commitment to public and ideological charters. That could help revive both morale and fortunes of the party. But the high command, a rudderless entity, is equally apathetic. Rahul Gandhi’s disinclination to take up the mantle of party presidentship is contributing to the deepening of these fissures. Mr Gandhi must act now and fill the leadership void if he is interested in purging the Congress of its ailments. Else, the mantle must be passed to a deserving candidate. The Congress’s erosion is inimical for the health of Indian democracy. That is because a weakened Congress leaves the BJP virtually without an opponent that has a pan-India presence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
27-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: National Monetisation Pipeline||Sold off Sir — The Bharatiya Janata Party keeps saying that no development work was done by the Congress in 70 years. Yet, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has now identified State assets worth at least Rs 6 lakh crore — these range from the power sector to road and railways — which she plans to disinvest through the recently unveiled National Monetisation Pipeline (“Sweating assets”, Aug 26). If the ruling party’s claims were true, then where did these assets come from? According to the new scheme, the assets will stay with the government. Then why should multinational companies enjoy the profits? It is unfortunate that even after seven years of being in power, the Narendra Modi-led government remains incompetent when it comes to handling the economy. It is this failure that makes it hand over government assets to someone else to operate. It is important that the ruling party sheds light on the details of the contracts — the modalities of the mandatory handback should be made clear. This would help both the private players and dispensations that form the government in the future. There is also a chance that the unrewarding experience of a few firms will discourage others from taking the plunge. The common people are not happy with the government’s plan to virtually sell off assets built over 70 years to raise money. How much profit the government would actually make will depend on the rollout of the scheme. But the risk is that the country may effectively be left with no public sector. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — The National Monetisation Pipeline scheme announced by the Centre to raise Rs 6 lakh crore in the next four years by leasing out various assets is utterly unwelcome. Precious national assets would be served on a platter to private players for a pittance. Irrespective of the government’s claims about ownership and authority, the leased assets will be operated according to the policies of the private companies for the entire duration guaranteed by the contracts. Why can the government not continue to manage them efficiently, saving the assets and helping the public exchequer? D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The present government has taken privatization to a different level. It has now come up with the National Monetisation Pipeline. This is an initiative to hand over State legacy to private players. This government has been claiming that it has no interest in doing business. But what is clear from its policies is that its primary duty is to protect businessmen. With a massive chunk of the public sector being put in private hands, corporate enterprises will have a field day. They will run everything, from airports and railway stations to stadiums and coal mines. The government says that this will raise Rs 6 lakh crore in four years. But does it not also insist that all is well in the economy? If that is indeed the case, then what is the need to privatize State assets to raise money? The answer is that private investment has come to a standstill after demonetization. Demand has suffered a big blow, and the finance ministry has no clue how to resolve this crisis. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Take care Sir — The Bombay High Court has warned the Maharashtra government of strict action if even a single child in any of the tribal areas dies on account of malnutrition. It has ordered the state to depute specialist doctors in these areas to ensure that proper care is taken of pregnant women and infants. The same yardstick should be applied to the migrant workers, who have suffered through the pandemic in order to meet the basic needs of roti, kapda and makaan. Civic care should also be extended to all during the pandemic. The court’s directive is truly a step in the right direction. Akhila Gopalan,Coimbatore  Hit the pedals Sir — Calcutta has long been choking on account of air pollution. Studies show that vehicular emission is a major contributor to this problem. A simple solution would be to promote the use of bicycles. Yet, cycles are banned from plying on 64 of Calcutta’s arterial roads during most of the day. This month, cyclists from various walks of life came together to urge the authorities to remove this restriction. Attention must be paid to this plea. Removing these curbs in a planned manner — demarcating cycling lanes, for instance — would go a long way towards addressing the issues of pollution and traffic congestion that plague the city. Dibyo Guha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
27-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Key markers||Sometimes it may be wise to seek operational convenience at the cost of precision in identifying a desirable set of characteristics in a set of individuals. The Supreme Court’s ruling that income, or at least income alone, cannot be the sole criterion for determining who is to be included in the ‘creamy layer’ among other backward classes for the purposes of deciding the beneficiaries of reservation is a case in point. While court rulings dating back to 1992 have stated that certain individuals, such as those holding constitutional posts or in Class A government service, would be counted as belonging to the creamy layer, the Haryana state government had defined income as the determining criterion. The contention is that the reservation benefits should not go to OBC members who have already attained economic, social and educational advancement. Attaining advancement would presumably mean integration with the upper echelons of Indian society. The relatively advantaged could be identified by income, wealth, educational attainment, political influence, economic power and social mobility. All these, and perhaps more, provide the empowerment needed for integration with the elite. The Supreme Court has, quite correctly, indicated that income alone cannot satisfactorily determine the social status of a person. There ought to be a vector of indices that can better identify a person’s social standing and, hence, the need for further special opportunities in the form of reservations. The real problem lies elsewhere. How does one accurately measure wealth, income from different sources, educational attainment in terms of skills and abilities, intelligence, and human capital? Even if these could be measured accurately, it would be a mammoth task to gather and process the relevant information. Finally, even if a composite index could indeed be computed, how would the cut-off mark be agreed upon? This is where the degree of accuracy may have to be sacrificed for getting an imprecise, but operationally convenient, criterion. In this context, gross income from all sources, as reported to the tax authority, is easily observable. It can be considered a good estimate of empowerment. Or it could even be worth the while to get rid of the concept of creamy layer completely and prioritize merit. The philosophy of reservations leading to better integration does not depend on the beneficiaries as much as it depends on the elites’ willingness to induct new members into the club for exclusive privileges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
27-08-2021||Opinion||Tales of triumph and defeat||When the acclaimed film-maker, Naomi Kawase, known for her lyrical film-making, was chosen to direct the official film of this edition of the Olympics, she said, “I hope to capture ‘time’ and take full advantage of the appeal of documentary films and their ability to freeze those moments into ‘eternity’, allowing the significance of the Tokyo 2020 Games to be communicated worldwide.” Little did she know that she would get the rare opportunity of capturing the Games during one of the most difficult periods in human history. The Olympics are undoubtedly a celebration of pageantry, a feast of human drama. Interestingly, cinema and the modern Olympic movement were born around the same time in the same city, Paris. While the Lumière brothers presented the cinématographe to an audience in December 1895, Baron Pierre de Coubertin established the International Olympic Committee in June 1894. Subsequently, accomplished international film-makers such as Milos Forman, Kon Ichikawa, Claude Lelouch, Leni Riefenstahl and Carlos Saura used their passion and brilliance to capture the Olympics of their times. Kawase follows in the footsteps of the legendary Japanese film-maker, Ichikawa, who was officially commissioned by the organizing committee and the Japanese government — after Akira Kurosawa had been dropped — to make the documentary of the 1964 Tokyo Games. Ichikawa not only followed athletes and events but also created a spectacle of the bittersweet reality of how Japan was becoming part of the modern world, erasing the past while building the future. Ichikawa’s film begins with the statement: “The Olympics are a symbol of human aspiration.” This is followed by a bright sun against a red sky and a wrecking ball demolishing old buildings in anticipation of the Games and Japan’s future. Ichikawa’s creation is a simultaneous epilogue of the celebration of victory and the solitude of defeat — a humane and honest account of the Games. It depicted the victorious moment when Bob Hayes won the 100-metres as well as Billy Mills’s astounding come-from-behind victory in the 10,000-metres. But Ichikawa’s coverage of the 10,000-metre final continued to follow the last man, Ranatunge Karunananda from Sri Lanka. Ichikawa closely followed Chad’s only competitor — the 800-metre-runner, Ahmed Issa — while he trained, ate, roamed the Olympic village, and visited around Tokyo, all alone. The film finished with the great Ethiopian runner, Abebe Bikila, winning the men’s marathon along with the pain and distress of the athletes trailing after him. Ichikawa went on to show new constructions demolished by the wrecking ball in a bomb-ruined block of Tokyo city. Ichikawa captured the triumph, passion and suffering of competition with a singular humanistic vision and eventually created lyrical, idiosyncratic poetry out of the athletic drama surging all around him. Ichikawa’s impressionistic film won two Baftas, and is now regarded as one of the greatest sports films ever made. Like Leni Riefenstahl’s Olympia, which documented the 1936 Berlin Olympics, Ichikawa’s masterpiece is considered a cinematographic milestone which transformed the art of documentary film-making. But, it was disliked — possibly even hated — by the organizing committee. They wanted a straightforward, commemorative film — a narrative of Japan’s miraculous recovery. They, thus, edited Ichikawa’s footage to make another film, Sensation of the Century. Naomi Kawase thus has a difficult job given the monumental legacy of Ichikawa. What kind of narrative would Kawase depict in her film? Would she risk portraying some naked truths in the organization of the Covid-edition of the Olympics? The Games being held amid an emergency has offered Kawase a unique opportunity to freeze some exceptional moments of this turning point in history. Unfortunately, Kawase will not be able to draw on footage of crowds the way Ichikawa did. She planned to focus on some backstories, particularly of sportspersons who developed their careers as top athletes even after they had become mothers. This is certainly a unique vision in the context of a film on the Olympics. But, this alone might not make her film a classic. Kawase decided to capture the feelings of the medical workers and quarantine staff at the airport, who strove day and night to make the Games safe and secure. She even planned to relay the opinions of the people who were against organizing the Games amidst a pandemic. “I think it’s very important to keep both negative and positive feelings as the record of this period,” she said. But how far would she go? Will Kawase portray the ‘emergency’ situation in Tokyo, the empty roads and, more importantly, the anger of 80 per cent of the Japanese people who were against the organization of such a sporting fiesta, which has made the Tokyo Games the most unwanted Games in history? Will an Olympic like no other eventually get a film like no other? Indeed, time has given Kawase a grand opportunity. We have to wait for the film’s release in early spring of 2022 to see what she has made of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
27-08-2021||Opinion||Children’s story||Lewis Carroll seems to peek occasionally into Enid Blyton’s Folk of the Faraway Tree, which turned 75 this year. But pinning his memory to the board as it flits past is unfair to the colourful overflow of the third book in the Enchanted Wood and Faraway Tree series — and a typically adult response. Adult, because I never did read about the Faraway Tree in the age of enchantment; my introduction to English-language ‘story-books’ happened later, much after I had left my stumbling introduction to “Pat can run. Can Pat run? Come Ann come” thankfully behind. So even if Carroll is the granddaddy of rabbit-holes, odd personages, magic potions and tea parties, the tone and spirit of the tale of the Faraway Tree, inhabited by Moon-Face and Silky, Angry Pixie and Dame Washalot, the clanking Saucepan Man and Mr Watzisname are quite distinct. The Tree is crowned by the lands that come, rest on and float away from its top — is that Swift? — with the Land of Tea Parties offering tables laden with chocolate cakes, dewdrop and honey sandwiches and blue jelly; it is saved from extinction at the hands of greedy trolls by its loyal folk with the help of Woffles, the rabbit, who loves scooting down the hollow in its trunk called the Slippery Slip. The lucky humans whom the Folk love may be a couple of years younger than Alice. First Term at Malory Towers, the second of Blyton’s books that turned 75 this year, however, came into my hands off the school library shelf at the right time. I have not yet outgrown the vibrant but matter-of-fact magic of Darrell, Alicia and Gwendoline’s journey through school in the Malory Towers series. A boarding school that looked like a four-towered castle perched on a cliff over the sea was a wishful fantasy, yet the girls’ fun and follies, their rough corners, the travails of their friendships were familiar at some indefinable level. The formulaic plots, type-cast characters, limited vocabulary for which Blyton has been accused by worried adults since the 1950s may have contributed to its popularity for children learning English in countries where Britain had left its mark. Yet in 2008, Blyton, with her detective and adventure series, her school, circus and fairy stories, remained a bestselling author even among children of her own country. The two 75-year-old books were written a year before the British were to leave India. Blyton’s stories are blissfully free of turmoil, creating bubbles of escape where children appear to have their own agency within the invisible security of a stable world. The rough inheritance of midnight’s children, or the pain of children born on the side of the border wrong for them, would find place in other writers’ tales; Blyton’s “complicated legacy”, as one writer described it, was one of “sunlit chauvinism”. Yet the racism, sexism, class snobbery, over-simplification and xenophobia that adults find plentifully in Blyton may not have caused young readers in the 1960s lasting damage; they could be passed over and outgrown, maybe because these attitudes, together with the firm moral structure that she provided, were not always distinguishable from the values absorbed from Sixties’ grandparents in a post-imperialist world. Even in 2018, half a century after her death, she continued to be a best-seller, and among one of the most translated authors in the world. Yet now, as 2021 moves towards autumn, Blyton’s popularity may be put to new tests. Adults calling her out for inappropriateness or mediocrity had not mattered too much, but will today’s children be able to seize upon her universe of clear blue skies, cherry cakes and ginger ale with as much enthusiasm as before? Other images, instantly and universally accessible, may intervene, such as that of a baby in Afghanistan passed hand to hand in a mass of desperate people to be held up against a barbed wire-topped wall for rescue by soldiers on the other side. That image demonstrated to the world the terror and helplessness of the baby’s parents and of all those who raised the child towards imagined salvation: no words were needed. Images of children have always brought home the savagery of war and the cruelties of hatred, exploitation and neglect, but access to these was neither immediate nor universal. Many of us who enjoyed Enid Blyton in the 1960s may have known about the war in Vietnam, but had not seen the 1972 picture of the nine-year-old ‘Napalm Girl’ till later, when the agonizing image could no longer be connected immediately to man-made horrors. So, too, the haunting face of the half-buried little girl, killed in the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, although in India its immediacy was greater than elsewhere. A vulture watching a famine-stricken little girl struggling to reach a UN feeding centre in Ayod, now in South Sudan, won the Pulitzer in 1994; the photographer killed himself soon after. We saw it at a shorter interval after it was taken than Don McCullin’s 1969 picture of two little starving boys in Biafra. It is different today. Children of wars and famines, children of the Holocaust and of occupations, of the past and of the unchanged present, crowd our screens and are laid out before young eyes. Which child would not have understood the terrible message in the picture of the dead little boy in red on a Turkish beach, drowned when a boat full of Syrian refugees capsized in 2015? The changes in the child’s world are not limited to perception or awareness, they are more immediate, and felt more widely than before. Extreme weather events are increasing rapidly in frequency, and the recent Unicef Children’s Climate Risk Index has sought to identify children most vulnerable to climate and environmental hazards, shocks and stresses. The goal is to formulate targeted corrective actions to make the planet liveable for them. Of 183 nations, the 33 ‘extremely high risk’ countries for children include India. The Unicef analysis shows how the effects of climate and environmental shocks, from cyclones to heatwaves, are exacerbated by inadequate access to the essentials of life: water, nutrition, health facilities and education. Even beyond the one billion children who live in high risk zones, floods and wildfires across the world cannot leave children unscathed. Human beings took a while to bring the earth to this tragic pass; Covid, however, has been more headlong. Its effect on the economy has resulted in a possible 2,67,000 excess deaths of infants in low and middle income countries. Loss of household income has affected nutrition and healthcare, while countries focused on controlling the pandemic may have failed to continue with immunization and other aspects of public health for infants. The World Bank study of 128 countries projecting the possible effects of the economic downturn on infant deaths suggests that there may have been 99,000 extra infant deaths in India in 12 months. Covid has also had a devastating effect on education, most acute among underprivileged children and first-generation learners. But children of families from all socio-economic segments have lost loved ones — no child, although far from war or genocide, has been left unacquainted with death. Will Enid Blyton’s books sell five years later as much as they did in 2018? Will altered childhoods long even more for the vivid happinesses of Blyton’s world where good is rewarded and wickedness defeated, or will that world have lost its scaffolding?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister joins Tata Steel to remember Dorabji Tata on his 162nd birth anniversary ||Tata Steel paid rich tributes to its first chairman, Dorabji Tata, on his 162nd birth anniversary on Friday, holding a small function at the renovated park in his name reopened for the public after about two -and-half years. Union minister of state for steel Faggan Singh Khulaste joined Tata Steel officials in paying floral tributes. He hailed the work done by Dorabji Tata and commended Tata Steel's role in nation building. The picturesque Sir Dorabji Tata Park in Bistupur, closed for renovation and special illuminations in 2019, has always been an attraction for tourists and visitors to the Steel City. From Friday, the park will remain open for four hours from 4 pm to 8 pm. It will stay closed on Sundays. Sir Dorabji Tata, the eldest son of  the founder Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata,  was the first chairman of Tata Steel, who brought to life the steel plant and the city of Jamshedpur based on the vision of Jamsetji Tata. It was Sir Dorabji Tata who translated his father's dreams into reality by setting up India’s first integrated steel company (TISCO, now Tata Steel, in 1907); a hydro-electric project (Tata Power in 1910); and a research institute (Indian Institute of Science in 1911). He not only laid the physical foundation for Tata Steel but also infused the company with standards in corporate governance that were way ahead of its time. A keen sportsman from his early years, Dorabji Tata was the first president of the Indian Olympic Association. He steered India’s entry into the world of international sport by selecting and then financing four athletes and two wrestlers for the Antwerp Olympic Games in 1920, even before India had an Olympic association. Dorabji Tata also secured a place for India in the 1924 Olympics at Paris and was chosen to be a Member of the International Olympic Committee. India won its first Gold medal in Hockey at the very next Olympics in 1928 in Amsterdam. Dorabji Tata died in Bad Kissingen, Germany on June 3, 1932. He was buried alongside his wife, Lady Meherbai Tata, at Brookwood Cemetery, Woking, England. Dorabji was knighted in 1910 for his contributions to the industry in British India. Tata Steel gets Greentech Energy Conservation Award Tata Steel’s Ores, Mines & Quarries (OMQ) division has been conferred the prestigious Greentech Energy Conservation Award 2021 during the two-day Greentech Safety Culture & Energy Summit 2021 organised by the Greentech Foundation at Sonmarg, Jammu and Kashmir that concluded on Thursday. D.B. Sundara Ramam, Vice President, Raw Materials, Tata Steel, said,  “ We are honoured to be recognised for our efforts towards energy conservation and adoption of innovative environmental management practices across the OMQ Division. We are implementing the concept of responsible mining to harmonise economic growth and environmental protection across all our mining locations. As a responsible corporate, we will continue to work towards sustainable development for a better tomorrow.” Tata Steel’s OMQ Division received the award for its outstanding achievements in energy conservation. The award is a reflection of the concerted and multiple efforts made by the division in energy conservation including setting up a 3 MW solar power plant to reduce the carbon footprint and generate power in a sustainable manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Beldih, Golmuri golf courses to host Tata Tour Championship from December 16 to 19||The season-ending Rs 1.5 crore prize money Tata Steel Tour Championship will be held at the Beldih and Golmuri golf courses in Jamshedpur from December 16 to 19. The tournament, hosted by the Tata Steel Group and PGTI (professional Golf Tour of India), will feature some top  professionals from across the country. It will be a 72-hole stroke-play championship and there will be a cut applied after 36 holes. The Pro-Am event will precede the tournament which last year made a comeback at Beldih course after a gap of 6 years. In Round One, one half of the field will play its 18 holes at Beldih Golf Club while the other half of the field will play its 18 holes at the Golmuri Golf Club. In round two, both halves of the field will switch venues. In rounds Three and Four, after the cut has been applied, all players will tee off from Golmuri and play their first nine holes at Golmuri before moving to Beldih to play their second nine holes. "Our country has seen the most unprecedented and difficult times over the last few months. Fortunately, with the Covid situation having improved and life slowly coming back to normal after the devastating second wave of Covid-19, we at PGTI plan to restart the tour in September. The PGTI will continue to follow strict regulations in order to take all precautions against Covid-19 and ensure the smooth functioning of tournaments, said PGTI CEO Uttam Singh Mundy. According to him, the PGTI season resumes with the Rs 40 lakh prize money Golconda Masters Telangana Open 2021 at the Hyderabad Golf Club from September 2 – 5. The following week is the Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship 2021 to be played at the Panchkula Golf Club from September 8 –11. The prize purse for the event is Rs. 50 lakh. The inaugural J&K Open 2021 will be launched in September. The tournament will be staged at the Royal Springs Golf Course in Srinagar from September 15 –18. The event offers a prize purse of Rs 40 lakh and marks the return of men’s professional golf to the Kashmir valley after seven years. The PGTI staged its last two events in the region in Pahalgam and Srinagar in July 2014. October will see the launch of yet another new event with the inaugural Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship 2021 presented by Delhi Golf Club being staged from 5 –8. The prize purse for the event is Rs. 50 lakh. The fourth edition of the Rs 40 lakh prize money Jaipur Open will be held at the Rambagh Golf Club in Jaipur from October 12–15. The Indian Oil Servo Masters Golf returns for its 21st edition. The tournament will be staged between October 25–31 at the Digboi Golf Links in Digboi, Assam. The prize purse for the event is Rs. 60 lakh. The fourth edition of the Rs 1.5 crore prize money Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational will be held at the Chandigarh Golf Club from November 11–14. The ICC-RCGC Open Golf Championship returns for its second edition at the Royal Calcutta Golf Club in Calcutta from November 25–28. The prize purse for the event is Rs. 40 lakh. The fifth edition of the Rs 40 lakh prize money Pune Open Golf Championship will be staged at the Poona Club Golf Course from December 1– 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Katras woman killed in house collapse, husband and son injured||A 50-year-old woman was killed while her husband and son suffered injuries on Thursday night as their old, dilapidated house at Bhagat Mohalla locality of Katras collapsed due to lack of repair. Bobby Devi, who was rushed to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical Hospital was declared brought dead, while her husband Pradeep Gupta (50) and 15-year-old son Ayush Seth are undergoing treatment at Asharfi Hospital of Dhanbad and Nichitpur clinic respectively. Gupta received multiple injuries affecting his gallbladder while Ayush suffered a right leg fracture. Gupta’s daughters Prerna and Mitali Kumari remained unhurt as they were not in the house during the time of the incident. Senior officials of district administration and police led by Prem Kumar Tiwari, sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad, reached the site to supervise the rescue operation carried out by rescue teams of BCCL, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited. Gupta’s neighbours said that the house was constructed more than 100 years ago and was lying in extremely dilapidated condition. He could not repair the house due to financial constraints after having lost his job. Pankaj Gupta, a cousin of the injured house owner, said, “As our house is situated just adjacent to Pradeep’s house, one of the walls and a part of the roof of our house was also damaged in the incident.” Pankaj said that all the other relatives had shifted to other houses but Pradeep had to stay in because of his financial condition. Councillor of Ward Number 3 of Katras, Vinayak Gupta said, “Several old houses in Bhagat Muhalla are lying in similar conditions. The government should also devise a policy so that such houses in old towns of the state, including at Jharia and Katras, can be repaired ensuring the safety of their inhabitants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Protest against Centre’s decision to exempt posts in police and RPF from disability quota||Persons with disabilities in Jharkhand and other parts of the country would launch social media campaigns and file a PIL in Delhi High Court against the Centre’s decision to exempt all posts in police and the RPF from disability quota. Rashtriya Viklang Manch secretary Arun Kumar Singh, a resident of Jamshedpur, said all-state units of the Manch, including Jharkhand, have been asked to inform members to use their personal social media accounts (primarily Facebook and Twitter) in registering protest against the Centre’s August 18 decision. General-secretary of the National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled V. Muralidharan said they would be registering a PIL in the high court in the first week of September. The Social Justice Ministry issued a notification saying that Section 34 of the RPD Act, which provides for 4 per cent reservation in jobs for PwD in government establishments, would not apply to all categories of posts of IPS, the Indian Railway Protection Force Service and police forces of Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. At the same time, the ministry issued another notification making a distinction between combat and non-combat roles in the security forces. The ministry exempted all combat posts in the Border Security Force, the Central Reserve Police Force, the Central Industrial Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Sashastra Seema Bal and the Assam Rifles from the non-discrimination and reservation provisions of the RPD Act. “We have units in 23 states and have an active presence in all the 24 districts of Jharkhand. We have sent copies of the Union government notification to all the members and asked them to register their protest against the Central government’s decision on social media so that a large number of people get to know about the nefarious designs of the government,” Singh said. “Within a day or two, we will be starting a Twitter campaign against the decision and will tag the posts with the Prime Minister, Union home minister and Union defence minister.” In June last year, more than 5,000 disabled people across the country had tweeted to Narendra Modi narrating their difficulties during the lockdown and feeling cheated after not receiving the financial assistance promised in the Gareeb Kalyan Yojana announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The campaign had been carried out under the banner of Rashtriya Viklang Manch to express dismay at not receiving an ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 in two instalments. “Exemptions should be granted only in cases of combat roles in keeping with the intent and spirit of the provision under Section 34 of the RPD Act. It is unfortunate that a department (social justice ministry) which is supposed to safeguard the rights of the disabled and empower them  is doing just the opposite,” Muralidharan  said. He added that the provisions of the Act did not intend to give blanket exemptions from hiring PwD, but to make sure that combat roles are not assigned to them. He said the decision was even more shocking given the fact that the Delhi Police had in October 2019 issued an advertisement for “head constable (ministerial)”, with reservations for PwD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
27-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to lure investors for proposed Electric Vehicle cluster on inaugural day of investors’ meet ||Jharkhand would try to lure investors for its proposed Electric Vehicle  cluster on the inaugural day of the two-day investors’ Meet and launch of Jharkhand Industry and Investment Promotion Policy 2021 meet scheduled on Friday at a private hotel in Delhi. “Leading automobile industry executives would be shown a 30-minutes presentation on prospects of EV cluster and electronics manufacturing in Jharkhand. Thereafter, there will be a one-to-one meeting with chief minister Hemant Soren with the industry leaders,” said Jharkhand industry director Jitendra Kumar Singh. Sources in the chief minister’s office revealed that though there will be other sectors like cement, power, steel, ethanol, breweries and distilleries and textile which would also be showcased on Friday meeting but the focus would be EV. “Globally the focus is now on reducing carbon footprint and technology advances mainly in the battery pack manufacturing sector, have increased the scope for the adoption of e-vehicles. India’s electric vehicle market could be worth $206 billion (Rs 14,42,000 crore) in ten years, and the sector will attract a cumulative investment need of $180 billion (Rs 12,50,000 crore) in vehicle production and charging infrastructure until 2030 to meet India’s EV ambition,” said a close aide of Soren  who is also camping in Delhi for the mega event. The aide who will be with Soren till Saturday further said, “Ambitious policy announcements are critical in stimulating the e-vehicle rollout in major markets. The Jharkhand government intends to steer its policy to enable e-vehicle and spare part and ancillary unit manufacturing in the state and provide a robust institutional landscape to invite e-vehicle manufacturers to the state. Based on the demand from the industry, the government is also planning on allocating an EV Cluster in the state on the lines of the already existing auto cluster at Jamshedpur.” The presentation would showcase Tata Motors, one of India’s leading automobile companies, which began manufacturing commercial vehicles in the early 1950s at Jamshedpur. It would also showcase more than 600 auto ancillary industries subsequently set up at Adityapur near Jamshedpur to cater to the needs of automobile companies.  All types of auto-grade steels are being produced in Jamshedpur since the 1980s. The Adityapur Auto-Cluster has been made operational at Jamshedpur to extend common facilities, such as testing centre, design lab, tool rooms, calibration plants, IT Training Centre, effluent treatment plant, etc., to auto component makers. “The EV and auto manufacturing units would be provided with a capital subsidy for common infrastructure in the EV cluster.  They will benefit from financial assistance of 50 per cent fixed capital investments, up to a maximum of Rs 20 crore and a CST concession of 100 per cent for manufacturing units for a period of 10 years,” the aide informed. Hemant Soren would have a round-table and one-to-one meeting with representatives of Tata Group, Honda, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motors, Kinetic Green, Mahindra Electric, Piaggio Vehicles (Pune) and Kia Motors in the EV sector. Representatives of Dalmia Bharat Cement (Cement), NTPC (Power), SAIL (Steel), Vibrant Spirits and EGPL-DSK Foods Limited (both Ethanol) and SPV Global (Textile) would also meet the chief minister for various sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
