28-08-2021||Business||Future Retail moves SC against Amazon again over $3.4 billion deal||India's Future Retail on Saturday filed a new case against Amazon.com Inc at the Supreme Court in its latest effort to seek clearance for its $3.4 billion retail assets sale, which the U.S. firm has challenged. The Supreme Court this month dealt a blow to Future when it said an interim decision by a Singapore arbitrator in October 2020 that put its deal with Reliance Industries on hold - following Amazon's complaint - was valid in India. The top court had also said Future could not appeal a lower court's decision against it. The retailer is now asking the top court to hear the challenge, people familiar with the case said. In its over 6,000-page filing, Future has argued that if the deal with Reliance doesn't go through, it would cause "unimaginable" damage to the group, including possible job losses for 35,575 employees, and put at risk roughly 280 billion rupees ($3.81 billion) in bank loans and debentures. "There is extreme urgency to hear this petition," Future counsel Yugandhara Pawar Jha said in the Supreme Court filing, which is not public. Reuters has seen the filing. Amazon and Future spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment on Saturday. Amazon has for months been locked in a dispute with Future, and accuses the Indian firm of violating contracts when it sold its retail assets to market leader Reliance last year. Future denies any wrongdoing. The outcome of the tussle involving two of the world’s richest men, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos and Reliance’s Mukesh Ambani, is seen as reshaping India’s pandemic-hit shopping sector and deciding whether Amazon can blunt Reliance's dominance of the country's nearly trillion-dollar retail market. The dispute started after Future, India's second-largest retailer, with more than 1,700 stores, including popular Big Bazaar supermarkets, entered a deal last year to sell its retail businesses to Reliance after COVID-19 hit its operations hard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Berger Paints sets goal of Rs 10,000-crore revenue from operations by 2023-24||City-based Berger Paints has set a milestone of Rs 10,000-crore revenue from operations by 2023-24, its centenary year. The company has clocked a consolidated revenue of Rs 6,817.59 crore for 2020-21. The company hopes to achieve the Rs 10,000-crore milestone with the help of capacity expansion, favourable demand and stable raw material prices, said Abhijit Roy, managing director and CEO of Berger Paints. “The year 2023-24 will be our 100th year in India. We started our operations in 1923 in Bengal. We are expecting to touch Rs 10,000 crore in 2023-24. We have two factories in Bengal and we have taken land for a third one here,” Roy said after the company’s annual general meeting on Friday. The paint maker has also scaled up its investment in Uttar Pradesh to Rs 800 crore and the plant there is expected to be commissioned in 2022. Roy said while the company in the past three years has grown 11-12 per cent by volume, there has been no value growth. This was primarily on account of raw material price fluctuations and price adjustments. Berger is eyeing a topline of Rs 8,000 crore this fiscal with expectations of a recovery in demand in the second half. “So with a volume growth of 13 per cent, I now have a value growth of 17-18 per cent this year,” Roy said. Berger does not expect raw material prices to rise further leading to better operating margins in the third and fourth quarter. “In July we bounced back to growth level and August also as we stand now, it looks good. Overall demand scenario looks healthy. The bases are very strong in the third and fourth quarter so, growth rate will not be very high, but we will still grow at a reasonable pace and profitability which has been compressed because of escalating raw material prices...will get restored to normal levels in the two quarters,” Roy had said at the AGM. On the international front the company is consolidating business under its subsidiary Bolix and the paint major is eyeing France and Switzerland as future markets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Delhi HC to hear in October appeals of WhatsApp, Facebook in privacy policy matter||The Delhi high court on Friday said it will hear in October the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp, challenging its single-judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe ordered by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) into the instant messaging app’s new privacy policy. A bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the matter for October 11 while extending the time to file replies to the June 4 and June 8 notices issued by CCI to WhatsApp and Facebook, till then. While CCI was represented through additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, WhatsApp and Facebook were represented through senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Tata Motors gets NCLT nod for hiving off passenger vehicles business into separate entity||Homegrown auto major Tata Motors Ltd (TML) on Friday said it has received the approval of the National Company Law Tribunal’s (NCLT) Mumbai bench to hive off its passenger vehicles business unit into a separate entity. Earlier in March this year, the shareholders of the company at an extraordinary general meeting convened according to an order of the NCLT had voted and approved the transfer of the passenger vehicles business unit to TML Business Analytics Services Ltd as a going concern on a slump sale basis for a lump sum consideration. Subsequently, the matter moved back to the NCLT for a final order. “We are pleased to inform you that the Hon’ble NCLT vide its order dated August 24, 2021, has sanctioned the said scheme,” Tata Motors said in a regulatory filing. The company will be filing the said order along with a copy of the scheme with the Registrar of Companies, Mumbai, within 30 days of the date of receipt of the order, it added. Tata Motors had said that its passenger vehicles business unit has been valued at Rs 9,417 crore. Last year, Tata Motors had announced that it would turn its domestic PV business unit into a separate entity and seek a strategic partnership in order to help the unit secure its long-term viability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Indian start-ups seek law for app store fees||Indian start-ups want the Centre to enact laws to protect them from the 30-per-cent commission charged by Google and Apple on the in-app purchases made through their app stores. Further, a clarity on the definition of digital goods and services and flexibility in payment gateways are necessary according to a section of domestic start-ups. At a session organised by think-tank Alliance of Digital India Foundation on Friday, the founders of several Indian companies pointed out these issues. “OTT players spend a huge amount to create content and then a lot more to acquire users. On top of that we have to pay 30 per cent just to be listed (on the app store). That is probably why most OTT platforms no longer have payment options on their app,” said Vinay Singhal, co-founder and CEO of OTT platform Stage. “Google is acting as a gatekeeper and eating up a major chunk of the developers revenue which is going to result in loss for the developer and a higher cost for the user,” said Ravi Mittal, founder and CEO of QuackQuack. “On Apple if you allow users to sign up, you will have to use Apple’s payment gateway,” he added. Snehil Khanor, co-founder and CEO of TrulyMadly, said that India’s Competition Act clearly states that there must not be any misuse of dominant position. “Essentially, we are being asked to remove all other payment gateways being used on our app. We are then being charged 30 per cent for the same service that others are charging 2 per cent for,” said Khanor. Lack of choice is also stifling competition. “There is hardly any option in terms of platform experience,” said Deepshikha Kumar, founder and managing partner, SpeakIn. Amid mounting pressure over exorbitant commissions both Apple and Google over the past few months have introduced a slab based structure with developers who have earned less than $1 million in a year qualifying for a lower service fee of 15 per cent. Further Apple has announced that it would make major changes to its App Store as part of a proposed lawsuit settlement with developers in the US. A prominent change is allowing developers the flexibility to share information about payment methods outside of their iOS app.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Sebi imposes Rs 50 lakh fine on Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company||Sebi on Friday imposed a penalty of Rs 50 lakh on Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company (AMC) and barred the fund house from launching a fixed maturity plan (FMP) scheme for six months for violating regulatory norms. The market regulator has directed the fund house to refund a part of the investment management and advisory fees collected from the unitholders of the six FMP schemes along with a simple interest at the rate of 15 per cent per annum. In a statement, a spokesperson for Kotak Mahindra Group said that all the investors have been fully repaid along with applicable interest in September 2019 and the fund house is committed to protecting investor interest at all times. The case pertains to six FMP schemes that matured in April and May 2019, which held investments in non-convertible debentures (NCDs) issued by Edisons Utility Works Pvt Ltd and Konti Infrapower & Multiventures Pvt Ltd, belonging to the Essel group and secured by pledge of equity shares of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. Sebi found lapses on the part of Kotak Mahindra AMC in carrying out a due diligence and a laid-back approach adopted by the fund house in risk assessment while taking investment decisions vis-a-vis the zero coupon non-convertible debentures (ZCNCDs) of Essel Group entities. The fund house has not analysed various risk parameters — credit risk, liquidity and interest rate risk — while evaluating the proposal to invest in the ZCNCDs of “certain insignificant and financially handicapped entities” of Essel Group such as Konti Infrapower & Multiventures and Edison Utility Works, it said. Further, the events that took place involving the shares of ZEEL and the Essel Group from January 25, 2019 onwards clearly suggest that there were strong possibilities of default on the part of the two issuer companies to honour the redemption of the ZCNCDs on their maturities, an event which was prevented by the fund house by extending maturity dates of these ZCNCDs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||IBC: Corporate affairs ministry working with FinMin, RBI on issue of committee of creditors' conduct||The corporate affairs ministry is working with the finance ministry, the Reserve Bank of India and the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) on the issue of the conduct of the committee of creditors under the insolvency resolution process, corporate affairs secretary Rajesh Verma said on Friday. The role of the Committee of Creditors (CoC) is crucial in deciding a resolution plan under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), which provides for a market-linked framework for resolving stressed assets. The discussions on the issue of the conduct of the CoC assume significance amid recent instances of creditors taking steep haircuts on their exposure under resolution plans. Verma also acknowledged that it has been upheld in judgments that commercial wisdom lies with the CoC as the IBC provides for a competitive market-driven process for value discovery of the debtor. According to him, the IBBI has been working on increasing the capacity of the CoC through various seminars and addressing the market issues. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) and the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) are key constituents under the IBC framework. Addressing a conference organised by the CII on five years of the IBC, Verma said erosion of the value of a debtor before it comes to the CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process) is a matter of concern and emphasised that “timing and asset preservation is of real essence”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||IOC to invest Rs 1 trillion to expand refining capacity||State-owned refiner IOC plans to invest close to Rs 1 lakh crore (trillion) over the next five years to expand its refinery capacity to 106.7 million tonnes (mt). At the company’s AGM on Friday, IOC chairman Shrikant Madhav Vaidya said fuel demand in Indian Oil was expected to rise to 400-450mt in 20 years against 250mt now. “This offers enough legroom for all forms of energy to co-exist.” The IOC chief said the forecasts “translate into refining capacity expansion of over 25mt and an investment commitment of close to Rs 1 lakh crore over the next 4 to 5 years.” IOC operates 11 refineries with a combined capacity of 81.2mt. It plans to raise the capacity of its Koyali refinery in Gujarat to 18mt from 13.7mt and the Panipat refinery to 25mt from 15mt. Expansion plans have also been lined up for Guwahati and Barauni, while subsidiary Chennai Petroleum Corp Ltd is setting up a new plant. The PSU has major plans for green energy to power new projects and expansions. “Indian Oil is charting its course as a future-ready global energy giant and we are working on a range of scalable alternative energy options to realise the vision,” he said. The company has tied up with Israeli company Phinergy to manufacture aluminium-air batteries for electric vehicles in the country. Vaidya said IOC will build the nation’s first “green hydrogen” plant at its Mathura refinery. The PSU is expanding the scope of its joint venture with Malaysia’s Petronas to cover  LNG terminals, CNG stations, city gas distribution projects, compressed bio-gas business and fuel outlets. “We are pursuing more such win-win associations with respective segment leaders to explore newer avenues of growth and gain competitive advantage in the future,” he said. Quick rebound Meanwhile, various performance indicators of IOC have rebounded quickly from the second wave of the pandemic. In the first quarter of the current fiscal, its capacity utilisation was 88.6 epr cent from 68.5 per cent a year ago. “As I say this, the sales volume of petrol has already crossed pre-Covid level, with diesel likely to reach the level in the next 2-3 months, say by Diwali,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||Business||Federal Reserve on track to slow aid for economy later this year||The Federal Reserve will start dialing back its ultra-low-rate policies this year as long as hiring continues to improve, chair Jerome Powell said Friday, signaling the beginning of the end of the Fed’s extraordinary response to the pandemic recession. The Fed’s move could lead, over time, to somewhat higher borrowing costs for mortgages, credit cards and business loans. The Fed has been buying $120 billion a month in mortgage and Treasury bonds to try to hold down longer-term loan rates to spur borrowing and spending. Powell’s comments indicate the Fed will likely announce a reduction — or “tapering” — of those purchases sometime in the final three months of this year. In a speech given virtually to an annual gathering of central bankers and academics, Powell stressed that the beginning of tapering does not signal any plan to start raising the Fed’s benchmark short-term rate, which it has kept near zero since the pandemic tore through the economy in March 2020. Rate hikes won’t likely start until the Fed has finished tapering its bond purchases. But Powell said inflation has risen enough to meet its test of “substantial further progress” toward the Fed’s goal of 2 per cent annual inflation over time, which was necessary to begin tapering. There has also been “clear progress,” he said, toward the Fed’s goal of maximum employment. At the same time, the Fed chair said the central bank is monitoring the economic impact of the highly contagious delta variant, which has caused a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the US, especially in the South and West. “While the delta variant presents a near-term risk, the prospects are good for continued progress toward maximum employment,” Powell said. He spoke via webcast to the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium, which is being held virtually for a second straight year because of Covid-19. On Wall Street, investors appeared to welcome Powell’s message of a gradual withdrawal of the Fed’s economic support beginning this year and his view that surging inflation pressures will likely prove temporary. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose a sharp 225 points, or 0.6 per cent, soon after Powell spoke. The sharp jump in inflation has put the Fed’s ultra-low-interest rate policies under growing scrutiny, both in Congress and among ordinary households that are being squeezed by surging prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
28-08-2021||India||Will make Delhi a world leader in skill training, says Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the city government is making efforts to make the national capital a world leader in skills training. Sisodia and Vice-Chancellor of Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) Prof. (Dr.) Neharika Vohra visited the varsity campus in Dwarka and Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Nizamuddin to inspect the on-ground events of Delhi's first-ever state level competitions for 'WorldSkills' to be held Shanghai in 2022. The 'WorldSkills' Competition in Shanghai will feature over 1,400 competitors from more than 60 countries and regions, competing in over 60 skills. Some of the skills include bakery, 3D digital game art, aircraft maintenance, autobody repair, automobile technology, etc. "The youth of Delhi earlier had to travel to different states to participate in the biggest skill competition of the world. We are proud to have Delhi government's DSEU hosting the inaugural state-level competitions for the selection of candidates who will represent the state in the regional rounds," he said. While stressing that Delhi has many budding young stars who need such platforms to showcase their talent, he said emphasis has to be laid on skills to ensure that the youth is ready to move forward in the industry. "The Kejriwal government is making its best possible efforts to make Delhi a world leader in skilling. We are trying to raise the standard of skills in the state by providing this platform to students. "I am happy to see such young faces amongst the participants, working on machines and utilising an integration of their hands, mind and heart to not just complete the projects but also add a personal touch to them while also managing time," he said. Vohra said India first participated in the 'WorldSkills' in 2007 and since then has won multiple medals at each event. "We are hopeful that after qualifying the state competitions, the skill stars of Delhi will qualify the following stages and represent both Delhi and India in 'WorldSkills' Shanghai 2022," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
28-08-2021||India||Maha governor takes a swipe at Rahul Gandhi||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi on Saturday as he recalled that the Congress leader believed that the black cap, a traditional headwear from Uttarakhand, he wears was linked to the RSS and thought Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar was from the Sangh. Speaking on the launch of his book “Bhartiya Sansad Main Bhagat Singh Koshyari”, the former Uttarakhand chief minister, who has been associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, also said the government will have to deal with the kind of situation witnessed in Parliament's last session when people like him, a reference to Gandhi, are leading the opposition. Before Koshyari's speech, Union minister Piyush Goyal had slammed the opposition's conduct in the session as he lauded the Maharashtra governor's ‘sincere and dignified’ role as an MP in Parliament. He must be feeling pained at what happened in Parliament, Goyal said. The Monsoon Session was a virtual washout as a united opposition disrupted its proceedings through except for the discussion on a bill linked to the Other Backward Classes. Rajya Sabha also witnessed a debate on Covid-19. Noting that opposition members torn papers, threw papers at the Chair and allegedly manhandled marshals, the government has accused them of unruly conduct never seen before. The opposition has accused the government's unparliamentary conduct for the impasse. In his speech, Koshyari said many people would react seeing his black cap in a same way as a bull does when shown a red cloth. "Rahul Gandhi asked me (then BJP MP) why do you wear a black cap? I told him people wear it in Uttarakhand. He says 'no, no, you are from the RSS'. I said I am from the RSS but the cap is from Uttarakhand. People have been wearing it there before the RSS was born," he said. A few months later, the Congress leader again enquired him about the cap while he was chatting with some MPs in Parliament, Koshyari said. "He again asked me why you wear a black cap... He said this is a RSS cap. I told him that I had said earlier too this is not a RSS cap. He still insisted. I asked him have you read anything about the RSS? He said 'yes, yes, I have read Savarkar'... Piyush ji you will have to live with this din and everything when such people are in leadership," he added. Though Savarkar is a Hindutva ideologue, he was never in the RSS. While the 79-year-old leader mocked at Gandhi, he praised Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. During a parliamentary debate on environment, Ramesh, who was the environment minister then, urged the Chair to give him more time to speak as he liked the content, Koshyari recalled. When the Chair disallowed the request, forcing the BJP MP to wrap up his speech, Ramesh came to him and said that he would reply to debate the next day instead of the same day as scheduled. He told Koshyari to speak what he could not say during the speech while seeking clarification on his reply, the former BJP leader said. While he feels disappointed at the state of Parliament, Koshyari said and named several leaders, many former opposition stalwarts, for their rich contribution to debates in the past and expressed confidence that people will elect members who will restore its earlier glory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
28-08-2021||India||Night curfew in Kerala from next week to contain Covid-19 transmission||The Kerala government on Saturday declared that night curfew would be enforced in the state from next week to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am from next week. “In areas where the weekly infection population ratio is above seven per cent, the government has decided to implement a lockdown. From next week, there will be night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am. Night curfew has already been issued for tomorrow,” Vijayan said at a press conference here. Fresh Covid-19 cases crossed the 30,000 mark for the fourth consecutive day in the state on Saturday. Since July 27, when restrictions were relaxed in the state for a few days on account of two festivals, the state has been logging more than or close to 20,000 case almost every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
28-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi inaugurates renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial complex||Stressing that it is a country's duty to protect its history, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that events of the past "teach us and give us direction to move forward", as he dedicated to the nation the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial. Modi, who inaugurated the complex virtually, paid homage to the Jallianwala Bagh martyrs. "The global developments remind us of the importance of self-reliance and self-confidence. "At a time when we are celebrating Amrut Mahotsav, we should strengthen our nation's foundation and take pride in it," the prime minister said. "Today, if any Indian is in trouble anywhere in the world, then India stands up to help him with all its might. Be it the Corona period or the crisis of Afghanistan, the world has experienced it continuously. Hundreds of people from Afghanistan are being brought to India under Operation Devi Shakti," the prime minister said. He said the dedication of the renovated complex in the country's 75th year of freedom is a matter of inspiration for all. "It is the duty of every country to protect its history. Events of past teach us and give direction to move forward," he said. Horrors like the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and the Partition speak of the sacrifices made for India's freedom and should not be forgotten as they inspire to keep the country above all, the prime minister said. "It is not right for any country to ignore such horrors of its past," he said, noting August 14 is now being observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. "This place will inspire future generations about the journey of our Independence movement, the sacrifices and countless struggles of our ancestors. "What should be our duty towards our nation and how we should keep the country above all in everything we do, the inspiration for this will come from this place," the PM said. Quoting Gurbani, the prime minister said happiness emanates from empathy and service. For the all-round progress of Punjab and the country, a combined effort is needed, he said, adding "virasat (heritage) and vikaas (development) must coexist". A wreath-laying ceremony was held and a two-minute silence was observed in the memory of martyrs of the Jallianwala massacre. Museum galleries have been developed at the memorial and the event showcased multiple development initiatives taken by the government to upgrade the complex. A sound and light show has been set up to display the events of April 13, 1919. Four museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings. They showcase the historical value of events that unfolded in Punjab during that period, with the fusion of audio-visual technology, including projection mapping and 3D representation, as well as art and sculptural installations. Over 1,000 people were killed and hundreds wounded on April 13, 1919 when British troops fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands who had assembled in Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act which had extended wartime repressive measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Delhi Police file chargesheet against 4 in Dalit minor rape case||The Delhi police filed a charge sheet in a court here on Saturday against a crematorium priest and three others for alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl in the Delhi Cantonment area earlier this month. The 400-page final report named Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium in South-West district, and its employees - Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan as accused - claiming there was sufficient evidence against them. The accused were charged under sections 302 (murder), 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 376D (gang rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The four have also been charge-sheeted under Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and Section 3 (offences of atrocities) of SC/ST Act. All the accused are currently in judicial custody. The report was filed before Duty Magistrate Manu Shree, who kept it for the consideration of the court concerned for August 31. The case was transferred to the Crime Branch of Delhi police on August 5. The final report has also included a report by the special investigating team, which was formed by the crime branch for expeditious and professional investigation. During the investigation, scientific, technical and other evidence was gathered and analysed, besides recording testimonies of relevant witnesses. Assistance was taken from Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini as well as Delhi Police's Forensic Experts on Biology and Odontology, the police said. It said that forensic psychologists were also engaged during the interrogation of the accused and a report has been included in the final report. The Delhi Police registered a case against the four on the basis of the statement of the minor's mother, who alleged that her daughter was raped and murdered and later cremated without the family's consent on August 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Congress likens BJP government to General Dyer regime as Haryana Police lathicharge farmers||The Congress on Saturday condemned the lathicharge on farmers protesting at Karnal and likened the BJP-LJP regime in Haryana to the "General Dyer government". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a picture on Twitter of a farmer with blood-soaked clothes after the lathicharge and said the image has shamed India. "Once again the blood of farmers is shed, India's head bows in shame," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtags "#FarmersProtest" and "Anti-farmer BJP". Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala condemned the attack and dubbed the BJP-JJP regime as the "General Dyer government". He shared pictures of injured farmers in blood-soaked clothes on Twitter and put out a video of an officer purportedly giving instructions to policemen to beat up the farmers. Surjewala claimed the officer was the duty magistrate of Karnal. "CM-Dy CM's conspiracy to attack farmers in Karnal is clear from the orders of the Duty Magistrate, who is ordering the police to break the heads of farmers and lash them with sticks. BJP-JJP is the 'General Dyer' government," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Khattar Sahib, Today in Karnal sticks have been blown on the soul of every Haryanvi. The oppression of the sinful BJP government that bleeds farmers is like demons. The coming generations will remember the blood from farmers' bodies flown on the streets," the Congress leader said in another tweet. "No more pleas, now there will be war - till life or death," he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shared pictures of the injured farmers on Facebook. "Farmers with their hard work grow bountiful crops in their fields and when ask for their rights, the BJP government bleeds them by wielding batons. Every blow dealt to farmers will serve as a nail in the coffin of the BJP," she wrote on the social media platform. Another Congress spokesperson, Jaiveer Shergill, tweeted, "The manner in which farmers of Haryana were brutally beaten and order to break their heads were given no doubt that BJP Government should be called 'General Dyer Government'." Scores of people were killed on the orders of Brigadier General Reginald Dyre of the British army on April 13, 1919 in Punjab's Jalliwanwala Bagh. Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a Bharatiya Janata Party meeting attended by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other leaders. Farmers protesting against three farm laws of the Centre have been opposing the public functions of the ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Several farmers had gathered at the Bastara toll plaza near Karnal, responding to a call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). The state police drew severe criticism for the action against the farmers and several roads were blockaded at different places in protest. The police, however, said only mild force was used as the protesters were blocking the highway, affecting traffic movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Volume on cultural treasures of India inscribed on UNESCO launched||Containing rich text illustrated with spectacular photographs, including archival images, a volume that encapsulates the rich cultural treasures of India inscribed on the UNESCO world heritage list has been launched, officials said on Saturday. The publication, titled 'Incredible Treasures', was unveiled on Friday evening during an online event, they said. India at present has 40 world heritage sites, both cultural and natural, spanning across the country, including the the Ramappa Temple, a 13th century engineering marvel in Telangana and ancient Dholavira site in Gujarat, both of which earned the coveted tag in July this year. UNESCO and MAPIN publishing house have joined hands for this volume. "INCREDIBLE TREASURES is an eloquent homage to India's long history, bearing witness to its rich biodiversity and influence of multiple communities, crafts & religious traditions, published in collaboration with @mapin_india," the UNESCO New Delhi Office tweeted on Friday night. India's world heritage sites spans magnificent structures ranging from the Mughal-era Red Fort in Delhi to the ancient Mahabodhi Temple complex in Bodh Gaya in Bihar, and breathtaking natural sites. "India is truly incredible and the world heritage sites presented here span the entire history and geography of the country. We believe that this book will be a definitive reference and will help build greater awareness about India's World Heritage sites among specialists and other readers alike. "We also hope it will encourage them to support efforts to protect and safeguard the world's cultural and natural heritage," a statement issued by the world body quoting Eric Falt, UNESCO New Delhi Director and Representative here, said. Though the sites across India have been inscribed individually, they collectively contribute to a cohesive historical narrative of India's extremely diverse archaeological and architectural spectrum, as well as natural sites, the statement said. The publication offers a stunning view of all world heritage sites of India two more sites were recently added in July - described together for the first time with informative, accessible commentary and spectacular photographs, the UNESCO had said ahead of the launch. "NITI Aayog has initiated a nationwide effort to understand the current challenges for heritage management in India and to provide a future roadmap along with an appropriate branding of India's invaluable archaeological and built heritage,"Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, was quoted as saying in the statement. "We are also ensuring guidance to the concerned heritage custodians of these world heritage sites, including the nodal agency Archaeological Survey of India, to further enhance, conserve and promote these locations for local communities as well as visitors," he said. 'Incredible Treasures' has benefited immensely from the research and contributions of many experts in the fields of architecture, cultural conservation, sustainable heritage development, wildlife and ecology, the UNESCO said. It is available for sale in English at selected book stores, or on Amazon in India, and most of Europe and the US. Other language editions are expected soon, it said. The project was started in August 2019 and took one year to complete. As the Ramappa Temple and Dholavira sites were added to the UNESCO list in July, brochures for these two sites have been added inside the pocket with the book, said conservation architect Shikha Jain, who co-edited the volume. In the 167 countries where they are currently listed, UNESCO's world heritage sites are landmarks of outstanding historical, cultural and natural significance, the statement said. UNESCO seeks to encourage the identification, protection, and preservation of cultural and natural heritage around the world considered to be of outstanding value to humanity. This is embodied in an international treaty called the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, adopted by UNESCO in 1972.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Police lathicharge protesting farmers near Karnal||Around 10 people were injured Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Besides Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other senior leaders of the party were present at the meeting. The state police drew severe criticism for the action against the farmers, and several roads were blockaded at different places in protest. The affected routes included the Fatehabad-Chandigarh, Gohana-Panipat and the Jind-Patiala highways, and the Ambala-Chandigarh and the Hisar-Chandigarh national highways. Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni alleged that the police brutally lathicharged the protesting farmers, leaving many injured. Several protesters present at the site near the Bastara toll plaza around 15 km from Karnal claimed to have witnessed 8-10 people sustain injuries in the police action. The police, however, said only mild force was used as the protesters were blocking the highway, affecting traffic movement. Farmers protesting the central farm laws have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Several farmers had gathered at the Bastara toll plaza near Karnal, responding to a call given by the BKU. Citing section 144 of the CrPC imposed in the area banning assembly of five or more people, the police made several announcements over loudspeakers, declaring the gathering by the protesters "unlawful". Initially, they asked the farmers to disperse, but resorted to force as the protesters refused to budge. The police said the protesters were bent on moving towards the venue of the BJP meeting in Karnal. All roads leading to the venue had been heavily barricaded. "Many farmers were injured after police brutally lathicharged them without any provocation. Some even could be seen with blood all over their clothes," Chaduni said, strongly condemning the police action. He said that as part of their ongoing agitation against the farm laws, the farmers had decided to hold a peaceful protest against BJP leaders, for which they had assembled at the Bastara toll plaza. The use of force by the police invited severe criticism from various political parties. Strongly condemning the action, senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, "Khattar Sahab, today you have rained lathis on Haryanvis' soul coming generations will remember the blood of farmers which has been spilled on the roads." Indian National Lok Dal senior leader Abhay Singh Chautala also strongly condemned the police action. Swaraj India president and key leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha Yogendra Yadav said the lathicharge exposed the true face of the Haryana Police. "They (farmers) were protesting against the visit of CM Khattar and other BJP leaders to Karnal. This is the true face of Haryana police," Yadav tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi motivated scientists to make Covid vaccines, says Union minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi motivated scientists and doctors to conduct medical research which led to the development of an anti-coronavirus vaccine in India, Union minister Virendra Kumar Khatik said on Saturday. "It is for the first time that we need not have to depend on any other country to procure vaccines to fight against a virus," the Social Justice and Empowerment Minister told reporters. Khatik is in Jabalpur to launch the BJP's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra', which is aimed at reaching out to the masses. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the initiative to motivate scientists and doctors to conduct medical research which led to the development of an anti-coronavirus vaccine in the country," he added. "In contrast, anti-polio vaccination in India was launched three to four years after vaccination against polio almost got completed in many countries," he said. As of now, around 60 crore anti-Covid-19 shots have been given in the country," he said. Speaking on Central schemes, the minister said a roadmap titled "Amrit Kaal" worth Rs 100 lakh crore has been drawn under the leadership of the prime minister for the next 25 years to make India self-reliant by strengthening the roads, industry and railway infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||PM expert at renaming, relaunching schemes, accuses Jairam Ramesh||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being an expert at renaming and relaunching schemes. His remarks came on the 7th anniversary of the Jan Dhan Yojna which, he claimed, was renaming of UPA's 'savings bank deposit' scheme. "The PM has hailed the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana on its 7th anniversary. It is actually the 7th anniversary of the renaming of the UPA's Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account," he said on Twitter. "What an expert in renaming, repackaging and relaunching," he said. The government is celebrating the 7th anniversary of the Jan Dhan scheme. Taking to Twitter, the prime minister said, "Today we mark seven years of #PMJanDhan, an initiative that has forever transformed India's development trajectory. It has ensured financial inclusion and a life of dignity as well as empowerment for countless Indians. Jan Dhan Yojana has also helped further transparency." He also lauded the untiring efforts of all those who have worked to make the scheme a success, saying their efforts have ensured that the people of India lead a better quality of life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||If previously Covid infected, single Covaxin dose draws same antibody response as two doses||A single dose of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in previously COVID-19-infected individuals elicits a similar antibody response as obtained with two doses of the vaccine in those without a previous history of the disease, according to an ICMR study. The study was published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research on Saturday. "If our preliminary findings are confirmed in large population studies, a single dose of BBV152 vaccine may be recommended to previously confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals so that the naive individuals could attain the larger benefit of a limited vaccine supply," it said. India's first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, codenamed BBV152, was approved by the government for emergency use in January. Two doses are given with a gap of four to six weeks. The study was undertaken to examine SARS-CoV-2 specific antibody responses after day zero (baseline, before vaccination), day 28 plus/minus two days post-first dose (month 1) and day 56 plus/minus two days post-first dose (month 2) of BBV152 in a group of healthcare professionals as well as frontline workers. The antibody response of individuals with confirmed pre-vaccination SARSCoV-2 infection was compared with those individuals without prior evidence of infection. As a part of the study, blood samples were collected from 114 healthcare professionals and frontline workers who received Covaxin at vaccination centres in Chennai from February to May 2021. "Overall, good vaccine-induced antibody responses were seen in prior SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals, except in two, who received a single dose of BBV152 vaccine that was similar to antibody responses seen after a two-dose vaccination course administered to infection-naive individuals," the study stated. "Our results in a varied group of healthcare professionals and frontline workers lend support to the previous studies (albeit mainly focused on mRNA vaccines) that increased levels of SARS-CoV-2 binding and neutralizing antibodies are present after a single vaccine dose in previously infected individuals and are comparable to the levels seen after two doses in those without prior infection," it added. The study offers evidence in support of public health-oriented and immunologically sustained vaccine strategies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Punjab Congress crisis: Harish Rawat to visit state soon||Amid the continued infighting in the Punjab Congress, AICC general secretary Harish Rawat Saturday said he would visit the state soon as he briefed former party president Rahul Gandhi on the situation. Rawat apprised Gandhi of the latest developments as factions supporting Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu engaged in a war of words. "I have briefed him on whatever the situation in Punjab is," Rawat, also the in-charge of party affairs in the state, told reporters after meeting Gandhi here. "In the next two-three days, I will visit Punjab and will meet party leaders. I will also meet Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu," he said. The Punjab Congress finds itself as a divided lot a few months ahead of assembly elections, with Singh and Sidhu being at loggerheads. The infighting refuse to die down even after the former cricketer was appointed the PCC chief. Sidhu has also urged the party leadership to give him freedom in decision-making, telling them that he does not want to be a dummy party chief. He said this after one of his advisers -- Malvinder Singh Mali -- had to quit following pressure from the chief minister's camp over his alleged controversial remarks on Kashmir. After this, some dissident ministers and MLAs had met Rawat at Dehradun and demanded the chief minister's removal. However, Rawat made it clear that the next assembly elections would be fought under Singh's leadership. The chief minister's camp also sought action against Sidhu over Mali's remarks on Kashmir and Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Mysore University circular restricting movement of girls withdrawn||The circular of the University of Mysore imposing curbs on movement of girl students alone on its Manasagangotri campus after 6.30 pm has been withdrawn, Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday. He said it's true that generally campuses of Universities are vast but to bar the movement of girl students is not correct. Narayan directed Vice-Chancellors of Universities to take security measures and create safe campuses. The University of Mysore's move on Friday was prompted by the gang-rape of a college student near Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24 which has created a scare. Entry of visitors to the Kukkarahalli lake premises has also been prohibited after 6.30 pm, said sources in University which has issued the circular announcing the measures. The steps were taken as part of "safety and precautionary measure" following verbal instructions by police, the sources said. Security guards have been asked to patrol the campus from 6 pm to 9 pm, they said. Narayan termed the rape incident as 'condemnable' and said one should not snatch the freedom of girl students because of this case. "It's our responsibility to give them protection without violating their freedom", the Minister said. "Wherever required, Closed-circuit cameras should be installed". "There should be greater vigil in University campuses. Already, steps have been taken by the Government in this regard. Measures will be tightened by leveraging technology", he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Five arrested in Mysore gang rape case,  says Karnataka DGP||Five labourers allegedly involved in the rape of a college student near Mysuru earlier this week have been arrested, Karnataka DG and IGP Praveen Sood said on Saturday. The five, who frequented Mysuru often, are from the "labour class" doing jobs like wiring, carpentry and driving, he said, adding, they hailed from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu. "As per preliminary interrogation, one of them is a juvenile -- a 17-year-old -- subject to confirmation", he said. The sixth one is absconding. They accosted the college student and her male friend near the Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24 and tried to rob them. When they did not succeed, they allegedly assaulted him and raped her, police sources said. "It's a case of robbery first", Sood said, adding, the culprits also demanded Rs three lakh but declined to go into details. However, he said there was no blackmail angle to the incident so far. Sood said the arrested used to come to Mysuru for some work with their friends to Bandipalya APMC yard, a wholesale vegetable market, from the neighbouring state. "Before going back (home to Tamil Nadu), they had the habit of drinking (alcohol) and partying. They were there on that day (August 24). What happened thereafter all of you know", Sood said. Police sources said the victim was so traumatised that she was not in a position to give statement to police on the incident. "We have to be sensitive to the trauma she is suffering", Sood said, adding, police could gather information from her male friend but it was "limited" as he was unconscious and the incident happened between 7 pm and 8 pm (when it was dark). There is information that some of the accused had "criminal background" and were involved in cases in Tamil Nadu but it needed to be verified, according to him. "We will file the charge-sheet as soon as possible", Sood said, adding, Forensic Science Laboratory teams are working "full-time" as part of the investigation. He requested the High Court to expedite trial in the case. Sood said a special prosecutor would be appointed if required and efforts would be made to see that the perpetrators get punishment as soon as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Vaccination, ration distribution in schools to continue after classes start from September 1||Vaccination and ration distribution centres set up in schools in the national capital will still be operational after they reopen for classes 9 to 12 from September 1, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. Following a marked improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the city, the Delhi government on Friday announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions will reopen from September 1. "There are plenty of classrooms and no dearth of space. Vaccination and ration distribution will continue in schools where it is underway," Kejriwal said, responding to a question on the subject. "Since students of only four classes are being called in the first phase, space will not be a major issue. The vaccination area will be kept separate from where students are allowed," he told reporters on the sidelines of an event here. Asked about concerns of a possible third wave of the pandemic, the chief minister said, "Today the Covid situation in Delhi is under control. Earlier, parents were reluctant too but now parents also want their children to go to schools and study in a classroom setup." "We will be reopening schools slowly. If the need to close them arises again, we will see," he added. Following the decision by the government to reopen schools, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia reiterated that no student will be forced to attend physical classes. "We will soon issue detailed SOP and guidelines for reopening. No student will be forced to attend physical classes, they will have the option to continue with online classes," he said. While the majority of schools have welcomed the decision to reopen, parents are still divided about the idea amid concerns of an imminent third wave of COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Minor differences in Punjab will be sorted out, says senior Congress leader||Amid an ongoing tussle within the Punjab Congress camp, senior party leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal has said all are united, asserting that minor differences will be sorted out. She termed Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's visit to her residence on Friday a courtesy visit. Singh's visit to his one-time bete noire's residence came a day after he met around 55 Congress MLAs and eight MPs over dinner at a cabinet colleague's home in an apparent show of strength. Asked about the developments in the party's state unit after her meeting with the chief minister, Bhattal said, We all are united... minor differences will be sorted out we all have to work for the party's win in the upcoming polls." The party leadership picked cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu a few weeks back as the Punjab Congress chief, ignoring opposition from Amarinder Singh. But the two camps in the state Congress have not yet called a truce. Bhattal, however, declined to comment on Sidhu's remarks made during his meeting with traders and industrialists in Amritsar on Thursday. "I haven't gone through what he has said," she said. In what could be seen as a dare to the Congress high command, Sidhu has asked it to allow him the freedom to take decisions or he will give a devastating reply. He said he didn't want to remain just a show horse. On Saturday, Congress leader Manish Tewari took to Twitter to make a veiled attack on Sidhu's comment. He posted a short video clip of the new Punjab Congress chief making the comments in Amritsar. Borrowing lines from a famous poet, Tewari, a former Union minister, wrote, "Hum aah bhi bharte hai to ho jaate hai badnaam, who katal bhi karte hain toh charcha nahi hota (Even if we sigh, we become infamous, even if they kill, there is no discussion)." Bhattal, a former chief minister who currently is the vice-chairperson of the State Planning Board, said, "Our aim is to ensure Congress again comes to power in the state." She said Amarinder Singh paid her a visit along with his daughter. "Various leaders meet me from time to time, and I meet them too. I always say that we have to unitedly move, and whatever differences exist should be resolved like a family, and we should strengthen the party," she told reporters, replying to a related question. Asked to further comment on the ongoing developments within the state unit, Bhattal said, All issues are before the high command, and we have to abide by whatever they say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Talks on secularism will last as long as India remains Hindu majority country: Gujarat Deputy CM||Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel has said that talks about India's Constitution, laws and secularism will last only as long as Hindus are in majority in the country, and none of the country's "courts, Lok Sabha, Constitution, secularism" will remain in case Hindus are reduced to a minority. "Those talking about the Constitution, laws, secularism will continue to do so only as long as Hindus are in majority in this country. May god prevent this from happening, but if in another 1,000-2,000 years, the number of Hindus reduces, and (the number of) people from another religion increases, there will be no courts, Lok Sabha, Constitution, secularism...they will all vanish in thin air, nothing will remain," he said. Addressing an event on Friday to mark the idol installation ceremony at a temple of goddess Bharat Mata in Gandhinagar organised by Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), he added that he was not talking about all the Muslims or Christians, as a large number of them are patriots. "I do not talk about all of them. Thousands and lakhs of Muslims, Christians are patriots. Thousands of Muslims are in the Indian Army, hundreds of Muslims are in Gujarat police force. They are all patriots. But (I am talking about those) who are not," he said. Patel criticised a Muslim organisation (Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind) for challenging the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021 - that seeks to stop religious conversions through interfaith marriages using force - and wondered why it was troubled by the law even when it is not religion-specific. He said that the government brought an amendment to the Act after much deliberation due to the concerns raised over cases of "love jihad". "I have to ask those who have moved writ in the court, will you still challenge the Act if somebody (from another religion) takes away your daughter (for forcible marriage and converts her religion)?...I have to ask that organisation as to what is their objection to Hindu girls marrying Hindus, Muslim girls marrying Muslims, Christian girls marrying Christians, Sikh girls marrying Sikhs," he said. Patel said that when the law applies equally to a Hindu boy forcibly entering into a marriage and converting a Muslim girl, then why only the Muslim organisation was troubled by the law. The Gujarat High Court had recently stayed several sections of the controversial Act till the pendency of the case. "People of their community should (rather) issue public statements, hold press conferences, and thank (state Home minister) Pradipsinh (Jadeja), the BJP government, and say they support and welcome the law for ensuring the unity, safety of Gujarat and protection of its daughters from every religion. Why are they troubled, this I do not understand," he said. The BJP leader said that because of the landmark works of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah at the Centre, like removing Article 370, ensuring construction of Lord Ram temple, strengthening every religion. Patel also thanked Jadeja for ensuring that Lord Jagannath Yatra in Ahmedabad and 157 other Yatras across Gujarat were taken out this year by taking precautions so that the number of Covid-19 cases do not go up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Centre asks states to prevent large gatherings during upcoming festive season||Ahead of the festival season, the Centre Saturday asked all states and union territories to ensure there is no large gathering and that they take pro-active measures to check the spread of coronavirus. Extending the ongoing COVID-19 guidelines for one more month till September 30, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the overall pandemic situation now appears to be largely stable at the national level, except for the localised spread observed in a few states. The total number of active cases and high case positivity in some districts continue to remain a matter of concern, he told the chief secretaries of all states and UTs in identical letters. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am Saturday, 46,759 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the country in the previous 24 hours. "The state governments and UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take pro-active containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission. "It is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) advisories dated April 25 and June 28," he said. The home secretary further advised them to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming festive season and, if required, impose local restrictions to prevent such gatherings. A number of major festivals, including Diwali and Chhath, will be celebrated in the coming months. Covid-appropriate behaviour should be strictly enforced at all crowded places, he said. There is a need to continue focus on the five-fold strategy -- test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour -- for an effective management of COVID-19, the home secretary added. Adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour is essential for tackling the pandemic on a sustained basis, he said, adding that weekly data from states and UTs regarding wearing of facemask, maintaining social distancing, imposition of fines etc indicates a downward trend in enforcement. "States and UTs are requested to augment their enforcement efforts for effectively checking transmission of the disease," he said. Bhalla said the country has made significant progress in vaccination and state governments and UT administrations should continue their drive so as to inoculate maximum number of eligible people. Further, the home secretary said, it must be ensured that areas having no virus or low transmission are adequately protected by progressively ramping up testing and other measures such as monitoring for ILI and SARI (Influenza-Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection), and market surveillance. "I would, therefore, urge you to issue strict directions to the district and all other local authorities concerned, to take necessary measures for management of COVID- 19. The officers concerned should be made personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of COVID Appropriate Behaviour. "I would also advise that orders issued by the respective state governments and UT administrations and district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries, for their proper implementation," he said. India's infection tally rose to 3,26,49,947 Saturday as the number of active cases registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll has climbed to 4,37,370 with 509 more fatalities being recorded, according to the updated data. The number of active cases has now increased to 3,59,775 which comprises 1.10 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.56 per cent, the health ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Farm laws to benefit BJP's billionaire friends, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday alleged that the three farm laws were framed to benefit the BJP's billionaire friends. Citing a report on Adani reducing apple procurement rates in Himachal Pradesh by Rs 16 which has led to a distress in the markets, she alleged this would happen if the right to decide rates of farmer's produce is given to "billionaire friends" of the ruling party. "Why are the farmers opposing the three 'black' farm laws? Because if the right to decide the price and other things for crops grown by the hard work of farmers is given to BJP's billionaire friends, then this will happen," the Congress leader said in a tweet in Hindi. "The black agriculture laws are for the benefit of BJP's billionaire friends," she added. Congress has been supporting the farmers' agitation against the three new farm laws and demanding their withdrawal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Hate speech: Court dismisses bail plea of organiser of Jantar Mantar event||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail application of one of the organisers of an event near Jantar Mantar where communal slogans were raised earlier this month. Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil denied relief to Preet Singh, arrested by the Delhi Police in the case, saying right to assemble and freedom to air one's thoughts are cherished under the Constitution, however, these are not absolute and have to be exercised with inherent reasonable restrictions. Singh was accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar on August 8. The judge, on the basis of the material placed on record and submissions put forth by the prosecution, observed that prima facie there had been active participation by the accused in his individual capacity and also as the main organiser of the event itself. In its order passed on August 27, the court also noted that the event was conducted at Jantar Mantar in spite of the denial of permission by the Delhi Police and in total disregard to Covid protocol issued by the Union government. "It is apposite to mention that the applicant not only voluntarily organised the event but also actively participated and provided support to the views and contents of inflammatory speeches, which were being made by the participants/accused persons at that time, by acknowledging and endorsing via gestures and clapping intermittently," the judge observed in the order. He said given the stature of the accused, it was expected that he ought to have exercised his authority, in these circumstances, and prevented participants from airing such inflammatory opinions in the larger interest of the public and committee welfare. "On the other hand, the applicant is clearly seen actively participating in the incendiary speeches along with his other associates," he said. "In addition, on prima facie analysis of the inflammatory and incendiary content of the speeches or interviews of the participants members of the event, comments especially those pertaining in express pejorative references to a religious community, and keeping in view that the applicant was an active organiser of the event, he can not later absolve himself of the responsibility of the content or consequences arising therefrom," he said. The court also noted that an anticipatory bail application moved by co-accused and president of Hindu Raksha Dal, Pinki Chaudhary, on a similar ground was dismissed earlier. The court also held that being an active, main organiser of the event, the accused was an influential personality and there was a possibility of him interfering with the investigation and influencing the witnesses of the case, if released on bail. While opposing the application, the prosecution told the court that the accusations were severity in nature and the investigation was still at a nascent stage. It also said a number of accused people were absconding and evading the process of law and the entire incriminating material is yet to be recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Centre introduces BH-series for seamless transfer of personal vehicles across states||To ensure seamless transfer of personal vehicles across states, the road transport ministry has come up with a new registration mark for new vehicles - Bharat Series (BH-series). In this regard, the government has notified a new vehicle registration regime that will free vehicle owners from re-registration process when they shift from one state/union territory to another. "This vehicle registration facility under 'Bharat series (BH-series)' will be available on voluntary basis to defense personnel, employees of central government/ state government/ central/ state public sector undertakings and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/union territories," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said in a statement. This scheme, it said, will facilitate free movement of personal vehicles across states/union territories of India upon relocation. The statement further said that an IT-based solution for vehicle registration is one such effort as "one of the pain points in the vehicle registration process that needed attention was re-registration of a vehicle while moving to another state". The format of BH-series registration mark will be YY BH #### XX. YY denotes the year of first registration, BH is code for Bharat Series, #### is the randomised four digit number and XX are two alphabets. The MORTH through a "notification dated 26th August 2021, has introduced a new registration mark for new vehicles i.e. 'Bharat series (BH-series)'. A vehicle bearing this registration mark shall not require assignment of a new registration mark when the owner of the vehicle shifts from one state to another", the statement further explained. According to the notification, the motor vehicle tax levied by the state and union territories at the time of registration in respect to BH-series non-transport vehicle will be 8 per cent in case of vehicles costing up to Rs 10 lakh, 10 per cent in case of vehicles costing between Rs 10-20 lakh and 12 per cent in case of vehicles costing above 20 lakh. It further said that 2 per cent extra charge will be levied for diesel vehicles, while electric vehicles will be charged 2 per cent less tax. In case, where the vehicle bears BH-series registration mark, the motor vehicle tax shall be levied electronically. The new rules also called Central Motor Vehicles (Twentieth Amendment) Rules, 2021, shall come into force with effect from September 15, 2021. The registration mark for BH-series vehicle will be generated randomly through the portal. Currently, a person is allowed to keep vehicle for a maximum of 12 months in any state other than the state where it is registered. The owners has to get such vehicles re-registered before the expiry of 12 months. At present, a passenger vehicle owner for re-registration of vehicle has to take no objection certificate from the parent state for assignment of a new registration mark in another state. Also, the assignment of new registration mark is done after the road tax on prorata basis is paid in the new state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly demands repeal of three new farm laws||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Saturday passed a resolution demanding the repeal of the three new central farm laws, which agitating farmers believe would leave them to be exploited by big companies. Earlier, several Assemblies in non-BJP states such as Punjab, Delhi, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Puducherry and Bengal had passed similar resolutions. Barring the AIADMK and ally BJP, who walked out of the House in protest, all other Tamil Nadu parties supported the resolution, which termed the three farm laws “anti-farmer and anti-federal” and was adopted by a voice vote. The DMK government had brought in the resolution to fulfil one of the ruling party’s key election promises. Moving the resolution, chief minister M.K. Stalin said the three farm laws neither ensured agricultural development nor promoted farmer welfare but were “ruinous of agriculture”. He stressed that agriculture was a state subject and said the Centre’s act of getting the farm laws enacted without consulting the states went against the principles of cooperative federalism. “We are forced to reject these three laws as the rights of the states are being usurped. The legislations have undermined federalism and destroyed the kernel of democratic bodies,” Stalin said. Referring to the nine-month-old farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders, he said independent India had hardly ever seen such an upsurge. Stalin also announced the withdrawal of all the cases registered against those who protested against the farm laws in the state. Farmers’ organisations welcomed the Assembly resolution. Before walking out of the House, deputy leader of the Opposition O. Panneerselvam of the AIADMK said the state government should have convened an all-party meeting before moving such a resolution. The AIADMK had supported the passage of the three farm laws in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||11 hours after emergency landing in Nagpur, Biman Bangladesh plane flies to Dhaka||The Dhaka-bound Biman Bangladesh Airlines plane that made an emergency landing at the Nagpur airport, left for the destination with the stranded passengers 11 hours later, although its pilot, who had suffered a heart attack mid-air, is critical and undergoing treatment at a private hospital here, an official said on Saturday. The plane, which was carrying 126 passengers to the Bangladesh capital from Muscat, had made an emergency landing in Nagpur around 11.40 am on Friday as the pilot suffered a heart attack mid-air. Talking to PTI, a senior official of the Nagpur airport said, "Biman Bangladesh arranged alternative crew, who flew to Nagpur. After that, the stranded flight departed for the destination along with the passengers at 10.37 pm on Friday." The condition of the pilot is still critical and he is undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Nagpur, he said. Sources said the pilot was taken to Kingsway Hospital, which is located around 10 kms from the Nagpur airport. On Friday, when the plane was near Raipur it had contacted the Kolkata ATC for an emergency landing and was advised to land at the nearest airport Nagpur. The co-pilot landed the plane in Nagpur, the sources said. Biman Bangladesh had recently resumed flight services with India after air travel between the two countries was suspended during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Civic body chief says South Mumbai to be submerged underwater by 2050||Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has made a sinister prediction for the city, saying that by 2050, a major portion of south Mumbai, including the business district of Nariman Point and state secretariat Mantralaya, will go underwater due to the rising sea level. Speaking at the launch of Mumbai Climate Action Plan and its website at the hands of Maharashtra Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday, Chahal said about 70 per cent of the city's A, B, C and D wards in south Mumbai will be underwater due to climate change. He said that nature has been giving warnings, but if people do not "wake up" then the situation would turn "dangerous". "Eighty per cent of the areas like Cuffe Parade, Nariman Point and Mantralaya will be underwater...Means going to disappear," he said. The civic chief also said that it is a matter of just 25-30 years as 2050 is not too far. "We are getting warnings from nature and if we do not wake up, it will be a dangerous situation for the next 25 years. And it will not only be the next generation but the current generation will also suffer," Chahal warned. He said that Mumbai is the first city in South Asia that is preparing its climate action plan and acting on it. "Earlier, we used to hear about climate change events like melting glaciers, but not directly affecting us. But now it has come to our doorstep," he added. Chahal said that last year for the first time in 129 years, a cyclone (Nisarga) hit Mumbai and thereafter in the last 15 months, there have been three cyclones. After that, on August 5, 2020, about 5 to 5.5 feet water was accumulated at Nariman point. "There was no cyclone warning that day, but considering the parameters, it was a cyclone," Chahal said. Highlighting that the city has witnessed some extreme weather condictions recently, he said that the city faced Tauktae cyclone in Mumbai and witnessed 214 mm rain on May 17, though monsoon arrives here on June 6 or 7. Before June 9, Mumbai recorded 84 per cent of the June rainfall and in July, 70 per cent of month's average rainfall was received in just four days from July 17 to 20, he said. Under the Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP), the data assessment has identified areas and communities most vulnerable given increasing climate uncertainty, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release. Data from across BMC's 37 automatic weather stations (AWS) over the past 10 years suggests that on an average, Mumbai has seen six heavy, five very heavy, and four extremely heavy rainfall days per year. And for all the rainfall that occurs during the monsoon season in Mumbai, each year, approximately 10 per cent falls under the heavy category, nine per cent very heavy, and six per cent extremely heavy. According to the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) classification, daily rainfall from 64.5 mm to 115.5 mm is considered 'heavy', 115.6 mm to 204.4mm 'very heavy' and more than 204.5mm is 'extreme'. "The four-year period between 2017 and 2020 has seen a steady increase in the extremely heavy rainfall events. This indicates that the frequency of such extreme weather events is increasing for the city of Mumbai especially over the past four years," said Lubaina Rangwala, Associate Director, WRI India Ross Center for Sustainable Cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Delta variant doubles risk of hospitalisation, shows large UK study ||The delta coronavirus variant that was first detected in India and has spread across the world doubles the risk of hospitalisation compared with the alpha variant, UK researchers said on Friday after the largest study yet linking genome sequences and hospital admissions. The researchers who analysed the coronavirus genome sequences and illness outcomes of over 43,300 patients have found that those infected with the delta virus have approximately two times the risk of hospital admission compared with patients with the alpha virus. The findings based on Covid-19 patients in England from March 29 and May 23 this year help explain why India’s second Covid-19 wave driven by the delta variant was much harder than its first, as evident through higher demand for emergency and hospital care. “In the absence of vaccination, any delta outbreaks will impose a greater burden on healthcare than an alpha epidemic,” Anne Presanis, a senior statistician at the University of Cambridge and senior author of the study said in a media release. The study was published in The Lancet, a peer-reviewed medical journal, on Friday. The alpha variant emerged in the UK last year, but delta has rapidly replaced alpha and over 98 per cent of Covid-19 cases in the UK are now delta. “Getting fully vaccinated is crucial for reducing an individual’s risk of symptomatic infection with the delta (variant) in the first place and, importantly, of reducing a delta-(infected) patient’s risk of severe disease or (needing) hospital admission,” she said. Genome sequencing efforts have shown that the proportion of delta variants in samples sequenced in India increased from 2 per cent in February this year to 8 per cent in March, 58 per cent in April and more than 80 per cent by May-June. At least two studies in India released in July this year have established that the country’s second wave was fiercer than the first, with hospitalised patients more likely to need oxygen and at a greater risk of dying than those during the first wave. But both Indian studies examined already hospitalised patients. The lack of comprehensive data in India on hospitalisation rates has hampered efforts at understanding how key epidemiological factors, including variants, might impact hospitalisation. “What we saw as the second surge was almost all delta,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Health researchers say India almost certainly has had more delta cases than the UK, but the lack of data hospital admission rates and low level of genome sequencing has precluded such analyses in India. “Correlations between hospitalisation during the second surge and genome sequences on a representative sample could have helped us explore the connection here in India,” John said. "Population level data on hospitalisation will tell us what proportion of people had severe illness and what were their outcomes." The UK researchers analysed healthcare data from 43,338 Covid-19 positive patients, including hospital admissions, emergency care requirement, and vaccination status. They noted 764 (2.2 per cent) hospital admissions among 34,656 cases infected with alpha, first detected in the UK last year and 196 (2.3 per cent) hospital admissions among 8,682 delta cases. After accounting for factors that can influence severe illness such as age and vaccination status, the researchers found that the risk of being admitted to hospital more than doubled with the delta variant compared with the alpha variant. “We know that vaccination offers excellent protection against delta … It is vital that those who have not received two doses of vaccine do so as soon as possible,” said Gavin Dabrera, the study’s lead author and a consultant epidemiologist with Public Health England.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Delhi govt directs private, unaided schools to vaccinate staff ahead of reopening||The Delhi government has directed private aided and unaided schools to vaccinate their teachers and staff ahead of the reopening for classes 9-12 from September 1. A circular was issued in this connection by the Directorate of Education of the city government. "It is the prime concern of Directorate of Education, GNCT of Delhi to ensure the vaccination of all teachers and staff working in schools of Delhi. Therefore, all the HOS/managers of private aided/unaided schools in Delhi, are hereby directed to ensure that their teachers and staff get vaccinated immediately," it read. "In the above context, all the private aided/unaided schools are also advised to facilitate their teachers and staff by making special arrangements for vaccination at schools/cluster levels in consultation and coordination with concerned authorities," the circular said. Following a marked improvement in the COVID-19 situation here, the Delhi government on Friday announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions will reopen from September 1. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). A panel set up by the DDMA had earlier this week submitted its report recommending a phase-wise reopening of schools in the national capital. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said a final decision was yet to be made regarding junior classes, adding that a call would be taken after analysing the effect of reopening schools for senior classes. However, sources indicated that schools for classes 6 to 8 may reopen from September 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||India logs over 46,000 fresh Covid cases, 509 casualties in a day||With 46,759 people testing positive for COVID-19 in a span of 24 hours, India's infection tally rose to 3,26,49,947 on Saturday, while the count of active cases registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll has climbed to 4,37,370 with 509 more fatalities being recorded, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has now increased to 3,59,775 which comprises 1.10 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.56 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 14,876 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The count of daily new cases has stayed below 50,000 for 62 consecutive days now, the ministry said. Also, 17,61,110 coronavirus tests were conducted in the country on Friday, taking the cumulative number of such examinations done so far to 51,68,87,602. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 33 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.19 per cent. This has been below three per cent for 64 days now, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,18,52,802, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India administered a record 1,03,35,290 COVID-19 vaccine doses on Friday. With this, the coronavirus vaccination coverage in the country surpassed 62.29 crore, as per provisional reports till 7 am on Saturday, the ministry said. This has been achieved through 67,19,042 sessions, it added. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 this year and three crores on June 23. The 509 new fatalities include 179 from Kerala and 170 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,37,370 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country, including 1,36,900 from Maharashtra, 37,248 from Karnataka, 34,835 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,796 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,313 from Kerala and 18,410 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Delhi records minimum temperature of 27 degrees Celsius||Delhiites woke up to a pleasant Saturday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 27 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. According to meteorological department officials, the relative humidity was 73 per cent at 8.30 am. They said the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 35 degrees Celsius. The department predicted generally cloudy skies with a possibility of light rain or drizzle during the day. On Friday, the maximum temperature in the national capital settled at 36 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, while the minimum was recorded at 25.4 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Fire at Greater Noida paper mill||A fire ripped through a paper mill in Greater Noida Saturday morning, gutting raw material in a large quantity although no individual was hurt in the blaze, officials said. "Fire-fighting is underway. Around a dozen fire tenders are pressed into service to control the blaze at the R S Paper mills in the Site 5 area of Kasna, an industrial hub," Chief Fire Officer Arun Kumar Singh said around 7.30 am. Singh, who was leading the operations at the site, said no person was hurt in the blaze, which spread on the ground floor of the mill where raw material was stored. "A tin shade has fallen down, making fire-fighting a little challenging at the moment but efforts are on to control the blaze," he said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Premature to expect policy on recognising Taliban: MEA||The external affairs ministry on Friday said it was premature to expect a policy on whether or not to recognise the Taliban at this moment, pointing out that the situation on the ground was too fluid with no government in place in Kabul. Asked if India has made up its mind on recognising the Taliban, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “The situation on the ground is uncertain.... Currently there is no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun here regarding recognition. We continue to monitor the situation.” Asked why there is no clarity when the Taliban have control over much of Afghanistan, Bagchi said there had been a lot of reports on who would be represented in the government, if it would be inclusive and whether other elements of Afghan polity would find representation. Bagchi said: “That’s why I don’t want to speculate. There was a peace process and there are discussions going on right now. Let’s wait and see how it develops. That’s why we said this.” The spokesperson did not respond to a question on whether India has any caveats for recognising the Taliban as has been spelt out by some other countries. Soon after the fall of Kabul on August 15, India had said at a meeting of the UN Security Council on the situation in Afghanistan that an inclusive government would help the arrangement gain legitimacy. “We also hope that there is an inclusive dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society. Voices of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities must be respected. A broader representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy,” India’s permanent representative to the UN, T.S. Tirumurti, had said. India is not alone in taking such a stance. Several other leading democracies with stakes in Afghanistan have articulated similar positions. Bagchi pointed out that most other countries are also in the frame of “wait and watch”, adding that India is monitoring the situation closely and talking to friendly nations. As for the evacuation process, the spokesperson said the vast majority of Indians who wished to return had been evacuated but was quick to add that some more were likely to be in Afghanistan. On the status of the Afghans who have been evacuated, he said they were coming in on an e-visa that is valid for six months. What their status will be, he added, will be decided in due course, pointing out that this is essentially the domain of the home ministry. Likewise, to a question on the fate of the Afghan nationals who were already in India on medical/student visas that were nearing expiry, Bagchi said the home ministry would be looking into it. Deportation Bagchi described as unfortunate the case of an Afghan woman MP being deported from India last week. Responding to questions on the MP, Rangina Kargar, being deported, he attributed it to the state of high alert that had been sounded after the government had learnt about the loss of Afghan passports with Indian visas. “There were reports right in the beginning, around the 15th, of groups of people who raided one of our outsourcing agencies which had Afghan passports with Indian visas. In light of the loss of Afghan passports containing Indian visas, our authorities were in a state of high alert. We were also moving the e-visa system. It appears all this could have led to some confusion, which in turn led to the unfortunate incident of denial of entry to the particular Afghan national.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||JNU proposes to introduce a range of undergraduate courses||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) proposes to introduce a range of undergraduate courses, dismaying its teachers who say this would change the institution’s character from a research-intensive university to an ordinary teaching institute. Currently, JNU offers master’s and PhD courses along with a handful of undergraduate courses in foreign languages — such as Chinese — and a couple of BTech programmes. A meeting of JNU’s academic council on August 17 approved the recommendation to start undergraduate courses in a gamut of subjects from the sciences and arts to law and education. The proposal is expected to be approved by the executive council on September 2. The recommendations came from an apex committee headed by Mazhar Asif, a professor from the Centre of Persian and Central Asian Studies. The committee was set up last December to suggest ways of implementing the National Education Policy. The JNU Act 1966 says: “The objects of the University shall be to disseminate and advance knowledge,wisdom and understanding by teaching and research and by the example and influence of its corporate life.” “The National Education Policy clearly envisions two kinds of universities — namely, teaching-intensive and research-intensive universities,” the JNU teachers’ association said. “However, the apex committee of JNU without appreciating the policy in proper perspective has recommended starting of several integrated teaching programmes across the centres and schools in the university which would result in conversion of the country’s premier research-intensive university into a teaching-intensive university.” Some of the recommendations: ⚫ The School of Language, Literature and Culture Studies is to be restructured to create two schools — the School of Foreign Language, Literature and Culture Studies, and the School of Indian Language, Literature and Culture Studies. The foreign language school will start a five-year integrated BA-MA programme in foreign languages with multiple entry and exit points. A certificate, diploma, advanced diploma, graduate degree or a postgraduate degree will be awarded depending on whether the student exits after one, two, three, four or five years. ⚫  The schools on liberal arts will introduce five-year integrated BA-MA programmes with multiple entry and exit points. ⚫  The Zakir Husain Centre for Educational Studies is to be upgraded to a School for Education and Planning and Management, which will start a four-year integrated BEd programme. ⚫  The Centre for the Study of Law and Governance will be upgraded to a School of Law Governance, which will offer a bilingual five-year integrated “BA-LLB dual degree and post-graduation in law” programme. ⚫  A new School of Open and E-Learning will be opened. It will provide distance learning and online education, and develop e-content in Hindi and English. ⚫  Three new schools — on the chemical, mathematical and physical sciences, respectively — will teach five-year integrated BSc-MSc programmes with multiple entry and exit points. They will implement the choice-based credit system, which allows students to do different parts of the syllabus from different universities. ⚫  A School of Library and Information Sciences will come up and offer a five-year integrated BLib-MLib programme. ⚫  JNU will also open a Centre for Mentoring for teachers; a Centre for Vocational Studies that will offer credit courses on various vocations, soft skills and personality development; a Centre for Professional and Career Counselling; and a Centre for Artificial Intelligence. ⚫  All the schools and centres will design online courses and lectures. “The Centre for the Study of Law and Governance and the Zakir Husain Centre for Educational Studies have always focused on research. They do not produce LLB graduates or BEd graduates,” JNU teachers’ association secretary Moushumi Basu said. “There are so many institutions offering such undergraduate courses. These proposals have not been thought through.” An email sent to vice-chancellor Jagadesh Kumar seeking his reactions to the teacher body’s concerns, and calls to his mobile, remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Adityanath's critic arrested on charge of abetting suicide||A retired IPS officer who had accused chief minister Yogi Adityanath of promoting corruption and threatened to contest next year’s election against him was on Friday arrested on the charge of abetting the suicide of a rape complainant. Amitabh Thakur, an outspoken former inspector-general who had angered several chief ministers and administrations and was sent to forced retirement in March this year, alleged a conspiracy by Adityanath. “Adityanath may have hatched a conspiracy to kill me. This could be the reason for my arrest. The cops thrashed me at the police station,” he told reporters at Hazratganj police station. The police said Thakur had been arrested on the basis of a special investigation team (SIT) report on the suicide of a 24-year-old rape complainant from Ghazipur who had, before immolating herself outside the Supreme Court, implicated the officer on Facebook. Two months ago, Thakur had told reporters that Adityanath's government was promoting corruption and anarchy. “I shall contest and defeat the failed chief minister of Uttar Pradesh from wherever he contests,” the 53-year-old Lucknow resident had declared. The Ghazipur woman had accused Bahujan Samaj Party MP Atul Rai of raping her in 2019. She and a male friend set themselves on fire in front of the Supreme Court in New Delhi on August 16, and both died during treatment. Before the suicide, the woman had recorded a Facebook live video where she alleged that Rai and Thakur were pressuring her to withdraw the case. Earlier in March, the woman had petitioned the Supreme Court requesting the case be shifted to Delhi and alleging Rai was intimidating her and her family. Rai, MP from Ghosi, has been in judicial custody in the case since 2019. Khyati Garg, deputy commissioner of police, Lucknow central, said the SIT inquiry had found that “Atul Rai and Amitabh Thakur were prima facie guilty of abetting the suicide of the woman and her friend”. She said Rai and Thakur had been booked for framing records and documents to cause injury, threatening a person to induce them to give false evidence, abetment to suicide, criminal intimidation, intentional insult and criminal conspiracy. Garg did not explain what the “framing” charge was about. Police have said the Varanasi trial court had earlier in August booked the rape complainant and the male friend in a forgery case for furnishing false proof of age in the rape case, and issued non-bailable arrest warrants against them. On Friday, Thakur told reporters outside the police station while being taken in: “In early November 2020, when I was still in service, I got a video clip in which the male friend of the woman was saying he would commit suicide if the woman didn’t get justice. I casually forwarded it to a police officer to see it and act to save him. Then the woman and the man came to my residence in Lucknow on November 20, 2020. They said they had wanted to talk to me but soon they started shouting at me, used foul words…. “So I registered a case against them at Gomti Nagar police station for threatening me and my wife. However, no action was initiated against them. This is all of my involvement in the case. But UP police are twisting the facts behind a video of the dead girl. There is no genuine case of abetting that stands against me.” Thakur had been inspector-general and joint director, civil defence, in Lucknow when he was forced to retire in March, five years ahead of time. The Union home ministry letter to Thakur said his services were “not useful in public interest” and he had been sent into “retirement before the completion of his service with immediate effect in the public interest”. Thakur now works with his wife Nutan, a Right to Information activist. The couple have filed several cases with the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court alleging corruption at government offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Gujarat High Court quashes extern order over protest||Gujarat High Court has observed that citizens cannot be externed for raising their grievance against the government. The observation came as the court quashed the police’s externment order against the organiser of an anti-CAA protest. Justice Paresh Upadhyay on Thursday set aside an externment order issued by Ahmedabad city police against 39-year-old activist Kaleem Siddiqui, who along with a few others had organised a sit-in in January and March 2020 against the new citizenship regime. According to the order, issued in November 2020, Siddiqui was barred from entering Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Kheda and Mehsana districts for a year. Siddiqui challenged the order in the high court, which in March stayed its execution. “A citizen cannot be subjected to externment for raising his grievance against the government,” Justice Upadhyay said, quashing the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||SC issues notices on alleged ostracisation of Parsi women||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notices to the Centre and others on a petition challenging the alleged discrimination and ostracisation of Parsi women who marry outside the community. The petitioners — a minor named Rian R. Kishnani and his mother Sanayaa Dalal — have alleged that women marrying non-Parsis, and their offspring, are not allowed to participate in the community’s religious, social and other activities, besides being derided on social media. The bench of Justices Abdul Nazeer and A.S. Bopanna sought the response of the Centre and the Parsee Central Association Co-operative Housing Society Ltd after it heard that such discrimination was a violation of Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (life and personal liberty) of the Constitution and that Parsi men who marry outside the community are not subjected to such harassment. The petitioners sought the following directions from the apex court: ⚫ Declaration of any discrimination against the petitioners on grounds of race, ethnicity or parentage as unconstitutional. ⚫ A directive to community leaders to ensure that there is no discrimination against the petitioners on communal or racial grounds, and they are not excluded from the Parsi community and the society at large. ⚫ Deletion of social media posts, by two groups of orthodox Parsis, that are racist, hateful, derogatory and vituperative. The posts, the petitioners have alleged, target Parsi women married outside the community, and their children, as well as all non-Parsis in general. The petition said: “The petitioners’ fundamental rights are circumvented because they face social and religious ostracisation owing solely to factors of lineage, ethnicity and race consequential to the fact that Petitioner No 2 (Sanayaa Dalal) is married to a man considered to be a non-Parsi. “Parsis are a race and ethnic group and ostracisation of a Parsi Zoroastrian and her offspring on the ground of her marriage to an individual of a different lineage, race or religion is contrary to basic human rights and the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India.” The petition, filed through advocate Jasmine Damkewala, contended that marriage being a personal choice, women should be free to exercise it without having to face ostracisation. It was submitted that a section of Parsis believes that the community is racially superior being of Aryan descent and insist that intermarriage of Parsis with other races “dilutes” and “contaminates” the ethnicity of the Parsis. “This is contrary to the human rights of young impressionable children who are victimised simply because their mother is a Parsi but did not marry a Parsi. While some also discriminate against children born of inter-community marriages where the father is a Parsi married to a non-Parsi, the discrimination is prevalent and accepted as the norm where the child’s mother is a Parsi but not the father,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||BCI pledges to formulate rules to punish striking advocates||The Supreme Court on Friday recorded an undertaking from the Bar Council of India that the BCI was formulating rules to punish advocates going on frequent strikes over petty issues and subjecting litigants to indefinite delay. BCI chairperson and senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra gave the assurance to a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah. The bench appreciated the stand of the regulatory body and adjourned the matter till September 20 to enable the BCI to file an affidavit. “We propose to frame rules to curb strikes and boycotts and rules to punish members of Bar Associations who go on strike without proper justification. A meeting has been convened with all Bar Councils. The Bar Council of India proposes to form rules to curtail strikes by advocates and propose action against Bar Associations that act in breach, and propose action against advocates who promote strikes on social media,” Mishra told the court in his undertaking, seeking time to submit details. The BCI’s submission follows a notice issued by the Supreme Court on February 28 last year for framing of rules to curb the rising instances of advocates striking work in different parts of the country. The court said in its order on Friday: “…Mr Mishra submits that compliance with the directions contained in the judgment dated 28 February 2020 was delayed because of the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, it has been stated that a meeting has been convened by the Bar Council of India of all the State Bar Councils on 4 September 2021. “The Bar Council of India proposes to formulate a rule (i) to curtail strikes by advocates; (ii) to take action against erring members of Bar Associations who act in breach; and (iii) to take action against advocates who instigate strikes on social media.” “Since the Bar Council of India is now seized of the matter, we adjourn the hearing of these proceedings to the third week of September 2021, by which date, the Bar Council of India shall file an affidavit indicating the steps that have been taken. “We appreciate the proactive steps which are being taken by the Bar Council of India in this regard. List the Miscellaneous Application on 20 September 2021.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||Karnataka gang-rape: Ministers face heat for comments||Two senior Karnataka ministers’ intemperate comments in connection with a gang-rape case have triggered a furore and forced the chief minister to publicly express his disapproval. The BJP government in the southern state has been facing criticism for failing to arrest the accused three days after the gang rape of the MBA student near Mysore. Home minister Araga Jnanendra and tourism minister Anand Singh had on Thursday said the young woman should not have gone so late in the evening to an isolated place. The 23-year-old MBA student from another state was gang-raped by four men who overpowered her male friend at a secluded area near Lalithadripura on the way to the Chamundi Hills near Mysore city around 7.30pm on Tuesday. The assailants allegedly assaulted the male companion, also a student, before taking turns to rape the woman. The two had apparently gone there on a motorbike to spend some time together when they were confronted by the bike-borne attackers who first demanded money and then overpowered them and raped the woman. However, ministers Jnanendra and Singh faced charges of insensitivity when they commented on the crime. “The girl should not have visited such an isolated place so late. She should not have gone to that kind of a place so late,” said home minister Jnanendra, whose job it is to prevent such crimes and ensure justice. He did not stop at that, appearing to trivialise the crime of rape while commenting on the Opposition Congress’s criticism of the government over the incident in Mysore. “The rape happened in Mysore but the Congress is raping me to take political mileage,” he said. Tourism minister Singh had said: “Young lovers or newlywed couples should not visit such places.” The ministers’ remarks soon kicked up a storm. New chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had to step in for damage control. He told reporters late on Thursday: “I don’t approve of such statements and I have urged him (Jnanendra) to withdraw them.” Sources close to Bommai said he was “very upset” with the ministers’ remarks and had cautioned everyone against making such utterances. Soon, the home minister withdrew his comments and claimed that he had no intention to hurt anyone. “I have withdrawn the statements and had meant no harm to anyone,” he said. Singh is yet to comment on the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||Adityanath government to rename Sultanpur as Kush Bhawanpur||The Yogi Adityanath government plans to rename Sultanpur district after Ram’s son Kush, a senior official told The Telegraph. “We were asked to send a report on the possibility of renaming Sultanpur as Kush Bhawanpur,” the official from the state revenue board said on the condition of anonymity. “We have given our consent. The rest of the work is to be done by the cabinet.” Dev Mani Dwivedi, BJP politician and MLA from Lambhua in Sultanpur, had raised the subject in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly last week. He had cited the gazetteer for Sultanpur, last published two decades ago, which claimed that Sultanpur was the capital of Kush’s kingdom and was known as Kush Bhawanpur. “Kush and his descendants ruled from there from Treta Yuga to Dwapar Yuga,” Dwivedi had said. It’s believed the place was called Sultanpur when Alauddin Khilji invaded it seven centuries ago to punish two Bhar chieftains who had killed two horse traders. Several places in Uttar Pradesh that bore “Muslim” names have been renamed since Yogi Adityanath came to power in March 2017, among them Allahabad (now Prayagraj), Mughalsarai (Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar) and Faizabad (Ayodhya). The trend has prompted BJP leaders to keep demanding the renaming of many more places. Gulab Devi, minister of state for secondary education, has sent a proposal to the chief minister to rename Sambhal as Prithviraj Nagar after the 12th-century Chauhan ruler. Brijesh Singh, a party MLA, wants Deoband renamed as Dev Vrind; party spokesperson Naveen Srivastava has demanded that Ghazipur be rechristened Gadhipur. Recently, the Miyanganj village panchayat in Unnao district sent a resolution to the state government to rename itself as Mayaganj. When Adityanath was Gorakhpur MP from 1998 to 2017, he had organised several marches and sit-ins to demand unsuccessfully that the city’s Urdu Bazar locality be renamed as Hindi Bazar, Ali Nagar as Arya Nagar and Miyan Bazar as Maya Bazar. He has not, however, got these places renamed after becoming chief minister. Samajwadi Party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said the latest renaming efforts were gimmicks by a party that had no achievement to showcase ahead of the Assembly polls, due in March. “The BJP did nothing for the state’s development. All they can do now is stoke communal sentiments to win votes,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||Congress: Baghel, Amarinder ahead in loyalty test amid infighting||The Congress on Friday continued to grapple with infighting in Chhattisgarh and Punjab, but chief ministers Bhupesh Baghel and Amarinder Singh have so far held onto the support of the majority of the legislators. Over the past 24 hours, both Baghel and Amarinder have put up a show of strength but that does not seem to have put a lid on the power struggle in either state. Baghel returned to the national capital on Friday afternoon and held a three-hour meeting with Rahul Gandhi, the second time the leaders have met this week. Baghel said Rahul had accepted his invitation to visit Chhattisgarh next week, seen as an indication that for now a change in chief minister was unlikely. Asked if he would step down to make way for senior minister and bugbear T.S. Singh Deo, Baghel said AICC general secretary in-charge P.L. Punia had already cleared the air on the matter. Punia had said there had been no agreement on rotation of chief ministers at the time of government formation in 2018. Rahul had met Singh Deo, the Chhattisgarh health minister who has been pressing for a change of guard due to differences with the chief minister, on Tuesday. In making out a case for replacing Baghel, Singh Deo has been claiming that there had been a power-sharing agreement according to which he should be made chief minister now as the state government is at the half-way point of its five-year term. The majority of the Chhattisgarh Congress legislators, including ministers, have been camping in Delhi since Thursday to show their support to Baghel. In Punjab, chief minister Amarinder attended a dinner on Thursday organised by a loyalist where 58 MLAs and eight MPs were present. The Congress has managed to force Malwinder Singh Mali, whose controversial remarks on Kashmir had put the party in a tight spot, to quit as adviser to state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sidhu, who has had testy ties with Amarinder, lashed out saying he cannot be expected to be a dummy chief who is not allowed to take decisions. Addressing supporters in Amritsar, he said if given a free hand he would ensure the Congress stayed in power in Punjab for the next two decades, but he would not be able to do anything if he was not allowed to take decisions. The party in-charge of the state, Harish Rawat, was quick to respond that PCC chiefs were free to take decisions as per the Congress’s constitution and norms. “If they will not take decisions, then who will?” Rawat said. Gehlot angioplasty Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has been hospitalised for angioplasty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||Nine ECMO machines installed in Cuttack hospital||Critical Covid-19 patients in Odisha now won’t need to be airlifted to places like Calcutta or Hyderabad for the costly but crucial ECMO treatment. They can now avail of this facility at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, where nine ECMO machines were installed. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik dedicated them to the people of the state on Friday. ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation) machines are used for the treatment of critically ill Covid patients, who can’t survive without continued ventilator support due to severe lung damage. It is also required for the treatment of patients with post-Covid complications. ECMO replaces the functions of the heart and lungs when the lungs cannot provide enough oxygen or get rid of enough carbon dioxide from the body, and when the heart cannot pump enough blood into the body. With nine ECMO machines the unit at the SCB Medical College and Hospital has become the biggest ECMO unit in eastern India in the government sector. The Odisha government decided to set up the ECMO treatment facility in Odisha after losing some eminent people to Covid-19 such as director Vigilance Debasis Panigrahi and eminent educationist and advisor of  Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya Sangathan, Bijay Kumar Sahoo. Both had to be airlifted outside the state in critical condition for ECMO treatment but still succumbed to the disease. Dedicating the ECMO machines to the state at the SCB Medical College, Naveen said, “The ECMO treatment is very costly. But the state will provide the treatment free of cost to the patients. Patients will not have to pay a single pie.” Naveen also visited the ECMO units and doctors explained to him how it worked. He also warned people not to be casual while adhering to the Covid guidelines. “The pandemic is yet to be over. All need to remain cautious for the impending third wave.” Naveen also said that experts have warned about the high vulnerability of children to the disease during the third wave. Additional chief secretary (Health) P.K. Mohapatra told The Telegraph, “ECMO treatment is very costly. We have information about private hospitals charging Rs 1 lakh per day for this treatment. But here patients will get treatment free of cost. We have trained our people to run the ECMO machines. On Saturday, five critically ill patients will be admitted to SCB for ECMO treatment.” Sources said the patient at least needs to spend around Rs 10 lakh for this treatment. The AIIMs Bhubaneswar has also set up two ECMO machines to cater to the needs of critical patients. Anticipating a third wave of Covid-19, the state government has approved an emergency Covid response plan. It has asked the district collectors to set up dedicated pediatric care units at different public health care facilities and establish 50-bedded hospitals at selected health care units. “Under the Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package (Phase 11), the state focuses on preparing to meet the situation arising out of the Covid emergency and strengthening the public health system for epidemic preparedness,” said officials. The state had already experienced a severe second wave of Covid-19. Collectors have been instructed to ensure availability of antigen and RTPCR test kits and to establish RT-PCR labs and procure essential drugs and stock them in the different medical hospitals. However, high Covid-19 death rate in Odisha remains a cause of concern for the state government even though the number of positive cases are on the decline. The state recorded 69 more deaths due to the pandemic in the last 24 hours taking the total number of deaths in the state to 7,697 However, social activists have alleged that there was a huge mismatch between the death figures cited by the government and actual casualties during the last one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||West Bengal||CBI arrests two in Bengal post-poll violence case||The CBI, which is probing post-poll violence cases in West Bengal, arrested two persons on Saturday for an alleged attempt to murder in Nadia district, officials said. The two accused -- Bijoy Ghosh and Asima Ghosh -- were briefly detained before being arrested by the probe agency, they said. The CBI has carried out searches at 15 locations in connection with the case related to attempt to murder of Dharma Ghosh who suffered serious injuries after his family was attacked on May 14 night at their home in Nadia district's Chapra, they said. The CBI had booked eight persons in the matter, they said. It has registered 10 more FIRs in post-poll violence cases taking the total to 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Congress defeated in Bengal polls but hasn't fled battlefield, says Adhir||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday said that the grand old party might have been defeated in the West Bengal assembly elections but hasn't fled the battlefield or been vanquished. Chowdhury, the state Congress chief, was addressing a gathering in Calcutta on the foundation day of the party's student wing Chhatra Parishad. "There might be victory or loss in polls but that shouldn't be reflected in the mindset of the activists. We have been defeated but haven't fled the battlefield or been vanquished," he said. The Congress leader in Lok Sabha recalled the role played by the Chhatra Parishad in the student's movement to protect democracy in the country. "The Chhatra Parishad has always fought against communalism and stood for secularism," he said. The Congress, which had ruled the state before the Left Front came to power in 1977, drew a blank in the elections to the 294-member assembly held earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata takes on 'Tandaviya' Centre over ED summons to Abhishek||Summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate on Saturday to Trinamul MP and all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife cast its long shadow over the annual celebration of the Trinamul’s students wing’s foundation day. While Abhishek has been asked to appear before the central agency team members on September 6, his wife has been summoned on September 1. Before the Bengal Assembly polls, ED officers had interrogated the MP’s wife and her sister. The Enforcement Directorate took up the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act following an FIR lodged by the CBI in November 2020 related to illegal activities in the Eastern Coalfield mines in Asanasol’s Kunustoria and Kajora. The ED summons comes within months of the CBI’s arrest of two Bengal ministers and a Trinamul legislator along with a former leader in connection with the Narada sting operation. “Coal is under the CISF, the ministry is with the Centre, not the state. What were they doing? I know dozen (central) ministers have robbed Asansol. When they came for campaigning in Asansol, they stayed in hotels owned by the coal mafia. Should I bring out the list?” Mamata asked. “If you point one finger at us, remember we have 10 fingers pointing towards you. I have not been vindictive thus far. Many BJP leaders have been involved with women, I have not arrested anyone yet,” Mamata said, addressing leaders and students. On August 28, 1954, the Congress’ students’ wing Chhatra Parishad (affiliated to the National Students Union of India) came into being, which threw up generations of leaders including Mamata. However, since the formation of the Trinamul, the day along with most of the Congress in Bengal has been under Trinamul’s domination. The chief minister’s claim does beg the question why being the administrative head of the state with the Home department under her, Mamata remained silent all this while on these serious allegations and no actions were taken. “If any woman has lodged a complaint against a BJP leader why did the chief minister not take any action? Was she trying to use the complaint as a bargaining tool?” asked a Congress leader. Mamata dared  the BJP at the Centre to fight her party leaders politically and and not look for skeletons. In his address, Abhishek too displayed the belligerence that has been the hallmark of his aunt’s politics. “Threatening us with the CBI, and ED is not going to stop us,” Abhishek said. Since the spectacular return to power for a third term, Trinamul has taken an aggressive posture against the BJP with Mamata projected as the chief architect of any meaningful Opposition to the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah combine. Mamata warned the BJP that she too had “sacks of papers” which she would send to the ED. “If our complaints are not entertained by the central agencies we will knock the court’s door,” she said. The chief minister said since she entered politics at the age of 12-13, she had never come across a government as vindictive as the BJP. “They tried to kill me in Nandigram,” Mamata said referring to the alleged injury she suffered during the campaign that restricted her movement to a wheelchair. Though Mamata has denied any post-poll violence in the state, on Saturday she claimed 16 Trinamul workers were killed. “I have no problem with CBI. Let the NHRC work impartially. They had sent a BJP leader with the team. While the report says five people from BJP were killed in post- poll violence, 16 other victims were from Trinamul Congress. Did you send a human rights team to Hathras (in Uttar Pradesh), to Tripura?” Mamata asked. The chief minister also called for a conclave of all non-BJP chief ministers in the country to discuss the Centre's  attack on the federal structure. “They don’t disburse funds collected from GST or disaster relief. BJP is muzzling the voice of  students, teachers, IAS and IPS officers as well as social media. It is a Tandaviya government, monstrous, inhuman government. They are selling everything, it is the responsibility of the students to raise these issues everywhere,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
28-08-2021||West Bengal||ED summons Abhishek Banerjee, wife Rujira in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in the state, officials said on Saturday. Abhishek Banerjee, 33, represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamul Congress (TMC). He has been summoned to appear before the investigating officer of the case here on September 6, while his wife Rujira has been sent a similar summon under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for September 1. Rujira had earlier been grilled by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the case. Some Indian Police Service (IPS) officers and a lawyer linked to Abhishek Banerjee have also been summoned to appear on different dates next month in the same case, the officials said. Reacting to the development, Mamata later in the day said that the BJP was using central agencies against them and challenged it to fight against her party politically. "Why are you unleashing the ED against us. Against your one case, we will raise bagfuls. We know how to fight back. We know the history of Gujarat," Mamata was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. Addressing an event of the foundation day programme of TMC, she noted that allocation of rights for natural resources like coal comes under the ambit of the Union government. "No use pointing fingers at the Trinamul for corruption in coal. It is under the centre. What about its ministers? What about the BJP leaders who looted the coal belt of Bengal, the Asansol region," she said in her attack. This case, registered under criminal sections of the PMLA, was filed by the ED after studying a November, 2020 FIR of the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd. mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges. The agency has made at least two arrests in this case. One of them is Vikas Mishra, the brother of TMC youth wing leader Vinay Mishra. Vinay Mishra is stated to have left the country sometime back and probably has also renounced his Indian citizenship. The second person arrested by the ED in the case early this year is former Inspector in-charge of Bankura police station Ashok Kumar Mishra. The ED had earlier claimed that the Mishra brothers received "proceeds of crime worth Rs 730 crore on behalf of some influential persons and for themselves" in this case involving an estimated amount of Rs 1,352 crore. A "deep system" of political patronage and a "well-oiled" machinery was used to brazenly carry out certain unlawful coal mining in Bengal, the ED has claimed before a court while seeking the remand of Inspector Mishra in April. A charge sheet was also filed by the ED in May this year. Quoting the recorded statement of an unidentified "close associate" of Majhi, the ED had earlier alleged that prime suspect Majhi had been running his "illegal coal mining business smoothly by managing senior functionaries of political party of West Bengal though Inspector Mishra." The statement of this unidentified "witness" furnished by the ED in the remand note stated that "it is known fact that Vinay Mishra collected money from illegal coal mining of Majhi and his associates for his closely associated political boss in present ruling party; that Vinay Mishra is youth leader of TMC and he is very close to Abhishek Banerjee and that he (Vinay Mishra) is the eyes and ears of Abhishek Banerjee."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
28-08-2021||West Bengal||CU professor booked for allegedly threatening to kill Mamata||A case was lodged against a professor of the Calcutta University for allegedly threatening on social media to kill Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, police said on Saturday. The case was registered against Arindam Bhattacharya, a professor of the Zoology Department, by the Hare Street police station on the basis of a complaint filed by PhD scholar Tamal Dutta, a senior police officer said. Bhattacharya was booked under IPC sections 505 (1B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public), 506 (threat be to cause death or grievous hurt) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), said Murlidhar Sharma, the joint commissioner of police (crime). The professor is yet to be taken into custody, police said. When contacted, Bhattacharya said, "I didn't make any comments against the chief minister. The complainant is a Trinamool Congress supporter. I am waiting for the police to take steps and only after that I will seek legal advice on this." The TMC-backed West Bengal College and University Professors Association condemned Bhattacharya's social media posts. In April 2012, Chemistry professor Ambikesh Mahapatra of Jadavpur University was arrested for allegedly forwarding a cartoon, lampooning the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid health centre for infants and children at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital ||An excellence centre with state-of-the-art healthcare facilities for infants and children will be developed at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH), the principal state-run referral hospital of the region. The decision, health officials said, has been made in view of the predicted third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and because of the apprehension of experts that this time, the contagion will affect the children more than adults. As of now, there is a 31-bed infrastructure for treatment of children affected with Covid-19 at the NBMCH. “We have four units for infants and children at NBMCH. The idea is to augment medical facilities the units and develop a comprehensive unit which has been named as an excellence centre,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. Among these units include a paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), a sick neonatal care unit (SNCU) and an intensive care unit (ICU). According to Roy, they have started making preparations to ensure that the centre — a combination of these units — with appropriate treatment facilities, starts functioning before the third wave hits the region. A source in the NBMCH said as a part of the plan, they have decided to increase beds in different units for children and infants. “There will be four beds with ventilators at NBMCH. These beds will work as ICU for children. Also, six beds in NICU and 40 beds in SNCU will be there to treat children infected with Covid-19,” the source said. Along with NBMCH, the state health department is also readying paediatric intensive care units in some other hospitals of north Bengal. Among these include the Kalimpong district hospital, the sub-divisional hospital of Islampur and the super-specialty hospitals in Malbazar and Falakata. “Infrastructure works for these units have started,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa to float new party on September 9||Anit Thapa on Friday said he would float a new party on September 9, the announcement coming hours after his resignation from the post of the “general secretary” and the “primary membership” of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha came to light. Thapa said: “We today announce that the new party will be launched on September 9. Many figures from the medical profession, literary field and sports, and intellectuals will be present during the launch.” The announcement comes soon after the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha made public Thapa’s resignation as the “general secretary” and from the “primary membership” of the party on July 16. The date of resignation has bemused many as it was on July 16 that majority of the leaders in Thapa’s camp had selected him as the “working president” of the faction. A day earlier, Binay Tamang had quit as the president and as a primary member of the same faction. “The fact that Thapa was selected as the acting president on the same day he resigned from the party defies logic,” said a hill politician. Thapa had addressed the resignation letter to Satish Pokhrel, a vice-president of the faction. Thapa admitted that he had quit the Morcha. “In fact, I sent a copy of the resignation letter to Calcutta High Court,” said Thapa. According to the hill leader, it was decided by leaders associated with him that they would float a new party in the coming days. “However, since there is a case in Calcutta High Court, I wanted to inform it (about my resignation) so that there are no obstacles in forming a new party,” Thapa said without directly explaining why he had to quit the party the very day he had been appointed as the acting president. A case is pending in the high court over the recognition of the true representative of the Morcha. Binay Tamang formed a faction of the Morcha in 2017 after Bimal Gurung had gone into hiding during the violent statehood agitation in the same year. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 2021 Bengal Assembly elections, the high court had allowed the factions to describe themselves as “Binay faction” and “Bimal faction” of the Morcha at the hustings. A final judgement has not been delivered yet in the case. With both Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa resigning and the latter set to float a new party on September 9, it is now certain that there will be no challenger for Bimal Gurung’s claim to be the president of the Morcha. Ajoy Edwards, who had not yet “officially” resigned as the GNLF’s Darjeeling branch committee president was removed from the party’s official WhatsApp group on Friday. Earlier, Edwards had created his media WhatsApp group after a rift between him and GNLF president Mann Ghisingh had surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt asks ration dealers to start pilot project on Duare Ration from September 15||The Mamata Banerjee government on Friday asked ration dealers in the state to start a pilot project on Duare Ration (ration on the door steps) from September 15 amid demands from them to increase their commission to run the scheme smoothly. “The food and supplies department held a meeting with various organisations of the ration dealers. They have been asked to start the pilot project from September 15. The dealers have some demands, which would be looked into,” said a senior government official. Sources said the dealers had been informed that 15 per cent of the 22,000odd ration dealers would take part in the pilot project. Based on the experience of the pilot project, the government wants to launch the scheme in a larger part of the state during the festive season in October. The scheme, a pet project of the chief minister which she had promised ahead of the Assembly polls, is likely to benefit the ruling party in regions like Jungle Mahal and north Bengal, where a large section of people need to travel a long way to collect food-grains from ration shops. “The Trinamul Congress is trying to strengthen its base in these areas ahead of the 2023 panchayat polls and the 2024 Lok Sabha polls through the scheme. The BJP had won some seats in these areas in the last Assembly polls. Trinamul might turn the tables if the scheme is launched successfully,” said a source. While the scheme would actually help several poor people as they face trouble to reach ration shops located at faraway places and carry the food-grains back to their houses, implementing the scheme would be easier said than done. The ration dealers flagged several practical problems and demanded support from the government before launching the pilot project. “The dealers demanded that they be given commission of Rs 200 per one quintal foodgrains and another Rs 40 per quintal for packaging, which is quite high compared to what they get these days — Rs 75 a quintal,” said a source. The amount demanded by the dealers, sources said, is considered to be quite high as it could cost the state exchequer nearly Rs 3,000 crore every year. “The government has proposed to give Rs 75 a quintal in addition to their existing commission of Rs 75 a quintal. But the dealers are refusing to accept the government proposal,” said an official. Ration dealers have said they want a better commission and the additional packaging fee only because they have to spend a handsome amount to reach the consumers. “We need to engage more workers and hire vehicles to carry the food-grains to villagers’ doorsteps. If we are not compensated, the scheme cannot run,” said a ration dealer from North 24-Parganas. According to some dealers, the government had initiated a similar effort in early July in some areas where traders had reached the doorsteps of consumers. “All ration dealers had pointed out that they incurred a loss of Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,000 during the exercise. If our commission is not hiked and packaging charges are not given, the additional expenditure cannot be covered,” said another ration dealer. Some ration dealers also demanded that the government arrange for vehicles to carry the foodgrains to the villages from where they could distribute grains. Biswambhar Basu, national general secretary of All India Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Federation, said they hoped the government would consider their demands. “We will take part in the pilot project even if the government does not give us additional commission to prove that we can do it. But the state has to consider our demands if it wants to run the scheme properly,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||IRCTC to run special train to Goa for tourists from Northeast and north Bengal||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited will run a special train to Goa for tourists from the Northeast and north Bengal. The train will leave Agartala on September 30 for the Vibrant Goa tour spanning 11 nights and 12 days, IRCTC officials said here on Friday. “The special train will have sleeper and AC-III coaches. It will head for Goa via Assam and north Bengal. The trip will end on October 11 when the train will return to Agartala,” said Madhab Saha, an IRCTC regional manager in Guwahati. The train will halt at Badarpur, Guwahati, New Bongaigaon, New Alipurduar, New Cooch Behar, New Jalpaiguri and Malda Town. “People from these places can also board this train. However, beyond Malda, the train will not have any more scheduled stoppage from where people can join the trip,” he added. In recent times, this is the first tour to Goa that has been organised by the IRCTC. Those who wish to travel in sleeper coaches will have to pay Rs 11,340 per head. “Tourists planning to travel in AC-III coaches will have to pay Rs 18,900 per head,” said Biswajit Das, the tourism in-charge of IRCTC in Guwahati. “Due to the pandemic situation, booking would be allowed only in 60 per cent of the total berths of each coach. Altogether, there will be 10 coaches. We will also provide travel insurance to each passenger,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Roads snap, homes damaged in North Bengal rain||Continuous rainfall across the sub-Himalayan Bengal on Thursday and Friday triggered landslides that damaged houses and snap in road communication in the Darjeeling hills and water-logging in Siliguri. According to administrative sources, the rain triggered minor landslides at Toongsoong in ward 14, Bhotay Dara in ward 28, Singmari (below the ropeway station) in ward 29 and in ward 9 of the Darjeeling town. “Three houses were damaged because of rain and landslides at Kailapani, School Dara and Ghayabari in the Kurseong subdivision. Some houses were damaged at School Dara (different place) and Murmah in the Mirik subdivision. There are reports of houses being damaged at Liza Hill, Bara Pattabang and Gairigaon in the Pullbazar block (in the Darjeeling subdivision) as well. We are collecting details of the extent of the damage,” said an official. The rainfall also led to a cave-in on NH55 near Chunabhatti of Kurseong. “Only light vehicles are being allowed to move along the route as a portion of the road has subsided. The Sepi road that connects Srikhola in Pulbazar block and another road in Lepchakha of Badamtam panchayat and the road to Rimbik High School were damaged in the rain,” the official added. Some low lying areas of Siliguri had been under water since Thursday night. The water receded on Friday afternoon. “There is a forecast of more showers in the next few days. We are monitoring the situation. All arrangements have been made to help people in case any fresh water-logging or flood-like situation occurs in and around the city,” an officer of the sub-divisional administration said in Siliguri. Like Siliguri and the hills, it also rained in Alipurduar district. According to sources in the Met office, it rained around 110mm in Alipurduar during the 24-hour period till 8.30am on Friday. Taking advantage of the torrent which kept people indoors, a gang of thieves broke into a number of shops at Newtown in Alipurduar on Thursday night. “Altogether, they tried to break into 11 shops, including jewelleries. They could eventually burgle five shops. We are gathering details of the loot,” said a police officer. Local people said it was raining heavily on one hand and there was a power cut in the area on the other hand when the crime was suspected to have taken place. Thieves made an attempt to steal cash from an ATM at Samanagar in Siliguri also on Thursday night. Although the cash wasn’t lost, the machine and the CCTV cameras were damaged. On Friday, a male elephant calf was swept away for a few metres while it was crossing a swollen stream in the Dooars. Sources said an elephant herd had entered the Karbala tea estate near Banarhat in Jalpaiguri district from the adjoining Reti forest on Friday morning. When the calf tried to cross the stream, it lost balance and was swept away to some distance. Foresters pulled the animal out of the water after four hours of efforts. Later in the day, they released the calf into the Reti forest where it rejoined the herd. “We had apprehended that the herd would not accept the calf. We are happy that it has returned to the herd,” said Seema Choudhury, an honorary wildlife warden in the Bengal forest department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 703 infections, 719 recoveries and eight deaths||Bengal on Friday completed 68 successive days of fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases with 703 new infections, 719 recoveries and eight deaths. The total of active cases fell by 24 to reach 9,143. The state currently has 2.58 per cent of the national total of active cases and occupies the sixth spot on the list of states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 112 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 88. Six of the 23 Bengal districts logged single-digit figures of new infections on Friday. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.22 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic —still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.53. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.62 per cent on Friday. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta recorded one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal currently has over 15.46 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.18 lakh recoveries and 18,410 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata Banerjee set to visit Siliguri for north Bengal scan ||Mamata Banerjee is slated to be in Siliguri for five days next month to hold administrative meetings for five districts — Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar. It will be Mamata’s first trip to north Bengal after assuming the chief minister’s office for the third time in May. “She is likely to reach here on the afternoon of September 5 and will stay at Uttarkanya (north Bengal branch secretariat). She will review the progress of social welfare schemes as well as infrastructure projects of five districts. On September 9, the chief minister is likely to return to Calcutta,” said a source. The chief minister, who is also in charge of the north Bengal development department that was formed by her in 2011, is likely to focus on the region’s growth in the backdrop of changes in the political landscape after the Assembly polls. First, most leaders of the BJP have started playing the card of separate statehood in the region and there are chances that the demand may find resonance among people. The Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO) — a banned militant outfit constituted in the nineties by a section of Rajbanshi youths over the demand of a separate Kamtapur state — has already started renewing its demand. Even on Friday, a video was released by a self-styled leader of the KLO, who introduced himself as Pavel and reiterated that the outfit would renew the armed struggle for the separate Kamtapur state. “The chief minister will try to address the statehood demand with development,” said a source. Besides, Binay Tamang had quit the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Anit Thapa, Tamang’s former deputy, on Friday announced that he would float a new party on September 9 when Mamata would be touring north Bengal. “The chief minister will surely try to address the issue of leadership vacuum in the hills,” said the source. The visit is significant from the administrative point of view as well because Mamata had earlier announced several projects like free housing for tea garden workers and setting up of Rajbanshi medium schools. She would review the progress made in this regard. “That the chief minister intends to focus on north Bengal, a region from where BJP bagged 30 Assembly seats, was evident when she kept the north Bengal development department with herself. She will obviously review the progress of development work in the region, keeping in mind the Rajbanshi and tribal population of the region,” said a state government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu-Dilip feud casts cloud on BJP committee||The BJP is yet to form a committee for coordination between the legislature party and the state unit even after almost four months passed since the Assembly poll results were out apparently because of a feud between the factions led by Dilip Ghosh and Suvendu Adhikari. In every state where the BJP is either in power or in the Opposition, a coordination committee is mandatory to maintain liaison and communication between legislators and state leadership of the party. Although the BJP’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari was elected the leader of the legislature party in Bengal on May 10, the coordination committee has not been constituted. Sources attributed the delay to the rift between the factions led by Adhikari and state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. That Ghosh and his lobby don’t see eye to eye with Trinamul Congress turncoat Adhikari and his team, more so since the latter’s rise in importance within the BJP after the elections, is perhaps the worst-kept secret in the saffron camp. “The coordination committee is crucial in our party’s scheme of things because it is a bridge between the two arms. Any sort of policy decision, grievance or problem is addressed and sorted out by this committee,” a state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. Ghosh has repeatedly iterated at closed-door meetings that the legislators must consult the party before taking a decision or making a public move. His comments, party sources said, were directed at Adhikari, who made multiple visits to Delhi without consulting Ghosh. According to the sources, leaders close to Ghosh intend to maintain a distance from Adhikari and his team, which has caused the delay in the setting up of the committee. “Suvenduda’s meteoric rise in the BJP, despite his desertion from Trinamul only in December last year, has not gone down well with Dilipda and his associates. The formation of the committee has been delayed because of Dilipda’s dislike and other factors,” said another source in the BJP. Sayantan Basu, a state general-secretary, admitted that there had been a delay in setting up the coordination committee. “We know there has been a delay…. This committee is prioritised in states where we are in power. We will do it here too, at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||North East||TMC student activist lodges police complaint against ABVP in Agartala||A Trinamul Congress student activist on Friday lodged a police complaint against few ABVP members of MBB College in Agartala for allegedly assaulting her and confining her to a room. Senior Trinamul leaders Shantanu Sen, Kunal Ghosh and Subal Bhowmik staged a dharna in front of Agartala women’s police station in the evening to protest against the alleged assault on Solanki Sengupta, a third-year BA student. “We have also demanded that her statement be recorded by a magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC on Saturday,” Subal Bhowmik, who joined Trinamul after leaving the Congress last month, told The Telegraph. Bhowmik said Solanki was campaigning in the college to observe the foundation day of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad on Saturday when she was allegedly assaulted and confined. “We will observe the foundation day in all districts and also take out a rally in Agartala on various burning issues,” Bhowmik said. Sources said a scuffle, too, had broken out between the activists of both the organisations, fanning tension and leading to the intervention of the police to control the situation. Asked about the alleged assault on Solanki, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said Trinamul should not involve students in its politics. “Aged Trinamul leaders had gone to the college without taking permission and created disturbance in the college. This should not be repeated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
28-08-2021||North East||Suspected Dimasa rebels torch trucks and kills five of its occupants||Suspected members of the outlawed Dimasa National Liberation Army torched five clinker-laden trucks and killed five of its occupants in Assam’s Dima Hasao district on Thursday night, three months after six of its cadres were gunned down in an encounter in neighbouring Karbi Anglong district. The attack on the truckers which was on its way from Umrangso (Dima Hasao) to Lanka (Hojai district) was intercepted by a group of “five to eight” armed men at around 8.30pm at Rangerbeel under Diyungmukh PS. Then they fired indiscriminately at the trucks before setting it afire, leaving five dead and one injured. The nature of the strike has fuelled fears of insurgency taking centrestage in the hill district after a relative calm of over ten years after the disbanding of the Dima Halam Daogah and its splinter group (DHD-Jewel). Both factions laid down arms in 2009 but were disbanded in 2013 and 2012 respectively. Between 1994 to 2013, the picturesque but volatile district had seen several deadly terror strikes, including DHD (J) killing six truckers, and five policemen in two separate strikes, 50 km apart, on the same day in 2008. The DNLA leader — Musrang Dimasa – is a former DHD cadre. “We have reasons to be fearful that insurgency could once again dominate our lives, to the same violent and uncertain times. There were claims in May that the DNLA had been almost neutralised but the outfit carries out such a big attack on one of the main roads of the district, just 6km away from the police station,” a Dima Hasao resident said. The police suspect the involvement of the DNLA, formed just before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to fight for the creation of a separate state for Dimasa-dominated areas, given its recent activities to prove its existence. The outfit, which is yet to claim responsibility, had called a 36-hour bandh on Independence Day in support of its statehood demand, comprising six Assam districts, including undivided Karbi Anglong district. It had also intensified its recruitment drive, sources said. Dima Hasao police said a joint combing operation with Assam Rifles personnel have been launched and security beefed up in the district. One of the truckers who managed to flee said he was lucky enough to have survived. “When I realised I would die anyway when the armed men started firing indiscriminately, I jumped out and fled to the nearby bushes.  I somehow managed to reach the police station. We were on our way to the cement plant in Lanka,” he said without revealing his name. He also said he was not aware if the DNLA had issued any threat or to the transporters or the cement company or served any extortion. The Diyangmukh PS is about 6 km from the affected site. Two of the truckers/handymen died of bullet wounds while remaining three died of burns, sources said, adding one of the deceased truckers — Dharmendra Kumar Paras — was from Uttar Pradesh. Saindesh Ardao, president of the Jadikhe Naisho Hosom, the apex body of Dimasa organisations, reacting the development, said, “It is very unfortunate. This should not have happened, innocent people got killed. The government should take all possible arrest those involved in the attack. We want peace.” Congress media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said the BJP-led state government should concentrate more on real issues that afflicts the state instead of diverting people's attention through Aashirwad Yatras. “We lost innocent lives. People’s lives are at stake. All hard work done by our party between 2001 to 2016 to bring peace in the region should not be ruined by lackadaisical attitude or wrong policies of the present BJP-led government,” she said. Dima Hasao has a population of about 1.5 lakh and people are mostly involved in agriculture. Connectivity remains a major issue in the district though things have improved since 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
28-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The sloth’s redemption||Rumour has it that not only has the sloth made it to the Chinese calendar, but that it could also be given pride of place by that nation’s millennials. Synonymous with one of the seven deadly sins, this sedate creature is often seen as the very antithesis of industriousness and, hence, much detested in the West. This makes China’s new-found veneration of all that is slow — sloth-like — instructive. The link between labour and lassitude is not too difficult to discern. Chinese millennials are discovering that work is a false idol and they have decided to ‘lie flat’ in protest and just take things easy. It all started when a former factory worker, Luo Huazhong, drew the curtains and crawled into bed, posting a picture of himself on social media along with the message: “Lying Flat Is Justice.” Mr Luo’s assertion that he has the right to choose a quiet life of reading, exercising and doing odd jobs to get by went viral. The Western media have described the trend as a natural consequence of China’s hypercompetitive work culture where employees often report working “996” weeks — 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week — a lifestyle that has been praised by the billionaire, Jack Ma, and other captains of industry. Indeed, even though China has powered its economy to rival the dominance of the United States of America, the country’s punishing work ethic has a dark underside to it. Suicide rates are ‘low’ officially, but regular reports of workers’ suicide and death owing to overwork are emerging from China. In neighbouring Japan, too, attitudes shaped by post-War nation rebuilding and the desire for global dominance have led to a spike in what is called ‘overwork deaths’. Data show that suicide claimed more lives in Japan in October 2020 than Covid-19 did in that entire year. America is not taking the tyranny of overwork lying down either. In the US, as of June, there were more than 10 million job vacancies according to the Labor Department — the highest number since the government began tracking the data two decades ago — revealing that Americans just did not want to work. The ‘Lying Flat’ movement is thus just one expression of a global epiphany on the cost inflicted by the ‘work is worship’ principle on the body and the mind. Global capitalism has responded cannily by linking rest to enhanced productivity — the ‘Premium Friday’ initiative in Japan sends employees home at 3 pm on the last Friday of the month. Interestingly, the ‘Lying Flat’ movement advocates leisure for leisure’s sake. India, where snoozing and the sarkari office are almost synonymous, has always appreciated the wisdom of leisure. Among Indians, Bengalis can claim to be the original worshippers of the deity called bhaat ghoom. At a time when relations between India and China are strained to say the least, perhaps this solidarity over the joy of doing nothing can cool things down a bit. Moreover, human beings seem to have forgotten that some of the greatest inventions in history had taken place during repose — Archimedes changed the fate of physics while relaxing in a bath while Newton discovered gravity sitting under an apple tree. Being slothful is not always a sin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
28-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: The ‘milk crate challenge’||Risky climb Sir — The pandemic led to an increase in the time we spent online and caused a spurt in young people following social media ‘trends’. While many of these trends are harmless, some are downright dangerous. The most recent is the ‘milk crate challenge’, in which people stack up several empty milk crates in a pyramid formation and then film themselves trying to climb and subsequently descend from the crate mountain. Several individuals have reportedly been injured as a result of a crate climb gone wrong, and doctors have warned against trying it. Must attempts to beat the loneliness and boredom brought on by the pandemic pose such a danger to life and limb? Rania Hamid,Calcutta National treasure Sir — It is heartening to learn about the community participation project undertaken at the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden in Howrah’s Shibpur, owing to which two micro-biodiversity hotspots in the garden have been identified (“Diversity hotspots at garden”, Aug 13). The project — it is for the regeneration of the garden, and is a collaborative effort by the Botanical Survey of India, the Asia Scotland Trust and the Edinburgh University — was aimed at assessing the sector-wise levels of micro-biodiversity. It bears recall that the Indian Botanic Garden was founded way back in 1787 by Colonel Robert Kyd, an officer of the British East India Company. It has subsequently undergone several phases of redesigning and development under the supervision of eminent botanists. This resulted in a superbly landscaped green reserve. Regarded as one of the world’s oldest botanic gardens, it is spread over an area of 273 acres, and is home to over 13,000 trees belonging to 1,100 species sourced from India and abroad. A treasure trove of rare plant species, the garden also houses the Central National Herbarium which has more than two million specimens collected from various parts of the world. As India’s foremost botanical research facility and a repository of flora, the garden requires continual care and attention from the Centre. In May 2020, the cyclone, Amphan, wreaked havoc on the green reserve, causing severe damage to around 1,000 trees. Plant species are known to be susceptible to unpredictable climatic fluctuations. The garden has also reportedly been facing recurring financial difficulties in recent years. The government should immediately mobilize resources to facilitate the complete restoration of the garden. The authorities should consider initiating actions to push for the Indian Botanic Garden to find a place on Unesco’s list of world heritage sites. The Singapore Botanic Gardens, a world heritage centre, are an appropriate example in this context. It ought not to be hard for the authorities to ensure that the stipulated requirements for the Indian Botanic Garden to qualify as a world heritage site are fulfilled. Tapes Chandra Lahiri,Calcutta No tooth fairies Sir — Quackery in dentistry is becoming a serious problem. I observed this recently when my well-to-do, educated neighbour switched from a qualified dental surgeon to a quack. Many of these quacks have gained effective marketing skills, which help their unethical, unauthorized businesses to flourish; they are aided by the inaccessibility of quality dental care. Dental quackery has percolated down to the grassroots level. There is no dearth of dental surgeons in India; the main problem is that such doctors are unevenly distributed across the country. This skewed demand-supply ratio and the cheaper rates advertised by quacks enable the latter to attract patients from marginalized groups as well as those with poor awareness of dental health. The World Dental Federation and the Indian Dental Association have repeatedly warned against the use of unsterilized instruments and unskilled manpower, all of which can cause infection and even death. Young dental surgeons should be encouraged to work in rural areas, and given the necessary incentives to do so. Dental hygiene lessons must be actively taught in schools to help students become aware not only about dental health but also the menace of spurious dental treatment practices. Basudeb Dutta,Santipur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
28-08-2021||Opinion||New attractions at Times Square||When we picture Times Square, New York, we think of flashing billboards, gazing tourists, selfie sticks and yellow taxi cabs flying by. This ‘destination’ of lights and sounds that New York residents love to hate was eerily empty in the midst of the pandemic. But now, as the city is waking up and getting back in its old groove, new icons are emerging in this tourist site. First comes a giant ferris wheel — 110 feet tall — in the middle of the Square, open to be ridden by the public. This is a temporary arrangement. It has opened for two weeks — August 23 and September 12 — with each ride being 12 minutes long and offering a unique vantage point of the city. The tickets are $20 per person, or $35 if you skip the line. The Time Square Wheel website calls it a ‘sensory overload by a billion pixels’, a nod to the 200+ digital billboards that are scattered in the area. To add to the sensory stimuli of sight and sound, a giant artwork is also headed this way. “A Fountain for Survivors” by Pamela Council will be available for viewing at the Square starting October 7. It is an 18-foot-tall fountain covered in 400,000 acrylic nails. Although exact details have not been revealed, Artnet News says that the fountain is meant to be a place of reflection and will even have provisions for coin tossing as an offering, not unlike the Trevi fountain in Rome. Visitors can also smell the scent of Florida Water. Stay alert With the Delta variant of Covid-19 affecting the country, the government of the United States of America must battle not just the virus itself but also virus misinformation. According to research by Morning Consult, after Russia, the US has the highest number of vaccine skeptics. Recently, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention stopped short of mandating mask-wearing even by vaccinated individuals — it has highly recommended it. Yet, across cities, many businesses are starting to check vaccination proof at the door before letting anyone inside. For now, people are taking pictures of their vaccine cards, carrying the physical card with them or uploading their information onto the several digital vaccine ‘passport’ apps that have emerged. In New York and San Francisco, these checks are required for entry to places like bars, restaurants, Broadway shows, bowling alleys, concerts, among others. On the heels of vaccine checks is the emergence of fake vaccine cards. They bear the CDC logo and are reportedly shipped from China to the US for people who are unvaccinated but seek entry to public places needing proof. The Washington Post found that US Customs recently seized 3,000 such fake cards. These cards often have incorrect Spanish translations or spellings. The Associated Press found fake cards selling online for $25 a piece, especially for students as many colleges have mandated that all enrolled students be vaccinated. But using fake vaccine cards with the CDC’s logo can cost the offender one to five years in prison. Nothing to hide Once again, hundreds of cyclists around the world took to the streets on their bicycles with one thing in common — they were completely or partially nude. The World Naked Bike Ride movement, begun in 2004, typically takes place on the second Saturday of June. The concept is designed to draw attention to body positivity and freedom from pollution-causing transportation. This year, many cities pushed the event to August on account of Covid restrictions. Depending on the city, riders were instructed to wear masks and helmets, but all were recommended to leave their clothes at home. The cyclists were also encouraged to come with body paint, costumes or any kind of personal artistic expression. In Chicago, for instance, where the bike ride took place on August 14, bikers who rode for about 14 miles were challenged to “bare-as-you-dare”. The slogan of the movement is “Celebrating freedom from oil and the beauty of people!” In Philadelphia, the ride will take place today — it will also require masks. The16-kilometres course includes iconic Philly sites such as the Independence Hall, the Liberty Bell and the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Follow the rules In light of the Covid outbreak, most universities had students take the academic term online. This time, schools are gearing up for a safe return to in-person classes. This Fall, more than 680 US colleges and universities will require students to show proof of vaccination to even enter the premises. Several have mandated the use of masks inside the classroom. While many are in full support of these rules, some Republican-led states are barring universities from asking for vaccination proof at public institutions, citing that it is an encroachment on personal freedom. So some colleges got creative. They have begun to offer monetary incentives and prizes to students who do show proof of inoculation. Some colleges are providing exemptions only on medical or religious grounds. However, just last week, The Philadelphia Inquirer reported that Philly’s Archdiocese has instructed priests to not provide vaccine exemption letters to Catholics requesting it. Philly is not the only one. So far, the Archdiocese in New York, San Diego, Honolulu and Los Angeles have been following similar policies. It is clear that the return to school this year will not be smooth for students as the country battles constantly changing rules and new information. Footnote In Gainesville, Florida, a customer left a $10,000 tip for the waitstaff at the restaurant, Wahoo Seafood Grill. The owner of the restaurant told Newsweek that the customer asked to see the 10 waiters that were working during his visit; he said he appreciated everything they did and asked the tip to be split among them. The restaurant shared a picture of the diner’s receipt on its Facebook page; it showed that the meal bill was for $144.66. The identity of this customer remains unknown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
28-08-2021||Opinion|| Special triumphs||The city outside India I know best is London, and the place in London I know best is the British Library, where, for 30 years and counting, I have scoured the capacious collections pertaining to the history of colonial India. I must have worked there for at least a thousand days all told, always following the same routine, which is to deposit my belongings in a locker in the basement before showing my membership card and proceeding to the reading room four floors above, to consult the records of what in imperial times was known as the India Office. The British Library’s lockers require one to have a four-digit numerical code to open and close them. Most of us, when asked to choose a code of this sort, seize upon the year of our birth, or the year of our marriage, or the year in which one or the other of our parents was born. In all these years of working at the BL, I have always used the same set of numbers: 1971. I was 13 in the year 1971, and my marriage lay 13 years in the future. But it is not for such contrived symmetry that I chose those numbers for my locker. Rather, 1971 was the year when, in a cricketing sense, we one-time subjects of the raj struck back most forcefully at our former colonial masters. For a cricket fan doing historical research on the underside of the Empire, this set of digits uniquely captured the combination of my profession and my passion. A few days ago, we marked the 50th anniversary of India’s first Test series victory in England. I’ll come to that event presently, but let us remind ourselves that earlier in 1971 India had won a series in the West Indies for the first time. That, too, was a notable achievement. For on the last occasion we had toured the Caribbean, in 1962, we lost all five Tests. Nine years later, of the great West Indians who had previously humiliated us, some had retired and others were ageing. However, Garry Sobers was still their captain, and he had magnificent cricketers like Kanhai, Lloyd and Gibbs playing alongside him. No one gave India the remotest chance of defeating the West Indies at home. And yet we did, winning one Test and drawing the other four. The series in the West Indies was played between February and April 1971. I was then in boarding school in Dehradun. I read about the Tests in the sports pages of The Times of India, via the daily reports of K.N. Prabhu, a fine writer who combined a lyrical style with a deep knowledge of the game. My dormitory got one newspaper for its hundred or so residents; this was the dak edition of The Times of India. After lunch, when classes were done for the day and the games period was still an hour away, and while my mates were chatting or gossiping or playing pranks on one another, I would sit on a bench with the newspaper and read Prabhu’s elaborately crafted accounts of how wickets were taken and innings nurtured and partnerships created. The matches in the West Indies started, as they do now, at about 7.30 pm Indian time. The Delhi edition of the next morning’s paper probably carried a lunch-time report; but the dak edition, dispatched hours before, did not even do that. So I was reading about each day’s play two full days later. The delay added to the enchantment as well as to my appreciation of K.N. Prabhu’s leisurely and expansive narrative. The present generation is accustomed to instant gratification, to watching everything live. I am grateful that I grew up when I did. I think my admiration for the batsmanship of Gavaskar and Sardesai, and for the bowling of Bedi, Prasanna, and Venkataraghavan, and for what Wadekar’s team collectively did in the West Indies 50 years ago, may not have been as deep and enduring had I watched it all unfold before me on a screen. Although Wadekar’s side won in the West Indies in the spring, they were distinct underdogs when they toured England that summer. In 40 years of trying we still hadn’t won a Test in that country. On our last two tours, in 1959 and 1967 respectively, we had lost all the Tests we played. Besides, while Garry Sobers and his side were noticeably on the decline, England under Ray Illingworth were acknowledged to be the best team in the world. The previous winter, they had comfortably beaten a strong Australian side Down Under. By the time the England series started, the summer holidays had begun. It was at home, on the radio, that I caught the tail end of the England-Pakistan series, and it was at home, on the radio, that I heard every ball of the first Test between England and India, played at Lord’s. It was a gripping contest, hard-fought all the way. Chasing a target of 183 in the fourth innings, India were, at one stage, 100 for 3, but then wickets started falling rapidly. With about an hour till stumps, the skies opened and the match was declared drawn. At this stage India needed about 40 runs to win, but they had only two wickets in hand. I also listened to much of the second Test, played at Manchester, at home on the radio. This time India were comprehensively outplayed, and saved by rain. By the time the third Test at The Oval commenced, school had started, and I was back in my dormitory. There was one radio, access to which was restricted to members of the senior form alone. They listened to it in the evenings, until the mandatory lights-out at 10 pm, while us benighted juniors were supposed to be studying in our cubicles. Happily, our house captain, Vivek Bammi, was kind enough to come with periodic bulletins for the rest of us. It was thus that one night, shortly before we were all commanded to go to bed, that Bammi walked to where I sat, offering this latest and most dramatic update: “England 101 all out. Chandrasekhar 6 for 38!” Fifty years later — almost to the day since I heard my house captain utter those words — this remains one of my most cherished cricketing moments. I have since seen, countless times, the replays of all the wickets Chandra took on that magic English afternoon: the yorking of Edrich, the artful caught-and-bowleds to dismiss Illingworth as well as Snow, the trapping of the last man, John Price, leg-before-wicket, the snaffling of Fletcher by Solkar in the leg-trap, and — my own personal favourite — the magnificent catch taken at slip by Venkat to a Luckhurst slash. I enjoy seeing these dismissals, one by one, as captured by the grainy footage of the time, but nothing can ever compare with how I learned about B.S. Chandrasekhar’s act of collective demolition in the first place. There are no cricketers like those seen through 12-year-old eyes, wrote Ian Peebles once — or those read about by 12-year-old eyes either. I myself turned 13 in the last week of April 1971, shortly after the series in the West Indies ended. I was still a 12-year-old at heart when we won in England. And when remembering or writing about those two series, I suppose I must be a 12-year-old still. There is an India-England Test series on as I write. Even if India wins the series, I somehow doubt whether the digits ‘2021’ will ever evoke lasting feelings of attachment in the teenage cricket fan of today. The obsession with the Indian Premier League has something to do with this; besides, our side wins Test series so often now that no particular victory can be truly significant. On the other hand, for cricket fans of my generation, the numbers ‘1971’ shall always be special, sacred even. For it was in that year that we won series in the West Indies and England for the first time. Among the reasons I want the pandemic to end is to once more enter the British Library, to proudly punch in those four numbers in the basement’s lockers, before going to examine the files in the reading room upstairs. I see that act as both protest and affirmation, as a critique of colonial rule and a celebration of what our cricketers did in 1971 to lay its ghosts to rest. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||JFC convinces Brazilian central midfielder Alex to stay on||Jamshedpur FC have succeeded in retaining Brazilian central midfielder Alexandre Monteiro de Lima, known as Alex, for one more season. The club was in advanced talks with the 31-year-old Alex who had sent indications that he was not very keen to continue in the Tata Steel-owned franchise. JFC was willing to retain him. The midfield maestro has signed an extension of one year, keeping him at the club till May 2022. "I enjoyed the previous season a lot. The fans, even though I haven't met them, are so passionate. I would read everything they would say, and they love their team so much. I want to give my best in the upcoming season and repay the faith put on me by head coach Owen Coyle, the club and the fans and help us win the ISL trophy," Alex said. Alex played 19 matches for Jamshedpur in the ISL 2020-21, thereby underlining the importance of his presence in Owen Coyle's system. "Alex showed fantastic character and team spirit last season as he picked up an injury and rather than let the team down, took pain-killing injections to help the team. Now that he is injury-free, there is more to come from him," said Owen Coyle. The midfielder has the experience of playing in Asia with stints in the highly competitive K League 2 (South Korea) with Suwon Fc and FC Anyang and most recently with Ho Chi Minh City FC in V League (Vietnam). Alex has amassed a total of 43 goals and 23 assists in a total of 337 appearances in his career. The Brazilian began his career in the youth system of Gremio Mauaense in Brazil. In 2008, he went on to sign as a professional player for FC Wohlen in Switzerland where he spent four seasons. The big moment for Alex came in 2012 when the USA's Major League Soccer (MLS) club Chicago Fire FC signed him. He was influential from the beginning as in the 2012 season; the club progressed to the MLS playoffs. He went on to represent them on 82 occasions. In April 2015, he was signed by Houston Dynamo under the tutelage of Owen Coyle and played for the club till 2017. Again, he was the catalyst as the team qualified for the MLS  playoffs in 2017 and subsequently progressed to the Western Conference Finals. However, they missed out on the MLS Cup final by a whisker with a loss to Seattle Sounders FC. Alex will don squad number 14 in the upcoming season for JFC and will join his teammates for pre-season scheduled to begin in the coming weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto hospitalised, doctors rule out lung complications ||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who resumed work two months ago after undergoing a lung transplant surgery in Chennai after a prolonged bout of Covid, was admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Medanta Hospital in Ranchi on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday following complaints of nausea, discomfort and diarrhoea, sources from the hospital said. However, doctors treating Mahto at Medanta said that the minister was moved to a non-ICU bed later on Saturday after his condition appeared to be stable. “He was kept in the ICU at night as a precautionary measure since he is a patient of organ transplant. The minister is stable now and will be discharged once we conduct all necessary tests and rule out the chances of any major complication,” said Dr Madan Mohan Pandey, medical superintendent of Medanta Hospital. One of the five doctors treating Mahto in the hospital said that his lungs were functioning fine and there was no reason to worry. The doctor said that an SoP is followed for treatment of any patient who has a history of lung transplant and certain tests have to be conducted as per the rules. Mahto returned to Jharkhand in a chartered flight on June 14 under the supervision of a team of doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). He was quick to resume work and attend assembly sessions soon after his return to Ranchi. The 54-year-old MLA from Dumri, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 last year, underwent treatment in different hospitals over a period of several months. Soon after testing positive, he was admitted to state-run RIMS in Ranchi. On October 1, 2020, he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital and put on non-invasive ventilation. However, his condition  deteriorated further and he had to be flown to Chennai in an air ambulance on October 19. He was put on a life support system called Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) for around three weeks at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai before he underwent a lung transplant surgery on November 10. Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais sought details about Mahto’s health from doctors on Saturday and wished him a speedy recovery. Chief Minister Hemant Soren also took updates on Mahto’s condition over phone from New Delhi after learning about the development, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||HC directs CBI to ensure proper security to accused in Dhanbad judge death case||The Jharkhand High Court directed the CBI to ensure proper security to the two accused in the death case of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand and if required use air travel for their movement as they were crucial for the investigation. During the hearing of the case on Friday, the CBI informed the court that they are conducting a narco test on the two accused, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, who were arrested in connection with the case. Autorickshaw driver Lakhan and his accomplice Rahul were taken to the national capital by Howrah New Delhi Rajdhani Express for the narco test. The CBI also submitted its weekly report before the division bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad. CCTV footage had shown that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk early on July 28 when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. Locals took him to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Meanwhile, the state home secretary, who was present during the hearing, submitted before the court that steps were being taken to strengthen the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) here to ensure all types of tests are done in Jharkhand itself. On August 22, the CBI had announced a Rs 5 lakh reward for "worthwhile information" related to the death of the judge. Chief Minister Hemant Soren on July 31 decided to hand over to the CBI the probe into the hit-and-run case of 49-year-old Anand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant requests Tata Motors to open e-vehicle units in Jharkhand||Chief minister Hemant Soren has requested Tata Motors and another corporate group to open electric vehicle (EV) manufacturing units in Jharkhand. Holding one-to-one meetings with corporate heads after a presentation on the prospects of the electric vehicle manufacturing sector in the state and the incentive assured for this sector in the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP) 2021, the chief minister raised with the Tata Group representatives, led by CEO-cum-managing-director Tata Steel T.V. Narendran, the prospects of setting up EV manufacturing unit in Jharkhand on the inaugural day of the Investors’ Meet at Delhi on Friday. Welcoming the corporate executives, Soren said: “We have abundant amenities and opportunities in our state. In Jharkhand, a substantial part of the population is from SC/ST communities. If SC/ST people are employed, we will add more incentives to the policy. The proposed electric vehicle policy has been presented in front of you. If we look towards the future, then I believe electric vehicles are the future vehicles where we can do as much as we want.” During a one-to-one meeting, the Dalmia cement group committed to investing Rs 500 crore in the state along with others in multiple sectors such as automobiles and ESDM. Secretary of the Jharkhand industry department Pooja Singhal explained the incentives and provisions under the proposed Electric Vehicle Policy and promised that more incentive provisions would be added if the companies propose employment provisions for ST/SC communities. The EV roundtable chaired by the chief minister also had participation from automobile majors, Honda, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motors, Kinetic Green, Mahindra Electric and Piaggio Vehicles. The chief minister held one-to-one discussions with Dalmia Bharat Cements, NTPC, and SAIL senior officials on opening up cement, power and steel units in the state.  Discussions were held with senior officials of Vibrant Spirits (Delhi) and EGPL/DSK Foods Limited (Delhi) on opening  breweries and distilleries and with SPV Global (Mumbai) on textile units in Jharkhand. Over 40 corporate heads in automobile, electric vehicles, cement, electronic system design and manufacturing, food processing, breweries and power sectors are scheduled to attend the second day of the investors’ meet hosted by Jharkhand government in Delhi on Saturday. The investors’ meet on Saturday would see chief minister Soren launching the JIIPP 2021, replacing the 2016 policy of the Raghubar Das-led BJP government,  eyeing Rs 1 lakh crore investments and generating over 500,000 employment opportunities and luring investors with attractive incentives in various key sectors. “We are focusing on seven high-priority sectors, namely textile and apparels, automobile, auto components and electric vehicles, agro-food processing, meat processing industries, pharmaceuticals, electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM),” said Jharkhand industry director Jitendra Kumar Singh who would give the welcome address on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
28-08-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister supports  steel PSUs’ privatisation amid protests||Union minister of state for steel Faggan Singh Kulaste, who is on a two-day visit of Jharkhand, voiced support for the privatisation of steel PSUs amid protests by trade unions against privatisation. “People should understand the intention behind privatisation of PSUs. The government wants to revive the closed or sick units and this is the reason for initiating the process of privatisation so that the government and private institutions can join hand for better running of such units,” said Kulaste who visited several corporate social responsibilities (CSR) initiatives of Tata Steel at Jamshedpur. Answering media queries on the threat of job cuts after privatisation, Kulaste said, “There is a perception that there would be loss of job after the privatisation of units which is baseless. Under the terms of privatisation the government would try to run the sick units in a better manner and ensure that there are no job losses and instead newer avenues of job would be created.” Significantly, there have been protests against privatisation of steel plants including Visakhapatnam Steel Plant by employees’ union. In fact, the Andhra Pradesh Assembly had earlier this year passed a resolution opposing the Central government proposal to private the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (also known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant). In fact, the Union government has proposed the privatisation of several government-owned steel mills namely, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, SAIL’s Alloy Steel Plant (Durgapur), among others. Kulaste admitted to the impact of the Covid crisis on the steel sector and is preparing an action plan to help the steel units out of the crisis. “Gradually the steel sector is returning back on track and we are taking suggestions of the steel industries in making an action plan to mitigate the crisis. The government will extend all support to steel players,” said Kulaste. The minister on his arrival in Jamshedpur was accompanied by senior Tata Steel executives and was taken to the Tribal Culture Centre to take a look at the rich tribal culture and heritage. The minister also visited the Dorabji Tata Park named after Dorabji Tata, the eldest son of Tata Group founder J.N. Tata and also learnt about the contribution of Dorabji Tata and his wife Meherbai Tata in the revival of the Tata Steel unit. Incidentally, August 27 is the birth anniversary of Dorabji Tata. The minister also visited Tata Steel archives at the Centre for Excellence. Earlier in the day, the minister held an interaction with SAIL officials at Ranchi. Faggan who is also minister of state for rural development also interacted with state rural development secretary Manish Ranjan and NREGA commissioner Rajeshwari B and reviewed central government rural development schemes in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
