29-08-2021||Business||Govt releases draft of declaration to enable withdrawal of retrospective tax demands||In a move that will aid closure of retro tax demands against companies such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone PLC, the Income Tax Department on Saturday released draft of rules to drop such demands provided companies concerned give an "irrevocable" undertaking to withdraw all legal cases against the government as well as undertake not to pursue any in future. Earlier this month, the government enacted the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act 2021 to scrap a tax rule that gave the tax department power to go 50 years back and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas but business assets were in India. That rule had been used to levy a cumulative of Rs 1.10 lakh crore of taxes on 17 entities, including Rs 10,247 crore on Cairn and Rs 22,100 crore on Vodafone. Cairn was levied tax for a 2006 internal reorganisation of India business before listing while Vodafone was charged for not withholding tax from consideration it paid for acquiring Hutchison stake in India telecom unit. Scraping such demands, the government undertook to refund Rs 8,100 crore it had collected from companies to enforce the retro tax demand. A bulk - Rs 7,900 crore - is due to Cairn Energy of UK alone. This was to be done only if the companies concerned gave an undertaking to withdraw all present legal challenges as well as not take such recourse in the future. "The amendment made by 2021 Act also provides that the demand raised for offshore indirect transfer of Indian assets made before 28th May, 2012 (including the validation of demand provided under Section 119 of the Finance Act 2012) shall be nullified on fulfillment of specified conditions such as withdrawal or furnishing of undertaking for withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking to the effect that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc. shall be filed and such other conditions are fulfilled as may be prescribed," the tax department said in a statement. The amount paid/collected in these cases shall be refunded, without any interest, on fulfillment of the said conditions, it said, adding a draft of the undertaking is being released for comments. The declaration provides for "irrevocably withdraw, discontinue and not pursue" any present or future legal challenge against the tax demand. Both Cairn and Vodafone had challenged the retro tax demand before international arbitration panels which ruled their favour. Other companies too have got relief from various Indian courts. In the case of Cairn, the British firm was awarded USD 1.2 billion in claims for the value of its shares that were seized and sold by the tax department, dividend seized and tax refund withheld. The government failed to pay and the company moved jurisdictions such as the US and France to recover the money due by seizing Indian assets. The new law will require all the companies to withdraw Indian challenges and Cairn dropping its pursuits of Indian assets in the US, France and other foreign countries. "The aim of the amendment made by the 2021 Act is to bring tax certainty and ensure that once specified conditions are fulfilled, the pending Income-tax proceedings shall be withdrawn, demand, if any, raised shall be nullified, and amount, if any, collected shall be refunded to the taxpayer without any interest," the statement said. To implement the amendment made by 2021 Act, draft rules have been prepared to amend the Income-tax Rules, 1962 which specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the process to be followed to give effect to the amendment made by the 2021 Act, it said. "Suggestions/comments on the draft notification are invited from all stakeholders and the public and can be furnished electronically latest by 4th September, 2021." Nangia Andersen LLP Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala said in principle, the draft rule proposes that the taxpayer in whose case a specified order has been passed is required to irrevocably withdraw, discontinue and not to pursue any proceedings before the appellate forum, including proceedings for arbitration, conciliation or mediation and for enforcing or pursuing attachments in respect of any award, order or judgement. "Interestingly, any dispute with respect to any of the prescribed forms or orders under these rules would be governed by the Indian laws and Indian courts would have the exclusive jurisdiction to decide disputes," Jhunjhunwala added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||India||Govt extends deadline for various tax compliances, VsV payments||The income tax department on Sunday extended the deadline for various compliances, including filing of statement for equalisation levy and remittances. The deadline for filing the Equalisation Levy statement in Form-1 for the Financial Year 2020-21 has been extended till December 31, against the original due date of June 30. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by authorised dealers in respect of remittances made for June and September quarter, can now be filed by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due date for filing this statement was July 15 and October 15 respectively. In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on consideration of difficulties reported by the taxpayers and other stakeholders in electronic filing of certain forms it has been decided to further extend the due dates for e-filing of these forms. In a separate statement, the CBDT announced extending the deadline for making payments under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas (VsV) by a month till September 30. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31, with an additional amount of interest. Also, the due dates for electronic filing of forms related to intimation by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds too have been extended. Intimation to be made by Pension Fund and sovereign wealth fund in respect of investment made in India for the June and September quarter, which is required to be furnished by July 31 and October 31, would now have to be furnished by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The CBDT also extended the due date for uploading of declarations received in Form 15G/15Hfor the June and September quarter till November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due dates were July 15 and October 15 respectively. The deadlines are being extended as glitches marred the functioning of new income tax portal 'www.incometax.gov.in', launched on June 7. The Finance Ministry had last week ‘summoned’ Infosys CEO Salil Parekh to explain why issues continued to plague the portal developed by the software major. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in the meeting with Parekh on August 23, expressed ‘deep disappointment’ over persisting glitches for more than two months after portal launch and gave him time till September 15 to resolve all issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Unitech promoters shifted from Tihar to Mumbai jails following SC order||Former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra have been shifted from the Tihar Jail here to Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail, following a Supreme Court order, officials said on Sunday. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed that the brothers were shifted on Saturday. "Sanjay and Ajay Chandra both were taken under police escort to Mumbai by train on Saturday morning. They reached Mumbai and were lodged in the jails there in the early hours of Sunday," Goel said. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah had said that two reports of the Enforcement Directorate about the conduct of Sanjay and Ajay Chandra and the connivance of Tihar Jail staff in flouting orders and undermining the jurisdiction of the court have raised some serious and disturbing issues. "In the circumstances, we order and direct that both the accused, Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra be shifted from Tihar Central Jail to the premises of Arthur Road Jail, Mumbai and Taloja Central Jail, Mumbai, respectively, the bench said in its 27-page order. It directed the Delhi Police commissioner to personally hold an inquiry into the conduct of Tihar Jail staff in regard to the Chandras and submit a report to the court within four weeks. "In this backdrop, we are of the view that the Commissioner of Police must make an immediate enquiry into the contents of the communication dated August 16, 2021 addressed to him by the Directorate of Enforcement so that all the officers and staff of Tihar Central Jail who may be complicit in the violation of law are held accountable," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Air India asks US court to dismiss Cairn petition for seizure of assets||Air India has asked a New York court to dismiss a petition filed by Britain's Cairn Energy for seizure of its assets to enforce USD 1.2 billion arbitral awards against the Indian government, saying the litigation was premature as an appeal against the arbitration award was still pending. The petition by the airline, which is separate to Indian government's plea in a Washington court seeking dismissal of Cairn's lawsuit to seek confirmation of the arbitral award, said the New York district court lacks jurisdiction to adjudicate a "mere hypothetical question" or one that depends upon contingent future events that may or may not occur. Cairn first moved a court in the US District Court for the District of Columbia seeking confirmation of the arbitration award and then filed a petition in the New York court to seek declaration of Air India as "alter ego" of the Indian government and so it should be made liable to pay the USD 1.26 billion arbitral award. An international arbitration tribunal in December last year set aside the levy of capital gains tax, using a 2012 retrospective legislation, on a 2006 reorganization of India business that Cairn carried before listing it on local stock exchanges. It ordered India to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld to enforce levy. With India refusing to pay, Cairn moved courts in the US. "Cairn's petition to confirm the Award is pending in the District Court for the District of Columbia," Air India said in the August 23 petition seen by PTI. It went on to state that the Indian government has filed before a court in The Hague -- the seat of the international arbitration tribunal -- a Motion to Stay and a Motion to Dismiss the arbitral award. "In effect, the Complaint (by Cairn Energy) is a premature enforcement action dressed up as a declaratory judgment action, invoking this Court's federal jurisdiction to get a head start on executing the Award before the D.D.C. has had the opportunity to address the Republic of India's immunity defenses and its claims that the Award is not subject to enforcement under the New York Convention," Air India said. "Such an attempt is improper, and the Complaint should be dismissed." It sought dismissal on three counts - first because the court lacks jurisdiction "to issue a declaratory judgment because the alleged controversy is not ripe", second "Air India is immune from suit because none of the exceptions to sovereign immunity under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) applies to a premature collection proceeding of a hypothetical judgment, and third "the Complaint, which presupposes an enforceable judgment that does not exist, fails to allege a cognizable cause of action." The Indian government had earlier this month asked the US District Court for the District of Columbia (DDC) to dismiss the case, arguing that it lacks jurisdiction since the country never agreed to arbitrate tax disputes. Meanwhile, litigation filed by New Delhi in the Netherlands to have the award set aside also remains pending. "Cairn asks this court to issue a declaration that Air India, as alleged alter ego of [India], will be liable on a judgment that does not, and may never, exist," the airline said in the August 23 petition. "Unless and until the court in the Cairn confirmation action determines the threshold question of the enforceability of the award against (India), whether Cairn can then enforce that judgment against Air India under an alter ego theory is purely academic and not ripe for adjudication." This comes within weeks of the government enacting a legislation to scrap the tax rule that gave the tax department power to go 50 years back and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas, but business assets were in India. That rule had been used to levy a cumulative of Rs 1.10 lakh crore of tax on 17 entities, including Rs 10,247 crore on Cairn. The Indian government and Air India are defending their positions as rules for withdrawal of such tax demands are in the process of being framed. "One of the requirements for the dropping of the retrospective tax demands is that the parties concerned have to give an undertaking for withdrawal of all cases against the government/tax department. So, while all this is in process, the government is obligated to respond in any legal matter where there is a time bar for doing so," an official explained. The government in the dismissal motion filed on August 13 before DCC, cited protections afforded by the US Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976. India in the filing said the court "lacks subject-matter jurisdiction under the FSIA because India never waived its sovereign immunity and, likewise, never offered - let alone agreed - to arbitrate the present dispute with Petitioners". "India also never "clearly and unmistakably" excluded judicial review or delegated exclusive competence to decide these questions to an arbitral tribunal", implying that Cairn couldn't satisfy any exception to sovereign immunity under the US law, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Centre releases draft of declaration to be given by companies to enable withdrawal of retro tax demands||The draft rules for the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, which would end the retrospective tax disputes with Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc, commits to refund the principal sum within a 30-day time period after compliance of all formalities. The companies concerned have to give an “irrevocable” undertaking to withdraw all legal cases against the government as well as undertake not to pursue any in the future. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has released the draft rules that specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the process to be followed to give effect to the amendment made by the 2021 Act. The CBDT sought comments from all stakeholders and the public by September 4. According to the proposed rule 11UE(5), the assessing officer shall issue a refund within 30 days of getting a direction from the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner of Income Tax. Tax experts said this should give some confidence to firms such as Cairn Energy and Vodafone to avail the offer, even though the forms were quite cumbersome. During the Monsoon session, Parliament had passed the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeking to nullify the controversial retrospective tax provision introduced in 2012 under the UPA government. The move is aimed at ending tax disputes with Vodafone, Cairn Energy and over a dozen other companies, besides facilitating fresh foreign investment. Subsequent to the amendment in the Income Tax Act in 2012 applying the provision retrospectively, income-tax demand had been raised in 17 cases. In two cases, assessments are pending because of a stay granted by the high court. Of the 17 cases, arbitration under the Bilateral Investment Protection Treaty with the United Kingdom and the Netherlands had been invoked in four cases. In two cases, the Arbitration Tribunal ruled in favour of the taxpayer and against the I-T department. Finance secretary T.V. Somanathan said a total of Rs 8,100 crore was collected using the retrospective tax legislation. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore was from Cairn Energy alone. This money will be repaid. As much as Rs 1.10 lakh crore in back taxes was sought from 17 entities that were levied taxes using the 2012 legislation. Of these, major recoveries were made only from Cairn. Tax advocate Narayan Jain said: “The draft rules prepared by CBDT run into as many as 30 pages. These should be simplified and made crisp.” “The parties concerned as well as the income tax department should cohesively work so that litigations come to an end and eligible parties get refund of tax paid by them  without any hassle or delay. The underlying principle of ease of doing business needs to be followed in its spirit even in such income tax matters,” he added. Sandeep Jhunjhunwala, partner at Nangia Andersen LLP, said: “Any dispute with respect to any of the prescribed forms or orders under these rules would be governed by the Indian laws and theIndian courts would have the exclusive jurisdiction to decide disputes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Govt brings new 'BH' registration series for new personal vehicles ||The road transport ministry has come up with a new registration mark for new vehicles — Bharat Series (BH-series) — to ensure seamless transfer of personal vehicles across states. The government has notified a new vehicle registration regime that will free vehicle owners from the re-registration process when they shift from one state/Union Territory to another. “This vehicle registration facility under ‘Bharat series (BH-series)’ will be available on voluntary basis to defence personnel, employees of central government/ state government/central/state PSUs and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/Union Territories,” the ministry of road transport and highways said. This scheme, it said, will facilitate free movement of personal vehicles across India upon relocation. An IT-based solution for vehicle registration is one such effort as “one of the pain points in the vehicle registration process that needed attention was re-registration of a vehicle while moving to another state”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Future Retail moves Supreme Court to stay HC orders, says if not liquidation inevitable||Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail on Saturday said it has approached the Supreme Court against orders passed by the Delhi high court to maintain a status quo in relation to its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail and directing it to enforce the order of the Singapore-based Emergency Arbitrator. In a regulatory filing, Future Retail said, “Please be informed that the company has filed a special leave petition before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the impugned orders dated February 2, 2021, and March 18, 2021, passed by ‘Ld. Single Judge’...The SLP will be listed for hearing in due course.” In its petition, the company stated that “here is extreme urgency to hear” and “stay the impugned orders” passed by the single-member bench of the Delhi high court, failing which the company would go into liquidation. Future Retail, in its petition, said the scheme of amalgamation, which will be listed before the NCLT, cannot go through due to the orders of the high court. “... and as a result of which the scheme which benefits all the stakeholders, including the public at large and various public sector banks may fall through; If the scheme falls through, it is inevitable that FRL will go into liquidation,” it said. Besides “approximately Rs 28,000 crore of public money in the form of bank loans and debentures issued by FRL and its group companies will also be at risk”, said the Future group firm in its appeal. The magnitude of damage that may be caused to the public at large is “unimaginable” as livelihoods of more than 35,575 employees of FRL and various companies that are part of the scheme may be lost, it added. “The solvency of over 8,050 SMEs (excluding SMEs of Future Enterprises Limited) and their employees is at stake. The scheme, filed before the Mumbai bench of the NCLT, entails consolidation of Future Group’s retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business into one entity (Future Enterprises) and then transferring it to Reliance Retail Ventures under the Rs 24,731-crore deal with RIL. The deal is contested by Amazon, an investor in Future Coupons that in turn, is a shareholder in FRL. Amazon, had approached Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), where an Emergency Arbitrator (EA) had on October 25 last year restrained the Future group from going ahead with its Rs 24,731 crore deal with RIL. Later, the matter was taken to the Delhi High Court, where on February 2, a single bench of Justice J R Midha had directed FRL to maintain status quo in relation to its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Justice J R Midha said the court was satisfied that an immediate interim order was required to be passed to protect the rights of Amazon. Later, on March 18, the court upheld the Singapore Emergency Arbitrator's (EA) order restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business, which was objected to by US-based e-commerce giant Amazon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||We are fast progressing in FTA discussions with nations like UK, UAE: Goyal||The country is rapidly progressing in finalising free-trade agreements (FTAs) with several nations, including the UK and the UAE, Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Foreign fund inflows have risen more than two-fold to $17.57 billion during April-June this fiscal on account of measures such as policy reforms and ease of doing business, an official statement said. “We are fast progressing in our discussions with the UK, the UAE and other GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) countries. Canada and Australia are really on a fast track,” Goyal said while addressing the JITO Trade Mahakumbh. Under an FTA, two trading partners reduce or eliminate customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. Besides, they liberalise norms to enhance trade in services and boost investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
29-08-2021||Business||Government extends tenure of UCO Bank's MD and CEO for 2 years||State-owned Uco Bank on Saturday said the government has extended the term of its MD and CEO Atul Kumar Goel for two years. The Centre, through a notification dated August 26, extended the term for a period of two years or until further orders, whichever is earlier, the bank said in a regulatory filing. Goel’s current term was to end on November 1, 2021. On Friday, PNB and Bank of Maharashtra had also informed about extensions given to their MD & CEOs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
29-08-2021||India||Police lathi-charge on farmers in Karnal triggers protests in Punjab||Farmers in Punjab blocked highways for two hours on Sunday in protest against the police lathi-charge on their Haryana counterparts as the neighbouring state government defended the police action, which a farm union alleged led to one death. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday defended the police action against protesting farmers in Karnal, saying they promised a peaceful protest but hurled stones at police and blocked highways. Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala too condemned farmers’ violence in Karnal but promised action against a duty magistrate who was caught on camera telling police to “break farmers’ heads” during their protest. A day after the police action in Karnal, a farm union leader accused police of causing death to a farmer, allegedly injured in the lathi-charge, but Karnal Inspector General of Police Mamta Singh refuted the allegation, saying that he died of natural causes. Owing allegiance to various farmer bodies, the protesters in Punjab burnt effigies of the BJP-led Haryana government for using "force" on farmers in Karnal. Around 10 people were allegedly injured on Saturday as police lathi-charged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. The two-hour-long agitation in Punjab that started at 12 noon also inconvenienced commuters, who got stuck in traffic snarls at several places. The protest disrupted vehicular traffic at many places and affected routes along the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway, Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway, Amritsar-Ganganagar highway and Ferozepur-Zira road. Khattar on Sunday defended the police action against protesting farmers in Karnal, saying they promised a peaceful protest but hurled stones at police and blocked highways. Khattar made the assertion in Karnal amid the opposition’s attack on his government over the police lathi-charge. “If they had to protest, they should have done it peacefully, no one would have any objection to that. They had earlier assured that they will hold peaceful protests. But if they hurl stones at police, block highways, the police have to take steps to maintain law and order,” said Khattar. Among the Opposition leaders, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu also condemned the police action in Karnal against the farmers, saying it was an attack on the fundamental rights of every Indian. “Deplorable assault on the protesting farmers is an attack on Fundamental Rights of every Indian … earned after innumerable sacrifices during the freedom struggle, It impinges and impedes on the spirit of the Constitution and Breaks the Backbone of India''s democracy !!,” Sidhu tweeted. Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni, meanwhile, claimed a farmer, Sushil, died of a heart attack after suffering injuries in the lathi-charge in Karnal. Karnal IGP Mamta Singh, however, refuted Chaduni’s allegations, saying the deceased farmer was not among the injured. The farmer had his food at his home in the evening and went to sleep but was found dead in the morning, she said. “The family did not even lodge any complaint nor was any postmortem done. The cremation was done by the family,” she added. Chaduni, meanwhile, on Sunday said a meeting of farmer leaders will be held in Karnal on Monday to discuss the future course of action in reply to the police lathi-charge. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait too met some of the injured protesters in a Karnal hospital on Monday. Condemning farmers’ violence in Karnal, Chautala also promised action against a duty magistrate, a 2018-batch IAS officer, who was caught on camera telling police to “break farmers’ heads” during their protest. “The IAS officer''s video has gone viral. Using such language by an IAS officer is condemnable,” said Chautala. “Definitely, whatever action is deemed fit, the government will take it,” he said. The deputy chief minister, however, also condemned the farmers'' violence, including stone-pelting, during their protest in Karnal. “The kind of action which was seen from the other side (by protesting farmers), do you support that?” he asked reporters. He said he was “saddened by the events”, but questioned the ultimate motive of farmer leaders. “I am saddened by the events, but I want to ask through the media where are those 40 (farmer union) leaders…after all what is their ultimate motive,” Dushyant asked reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
29-08-2021||India||Police investigation standard 'very poor' in large number of Delhi riots cases, observes court||A court here has said that the standard of investigation in a large number of 2020 northeast riots cases is “very poor” and sought the intervention of the Delhi Police Commissioner. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav made the observations while framing charges against one Ashraf Ali for allegedly attacking police officials with acid, glass bottles and bricks during the communal violence on February 25, 2020. “It is painful to note that in a large number of cases of riots, the standard of investigation is very poor,” the Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) said, adding that in a majority of cases investigating officers (IOs) have not been appearing in court.                 Furthermore, ASJ Yadav said the police hardly bother about taking the investigation to a logical end after filing half-baked charge sheets, due to which the accused, who have been named in multiple cases, continue to languish in jails. “This case is a glaring example, wherein victims are police personnel itself, yet the IO did not bother to collect the sample of acid and to have its chemical analysis. The IO has further not bothered to collect the opinion about the nature of injuries,” he noted in an order dated August 28. Besides this, the judge said that IOs of the riot case have not been briefing the prosecutors for arguments on charges and are merely e-mailing pdf of the charge sheet to them on the morning of the hearing. He also directed the copy of the order in this matter to be sent to the Commissioner of Delhi Police “for his reference and directing the taking of remedial steps”. The sessions judge further said that it is high time that the DCP of North-East District and other higher officers take notice of the observations taken by him and take immediate remedial action required in the matters. “They are free to seek the assistance of experts in this regard, failing which there is a likelihood of injustice being caused to the persons involved in these cases,” Vinod Yadav added. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between those supporting and opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
29-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre with hashtag ‘IndiaOnSale’ on Twitter||Upping the ante against the government over its asset monetisation pipeline scheme, the Congress plans to take the issue to the grassroots level with a series of press conferences by its leaders across the country. The opposition party alleged the Union Government resorting to selling "family silver" proves the "gross incompetence" of the Modi Cabinet in effectively managing the Indian economy. "The country is talking about friend-monopoly," Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said with the hashtag "IndiaOnSale" on Twitter to attack the government. Speaking in the same vein, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to the welfare of his "crony friends". "The aim is to profit crony friends. Modi ji is committed to welfare of his friends and the assets of the country are no more in safe hands," he said. He also alleged that to rub salt on the wounds of common people who are suffering amid a declining GDP growth, the prime minister has been extracting hard-earned money from their pockets and filling his own coffers. "He has now decided to sell the country's valuable assets worth Rs 6 lakh crore -- roads, rail, mines, telecom, power, gas, airports, ports, sports stadium and whatnot," the Congress spokesperson alleged. As part of its nationwide plan to take the issue to the common people, Congress leader Mukul Wasnik will address the media in Guwahati in Assam on August 31 and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on September 1 in Hyderabad, party sources said, The series of press conferences started with Rahul Gandhi holding the first in Delhi earlier this week. Besides Wasnik, another prominent member of the 'Group of 23' leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking a Congress overhaul - Shashi Tharoor - has also been roped in and he will address the media in Kashmir. Another leader Sachin Pilot, who revolted against the party's own government in Rajasthan, will address the media in Bangalore, while Milind Deora will hold a press conference in Cochin. Senior leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram will hold a press conference on September 3 in Mumbai while Ajay Maken in Raipur on the same day. A host of other Congress leaders will address the media including Bhupesh Baghel in Lucknow and Digivjaya Singh in Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
29-08-2021||India||Bengal logs 650 new Covid-19 cases, 6 fresh fatalities||West Bengal's Covid-19 tally rose to 15,47,548 on Sunday as 650 more people tested positive for the infection, while six fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 18,423, a health bulletin said. North 24 Parganas district registered the highest number of new cases at 88, followed by Calcutta (87) and South 24 Parganas (59). Two fresh fatalities were recorded in Hooghly, and one each in Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Nadia and Kalimpong districts, it said. The state now has 9,070 active cases, while 15,20,055 people have been cured of the disease so far, including 683 in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said, adding that the recovery rate improved to 98.22 per cent. Bengal has tested over 1.69 crore samples for Covid-19 to date, it said, adding that the positivity rate stood at 1.58 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Start-up culture now vibrant in India, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the start-up culture has become very vibrant in India with youngsters in even smaller cities embracing it, and asserted that it is a sign of India's bright future. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio broadcast, Modi also noted that space sector reforms in the country have caught the people's imagination and expressed confidence that a large number of satellites in the coming days will be developed by youngsters from universities, labs and other sectors. The prime minister touched upon a host of topics, including India's rich spiritual tradition and the boost the sporting culture has received after the performance in the Tokyo Olympics, in the address and also paid glowing tributes to hockey legend Dhyan Chand, saying he conquered the world of hockey for the country. The National Sports Day is celebrated every year on August 29 to mark Dhyan Chand's birthday. Noting that India won an Olympic medal in men's hockey after over four decades, he said youths are now drawn towards sports and their parents are happy to back them. “This itself is a great tribute to Dhyan Chand,” Modi said. Asserting that the young population's mindset has undergone a sweeping change, he said it is now keen on "new destinations and new goals by taking new paths and having new aspirations". The momentum the sporting culture has received must be further advanced, he said, calling for sports competitions at the village level. "Let us all countrymen strive to further this momentum as much as we can, contributing whatever we can. Let us transform the mantra of 'Sabka Prayas' (everyone's effort) into reality," he said. Modi said the Tokyo Olympics have created a major impact, and India's achievements may not be a lot compared to some countries but are enough to bolster the people's belief. "Today, it is not that the youth is just watching sports. The youth is also looking at possibilities associated with sports...They now want to surpass conventional ways and adopt new disciplines," he said. Similarly, young persons are moving away from family traditions, expressing the wish to launch or join a start-up and are willing to take risks. He said, "Today, the startup culture is expanding even to smaller cities and I am seeing it as an indication of a bright future. Just a few days ago, toys in our country were being discussed. Within no time this caught the attention of our youth and they too resolutely decided to work towards positioning Indian toys in the world with a distinct identity." Acceptance of mediocrity had crept into people's mindset earlier but the young minds are now focusing on excellence, he said. Noting that the world has been paying heed to Indian spiritual traditions and philosophy, the prime minister said people also have a responsibility to carry forward these great traditions. "Whatever was temporary and perished has to be left behind, but what is timeless has to be carried forward. Let us celebrate our festivals, understand their scientific meaning, and the connotation behind them. There is an underlying message in every festival," he said, wishing people a happy Janmashtami, which falls on Monday. Noting that the Vishwakarma Puja will be observed in the coming days, he said the festival is essentially an ancient Indian practice of paying tributes to different skills Modi also mentioned an FM radio station in Gujarat's Kevadiya through which radio jockeys are working to promote Sanskrit. He said the ancient language, through its thoughts and medium of literary texts, nurtures knowledge and also strengthens national unity. The prime minister also urged people to continue to maintain COVID-19 precautions. "More than 62 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country, but still we have to be careful, be vigilant," he said. In the broadcast, he also played his conversation with an American woman, Jadurani Dasi, who is connected to ISKCON and specialises in Bhakti Arts. The prime minister also mentioned the 'Water Plus City' campaign going on in Indore, which has consistently topped the ranking in the Swachh Bharat campaign. 'Water Plus City' means a city where no sewage is dumped into any public water source without treatment, he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Amit Shah’s plan to remit all cases through ED to harass opposition, says Derek O'Brien||Trinamool Congress MP Derek O'Brien on Sunday slammed the Centre for harassing the opposition, alleging that the Union home minister has drawn up a plan for remitting all cases through the Enforcement Directorate. O'Brien's comments came a day after the ED summoned TMC's Diamond Harbour MP and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam. "A sparrow in Delhi tells me that new CBI chief may have directed a few top officials not to act too brazenly. Harassing the opposition only benefits one party. So HeMan (HM) has a new plan. He is now remitting all cases through the Extremely Dedicated (ED) director who obeys HM, the TMC national spokesman said on Twitter. Reacting to his remarks, BJP West Bengal spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said O'Brien was casting aspersions on the CBI in an unfair manner. He also said the ED is a highly credible independent organisation. "The TMC sees the invisible hand of the BJP in everything," Bhattacharya said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had on Saturday also accused the Centre of letting loose its agencies on her nephew Abhishek in the coal scam case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Changing power situation in Afghanistan challenge for India, says Rajnath||The changing power equation in Afghanistan is a challenge for India, prompting a rethink of strategy and the Quad initiative underscored it, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. The Defence Ministry is seriously considering the formation of Integrated Battle Groups (IBGs) as quick decision-making is a key aspect during war time, he said addressing the Defence Servicee and Staff College at nearby Wellington. "The changing equation in Afghanistan is a challenge for us...These situations have forced our country to rethink its strategy. We are changing our strategy and the formation of Quad underlines this strategy," he said. Quad (Quadrilateral security dialogue) comprises India, the US, Japan and Australia. The Taliban insurgents stormed Afghanistan days ago capturing all major cities in a matter of days, two weeks before the US was set to complete its troop withdrawal after a vexatious two-decade war and the Kabul airport attack has left dozens dead and many injured. On IBGs, the Minister said these groups would not only facilitate faster decision-making but also increase the number of integrated fighting units. A reform initiative, 'Tour of Duty' was being considered by the government and it would be a game changing reform as it would help reduce the average age of military and make it more agile. Without naming Pakistan, Singh said, "After losing two wars, one of our neighbouring countries has started resorting to proxy war, and terrorism has become an integral part of its state policy." "If the ceasefire (between India and Pakistan) succeeds today, it is because of our strength. The cross-border attacks in 2016 changed our reactionary mindset to a proactive mindset, which was declared in 2019. It was further strengthened by the Balakot air strike," he added. On the India-China border standoff, the Defence Minister lauded the Army for behaving intelligently and the security forces once again proved that the nation is committed to face any enemy at any time and in any situation, to ensure national security regardless of the cost. An unilateral attempt was made last year to change the status quo on the border. "There too, we faced our adversary with a new dynamism," Singh said. Changes in spheres like the military power, trade, communication, economy and political equation could be clearly seen. In this era of globalisation, no nation could be left untouched by these changes happening around the world, he said. In such a situation, keeping the nation's security preparedness in proportion to these changes or a step ahead of them is the need. "Ever since our country became independent it has been the endeavour of enemy forces to create an atmosphere of instability within the country through one or the other means. Taking the history of the last 75 years, it seems that we have inherited the challenges," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Focus on Covid-19, staff shortage affected patients most, says Maha health survey||Focus on the Covid-19 pandemic, led to the postponement of several types of surgeries, staff shortage at hospitals were among the factors that affected patients in Maharashtra, as per a recently concluded survey. In a release issued on Saturday, the Jan Arogya Abhiyan, a non-profit public health campaign involving activists, experts and NGOs, which carried out the survey, said, “Cesarean section procedures, trauma care etc took a hit, especially in rural parts of the state.” The survey was carried out in July this year and covered 122 primary health centres (PHCs), 24 rural hospitals and 14 sub-district hospitals in 17 Maharashtra districts, namely Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Osmanabad, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Thane, Nandurbar, Parbhani, Palghar, Pune, Beed, Yavatmal, Solapur and Hingoli, the JAA release informed. At least 11 hospitals that were surveyed did not treat accident cases due to the pandemic, 22 rural and sub-district hospitals stopped performing C-section procedures and and 12 did not perform a wide range of surgeries, forcing many to rush to private hospitals and bear the resultant high costs, it said, adding that cataract operations, minor surgeries and sterilisation procedures were also postponed. Highlighting the shortage of staff at health facilities, the survey report informed that only 51 per cent of the surveyed PHCs had one permanent medical officer, which meant only one doctor for around 30,000 people, and only 53 per cent had permanent nurses. "Around 46 per cent rural hospitals and 30 per cent sub-districts hospitals do not have specialist doctors. As many as 81 per cent posts for psychiatrists, 63 per cent posts for surgeons, 47 per cent posts for anesthetists, 26 per cent posts for gynecologists, 23 per cent posts for pediatricians and 47 per cent posts for dentists are lying vacant in rural hospitals, the report said. JAA activist Girish Bhave said poor rural health infrastructure was a matter of concern as people there are excessively depended on government facilities, while activist Shailaja Aralkar said the pandemic showed public sector health facilities are the mainstay of people, especially in rural and tribal areas, and these must be strengthened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Bharat Biotech scouts international partners for Covaxin manufacture||Indian vaccine maker Bharat Biotech is seeking international manufacturing partners as it targets a billion doses of its COVID-19 vaccine each year, the company said on Sunday. COVAXIN, the company's home-grown COVID-19 vaccine approved for emergency use in India, is one of two shots driving the country's massive vaccination programme. But Bharat Biotech has struggled to boost output, missing supply commitments to the Indian government, which is also relying on a version of the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India and Russia's Sputnik V vaccine. On Sunday, the company rolled out the first batch of COVAXIN shots from a facility in Ankleshwar in western India that has the capacity to produce more than 10 million doses per month. Bharat Biotech said it was exploring opportunities with its international partners who have expertise in commercial-scale manufacturing of inactivated viral vaccines. "We want to ensure that Bharat Biotech can ably meet the demand for COVAXIN such that individuals across the country, and the globe, have access to the vaccine," chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said in a statement. Last month, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya told parliament that Bharat Biotech would supply 25 million doses in July and 35 million in August, less than half what the government had initially expected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||DGCA extend suspension of scheduled international passenger flights till September 30||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights due to the coronavirus outbreak has been extended till September 30, aviation regulator DGCA said on Sunday. “However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” it added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air-bubble pacts with around 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air-bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) also said the suspension does not affect the operations of international all-cargo services and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Weatherman fears below-normal monsoon this year, less rainfall in August too||The rainfall in August has been deficient by 26 per cent so far, with shortfalls in two successive months triggering fear of a below-normal monsoon this year. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, the rainfall in July was seven per cent less than normal. "August recorded 26 per cent deficiency till yesterday (August 28)," IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said, adding that the shortfall has been recorded in north and central India. June recorded 10 per cent more rainfall. The IMD will soon release a forecast for September, he said. The shortfalls in two successive months in the four-month Southwest Monsoon season from June 1 to September 30 have triggered fear of a below-normal monsoon this year. The IMD had earlier predicted a normal monsoon this year. Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency, has downgraded their forecast to a below normal monsoon this year. According to the IMD data, the country received 10 per cent less rainfall from June 1 to August 28. The IMD had predicted normal rainfall for August (94 to 106 per cent of Long Period Average or LPA), but it appears that the forecast will be off the mark. Rainfall over the country as a whole during the second half (August to September) of the 2021 Southwest Monsoon season is most likely to be normal with a tendency to be in the positive side of the normal, the IMD had said earlier this month. Data released by the Agriculture Ministry on Friday showed that the area of paddy cultivation was marginally down by 1.23 per cent to 388.56 lakh hectare so far in the 2021-22 kharif season due to deficit rains in some states. The IMD has four meteorological divisions covering different parts of the country. Northwest India which covers the north Indian plains and the hill states has recorded 13 per cent less rainfall than normal. The central India division which encompasses Gujarat, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Maharashtra has recorded 14 per cent deficiency. The east and northeast India division that includes Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and the northeastern states has recorded eight per cent deficiency. The south peninsula division which covers all the southern states has recorded 5 per cent more rainfall than normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Muslim dosa seller threatened for naming kiosk after Hindu deity in Mathura||Police here have filed an FIR after some people threatened a Muslim dosa seller and vandalised his cart because his business was named after a Hindu deity. A video clip of the incident circulating on social media showed the men tearing down the board which said Shrinath dosa corner. One of the men was heard saying Hindu people will mistakenly come to eat his stall. Another man was heard in the purported video asking the dosa seller why he was not using a Muslim name for the stall. The group also chanted a slogan calling "Krishna devotees" to "purify" Mathura. The incident took place on August 18 at Vikas Bazar under Kotwali Police Station area, when a few men accosted Irfan, the dosa seller. The police registered a case on Saturday under section 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown people. Deterrent action would be taken against the law breakers, SP city Martand Prakash Singh said, adding the hunt for the accused is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||How cops nabbed Mysore gang rape culprits||Bus tickets and liquor bottles near the crime scene and call detail records from mobile towers are said to have led the police to the gang that was allegedly involved in the rape of a college student near here on August 24, official sources said on Sunday. Police on Saturday announced the arrest of five people from neighboring Tamil Nadu, including a juvenile, while they are on the lookout for a sixth suspect. According to sources, police had begun the investigation based on the information provided by the victim's male friend, who was assaulted during the crime, that the culprits were speaking in Tamil. During a search of the crime scene, police stumbled upon bus tickets from Talwadi in Tamil Nadu to Chamarajanagar in Karnataka, and also some liquor bottles found at the scene bore the seal of Tamil Nadu excise department. Besides, analysis of the call detail record from mobile towers close to the scene of the crime, Chamarajanagar and Tamil Nadu, led them to finally zero in on the suspects, they added. With all these leads, police left for Tamil Nadu on Friday and upon reaching there in the mid-night, they swung into action which resulted in the arrest of the five suspects early on Saturday, sources said. The five, who frequented Mysuru often for labour jobs, even did loading and unloading at the APMC yard, and were reportedly involved in robbing lone travellers, young couples and women, before returning to their native place. They accosted the college student and her male friend near the Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24 and tried to rob them. When they did not succeed, they allegedly assaulted him and raped her, police sources said. Meanwhile, the court has remanded the accused to 10 days police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Other poster will have Nehru’s image, says ICHR official||Facing flak from opposition parties for excluding Jawaharlal Nehru from a poster celebrating the 75th year of independence, the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) said the controversy over the issue is "unnecessary" as other posters being released in the coming days will feature Nehru. "We are not trying to undermine anyone's role in the movement," a top ICHR official said, dismissing criticism on the issue, and added the poster was one of the many released as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. ICHR, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education, has been running a series of lectures and seminars on the theme of the Independence struggle under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebration. "This is only one of the posters released as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. There will be several others and Nehru will be featured in them... controversy around this is unnecessary," the ICHR official told. As part of the lecture series, the council has invited various historians and academicians to speak on different topics related to India's freedom movement. Opposition parties had targeted the government for the exclusion of the image of the country's first prime minister from the poster and suggested that it had been done deliberately. Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor and Pawan Khera were among the Congress leaders, who took to social media and shared the screenshot of the ICHR website showing photographs of Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, B R Ambedkar, Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malviya and Veer Savarkar while Nehru's picture was missing. Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday hit out at the ICHR, accusing it of bowing to hate and prejudice, and asked whether it would omit Henry Ford while celebrating the birth of the motor car or Wright brothers while celebrating the birth of aviation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Pensioners seek Narendra Modi's intervention in income tax exemption||Pensioners' body Bharatiya Pensioners Manch has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt pension from income tax to provide relief to the senior citizens in the country. In a letter shot off to the prime minister on August 25 this year, the body argued that if the pensions of the Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assemblies are not taxable, then why does the government levy income tax on the pension of retired employees. "Every retired person is paid pension as a superannuation fund for his/her livelihood on account of serving the nation for so many years. "Now, the question is raised why the income tax is levied on pension (of retired employees). This is not an income for any service or work. If MPs and MLAs pension is not taxable, why our pension is taxed?" the body stated in the letter. The body in its first all-India conference held at Shirdi (Maharashtra) on July 23, 2018 has resolved that pension should be exempted from income tax. Since then, this issue is continuously being raised by this organisation with the finance minister, but there is no response from the ministry, it stated. In the letter to the PM, the body added, "Bharatiya Pensioners Manch urges upon you to kindly intervene into the matter and direct the Ministry of Finance to consider this long pending genuine demand of pensioners. An early and immediate action with a line of reply to this organisation will be highly appreciated." The body also stated that it wrote to the Minister of Finance on the issue on August 23, 2018, on December 14, 2018 and on February 25, 2021. Referring to their earlier letters written to the Minister of Finance, the body said, "We are sorry to say that nothing has been done so far in this regard." The body also referred to an apex court order where the Supreme Court had held that pension is valuable right vested in a government servant and that the right to receive pension is a property under Article 31 of the Constitution. If it is denied to an employee, a writ of mandamus could be issued to the state to properly consider the claim of the pensioner for payment of pension according to law, it added referring to the SC ruling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Minor boy falls ill after getting Covid jab, probe ordered||A 16-year-old boy fell ill after he was allegedly administered a Covid-19 vaccine in Bagh Ka Pura locality in Ambah tehsil of Morena district in Madhya Pradesh, prompting authorities to order a probe on Sunday. A senior health official said the probe will find out how the teenager was given the shot even though the government is yet to roll out any anti-Covid 19 vaccination programme for minors. Pillu, son of Kamlesh Kushwaha, was administered the jab at a vaccination centre, nearly 35 km away from the Morena district headquarters, on Saturday following which his head spun and he started frothing from the mouth, sources said. Doctors in Ambah referred him to Gwalior for treatment, they said. After Pillu fell ill, his family created a scene at the vaccination centre. "We are checking whether Pillu reached Gwalior or not. According to unconfirmed reports he returned to his house instead of going to Gwalior," Morena District Chief Medical and Health Officer (CM&HO) Dr AD Sharma told PTI. He said a team was sent to Pillu's house this morning. "We are checking whether Pillu was suffering from epilepsy," he added. Dr Sharma said "An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain how the minor boy was given the COVID-19 shot". Pillu's Aadhaar card will be checked, Dr Sharma added. According to Pillu's Aadhaar card, he is 16-year-old and a resident of Kok Singh Ka Pura. His date of birth mentioned on the card is January 1, 2005, said people who know the boy's family. Indigenously developed Zydus Cadila Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D, which received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India recently, will be administered to people 12 years and above, the Department of Biotechnology had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Ayodhya is nothing without lord Ram, says Kovind||Ayodhya is nothing without Lord Ram, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday as he visited the city, where a Ram temple is under construction. "Without Ram, Ayodhya is not Ayodhya. Ayodhya exists where there is Ram. Lord Ram resides permanently in this city, and hence in the true sense, this place is Ayodhya," the president said while inaugurating a Ramayan conclave there. He was also scheduled to visit the Ram Janmabhoomi construction site where the temple is coming up, after a historic verdict by the Supreme Court in 2019. Apparently referring to his name, Kovind said, "I feel that when my family members named me, they were possibly having the feeling of respect and affection towards Ram Katha and Lord Ram, which is seen in the common public." Elaborating further on Ayodhya, the President said, "The literal meaning of Ayodhya is the one with whom it is impossible to wage a war. Owing to the courage and power of Raghuvanshi kings Raghu, Dileep, Aj, Dashrath and Ram, their capital was considered unconquerable. Therefore, the name of this city as 'Ayodhya' will always remain relevant." Highlighting the love of Lord Ram towards tribals, he said, "During his days of exile, Lord Ram did not call armies of Ayodhya and Mithila to fight the war. He gathered the Kols, Bheels, Vaanars and formed his army. In his campaign, he included 'Jatayu (vulture)'. He strengthened love and friendship with the tribals." A postal cover of the Ramayan conclave was also unveiled by the President on the occasion. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, and Union Minister of State for Railways and Textiles Darshana Vikram Jardosh were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Delhi Metro authorities build separate toilets for transgenders||In a bid to enhance accessibility to passengers belonging to the transgender community, the DMRC has allowed them access to separate toilet facilities at its metro stations, which were hitherto meant only for persons with disability, officials said on Sunday. Besides, any transgender who wishes to use gender-based toilet as per self-identified gender can also continue to do so, they say. At present, Delhi Metro has 347 such separate toilets across its stations, a senior official said. "In its efforts to provide safe space and prevent gender discrimination against transgenders, Delhi Metro on a priority basis has designated its existing toilets meant only for 'Divyangjans' so far, to be accessible for the transgenders too," the DMRC said in a statement. To guide transgenders to these toilets, bilingual signages (English and Hindi both), along with symbols for both categories -- 'Persons with Disability' and 'Transgenders' -- have been installed adjacent to these toilets. The provisions of section 22 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, mandates adequate welfare measures for the transgender persons at all public buildings including public toilet facilities. The Delhi Metro network spans about 390 km with 285 stations (including the Noida Greater Noida Metro Corridor and Rapid Metro, Gurgaon).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Manohar Lal Khattar accuses farmers of hurling stones at cops||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has defended the police action against protesting farmers in Karnal, saying assurances of a peaceful protest were given, but stones were hurled at cops and a highway was blocked. Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Talking to reporters in Karnal on Saturday evening after the meeting, Khattar said the protesting farmers had earlier assured the government that their protests will be peaceful. If they had to protest, they should have done so in a peaceful manner, no one would have any objection to that. They had earlier assured that they will hold peaceful protests. But if they hurl stones at police, block highway, then police will take steps to maintain law and order, said Khattar. Referring to the BJP meeting in Karnal, Khattar said it was a state-level meeting of the party and I condemn the call which they (farmers' outfits) had given to oppose it." "Obstructing the function of any organisation, on account of any reason, in itself is anti-democratic, he added. Haryana's Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk had earlier said only four protesters were injured, while ten cops sustained injuries in the incident. He said some protesters pelted stones at the cops and tried to attack them. Karnal Police IG Mamta Singh had said, We used mild force because they were blocking the highway. Some stones were also pelted towards the police. Mild force was used to disperse the protesters . Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday met some of the injured protesters in a hospital in Karnal and condemned the brutal lathicharge by police. Tikait said the conspiracy to attack the farmers in Karnal is clear from the orders of the Duty Magistrate, who is ordering the police to break the heads of farmers and lash them with sticks . The government is using lathis to suppress the voice of farmers, but it is mistaken, Tikait said. Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni said a meeting of farmers' outfits will be held in Karnal on Monday to discuss future course of action in the wake of the alleged lathicharge. To protest the lathicharge incident, he said the call for road blockade was until Saturday evening and added further course will be decided on Monday. Farmers protesting against the central farm laws have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Several farmers had gathered at the Bastara toll plaza near Karnal, responding to a call given by the BKU. The use of force by police had invited severe criticism from Opposition parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Start-up culture becoming vibrant in India, says Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the start-up culture has become very vibrant in India with youngsters in even smaller cities embracing it, and asserted that it is a sign of India's bright future. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio broadcast, Modi also added that the space sector reforms in the country have caught people's imagination and expressed confidence that a large number of satellites in the coming days will be those on which youngsters from universities, labs and other sectors would have worked upon. The prime minister touched upon a host of topics, including India's rich spiritual tradition and the boost the sporting culture has received after its performance in the Tokyo Olympics, in the address and also paid glowing tributes to hockey legend Dhyan Chand, saying he conquered the world of hockey for the country. The National Sports Day is celebrated every year on August 29 to mark Dhyan Chand's birthday. Noting that India won an Olympic medal in the men's hockey after over four decades, he said the youth is now drawn towards sports and their parents are happy to back them. This itself is a great tribute to Dhyan Chand, Modi said. Asserting the young population's mindset has undergone a sweeping change, he said it is now keen on new destinations and new goals by taking new paths and having new aspirations. The momentum sporting culture has received must be further advanced, he said, calling for having sport competitions at the village level. "Let us all countrymen strive to further this momentum as much as we can, contributing whatever we can. Let us transform the mantra of Sabka Prayas (everyone's effort) into reality," he said. Noting that the world has been paying heed to Indian spiritual traditions and philosophy, the prime minister said people then also have a responsibility to carry forward these great traditions. "That which was temporary and has perished has to be left behind but what is timeless has to be carried forward. Let us celebrate our festivals, understand their scientific meaning, and the connotation behind them. There is an underlying message in every festival," he said, wishing people a happy Janmashtami, which falls on Monday. Noting that the Vishwakarma Puja will be observed in the coming days, he said the festival is essentially an ancient Indian practice of paying tributes to different skills Modi also mentioned an FM radio station in Gujarat's Kevadiya through which radio jockeys are working to promote Sanskrit, and said the ancient language through its thoughts and medium of literary texts nurtures knowledge and also strengthens national unity. Modi also urged people to continue to maintain Covid-19 precautions. "More than 62 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country, but still we have to be careful, be vigilant," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Chidambaram slams Indian Council for Historical Research for omitting Nehru's image||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday hit out at the ICHR for omitting the photograph of Jawaharlal Nehru from the first digital poster to celebrate the 75th year of India's Independence, and said the explanation given is ludicrous. He accused the member secretary of the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR) of bowing to hate and prejudice and asked him whether he would omit Henry Ford while celebrating the birth of the motor car or Wright brothers while celebrating the birth of aviation. Ford was the first to invent the motor car and the Wright brothers were credited for building and flying the world's first aircraft. "ICHR Member-Secretary's explanation for the omission of Jawaharlal Nehru from the first digital poster to celebrate 75 years of independence is ludicrous," he said on Twitter. "After bowing down to prejudice and hate, it is best the Member-Secretary shuts his mouth," he also said. "If he was celebrating the birth of the motor car, will he omit Henry Ford? If he was celebrating the birth of aviation, will he omit the Wright brothers? If he was celebrating Indian science, will he omit C V Raman," Chidambaram asked in a series of tweets. The exclusion of Nehru's image from the poster of the 'Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations by the ICHR has triggered a controversy with opposition parties slamming the government for it and dubbing it as "petty and atrocious".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||NCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested actor Armaan Kohli in connection with a drugs case, an official said. Kohli was questioned by the NCB on Saturday after banned drugs were allegedly recovered from his house here. An NCB team raided Kohli's house on Sunday evening and later took him to the agency's office in south Mumbai as some narcotics were found at his house, an official had said. Sources on Sunday said a small quantity of cocaine was found at Kohli's residence, following which a case was registered against him and he was arrested. A drug peddler, Ajay Raju Singh, was also arrested under the NDPS Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||India records over 45,000 new Covid-19 cases, active infections rise||India added 45,083 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,26,95,030, while active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll has climbed to 4,37,830 with 460 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have increased to 3,68,558 comprising 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.53 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 8,783 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,55,327 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 51,86,42,929. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.57 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 34 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.28 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 65 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,18,88,642, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 63.09 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. More than 73.8 lakh doses have been administered in a 24 hours span, according to the ministry. The 460 new fatalities include 153 from Kerala and 126 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,37,830 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,026 from Maharashtra, 37,261 from Karnataka, 34,856 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,807 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,466 from Kerala and 18,417 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Police lathicharge protesting farmers in Karnal, several injured||Several farmers agitating against the farm laws suffered head injuries in a lathi-charge ordered by the Haryana administration in Karnal on Saturday to break their protest against a visit by chief minister and BJP leader Manohar Lal Khattar to his constituency. A video captured a person resembling the Karnal City sub-divisional magistrate, Ayush Sinha, purportedly giving instructions to police that no one should be allowed to breach the barricades and they can “break heads” if needed. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi was dedicating to the nation the renovated memorial to the Jallianwala massacre of 1919 on Saturday evening, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) was quick to draw a parallel. The Congress described the BJP-JJP government in Haryana as “General Dyer government”. Reginald Dyer was the army officer who ordered the shooting of peaceful protesters in Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar, in 1919. The video clip, tweeted by many including BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi, showed a man in a white shirt purportedly instructing the police to beat up the farmers, and the cops chorusing “Yes, Sir”. Excerpts from the video: Man in white shirt: It’s simple. No matter what, no one should pass from here – I’m making it clear. Break his head. (People) will not pass. I’m the duty magistrate. I’m giving it in writing. Hit with the lathi straightaway. Any doubts? Will you hit? Chorus: Yes, Sir. Man: Will anyone breach this (barricade)? Chorus: No, Sir. Man: Raise your lathis and hit straightaway. There’s no room for doubt, no need for a direction. Under no circumstances should this barricade be breached. We have adequate forces... there’s no issue. Will you hit them with your lathis? Chorus: Yes, Sir. Man: Wear helmets. Not one person should pass from here. If they do, their head should be broken. Asked by reporters about the video that has gone viral, SDM Sinha said: “I have not seen the video.” Referring to the police action near the toll plaza, he said: “They had begun throwing stones, and the CrPC provides for the use of proportionate force.” Asked about the nature of the directives attributed to him, the SDM said he would check the video and respond. The Telegraph tried contacting him and sent him a message but there was no response. The briefing recorded on the video appeared to have taken place near Gurdwara Dera Kar Sewa in Karnal where the farmers had decided to converge before leaving for the protest against the arrival of legislators to attend the meeting called by Khattar. In order to prevent this gathering, the district administration had barricaded all the roads leading to the gurdwara. The lathi-charge took place near the Bastara toll plaza. The police said only mild force was used but pictures on social media showed people in blood-soaked clothes. The police action saw the Samyukta Kisan Morcha – spearheading the agitation – call for an impromptu blockade of all the highways in Haryana till evening to press for the release of the farmers who had been rounded up. By evening, 15 detained farmers had been let off. According to the SKM, the farmers were protesting against the visit by Khattar and other BJP leaders to Karnal as has been the practice since the protests began. In both Haryana and Punjab, the protesting farmers have been organising protests against the BJP and its allies, making it difficult for the ruling party legislators and workers to visit their areas for political work. In a statement later in the evening, the SKM said: “The government’s brutal action, and the completely illegal and atrocious orders of the SDM to the police force deployed in Karnal today to ‘break the heads’ of the protesters are condemnable and bring disgrace and shame to our democracy. While PM Modi was doing a Jallianwala Bagh virtual rally, the Jallianwala Bagh unleashed in Karnal is doubly shameful.” The SKM demanded the immediate dismissal of Sinha. Khattar sought to justify the police action, saying that if people blocked roads, the police would act. “They are free to raise their issues in a democratic and peaceful manner. If they block highways and throw stones at the police, the police will also take steps to maintain law and order. We will look into it and take necessary action,” Khattar told reporters after the lathi-charge. Haryana’s additional DGP (law and order), Navdeep S. Virk, said some protesting farmers present at the Bastara toll plaza had blocked the Karnal highway and tried to head to the city. “When the officials present told them they could not proceed further, they got aggressive and some of them threw stones at the police. After that, as per provisions of the law, the police used light force and removed them from there. Four farmers and 10 police personnel sustained injuries,” Virk said. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Phir khoon bahaya hai kisan ka, sharm se sar jhukaya hai Hindustan ka (Again they have shed farmers’ blood and forced India to hang her head in shame).” Tweeting in Hindi, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said: “This is the dictatorship of the BJP government. We condemn it. Such a brutal attack on the farmers is a reflection of the government’s failures. There is still time, Modi government, agree to the farmers’ demands and repeal the three farm laws and enact a law guaranteeing an MSP. The government should apologise to the farmers and provide them free treatment.” The BJP’s Varun Gandhi posted the video and tweeted: “I hope this video is edited and the DM did not say this…. Otherwise, this is unacceptable in democratic India to do to our own citizens.” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Delhi University clears proposal to name new colleges after Savarkar, Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley||The Delhi University vice-chancellor is poised to acquire the sole authority to name new colleges and centres established under the varsity after any member of an approved list of personalities that includes Hindutva icon V.D. Savarkar and late BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley. The list of personalities and the proposal to vest the VC with the absolute authority to name new institutions has triggered controversy, with several academics saying it was aimed at pleasing the government of the day. So far, new institutions were named after consultations in the university’s academic council and executive council. If the new proposal, approved by the academic council, gets the green light from the executive council that will discuss it on Tuesday, the VC will be able to take unilateral decisions on the matter. University sources said the proposal was likely to be approved. The proposal comes at a time Delhi University has allotted 16 acres of land in the Najafgarh area and 40 bighas in Fatehpur in south Delhi for the establishment of new colleges. Apart from Savarkar, Sushma and Jaitley, the personalities after whom the VC can name new institutions are Swami Vivekananda, Vallabhbhai Patel, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, social reformer Savitribai Phule, former Delhi chief minister Choudhary Brahm Prakash and former Reserve Bank governor and one-time Delhi University vice-chancellor C.D. Deshmukh. “This list is politically biased. It seems it has been prepared to appease the ruling party of the day,” Rajesh Jha, a former executive council member, said in allusion to some of the names. He questioned the vesting of absolute naming powers with the VC. “Usually, the names are chosen (after discussions) on the basis of local conditions, the connections the personalities had to the area, and suggestions received from funding agencies such as the Delhi government,” Jha said. “But a fixed list is unprecedented. Has the government got any fixed list for naming development projects?” Santosh Kumar Rai, a history professor with Delhi University, said the naming of institutions had always been tied to political preferences. “Naming is always a political act.... However, it’s always history that judges the personalities, and the justification and symbolism associated with the naming of institutions,” Rai said. An email sent to vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi about the concerns expressed by critics of the proposal was unanswered. Nehru missing Savarkar’s picture has found a place alongside leaders of the freedom struggle in an online poster published by the Indian Council of Historical Research, but Jawaharlal Nehru has been excluded. The poster on “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” — the yearlong celebrations of the 75th anniversary of Independence — features pictures of Mahatma Gandhi, Rajendra Prasad, Vallabhbhai Patel, Madan Mohan Malaviya, Bhagat Singh, Savarkar, B.R. Ambedkar and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. A historian of the independence movement who didn’t want to be quoted said the ruling dispensation’s “harshness to Nehru” was a way of getting back at Gandhi indirectly. “Gandhi is so tall that he cannot be touched or targeted even now. Targeting Nehru is as good as attacking Gandhi. After all, Nehru was Gandhi’s choice to lead the nation after Independence,” he said. “Also, Nehru is identified with western culture, scientific knowledge, etc, which are unacceptable to the diehard ‘India lovers’.” The historian said Savarkar had started out as a robust nationalist before “his personality changed”. “Savarkar wrote boldly wrote about the rebellion of 1857 when the early nationalists, especially the moderates, had not gathered courage to overtly criticise the British. He called it the First War of Independence,” he said. “Savarkar had differences with Gandhi’s method of non-violence. But his personality changed after he was imprisoned.” He underlined how Savarkar had apologised to the British to secure his freedom and never done anything against the Raj after that. “He started Hindutva politics. The Hindu Mahasabha and Savarkar are as responsible for the Partition as the Muslim League and Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Savarkar believed that Hindus and Muslims cannot live together — and that if they do, one must accept a subordinate position,” the academic said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Single Covaxin dose equivalent to two doses in uninfected persons after Covid: ICMR||A single dose of the homegrown Covaxin in people already infected with Covid-19 is equivalent to two doses in uninfected persons, the country’s health research agency said on Saturday after a preliminary study. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said if these findings are confirmed through large population studies, a single dose of Covaxin may be recommended to previously infected people so that uninfected individuals may benefit under limited vaccine supplies. A natural infection with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, triggers a range of immune responses, including virus-neutralising antibodies, that last for many months. The ICMR research is part of efforts to understand how natural immune responses might influence response to vaccines. Studies in the UK and the US had earlier this year found elevated immune responses in previously infected recipients of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines and comparable to the levels seen after two doses in people without prior infections. Similarly, the AstraZeneca vaccine — Covishield in India — also elicits increased levels of neutralising antibodies in people with a history of Covid-19. But there was no similar data on Covaxin until now. The ICMR study has indicated that a single jab of Covaxin in previously infected persons serves as a powerful immune booster dose. Although based on a small sample of recipients, the study has found that a single dose in prior-infected individuals generates an even stronger response than two doses in uninfected individuals. The levels of one set of antibodies, for instance, increased in prior infected recipients from an average of 48 units before the first dose to 167 units after the first dose and to 211 after the second dose. In persons without prior infections, the levels rose to 2 units after the first and to 86 units after the second dose. Another set of antibodies increased to 76 units after the first dose in previously infected recipients and to 56 units after the second dose in uninfected recipients. The ICMR study examined immune responses in subsets of 30 Covaxin recipients with a history of prior Covid-19 infection and 80 recipients who had not had infections. “The number of participants in the study is small. One should be guarded in extrapolating its inferences at the population level,” said Samiran Panda, the chief of epidemiology at the ICMR and a senior author of the study published on Saturday in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. The findings, however, bolster evidence for suggestions that the Covid-19 vaccination policy could be tweaked to offer only a single dose to Covid-19-recovered individuals as this would free up vaccine doses to prioritise two shots to all uninfected individuals. “Our study provides scientific data,” Panda told The Telegraph. “A policy change now will be a too quick expectation and premature at this stage,” he added, saying the results would need to be corroborated through large population studies. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign has administered more than 620 million doses, but only about 142 million (or 15 per cent) of the estimated 943 million adults have received two doses required for full immunisation. The campaign, whose pace has been constrained by limited supplies of vaccine doses, on Friday for the first time achieved a record 1 crore doses administered in a single day. Health experts have said the campaign needs to administer 1 crore doses every day to fully immunise all adults by December-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Five labourers arrested for raping college student in Mysore||Five labourers allegedly involved in the rape of a college student near Mysore earlier this week have been arrested, Karnataka director-general and inspector-general of police Praveen Sood said on Saturday. The five, who frequented Mysore, are from the “labour class” engaged in jobs such as wiring, carpentry and driving, Sood said, adding that they hailed from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu. “According to preliminary interrogation, one of them is a juvenile — a 17-year-old — subject to confirmation,” he said. The sixth suspect is absconding. They accosted the college student and her male friend near the Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysore on August 24 and tried to rob them. When they did not succeed, they allegedly assaulted him and raped her, police sources said. “It’s a case of robbery first,” Sood said, adding that the culprits also demanded Rs 3 lakh. However, he said there was no blackmail angle to the incident so far. Sood said the accused persons used to come to Mysore for some work at Bandipalya APMC yard, a wholesale vegetable market, from the neighbouring state. “Before going back (home to Tamil Nadu), they had the habit of drinking (alcohol) and partying. They were there on that day (August 24). What happened thereafter is known to all,” Sood said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Modi govt’s attempts to break unity between Kargil and Leh trigger shutdown in Ladakh||The Narendra Modi government’s alleged attempts to break the fledgling unity between Muslim-majority Kargil and Buddhist-dominated Leh triggered a shutdown in the Union Territory of Ladakh on Saturday, forcing the Centre to invite the top leadership of the region for talks. A key Kargil leader claimed that Union home minister Amit Shah had to step in to pacify the Ladakh leadership. Ladakh has emerged as a major worry for the Centre after the rival Buddhist and Muslim leaderships joined hands early this month to demand full statehood for Ladakh with special status akin to that the undivided and erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir used to enjoy before August 2019. Ladakh’s Buddhists, most of whom live in Leh, had cheered the August 5, 2019, dilution of Article 370 and the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories. Their age-old demand for a Union Territory was fulfilled but they immediately raised a fresh call for “Ladakh for Ladakhis”, seeking exclusive rights for Ladakh residents over the region’s land and jobs. Ladakh’s Muslims, who live mostly in Kargil and are wary of domination by the more influential Buddhists, had bitterly opposed the August 5, 2019, decisions and had been fighting for the restoration of statehood and Article 370 provisions. The two districts have floated the Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance to fight for their rights. The fresh crisis erupted on Friday when Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai arrived in Leh for an outreach and invited for separate rounds of talks the political, student, social and religious bodies that make up the two alliances but did not call the apex leadership as a whole. Barring the BJP, no other party or prominent group met the minister on Friday. The Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance also asked all organisations to boycott the minister and observe a Ladakh bandh on Saturday. Appearing taken aback by the decision, Rai invited both groups for talks on Friday night but the call for a shutdown was not withdrawn. The Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance, however, jointly met Rai on Saturday. The bandh paralysed life in Leh and Kargil. Asgar Karbalai, co-chairman of the Kargil alliance, said it was the decision to boycott the minister and call for a shutdown that had forced the Centre to invite them for talks. “As a result of the shutdown call, Union home minister Amit Shahji personally called up Mr Thupstan Chewang, the chairman of the apex body (in Leh) and told him that the government had no intention to ignore it or the Kargil Democratic Alliance. He said there was some confusion and that he would tell the MoS (home) to contact Chewang,” Karbalai said. Chewang, a former BJP MP who left the party last year to fight for special status for Ladakh, on Saturday told reporters that they “suddenly” learnt on Friday that the junior home minister was in Leh and had invited the various groups individually while ignoring the apex leadership. “This made us suspicious of the intention of the government. We had made it clear that whatever solution was to come should come through talks with the Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance. Perhaps (by ignoring the two apex outfits and inviting the constituents separately), there was an attempt to break our unity, create a wedge between Leh and Kargil or between the various groups (in Leh and Kargil),” Chewang said. After meeting minister Rai on Saturday, the Ladakh leadership tried to play down the objections they had voiced earlier and pointed to “vested interests”. “Some vested interests are creating a divide. We could see at the meeting today that the (home) ministry had no role (in not inviting the leadership earlier). The meeting was cordial and we raised all our demands,” co-chairman of the Kargil Democratic Alliance and former Kargil MLA Qamar Ali Akhoon said. He said Rai had given them firm assurance that a committee would be set up soon to look into their demands. The joint leadership is fighting for full statehood for Ladakh, exclusive rights over land and jobs for Ladakhis, filing up of thousands of vacancies in government departments and granting two Lok Sabha and two Rajya Sabha seats to the region. Ladakh, which was home to just 2 per cent of the population of undivided Jammu and Kashmir, now has one MP in the Lok Sabha and none in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Bihar braces for fourth round of deluge with major rivers in spate following heavy rainfall||Bihar braced for the fourth round of deluge on Saturday with major rivers in spate following heavy rain across the state and neighbouring Nepal. The previous rounds of floods have hit 27 out of the 38 districts, affecting and displacing several lakhs of people and killing at least 43. The situation started worsening after the barrages built along the Indo-Nepal border started releasing excess water in the rivers flowing into Bihar since Friday morning. Around 3.5 lakh to 4 lakh cusecs was released continuously from the Valmikinagar barrage into the Gandak river in West Champaran district, while 1.73 to 2.25 lakh cusecs was released from the Birpur barrage into the Kosi in Supaul district on Friday. The discharge level decreased on Saturday but was still considered high. It was in the range of 2.5 to 3 lakh cusecs in the Gandak and 1.9 to 2.1 lakh cusecs in the Kosi. One cusec (cubic feet per second) is the flow of 28.32 litres of water per second at any particular point of reference.The huge discharge into the Gandak and Kosi increased their flow above the danger level at several places, bringing fresh floods in West Champaran, Supaul and other districts. The local administrations have started evacuating people from villages located in the low-lying areas. The floodwaters are expected to spread again in many districts where people were gathering themselves up after suffering over the last three months. The water will slowly make its way to the Ganga and also increase its level. Other rivers including the Adhwara, Kamla Balan, Burhi Gandak, Lal Bakeya and Mahananda are still flowing above the danger level. West Champaran, East Champaran, Sheohar, Gopalganj, Siwan, Araria, Supaul, Begusarai, Madhubani, Madhepura, Jehanabad and Nalanda districts were severely affected by the deluge in June, July and August. At present, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Saharsa, Patna, Vaishali, Lakhisarai, Bhagalpur, Saran, Katihar, Munger, Samastipur, Purnea, Sitamarhi and Kishanganj districts are flood-hit, affecting around 30 lakh people and displacing over 2 lakh. The 43 people who lost their lives in the floods this year are from these districts. “Much water is being released into the Gandak and Kosi rivers. We are keeping a watch on the development. We will have to assess the situation further to find out the areas where the floodwaters spread,” deputy chief minister Renu Devi, who also holds the disaster management portfolio, told The Telegraph. She said the state government was taking all steps to provide relief to the flood-affected by deploying the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) in the affected areas, while engineers from the water resources department are working to protect the embankments along the rivers. “We are running 327 community kitchens for the flood-hit people. Altogether 17 teams of the NDRF and 12 teams of the SDRF are conducting rescue and relief operations in the affected areas. We are also giving Rs 6,000 each to the affected families,” she added. The state government is also assessing the damage to crops and infrastructure in the flooded areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata launches attack on Centre for looking after self-interest||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday drew a distinction between her governance model and that of Narendra Modi, saying her government was “for all”, and launched an attack on the Centre for looking after only self-interest. The chief minister’s stress on the contrasting styles of governance came at a time the Bengal chief minister is playing a lead role in bringing together non-BJP parties for a united fight in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “When I run the government, I am for all. I am not like the BJP, which always looks after only their interest…. I get Trinamul Congress men arrested if they are in the wrong. Please don’t forget this,” Mamata said during a virtual rally from Calcutta on the foundation day of the Trinamul students’ wing. Although the programme was meant for students supporting her party, Mamata scaled up the scope of her address — occasionally switching to Hindi — as she spoke extensively on issues of national interest, besides talking about her government’s plans for youths in the state. The stress on the apparent inclusive character of her government came in reference to the alleged post-poll violence in Bengal, which is now being probed by the CBI and a special investigation team of the state police following a high court order that took cognisance of a report submitted by the National Human Rights Commission. “The BJP has made all commissions, including the National Human Rights Commission, political units and all the members (of the commission) are members of the BJP…. I am saying that the person who submitted reports in the court is a BJP man,” Mamata said, adding that her government had filed chargesheets in all cases of post-poll violence. Mamata wondered why the NHRC was not sent to Uttar Pradesh to probe allegations of atrocities against women. Suggesting that the Centre was going about in a planned manner to demean her government, Mamata also broached the controversy over questions on the post-poll violence in competitive exams conducted by the UPSC for recruitments in central forces. “It never happened earlier in our country. I demand the resignation of the person who set the question papers, and he should beg pardon from the people of our country,” she said. Mamata broadened her argument and slammed the Centre for using the Enforcement Directorate to settle political scores. Within hours of the ED sending summons to Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife in connection with a money laundering and coal scam case, Mamata said: “When the BJP government in Delhi cannot compete with us in politics, they use agencies.” All these developments are taking place under BJP rule, Mamata stressed, referring to the Centre’s constant frictions with other non-BJP chief ministers like Uddhav Thackeray of Maharashtra and Arvind Kejriwal of Delhi and indicating that the federal structure of the country had been demolished. “The federal structure has gone. They have taken everything (rights) of the state governments. I want to call a conference with all the chief ministers regarding the federal structure…. Everyone is facing the injustice of the Centre,” Mamata said in Hindi. She also referred to the national monetisation plan of the Centre and accused the BJP of selling the country. “The government is trying to sell off the country. Railways, airports, PSUs.… They want to sell everything off. Can you sell the soil of the country?” Mamata asked. Keeping with the wide-angle theme of her address, Mamata attacked the Modi government for its response to the unfolding situation in Afghanistan since the Taliban captured the seat of power in Kabul. She spoke up for the entire country, not just Bengal. “Why are all the people of my country who are stuck in Afghanistan still not back? What is your policy? Where are you standing now (on the Afghanistan issue)?” Mamata asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
29-08-2021||West Bengal||NFR introduces vistadome coach on train from New Jalpaiguri||The special train service with a vistadome coach for tourists who seek to enjoy the spectacular beauty of forests in the Dooars was introduced by the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) from New Jalpaiguri on Saturday. John Barla, the Union minister of state for minority affairs and Alipurduar MP, flagged off the train from New Jalpaiguri. In north Bengal, this is the first time that such a service has been introduced on the broad gauge. Earlier, the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) introduced vistadome coaches in its toy train service. The train, NFR sources, said, between New Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar junctions along the Dooars route will run thrice in a week, from Friday to Sunday. Leaving New Jalpaiguri in the morning, it is set to  reach Alipurduar in the afternoon, covering 169km. After an hour, it will depart for the return journey and reach New Jalpaiguri in the evening. Halts are at Siliguri, Sivok (the station that serves Sevoke town), New Mal, Chalsa, Madarihat, Hasimara and Rajabhatkhawa. “The train will have a vistadome coach with 44 seats. Also, there will be two AC chair car coaches, two general chair car coaches and two power-cum-luggage vans. The IRCTC will provide refreshment on board,” said an official of NFR. The fare, sources said, is Rs 85 for general chair car, Rs 310 for AC chair car and Rs 770 for the vistadome coach. Along the route, the railways will also make arrangements in some of the stations where tourists can have various experiences to enrich their journey. “Selfie points have been developed in Sivok and Hasimara stations where passengers can also enjoy tea tasting. Arrangements have also been made for folk dances at Chalsa and Hasimara stations during the return journey to New Jalpaiguri,” the official added. “Response is good. People are enthusiastically booking tickets for the vistadome coach. We hope in due course, it will turn out as a major attraction for tourists visiting north Bengal,” said Guneet Kaur, the chief public relations officer of the NFR. Parthapratim Roy, a train enthusiast on board the inaugural journey, said: “I believe this new train service will attract more tourists to enjoy the beauty of the Dooars on the foothills of the Himalayas .” The DHR authorities announced the launch of a “Steam Jungle Tea Safari” from August 30, that is, Monday “It will run between Siliguri Junction and Rongtong every day. Passengers can board vistadome dining cars and enjoy a ride in the toy train. It will be a four-hour-long return journey with stops in Sukna and Rongtong,” said a source. As part of the trip, tourists can visit the DHR gallery in Sukna. “Complimentary refreshments would be served on board. A trip per person will cost Rs 1,200, with some discount during lean seasons (winter and monsoon months),” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Police name only teen in Malda family murder case||Police on Saturday submitted the chargesheet of the family murder case reported from Gurutola village in Kaliachak in June. The police named Mohammed Asif, 19, as the sole accused in the murders of his parents, sister and grandmother. “It is a 273-page long chargesheet, uncommon in murder cases. In all, 44 persons have been named as witnesses,” said a police source. On June 19, bodies of businessman Jawad Ali, 53 his wife Ira Bibi, 36, their daughter Rima Khatun, 14, and Jawad’s mother Alek Noor Bewa, 73, were recovered from the basement of their house in Gurutola village under Kaliachak. Allegedly, Asif, Ali’s younger son, sedated and murdered them by drowning in February this year, and buried them in trenches on the premises of the family home. The crime was reported by his elder brother Mohammed Arif, 21, who claimed he was also his brother’s target but somehow fled. When Asif got desperate to sell off his parental property and asked Arif to return to start the process, the latter reported the murders to the police. Malda SP Alok Rajoria said a special public prosecutor was appointed for the case considering its rare nature. Asif, he said, was booked under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender). Asif was allegedly active on the dark web, said to be useful for illegal activities, and stored firearms with two friends. Police are probing these angles too. “Once the probe is complete, we might file a separate chargesheet later,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP leader’s nephew arrested with firearms ||Three persons, including the nephew of a local BJP leader, have been arrested in Malda for allegedly peddling illegal firearms. Malda police acted on specific information to nab the trio from Old Malda and recover from them two improvised firearms and five rounds of live bullets. The arrested have been identified as Akash Mandal, the nephew of Ukil Mandal, a BJP leader and chief of Sahapur panchayat of the district, and his close associates Nayan Saha and Tapas Mandal. “During preliminary investigation, we have come to know that they used to procure and sell illegal firearms,” said a police officer. The district BJP leadership distanced itself from the case. However, Ajay Ganguly, a district vice-president of the saffron party, said they needed to find out if Akash, in his late 20s, was falsely implicated at the behest of Trinamul leaders. “We don’t shield anyone. If the offence is proved, the law should take its own course. But if the arrest (of Akash) is made to humiliate our party leader (Mandal), we will act differently,” Ganguly said. ‘Infiltrator’ arrested A Bangladeshi national who allegedly infiltrated the international border a week ago and was staying at a hamlet under Baishnabnagar police station was arrested on Saturday. The police arrested two villagers who sheltered him . Police said the Bangladeshi was identified as Salmah Shah, 24, from Thakurgaon district of the neighbouring country. “He reached Natun-Sikosti village of Baishnabnagar and had been staying at the house of two brother, Ataur and Lutfar Rahaman. We need to interrogate them to know why Salman entered India and why the duo provided him shelter instead of informing us,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to Centre: Send NHRC to Tripura||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday dared the BJP-led Centre to send the National Human Rights Commission to Tripura over attacks on her party supporters “every day”. Her reaction came on a day a Trinamul joining event in Badharghat, 6km from Agartala, was attacked by suspected ruling BJP members, leaving three Trinamul workers injured. Three Trinamul student activists also received minor injuries at a college in Unakoti, some 150km from Agartala, when they were celebrating the foundation day of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad. “Will you send teams of National Human Rights Commission only to Bengal? Why were such teams not sent to Tripura...? Our people are attacked by goons there every day,” she said. Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharyya dismissed the allegations. Mamata alleged in her virtual address from Calcutta that even cops posted for the security of Trinamul leaders had not been spared. “They received injuries and were not allowed medicines or injection,” she said. She also predicted “khela hobe (her successful Bengal poll cry) in Tripura. She reminded BJP leaders that they did not allow her MPs to visit Assam during the NRC protest there. Her nephew and Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee warned the BJP that Trinamul would come to power in Tripura in 2023. “Trinamul will form the government in Tripura under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee. We will give development to the people of Tripura. There will be no goons... but a government on the doorsteps of people of Tripura,” said Abhishek. “The allegations are baseless and have been made only to remain in the news,” Tripura BJP spokesperson Bhattacharyya said. “It has been over a month but Trinamul has not been able to form the state committee. Nobody knows who is in charge. This reflects the actual strength of the party (in Tripura),”he added. At Badharghat, the attack “by 15-20 armed BJP goons” was carried out at the house of Trinamul member Mujibur Islam Mazumdar 20 minutes before the joining event, senior party leader Subal Bhowmik in Tripura said. The injured were identified as Mujibur, Rony Mia and Subhankar Debnath. Subhankar was flown to Calcutta in the evening for treatment. Trinamul student activists were injured at Kailashahar College in Unakoti district. All eight districts of Tripura celebrated Trinamul Chhatra Parishad foundation day. Earlier in the day, Trinamul in Agartala also took out a 6km rally attended by Trinamul MP Santanu Sen, which flagged spiralling prices, unemployment and worsening law and order. The BJP came to power in Tripura in 2018 defeating the Left Front. Trinamul has intensified its activities in Tripura with an eye on the 2023 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 661 fresh cases and seven deaths ||Bengal on Saturday completed 69 successive days of fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases with 661 new infections, 688 recoveries and seven deaths. The total of active cases fell by 34 to 9,109. Calcutta logged 109 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 78. Six of the 23 Bengal districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.22 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic — still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.53. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.61 per cent on Saturday. Twenty Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. Calcutta reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.46 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.19 lakh recoveries and 18,417 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Students should know how BJP saffronising educational institutions across India: Mamata ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said students should know how the BJP was saffronising educational institutions across the country, including Visva-Bharati, by replacing governing body members with BJP party members. She also said one could protest in Visva-Bharati as the varsity was in Bengal. Since Friday late evening, some Visva-Bharati students  have gheraoed VC Bidyut Chakrabarty’s residence to protest the rustication of three students who were faces of dissent. The VC allegedly has saffron leanings. “It is very important for students to know how the BJP is handling institutions in the country, including Visva-Bharati,” Mamata said. “Visva-Bharati is in Bengal and that is why you can sit here (in protest). There are many institutes where you (BJP) changed the governing body and replaced the members with BJP party members,” Mamata added in her virtual address to students on the foundation day of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad. Mamata’s comments came when a group of students have been gheraoing the Visva-Bharati VC at his residence since Friday night to protest the rustication of three students who had raised their voice against his “whimsical” actions. Somnath Sow, one of the rusticated students and a member of the CPM’s students’ wing SFI, welcomed Mamata’s comments. “She is our chief minister and we want her on our side. We kept the dais open for all who wanted to protest against VC and his move to ruin Tagore’s legacy by making the campus a club of the BJP. We hope as chief minister she understands what is going on here.” A Trinamul insider added: “In universities in BJP-ruled states, no one can protest wrongdoings of the saffron cadre.” A group of Visva-Bharati students have gheraoed his residence, forcing him inside, since late Friday evening. Protesting students said the gherao would continue till the VC revoked the rustication and withdrew all vindictive decisions against teachers and employees who had raised their voice on campus. A student has lodged a police complaint against three Visva-Bharati officials who allegedly heckled and threatened them when they came to protest. Police said they are inquiring into the incidents. On Saturday a group of teachers including members of Visva-Bharati faculty association officially announced that they would be with the students in this movement. “We are also facing the vengeance of the VC for protesting against his activities. The time to flout the gag order has come. We will be with this movement till the end,” said Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the president of VBUFA. He had been suspended for daring to raise his voice against the VC. “We demand immediate revocation of the rustication of these three students who has been the victims of the VC’s revenge. We have started a statewide movement and several students’ unions across the country are with the students here. On August 31, there would be a rally here and we would fight all the way against such vindictive varsity administration,” said Pratikur Rahaman, state president of SFI who met the protesters on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee goes after Amit Shah for narrative on Trinamul leaders and coal scams||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday went after the BJP-led Centre, especially Union home minister Amit Shah, for its narrative that Trinamul leaders were involved in coal scams. The statement came within hours of the Enforcement Directorate summoning her nephew and national general secretary of Trinamul Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira in connection with a money laundering case involving a coal scam in the state. “You want to catch only Trinamul (leaders) in cases related to coal scam.... But don’t forget that coal is not the responsibility of Trinamul at all. The responsibility of coal belongs to central government forces, like CISF. Remember it is not a matter of state. What was your CISF doing? I can tell you the names of a dozen BJP leaders who looted the Asansol area,” said Mamata. “Do you think that forcing someone to name someone will prove guilt? That will not happen, Amit Shah (Union home minister),” Mamata said in her virtual address on Saturday on the occasion of foundation day of Trinamul’s students’ wing in Calcutta. Then, she asked the BJP to fight Abhishek “politically.” “Remember Amit Shah, all of your leaders or ministers who came during the election (campaign) stayed at hotels of coal mafias from Asansol. I have all the proofs,” thundered Mamata. Sources in Trinamul said Abhishek and his wife were unlikely to respond to the summons. While Abhishek has been summoned on September 6, Rujira has been asked to appear for questioning on September 1. Unlike the CBI, which had questioned Rujira at her Calcutta residence in February, the ED has summoned Abhishek and his wife to appear at its New Delhi office. The CBI has drawn up an FIR against Anup Majhi, three senior officials of the Eastern Coalfield Limited (ECL) and with a few others for allegedly extracting coal from the mines in parts of Asansol and Ranigunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||Opinion||Spine Shine||There is nothing quite as sexy in a sportsperson as a nice straight spine. And when it comes gold-plated ‑ kya baat. It was nicely done, the manner in which Olympian Neeraj Chopra called out all those who were piggybacking his javelin and him to either run down Pakistan or foreground some hyper nationalism or just let off surfeit venom. Sharp, straight and swift. In recent times, sportspersons turn politicians readily enough, but are loath to espouse a politics or a stand. The record-holding ones prefer to work on the art of fence-sitting, a position that does not exercise to the fullest the ideological vertebrae. In the early days of the farmers’ protest, Sachin Tendulkar said, “India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India etc. etc.” Virat Kohli, who is known as the fittest cricketer of current times, said, “Let us all stay united in this hour of disagreements. Farmers are an integral part of our country and I'm sure an amicable solution will be found, etc.” In 1967, boxer and Olympian Muhammad Ali refused to be inducted by the United States army. The conscientious objector said, “I ain’t got no quarrel with them Viet Cong (the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam).” Almost immediately he was convicted, sentenced to prison, fined and banned from boxing for a couple of years. Martin Luther King Jr. said in a sermon, "He is giving up his fame. He is giving up millions of dollars in order to stand for what his conscience tells him is right. No matter what you think of his religion, you have to admire his courage." Then again, in the 2003 World Cup hosted in Zimbabwe, Zimbabwean cricketers Andy Flower and Henry Olonga wore black armbands to protest and draw attention to the abuse of human rights in their home country. What followed were death threats, expulsion from the team, an end of their international cricket careers and exile. Years later, Flower reportedly said, "I suppose at that time my convictions were stronger than my fears."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
29-08-2021||Opinion||So when we are this, and not||So here we are, this is what we look like. Recognise yourself? Erect. Full. Fulsome. Grounded. Variegated. In bloom. One. And many. Many in one. It’s the way we have come to being here, like this. Branches sprouted from a single root and trunk. Leaves sprung on many branches sprouted from a single root and trunk. That’s who we are. Not all alike, but all part of a splendoured thing that is one. Look at it! We used to. I don’t want to sound like someone with water on their brains that has trickled down and also rendered me not just wet but rather deluged behind the ears, but there you are. We used to. And then we embraced other ways of looking, and as a result we began to recoil from the embrace that came to us as naturally as the way the root embraces the earth (or the other way round), or branches embrace the trunk, or leaves embrace their branches and embrace each other too. Without the need to proclaim, hey, we are doing something special here! That was the way things were, the natural way of things. Which no longer are wanted or required or encouraged to be the natural way of things. And so some things like these things may happen. We began to look at each other and then we began to pick the other and then we began to tell the other, you are the other, you are not me. And then we began to argue, a sort of tuu-tuu, main-main, you know, that is how it is shorn of the frills, tuu-tuu, main-main! Who are you? And who are you? Why are you? And why are you? Will you get off? But why should I? Who said you belong? And who said I don’t? And so that’s how we began to shout and scream, and those who were more sounded louder. And then we began to point and poke and those who were more pointed and poked more. And then we began to snatch and stab and those who were more snatched and stabbed more. And then we began to tear and throw and those who were more tore and threw more. And the more this tumult pirouetted, the more it churned and chucked, until it came to an unmaking of natural things. To a shredding. To a shaking and a shuddering. To a creaking and a snapping. To a falling. To a dwindling. To a stripping. To an ugliness that wasn’t meant to be. But an ugliness which is. Do your willing, but do well know Not all good things come for free We can use the shade, bro to bro Or we can hang from the tree.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
29-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Spectacular species ||The human race is believed to be the most intelligent living species on earth. This belief is, of course, held by human beings — whether or not it is shared by other species in the animal kingdom remains a mystery to scientists. This conceit has, unsurprisingly, led civilization to be narcissistic. The collective conviction in the superiority — intellectual and otherwise — of their own kind has rendered human beings unable — unwilling? — to acknowledge the sentience and intelligence of other life forms on the planet. This smugness has had an interesting consequence: the endowing of ‘human’ qualities to flora and fauna. This human urge to anthropomorphize creatures great and small in order to perceive them in the light of mankind — wise, emotional and intelligent — is evident in literary works, be it the fables of Aesop with their talking animals, the Jatakas documenting the many lives of the Buddha, some of which were in animal form, or the beloved Cheshire Cat and its brethren in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. The time, however, may have arrived for these blinkers to finally come off and for human beings to acknowledge that intellect and a scientific bend of mind may not be their monopoly. Scientists in two independent research groups have discovered a mathematical law in the way elephants use their trunks and a principle of physics in ants’ building of underground tunnels. According to scientists, ants, in spite of their speck-like brain, are intelligent enough to execute an intricate tunnelling behavioural programme — it mirrors tunnel excavation strategies familiar to engineers — to build complex underground cities. Animals, as usual, are being benevolent; scientists now think that elephant trunk dynamics can be used to develop bio-inspired robots to detect, grasp or manipulate objects. These scientific discoveries open up an intriguing chicken-and-egg question. For years, in spite of their condescension towards fellow creatures, humans have been inspired by animals and their behaviour in diverse fields such as fashion, art and architecture. This phenomenon even has a name: biomimicry. In evolutionary terms, is it possible, then, that animal intelligence played a part in helping early humans — the world’s premier imitators — solve certain challenges? Humans have wondered at, and even envied, animals for their heightened senses, their remarkable efficiency and their ability to adapt to new situations and conditions; present-day robot engineers, such as those at Boston Dynamics, base many of their designs on animals. The recent findings about elephants and ants, while bridging science and literature, have opened up the possibility of anthropomorphism being used as capital for conservation practices. With the planet having entered its sixth phase of mass extinction — more than 500 species of land animals are expected to disappear soon — human beings should take on the responsibility of protecting wildlife and the ecological balance now that science has proved that the differences between man and beast may not be that much.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
29-08-2021||Opinion||Welcome addiction||Writing this on the morning after India batted out the day at Headingley to finish at 215 for two, still 139 runs behind, it’s apparent that the power of Test cricket vests in the weird fact that you don’t just watch a match, you live inside it. A Test isn’t a house, more a shamiana or a pandal rigged up for five days. You eat your way through the contest: fifteen meals (if you don’t count teas) lived in hope or gathering desolation. These meals are communally eaten — even the ones you eat alone — because you call up friends to rage about Kohli or despair about Pujara or exclaim about the historic duplicity of the angrez. You vent in all caps messages on WhatsApp groups given over to cricketing conversation. There are more temperate ways of watching cricket, driven by non-partisan appreciation, but even Spockian spectators go to sleep marvelling at Root’s backfoot play and wake to the prospect of more of it. It’s the anticipation that’s addictive; in normal life, you have to work to create a sense of purpose, but a Test match does that for you as one day barrels into the next driven by the momentum of the match. There’s a certain pathos, of course, to middle-aged men, accustomed to their days bleeding one into the other, using cricket to hurry up their lives but as addictions go this has to be one of the more harmless ones. Test cricket is an education; as a child, I was taught time zones by the BBC. The dislocation involved in pretending that the day began at 3.30 in the afternoon, drove home the significance of the prime meridian at Greenwich and the temporal implications of living on a round planet in a way that no physical geography textbook could have done. As a child, I accepted the fact that English lunch times coincided with evening tea without demur; it was just one more proof of the essential arbitrariness of the grown-up world. The deranging thing about following foreign matches is the difficulty in making the two days you’re living in align. The time zone challenge is straightforward. Total immersion in a match happening, say, in Australia, shakes up the rhythms of the day. The great thing about Australian tours was that if I had late morning class, I could follow pretty much all three sessions by the time I had to leave for the lecture. The alarm went off at 5.20 in the morning and because it was always winter and I was always in Delhi so it was always cold, I’d rise wearing my bedclothes. Swaddled in my blankets, I’d shuffle off to the drawing room where the Philips radio used to be. There, after some mooing and whistling on the shortwaves, a thin, clear thread of sound, courtesy the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, would join me to the match. The source of this thread of sound was one Alan McGilvray and, at other times, a man called Lindsay Hassett. I didn’t know who they were, but I was grateful that they talked all morning to bring the match to me. I didn’t always understand what they were saying because reception fluctuated and, to my provincial ear, all their words were shaped by a single vowel, a flat, nasal ‘a’ sound, so it was sometimes hard to tell them apart. Later, of course, there was television and the magical professionalism of Channel 9 and Richie Benaud, but either way, after six hours of cricket, the rest of the day, my real day, unwound like a prolonged anti-climax, made bearable only by the prospect of another day’s cricket at the crack of dawn. Hard as it was to live in two time-zones, home matches created the more acute reality problem. My one mystical experience was brought on by that match in Calcutta in 2001. It was a teaching day, and as I drove to university, Laxman was trying to shore up that first innings collapse. I was carrying a larger backpack than usual because I had to fit in a chunky transistor radio along with my usual teaching materials. I went straight into class for a fifty-minute lecture. At the end of it, I locked myself in the department’s small makeshift tea-room, and caught up with the match on the radio. Laxman was out for 59 and India had been made to follow-on. In the way that desi fans have, I decided all was not lost, that Laxman’s fifty was a sign. Cricket for the largely non-playing Indian fan is a kind of cargo cult and you’re always looking for a saviour ship on the horizon. Laxman, I had decided, was my redemptive vessel. The trouble was, I had another class. This was a class on Sufism in late medieval India. It was meant to be an account of a debate at the time about whether the mystical union between man and god was a union of their respective essences or ‘merely’ a unity of perception. My grasp of the metaphysics of this was shaky to start with and with India’s second innings about to begin, it was all I could do to get the names of the doctrines and their historical protagonists right. I managed to make my way to the end of the class without disgracing myself, but I did have an epiphany: I knew, for an extended moment, that this classroom, the university, Delhi in general, were insubstantial and illusory: that reality was unfolding elsewhere, specifically inside the Eden Gardens. It’s too much to hope that Pujara and Kohli (or Rahane or Pant or Jadeja) will reprise Laxman-Dravid. It’s not a home Test, for one. For another, the middle order has been in wretched form. I’ve just read an essay on a cricketing website that makes the monstrous claim that the miserable recent batting averages of Kohli and Pujara tell us nothing about their form. That, apparently, must only be measured by a new metric, their ‘control’ percentages: that is, how often are batsmen in control of the balls they face and contrariwise, how many balls do they miss or edge. According to the author, there is nothing in Kohli and Pujara’s recent record that suggests a decline in ‘control’ and, therefore, no evidence of a decline in form. He’s wrong, of course. Once you absolve batsmen of the responsibility for their failures, you forsake the most refined pleasure that Test cricket has to offer, the post-mortem. Here praise and blame are assigned, professionalism assessed, impetuosity condemned and steadfastness praised. To suggest that Rohit Sharma’s failures aren’t down to fecklessness or Kohli’s low scores to arrogance, or Pujara’s to timorousness, is to split cricket from character. The no-blame duck is to cricket what the no-fault divorce was to marriage: the end of civilization as we know it. On the other hand, the author of the piece, Kartikeya Date, does suggest that Kohli’s control figures indicate that he is due a big score soon. I don’t hold with prophecy, but this innings might be a good time for him to get one. It’s not impossible that new-fangled nerds know stuff that sedentary pedants don’t. Perhaps it isn’t too much to expect that Pujara and Kohli will get to lunch with their partnership intact. Does this match have another night’s sleep in it? A fifth day’s breakfast? There’s no other sport that you can ask those questions of. There’s only ever one answer, though: we shall find out. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
29-08-2021||Opinion||When Modi enquired about Lalu's health ||The 10-member delegation of different parties led by the Bihar chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party ally, Nitish Kumar, was all charged up to meet the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to demand a caste census for the country. The leaders had rehearsed what to say to the PM on the issue, but once the meeting started, everything changed. Modi set the ball rolling by emphasizing the need to get acquainted with the leaders and reportedly spent a major part of the 40-minute-long meeting on this, bowling them over cups of tea. Most of them had never chatted with a prime minister before. Mukesh Sahni, ‘Son of Mallah’ and the leader of the Vikassheel Insan Party, who claims to represent fishermen and boatmen, produced a silver fish as a gift for Modi, much to the amusement of the other delegates who joked that a fish made of gold would have been more appropriate since it is considered auspicious. The PM even went on to ask the Bihar leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Yadav, about the health of his father and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad. In fact, he dwelt on it for quite some time. “Tejashwi was very happy while Modi enquired about Lalu and we saw the discomfiture of Nitish over it. We wondered whether it was a signal to him that the BJP was not averse to forging a new political equation, if he tried to cut loose from the alliance,” confided a leader who was part of the delegation. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) Kerala state committee has finally asserted its right to have more say in governing the Left-ruled state. While the CM, Pinarayi Vijayan, had a free run over matters in his first term, the second one has already raked up a slew of controversies. Added to that is a stubborn Covid-19 surge which has brought more brickbats than bouquets to the ‘commissar’ known for his tough ways. At a recent brainstorming session, the state committee even prepared a ready reckoner on negotiating road humps for the party-led Left Democratic Front lawmakers in a clear indication that things are not hunky-dory just three months after the party was voted back to power. Many see it as an effort to prevent the Left Front from going the same way it did in West Bengal and Tripura. All is not well with the Bharatiya Janata Party in Karnataka either. There seems to be no remedy for the ‘rebel’ headache. One of the 17 turncoats who helped the party come to power in 2019, AH Vishwanath, has turned against his party colleague. When the BJP Lok Sabha member, Pratap Simha, claimed credit for widening the Bangalore-Mysore expressway, Vishwanath rubbished his claim, reminding him that it was among the projects the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance had sanctioned. The leader rubbed it in further by reminding Simha that the projects were sanctioned when he and other Congress MPs were in the Lok Sabha — this was long before Simha entered the lower House. The railways minister, Ashwini Vaishnaw, won hearts during his recent visit to Odisha as part of the BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra, which is being held across 22 states to introduce the new inductees to the Union cabinet. But Vaishnaw disappointed his own party as he desisted from criticizing the Biju Janata Dal government in the state. The bureaucrat-turned-politician was an instant hit with the people wherever he went as he mingled with them freely. He danced with the tribal people in Koraput and had tea at a roadside stall. But while reviewing railway projects at different places, he was careful not to speak a word against either the BJD or the CM, Naveen Patnaik. Elected to the Rajya Sabha with the BJD’s support and having served as a bureaucrat in the state, he perhaps thought it wise not to attack the government and the ruling party. This disappointed the state BJP, which is locked in a fierce turf war with the BJD ahead of the panchayat polls due early next year. As the main Opposition party in the state, the BJP misses no opportunity to attack the government, hence its displeasure with Vaishnaw. The BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Assam has put the spotlight back on the former CM, Sarbananda Sonowal, who had maintained a low profile since losing his seat to Himanta Biswa Sarma. This was Sonowal’s first visit to Assam after gaining a place in the Union cabinet as the minister for Ayush and for ports, shipping and waterways. He was given a grand welcome by Sarma and the new state unit president, Bhabesh Kalita. The Opposition, though, seized the opportunity to embarrass the government by asking why the people should bless Sonowal and the BJP. The Congress also said that the BJP should have held a Jan Khama Yatra instead of an ashirwad rally for the scores of unfulfilled commitments since it came to power. Political pundits claimed that the Congress’s reaction underlines the importance of performance over publicity and packaging. Sonowal has to deliver in his second stint if he is to secure his political future was the whisper in the corridors of power. The Union minister, Hardeep Singh Puri, faced the ire of trolls — usually reserved for his opponents — this week for tweeting in memory and appreciation of Mother Teresa on her birth anniversary. The right wing went for his throat with all the canards that have been used against the saint — particularly the charge of conversion. The responses on his Twitter timeline put the minister in the company of ‘sickular libtards’ for the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
29-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: BJP failed to gauge Bengal's humanitarian soul||Sir — At last, someone in the saffron camp seems to have spoken the truth (“Wrong model”, Aug 26). The Bharatiya Janata Party joint national general-secretary (organization), Shivprakash, has allegedly admitted that “[p]eople [in Bengal] are mostly secular and hence, didn’t fall for the Hindutva brand of politics...” Unlike most of India at present, Bengal has still resisted activities like communal pogroms, murder in the name of cow protection, love jihad and so on. Bengal is a place where Muslims donate money for the construction of Durga temples and Hindus part with land to set up graveyards. The BJP and its bhakts failed to gauge the humanitarian soul of Bengal. This is why, in spite of unleashing the entire power of the State machinery in Bengal before the assembly polls and churning out a deluge of communal poison, the BJP has received a severe thrashing from the electorate. Yet, far from accepting this defeat gracefully, the BJP is not only making every effort to demean Bengalis, but there was also a proposal to divide West Bengal. The party seems hell-bent on dividing the people, one way or the other. Moreover, fake assertions of “assault” on Hindu festivals in Bengal are laughable. With each passing year, the celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi, Ram Navami and so on are becoming more boisterous. No place in the world is free from sectarian tensions, and in Bengal, too, stray instances of communal tension may have been reported in some places. But compared to the rest of the country and many parts of the globe, Bengal remains an oasis of communal harmony. Given their mindset, BJP leaders and bhakts are requested to refrain from invoking the name of Swami Vivekananda — the epitome of communal brotherhood. This humanitarian worshipped a four-year-old Kashmiri Muslim girl during Kumari Puja at the Kheer Bhawani temple in 1898. The BJP should pay heed to what Shivprakash has to say and imbibe the essence of humanity from Bengal. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — While most people are celebrating the admission of the BJP functionary, Shivprakash, what is striking is that hardly anyone is surprised by his open acceptance of the fact that the party and its Hindutva brand of politics use the communal card to win elections. This resignation about the poor state of affairs in what is purported to be a democracy is unfortunate. Neither the electorate nor the politicians seem bothered about the narrow means being employed to win elections. Rather, in most parts of the country, it appears to be reaping rich dividends. Why is the government not being held accountable for its failure to provide jobs, economic stability and food to the masses? Rashmi Singh,Calcutta Sir — The Alipore zoo is all set to be modernized in the model of the Prague zoo — new animal species are also to be brought in as part of an exchange programme as per an agreement signed between the West Bengal state forest department and Prague zoo authorities. This is encouraging. But what must not be forgotten is the difference in climatic conditions between Bengal and Prague. Animals used to European weather will invariably be ill at ease in the tropical heat. Earlier, the government’s attempt to turn Bengal into London had failed. One hopes the same does not happen this time. Ashim Mukherjee, Calcutta Sir — It is heartening that the police and civic officials will resume visits to markets to remind traders and customers to wear masks (“Market mask policing to resume”, Aug 28). The other day, I went to the New Market area for some work at the municipal office and was shocked to see that both sellers and those shopping had done away with even the pretence of wearing a mask. Earlier, there was much mirth about masks hanging from ears and around the chin. Now, people seem to be carrying on as if the pandemic has passed. This can be dangerous when a third wave is being expected. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to build disaster-ready hospital||The steel city will soon have a field hospital made with inflatable structures and ergonomically designed beds with facilities to admit 100 patients as a backup measure to tackle a possible third wave of coronavirus infections. A Delhi-based firm - PT Medical Solutions - has started erecting the inflatable structures made of fire retardant PVC tarpaulin on the premises of the Sakchi-based MGM Medical College and Hospital. "In all there will be four units. Each of the units will have 25 semi fowler beds (ergonomically designed beds with backrest functions and ... collapsible side rails to ensure patient safety). The 100- bed hospital which will entail an investment of around Rs 3.5crore would be ready in another three days. The inflatable field hospital has a life of 25 years. It can be shifted anywhere as and when required," said Sushil Chaudhary, CEO of PT Medical Solutions talking to The Telegraph Online over phone from New Delhi. If fact the state health department had entrusted the job of coming up with such a unique inflatable hospital to American India Foundation (AIF) which roped in the Delhi-based firm for the hospital project. Spread in around 12,000 sq ft area, the  inflatable field hospital will have 16 ICU beds with ventilator facility, 30 oxygen ready bed and 54 general ward bed which can be converted into paediatric and ICU bed instantly, in case of a possible third wave. It will also have high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen delivery system required for patients on ventilators and Manifold Gas Pipeline System (MGPS) which will ensure oxygen supply in every bed. A team of a dozen workers engaged by the firm is working at the site for completing the inflatable field hospital project which will be inaugurated in the first week of September. The high-grade PVC material used for the inflatable structures are fire retardant and weatherproof too. The CEO of the Delhi firm Chaudhary said, such inflatable field hospital proves boon during health crisis or natural disasters. "We’re ready to serve for the possible third wave or during other disasters like earthquakes, cyclones, floods, or any medical crisis. If there is a situation that needs rapidly deployable medical facilities, we are up to the challenge," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Four-day monitoring and evaluation at Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary ||A four-member central team completed a four-day inspection of the Dalma wildlife sanctuary on Sunday. Led by Hari Kumar, a retired IFS officer of the Kerala cadre, the team had been to the sprawling Dalma hills on the instruction of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) for carrying out monitoring and evaluation of the sanctuary. The team had arrived at the Dalma hills on Thursday and finished its inspection on Sunday morning. Revealing about the central team's visit, divisional forest officer, Dalma wildlife sanctuary, Abhishek Kumar said that the kind of inspection that the central team carried out is being done at all the sanctuaries across the country. "The WII is the nodal agency of the sanctuaries across the country and the central team had been to the Dalma sanctuary for carrying out the morning and evaluation of the sanctuary so as to suggest what else can be done for the development of it," the DFO said to The Telegraph Online. Kumar pointed out though the central team will give its opinion about the Dalma sanctuary at a later stage, it has suggested to make the sanctuary more eco-friendly. "The central team has suggested to develop villages surrounding the Dalma hills so that the people living there may not have to depend on the hills for making their living," said the senior forest officer. Spread over an area of 189 square kilometers, Dalma wildlife sanctuary is home to over 150 elephants. Apart from the wild elephant population, the sprawling hills close to Jamshedpur, is also home to a varied species of deer, monkey and python beside other wild animals as well as birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||National Sports Day: Kolhan's tallest Tricolour unfurled in East Sighbhum||Kolhan division's tallest tricolour was inaugurated and hoisted on the occasion of National Sports Day and 116th birth anniversary of hockey wizard major Dhyan Chand at the newly-constructed camp of CRPF at Jaduguda in East Singhbhum on Sunday. Deputy Inspector General of Police, CRPF Jamshedpur Ashu Shukla completed the formalities. He also felicitated some former sportspersons of the steel city by handing them mementos. CRPF deputy commandant K.N. Haldhar was among those present on the occasion. The tricolour has been hoisted at a height of 35.5 metres and is the tallest in the Kolhan "Today is hockey wizard Major Dhyan Chand's birthday and Kolhan division's tallest tricolour has been inaugurated and hoisted. Our sportspersons are doing well and winning laurels for the country," Shukla said. The former sportspersons who were honoured included J.P. Singh (basketball) , L. Nageshwar Rao (karate), Birdhan Marandi (athletics) and Hassan Imam Mallick (handball). Dhyan Chand visited Jamshedpur in 1933 Major Dhyan Chand visited Jamshedpur to play an exhibition match in 1933. Dhyan Chand, whose team consisted of several Olympic hockey players and four from Jamshedpur, scored three goals as his team won the match 6-1. The hockey magician, known for his superb ball control, earned three Olympic gold medals in 1928, 1932 and 1936. Basketball East Singhbhum District Basketball Association (ESDBA) organised a two-day 3x3 basketball tournament (boys and girls) at Dhatkidih Community Centre to mark National Sports Day. The event was supported by Urban Services (CSR), Tata Steel. Thirty-two (24 boys and 8 girls) teams were part of the tournament which was played on a league-cum-knock-out system. The tournament was inaugurated by international athlete and area officer Urban Services Birdhan Marandi in the presence of Olympian and ESDBA president Harbhajan Singh, secretary Pradeep Mukherjee and coaches. Jusco School celebrates National Sports Day Jusco School, Kadma celebrated National Sport’s Day on Google Meet’. The initiative was taken by the sports teachers of the school. Around 95 students from class 1 to X joined the meet. Outdoor activity teachers Ramu Leyangi (Archery), Rahul Kumar (Taekwondo), Anup Kumar Singh (Chess), Kiran Singh (Yoga) and Ujjal Chatterjee (Table Tennis) motivated the students as what needs to do / practice to become a district / state / national or international level in near future. They explained the different exercises required for different sports. They also emphasised the fact that sports should be a part of their life and will also help them to become a true sportsman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents protest against garbage compactor in neighbourhood||More than 200 residents of the densely populated, Telephone Exchange Road, Dhoatand-Sastrinagar east on Sunday took out a protest march and carried out a demonstration at Dhanbad Municipal Corporation against the ongoing construction work of a Static Garbage Compactor Transfers station in their area, situated near the trade and commerce hub of the district. The protesters bearing banners and posters congregated at the compactor station at around 8am under the banner of Nagrik Parshad, Telephone Exchange Road/Dhoatand Sastri Nagar East and took out a march passing through Telephone exchange road, Jharia pul, Birsa Chowk and J.P. Chowk before reaching in front of the Bank More office of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at around 8.45 am where they staged demonstration for more than half an hour. The protesters comprising of traders of Bank More as well as residents of Telephone Exchange road, Joraphatak etc who were visibly aghast over the DMC decision to construct the garbage compactors station in their area were also perturbed over the silence of people’s representatives and district administration and also expressed their resentment against them through slogans like Dhanbad prashashan hai hai; Dhanbad vidhayak murdabad; Dhanbad sansad murdabad; nagar ayukt murdabad;  nagar ayukt ki manmani nahi chalegi; kachra dump nahi chalega; tanashahi nahi chalegi; nagar ayukt ki manmani nahi chalegi etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Prabhat Surolia, convenor of resident’s forum which organised the protest programme today, said “We have resorted to the extreme step of coming to street after all our earlier steps to convince the DMC and other relevant authorities through letters and meetings have failed to yield any response.” “We also met, Banna Gupta, state and family welfare minister and brought the issue of construction of garbage compactor station in the densely populated area, which will affect the health of people living in the area and he also assured to personally look into the issue and also forwarded our letter to Dhanbad district administration but there is no perceptible change in ground realities as the surface digging work as well as boundary wall laying work began forcing us to come on streets,” said Surolia. “The land on which construction work for the compactor station has been launched belongs to Railways and they had given an NOC to DMC for developing a park but the DMC instead of developing park to beautify the area has chosen to construct the garbage compactor station compromising the health of one and all,” said Surolia and added that they have raised the issue with Railway authorities also about the misuse of land. Anup Samanta, Executive Engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation said, “We are facing difficulties in finding land for construction of garbage compactor station and if there is some confusion among the people we will resolve the issue by holding talks with them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi police design app to keep tabs on  criminals  ||Ranchi police have developed a mobile application that will not only provide them access to profiles of past offenders in the district but also help them keep an eye on convicted criminals who are either out on bail or have served their sentence. The Interoperable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) of the Ministry of Home Affairs also maintains records of criminals who have served jail terms. However, this new mobile app, developed by the Data Centre of Jharkhand Police, will take the digital fight against crime a step further by easing the process of maintaining vigilance on people with criminal records. “Unique profiles of each and every offender, including details of their current whereabouts, will be accessible by our cops through this app,” said Ranchi SP (Urban) Saurav, who goes by one name. Cops, the SP said, will pay regular visits to the people with criminal records, especially those who are likely to go down the path of crime again. This practice, he added, will keep the police updated about the role of habitual offenders and people with criminal records in planning and perpetrating crimes. This, the police hope,  will help in  identifying potential threats in advance. Trends studied by the police have highlighted that criminals who have served jail terms are often arrested for perpetrating different crimes within a couple of years since their release. While some of them may succeed in eking out a living without breaking the law again, most of them end up choosing illegal means of making a living, a police official said. This application, which is yet to be named, has been designed over a period of several months by IT experts in Ranchi police. It is undergoing updates and is  likely to be operational within a month, police said. The app shares some of its features from a software developed by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Jharkhand police, but  IT experts of Ranchi police have added new features and updates to make the app more user-friendly and accessible from different devices. The use of this application will also help the police do away with the tedious practice of maintaining records in hand written files. Once all the records are digitized,  cops will be able to access details about criminals on their mobile devices or computers without having to look for files manually in police stations, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination drive loses momentum in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated about 78,000 residents against Covid-19 as less than 900 session sites remained operational across the state, figures shared by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to 55,319 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 22,806 beneficiaries. Data shared by the health department on Saturday evening highlighted that the state had at least 6,78,220 vaccine doses in stock before the session sites opened their doors on  Saturday. All the 4,44,790 doses of Covishield available in the state were allotted to districts and there were zero doses of this vaccine at the State Vaccine Store in Ranchi on Saturday. Figures available on the Co-Win platform reflected that only 21 session sites were operational in Ranchi on Saturday and hardly 2500 residents were vaccinated here. At least 13 session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries in East Singhbhum and less than 2000 residents got vaccinated there. In Dhanbad, about 3000 residents were vaccinated across the 20 session sites that remained operational in the district. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 142 in Jharkhand on Saturday as the state reported at least 18 Covid recoveries against 14 fresh cases of infection, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone accounted for six of the 14 fresh cases, but the active caseload here dropped to 79 as the district also reported seven Covid recoveries on Saturday. The active caseload rose to 10 in East Singhbhum, where five people were found infected by coronavirus and three Covid patients recovered. At least 19 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, while no fresh casualties were reported, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 66,483 residents and 0.02 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. As per government data, over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand and 98.48 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Father Stan Swamy's struggle to be taken to panchayats||Members of trade unions, non-BJP parties and civil society organisations who have come together in the aftermath of the custody death of Father Stan Swamy have decided to take the Jesuit priest’s struggle for the rights of the oppressed and undertrials to the panchayat level in Jharkhand. “The best way to pay tribute to Fr Stan Swamy is to create mass awareness among people for whom he fought till his last breath,” said Praful Linda, one of the conveners of the Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyay Morcha under whose umbrella the groups have assembled. “We will distribute leaflets, visit door-to-door and organise meetings at the panchayat level to inform the masses about the need to stand up for their rights on jal (water), jungle (forest), zameen (land) and also raise their voice against the suppression of their rights. The awareness campaign will start on September 1 and continue till October 8,” Linda added. The decision was taken during a daylong convention of the Morcha at Ranchi on Saturday. “We have also decided to observe October 8 (the day the NIA arrested Fr Stan from Namkum near Ranchi in 2020) by forming human chains, organising protest rallies at all the (264) blocks of Jharkhand and submit a memorandum through block development officers and circle officers addressed to the President seeking a judicial probe into the institutional murder of Fr Stan Swamy, repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA, and the release of the 15 other activists arrested in the Bhima-Koregaon case and the rights activists lodged in jails across the country,” said Aloka Kujur, a tribal rights activist and member of the Morcha. The 84-year-old and ailing Fr Swamy, a tribal rights activist, died in a Mumbai hospital on July 5 while awaiting bail in the Bhima-Koregaon Maoist links case. The Morcha has also decided to support the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws on September 25. Praveer Peter of the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and a senior member of the Morcha said the Morcha had filed an RTI query with the state home department, seeking information on prisoners who were yet to be chargesheeted despite being in prison for long. “After getting the information we will launch an agitation demanding the release of all prisoners who have been put behind bars on flimsy grounds and are languishing without being chargesheeted,” said Peter, an associate of Fr Stan. Saturday’s convention was addressed by Tripura CPM MP Jharna Das who demanded the return of land acquired for industry but was lying idle. “Land on which industries have not come up should be returned to the tribals and landholders as has been done in Tripura. The rights of the Adivasis over their land was the main struggle point for Fr Stan Swamy,” Das said. She called upon like-minded organisations to join hands with the Morcha in the struggle against the “fascist” BJP regime at the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
29-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Investors’ Summit: State govt promises Rs 10,000 crore investments, around 2 lakh jobs||The two-day Investors’ Summit organised by the Jharkhand government in New Delhi concluded on Saturday with the promise of nearly Rs 10,000 crore investments as well as direct employment for around 20,000 and nearly 1.5 lakh indirect jobs. Chief minister Hemant Soren, while unveiling the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021 at the summit, said: “We want to leverage the natural resources gifted to Jharkhand and walk the path of development with the cooperation of the investors. Hitherto, our focus revolved around industries based on mines and minerals. They will continue to be the backbone but we are now also working in the field of tourism, education, renewable energy, food processing, automobile, pharma and textile. A major part of these industries has been untouched in Jharkhand.” The new policy replaces the 2016 policy of the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government. Making a major announcement in the renewable energy sector, Soren said: “Soon we will establish India’s largest floating solar plant. This will generate solar electricity on a very large scale. All these are part of our effort to take Jharkhand upwards in the category of leading states of India.” The state cabinet had in April given nod to a 100MW floating solar plant in the Getalsud reservoir in Ranchi to be set up by the Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Authority (JREDA) and Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) to meet the growing power requirement with environmental management. Soren also stressed on the immense potential in the tourism, education and pharma sector. “We have immense potential in the field of tourism. Incentive provisions have been included for the tourism industry under the JIIPP 2021. We have unlimited opportunities in the field of education. Netarhat School (in Latehar) is a nursery for budding bureaucrats of the country. Jharkhand is also doing well in the field of medicine. We are establishing pharma parks near Ranchi where we will provide land to medical equipment manufacturers. We are ready to promote educational and technical institutes,” he said. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh spoke about the disciplined human capital and said that there has never been significant labour unrest in Jharkhand. He also praised the law and order situation and said that “Naxalism has been restricted to few ‘rural pockets’ of the state and would soon be eliminated from the geography of the state”. He pledged commitment on behalf of the bureaucrats of the Jharkhand government to implement the provisions of the policy on paper and at the ground level. Industries secretary Pooja Singhal highlighted details of the JIPP 2021 and about the electronic manufacturing cluster at Adityapur which seeks to turn the state into an electronics manufacturing hub. “We have a land bank of 1,000 acres with the government to set up industry and the state will soon be known as the hub of solar park, auto and electronic manufacturing,” said Singhal. She also said that within a month the state would also launch policies for ethanol, electric vehicles, pharma, automobile, rural industry, food processing, export and industrial parks. She said that all potential investors who would commit to engaging 35 per cent of their workforce from Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes communities will be incentivised over and above the existing provisions of the JIIPP 2021. MoUs signed ⚫ SAIL will invest Rs 4,000 crore in the state over three years for upgrade of its Gua iron ore mines and setting up a pellet plant. ⚫ Tata Steel will invest Rs 3,000 crore in coal and iron ore mines and steel production in the next three years. ⚫ Dalmia Bharat Group will invest Rs 758 crore in the PPP mode for a new cement unit (at Bokaro), a solar power plant and a solid waste management facility. ⚫ Adhunik Power and Natural Resources will invest Rs 1,900 crore. ⚫ Prem Rubber Works will invest Rs 50 crore in a leather park and footwear, which will provide employment to 1,000 local people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
