30-08-2021||Business||Ola looking to raise up to USD 1.5 bn via IPO||Ride-hailing major Ola is looking at raising USD 1-1.5 billion (Rs 7,324-10,985 crore) via an initial public offering (IPO) and is expected to file the DRHP (Draft Red Herring Prospectus) in the December quarter, according to sources. Ola is working with select banks, including Citigroup Inc and Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd, to manage the public offering, two people close to the development said. One of the persons said the details of the offering by ANI Technologies (which runs Ola), including size and timeline, could still change given that deliberations are still ongoing. E-mails sent to Ola did not elicit a response. Recently, Ola co-founder Bhavish Aggarwal had said the company -- which competes against US-based Uber -- is planning a public offering sometime next year, but has not yet set a date. Ola had previously talked of a possible listing as well. An IPO will help Ola investors like SoftBank, Tiger Global and Steadview Capital to exit or partially sell their stake in the company to return funds to their shareholders. Founded in 2011 by Bhavish Aggarwal and Ankit Bhati, Ola offers services in India, Australia, New Zealand, and the UK. It is estimated to have raised over USD 4 billion in funding so far. In July, Ola had announced an investment of USD 500 million (about Rs 3,733 crore) from Temasek, Warburg Pincus affiliate Plum Wood Investment and Bhavish Aggarwal. At that time, Aggarwal had said the company has made its ride-hailing business "more robust, resilient and efficient" over the last 12 months. "With strong recovery post lockdown and a shift in consumer preference away from public transportation, we are well-positioned to capitalise on the various urban mobility needs of our customers," he had said. In the same month, Ola had also announced the expansion of its employee stock options (ESOP) pool to Rs 3,000 crore and allocation of an additional Rs 400 crore worth of stocks to employees. A number of internet-led businesses in the country are gearing up to launch their IPOs, including Nykaa, Paytm, PolicyBazaar and Droom. Last month, Zomato made a stellar debut on Dalal Street with its shares zooming nearly 53 per cent against the issue price of Rs 76, and its market valuation crossing the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark. Recently, CarTrade also made its debut on the stock market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
30-08-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki to hike prices across models from September||The country's largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India on Monday said it will hike prices across models from next month amid rising input costs. In a regulatory filing, the company said, “.... over the past year the cost of company's vehicles continue to be adversely impacted due to increase in various input costs.” “Hence, it has become imperative to pass on some impact of the additional cost to the customers through a price rise,” it added. “The price rise has been planned across models in September 2021,” Maruti Suzuki India said. At present the company sells a range of models from entry-level hatchback Alto to S-CROSS, priced between Rs 2.99 lakh and Rs 12.39 (ex-showroom prices Delhi) lakh, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
30-08-2021||Business||Sensex skyrockets 765 points to end at new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex zoomed 765 points to scale a fresh lifetime high on Monday, driven by gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 56,958.27 during the day, the 30-share index ended 765.04 points or 1.36 per cent higher at 56,889.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 225.85 points or 1.35 per cent to its record closing of 16,931.05. It touched an all-time intra-day high of 16,951.50. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Tata Steel, Titan, Maruti and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India, Infosys and TCS were the laggards. "Domestic equities skyrocketed on strong global cues with benchmark Nifty is just one notch away to surpass 17,000 mark," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Dovish commentary from US Federal Reserve chairman in Jackson Hole Symposium lifted investors' sentiments globally, he noted. Financial and metals witnessed sharp recovery. Barring IT, most key sectoral indices traded in green with decent rebound. Strong buying in midcap and smallcap stocks continued as recent correction made risk reward propositions favourable for investors, Modi said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.20 per cent to USD 71.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
30-08-2021||Business||Sensex soars over 400 points to scale fresh lifetime peak||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and Bajaj Finance amid positive cues from global markets.  After touching a lifetime high of 56,527.81 in the opening session, the 30-share index was trading 376.65 points or 0.67 per cent higher at 56,501.37. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 100.95 points or 0.60 per cent to 16,806.15.  Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Tata Steel, M&M, Maruti, L&T, Reliance Industries and HDFC.  On the other hand, Tech Mahindra and HCL Tech were the laggards.  In the previous session, the BSE index settled 175.62 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 56,124.72, and Nifty gained 68.30 points or 0.41 per cent to finish at a record 16,705.20  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 778.75 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic equities look to be good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "No mention about actual time frame for reversal of USD 120 billion monthly asset purchase programme by US Fed chief Jerome Powell and indications of no interest rate hike in the medium term essentially show that taper tantrum is still not in the sight in the near term, which augurs well for global equities," he noted.  US equities were upbeat last week with all three key indices in the US recording weekly gains to the tune of 1-2.8 per cent, Modi added.  In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.36 per cent to USD 72.96 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
30-08-2021||Business||PFRDA allows subscribers joining NPS after 65 years of age to take up to 50 per cent equity exposure||The PFRDA has allowed subscribers joining the National Pension System (NPS) after 65 years of age to allocate up to 50 per cent of the funds in equity, besides easing the exit norms. The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) has revised the guidelines on entry and exit following an increase in the maximum age for joining the NPS from 65 year to 70 years of age. The entry age for NPS has been revised to 18-70 years from 18-65 years. Any Indian citizen and Overseas Citizen of India in the age group of 65-70 years can also join NPS and continue till the age of 75 years, according to a PFRDA circular on the revised guidelines. It added that those subscribers who have closed their NPS accounts have also been permitted to open a new account, according to increased age eligibility norms. The maximum equity exposure, however, will be only 15 per cent if subscribers joining NPS beyond the age of 65 years decide to invest under the default “auto choice”. On the exit conditions for subscribers joining NPS beyond the age of 65 years, the circular said “normal exit shall be after three years”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Baring Asia set to accept $3 billion Carlyle offer for Hexaware||Private equity giant Baring Asia, which owns software firm Hexaware Technologies, is set to pick the $3 billion offer from the Carlyle group for the city-based company, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. Washington-based Carlyle group is a multinational private equity, alternative asset management and financial services giant with over $260 billion in assets under management and specialises in private equity, real assets, and private credit. Carlyle is set to pip bulge-bracket private equity giants such as Bain Capital, KKR & Co and the Paris-based outsourcer Teleperformance and is most likely to be the winner with around $3 billion bid. All these bidders had submitted binding bids by mid-August. If the deal materialises, it will be the biggest deal in the domestic software services space. “Baring is set to go with the Carlyle group’s $3-billion bid, as it’s much higher than the other bids which are around $2.5 billion only,” one of the investment bankers negotiating the deal and advising the sell-side told PTI on the condition of anonymity, as the matter is private and yet to be completed. A Hexaware spokesperson refused to comment. A reply to an email sent to the Carlyle Asia headquarters on Saturday is awaited. Late last month Baring had shortlisted from around 10 bids Carlyle, KKR, Bain and the French Teleperformance for Hexaware. With 37 offices in over 30 countries and over 20,000 employees, its revenue grew 6.5 per cent in 2020 to $845 million, while operating profit jumped 24.4 per cent to $152 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||MSTC transforming from pure-play trading agency to e-commerce outfit||MSTC Ltd, the Calcutta-based public sector outfit, is steadily transforming itself from a pure-play trading agency to an e-commerce outfit to render services to government entities and private parties. The company has ventured into multiple sectors such as online sale of oil and gas, online allocation of coal, a bidding platform for the export and import of petroleum products, sand mining and liquor licence. It is also developing the sale of property as a vertical, including sale of enemy property by the government of India, and sale of idle land of the central public sector unit by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam). “We have just made a beginning. The sky’s the limit. People need efficiency at their doorstep at the click of their mouse,” Surinder Kumar Gupta, chairman and managing director of MSTC Ltd, said. Sources said the company may be mulling a new identity, including change of name, to position itself as a new-age technology driven e-commerce firm. The suggestion to rechristen the PSU, which started its journey in 1964 as Metal Scrap Trade Corporation as a regulatory body for the export of ferrous scrap and thereafter a canalising agency for the  import of ferrous scrap and old ships for breaking in the country, came from the Union minister of steel Ram Chandra Prasad Singh. The pie of e-commerce in the overall revenue mix of MSTC is about 35 per cent but it is growing noticeably. The company, which had carried out spectrum auction on behalf of the government, is also working with Dipam for strategic as well as asset sale of sick PSUs. MSTC Ltd is also exploring venturing into the fintech sector, Gupta informed, adding that it was studying the opportunities there. While e-commerce is emerging as the new growth driver, the trading business also received a boost in the first quarter. The company’s revenue soared from this segment in line with the rising value of goods  —  iron ore, cotton bales and coal . The company is also expecting the vehicle scrappage policy announced by the Centre to spur the growth of its joint venture with Mahindra to recycle end-of-life vehicles. It has set up three centres and more are coming up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Demand for passenger cars and tractors show pre-Covid trends: Icra||Credit rating agency Icra said demand for passenger vehicles and tractors have almost reached pre-Covid levels. In the commercial vehicle segment, medium and heavy commercial vehicles (M&HCV), which were most impacted by the pandemic, is showing signs of recovery. Icra expects passenger vehicles, two-wheelers and commercial vehicles to report healthy double-digit growth in 2021-22. On the near to medium-term trends, Ashish Modani, sector head and vice-president-corporate ratings, Icra, said, “We expect the industry to witness 20-23 per cent revenue growth during FY22, supported by recovery in the domestic automobile industry and robust exports. Revenue growth The passthrough of increase in commodity prices will also add to the revenue growth. The industry gross margins improved sequentially in Q1 of FY22, but remained lower than the historical trend. The shortage of semi-conductors and increase in commodity prices remain the key challenges for the industry in the near term.” One of the concerns for the industry is the prices of key commodities, which continue to remain high, despite some moderation in recent months. Auto component suppliers usually pass on the impact of commodity price increases to OEMs with a lag of one to two quarters. The recent trend also suggests that auto component suppliers have gradually passed on the hike in commodity prices to their customers as reflected in the sequential improvement in their gross margin. However, the gross margin remains lower than the normal levels (prevalent in FY20) by 100 basis points. Further, given the average inventory holding period of 30-45 days, some companies would have also had the benefit of lower priced inventory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India scores with AMG vehicles||Performance cars, namely the AMG vehicles, remained the fastest growing segment for Mercedes Benz India in the first half of 2021. Mercedes-Benz India has introduced the AMG GLE 63 S 4MATIC+ Coupé, which will retail in India at Rs 2.07 crore (ex-showroom). Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, said, “The launch of the AMG GLE 63 S 4MATIC+ Coupé reinforces our strong presence in the luxury performance segment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Centre extends deadline for making payments under Vivad se Vishwas scheme till September 30||The government on Sunday extended by a month the deadline to make payments under direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas till September 30. In a statement, the finance ministry said, “Considering the difficulties being faced in issuing and amending Form no 3, which is a prerequisite for making payment by the declarant under Vivad se Vishwas Act, it has been decided to extend the last date of payment of the amount (without any additional amount) to September 30, 2021”. The ministry had in June extended the deadline for making payments under the scheme till August 31. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31, with an additional amount of interest. “It is, however, clarified that there is no proposal to change the last date for payment of the amount (with additional amount) under Vivad se Vishwas Act, which remains as October 31, 2021,” the ministry said on Sunday. The finance ministry on Sunday extended the last date to avail the GST amnesty scheme, under which taxpayers have to pay a reduced fee for delayed filing of monthly returns, by three months till November 30. The filing of GST return electronic verification code (EVC) have been extended to October 31. The deadline for filing the equalisation levy statement in Form-1 for 2020-21 has been extended till December 31, against the original due date of June 30. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by authorised dealers in respect of remittances made for the June and September quarter, can now be filed by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due date for filing this statement was July 15 and October 15 respectively. Intimations by pension Fund and sovereign wealth fund in respect of investment made in India for the June and September quarter, which is required to be furnished by July 31 and October 31, would now have to be furnished by November 30 and December 31 respectively. Narayan Jain, tax advocate, said he welcomed the decision of the CBDT, which was necessary considering the practical difficulties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel board approves up to Rs 21,000 crore fundraising via rights issue||The Bharti Airtel board on Sunday approved a rights issue to raise up to Rs 21,000 crore from the shareholders. The shares will be offered at Rs 535 apiece, including a premium of Rs 530. Bharti shareholders will have 1 fully paid-up equity share of the company for every 14 shares held by them. The company’s board of directors at its meeting comprehensively reviewed the industry scenario, business environment, financial, business strategy of the company and approved the plan to raise further capital. “Accordingly, the board approved the issuance of equity shares of face value of Rs 5 each of the company on a rights basis to eligible equity shareholders of the company as on the record date (to be notified later), of an issue size of up to Rs 21,000 crore,” the telecom operator said in an exchange filing. On Friday, the telco’s scrip on the BSE closed 1.21 per cent higher at Rs 593.95. “Further, the board has constituted a ‘specialcommittee of directors’ to decide the other terms and conditions of the issue, including the issue period and the record date,” the telco said in a regulatory filing to the bourses. Bharti Airtel’s promoter and promoter group will collectively subscribe to the full extent of their aggregate rights entitlement and will also subscribe to any unsubscribed shares in the issue, the telecom player  said. The promoter holding in the company stands at about 55.8 per cent, while the public holds 44.09 per cent. Airtel will receive the money from the shareholders in tranches. The company said, “25 per cent on application and balance in two more additional calls as may be decided by the board/ committee of the board from time to time based on the company’s requirements within an overall time-horizon of 36 months”. The latest move is expected to give more firepower to Airtel as the company takes on rivals in the fiercely competitive Indian telecom market that is now gearing up for 5G. In its note last week, Jefferies had said that any capital raising by Bharti Airtel that aims to enhance its capacity in anticipation of large market share shifts from Vodafone Idea Limited could be seen “positively”. Jio Platforms, which houses Reliance Jio,  had raised about Rs 1,52,056 crore from marquee investors last year, including Facebook, Google, General Atlantic, KKR, Mubadala, ADIA, TPG, Intel Capital and Qualcomm Ventures. Vodafone Idea Ltd, the third operator in the sector, is struggling to stay afloat and analysts have sounded an alarm over the potential risk of the market turning into a duopoly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Scheduled international passenger flights suspension extended till September 30||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights because of the coronavirus outbreak has been extended till September 30, aviation regulator DGCA said on Sunday. “However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” it added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with select countries since July 2020. India has formed air-bubble pacts with around 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. The circular issued by the directorate general of civil aviation also said the suspension does not affect the operations of international all-cargo services and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Country liquor manufacturers expect spike in prices in Bengal||Country liquor manufacturers are expecting a spike in prices in Bengal following amendments to the excise rates which come into effect from September. The changes are a precursor to further amendments in foreign liquor excise rates, expected ahead of the festive season to boost dwindling sales. The rates will be based on the new excise structure introduced amid the Covid pandemic. Industry sources said country spirit prices could rise 20 per cent — which means the price of a 600 ml bottle could inch up to Rs 120 from Rs 100 taking it closer to beer prices, prompting a section of manufacturers to re-evaluate their product strategy. Captain, Bengal Tiger, Dada are among the popular brands in the segment. “We will now have to look at the foreign liquor segment. But it is very tough for the country liquor players who are mostly local operators to take on the top foreign liquor brands well established in the segment,” said a senior executive of a country liquor manufacturer with plants in Bengal. “As licensees we will comply and act as directed by the excise department. We are certain that the new pricing will serve the interest of the state revenue and be beneficial to all,” another manufacturer pointed out to a query from The Telegraph. Country spirit is not a small category by any means in Bengal. It contributes around Rs 3,000 crore to the state exchequer and has consistently constituted around 30 per cent of the overall net excise proceeds of the state. The state has estimated its contribution to the net excise proceeds to increase to 35 per cent in 2021-22 with an estimated net earnings of Rs 5,605 crore. The change according to industry sources while affecting the country liquor prices could be introduced to strike a balance with any revenue forgone from a probable tweak in the rates in the foreign liquor category to boost volumes. Bengal’s share in national IMFL sales in 2020-21 had contracted to 3.3 per cent against 4.2 per cent previous year. This was on the back of several factors — introduction of an additional duty of 30 per cent which was subsequently scrapped with a new slab that eventually inflated foreign liquor prices in the state by 40-90 per cent. The other factor is lockdowns in the first wave affecting sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Air India asks New York court to dismiss Cairn petition||Air India has asked a New York court to dismiss a petition filed by Britain’s Cairn Energy for the seizure of its assets to enforce a $1.2 billion arbitral award against the Indian government, saying the litigation was premature as an appeal against the arbitration award was still pending. The petition by AI, which is separate to the Indian government’s plea in a Washington court seeking the dismissal of Cairn’s lawsuit to seek confirmation of the arbitral award, said the New York district court lacks jurisdiction to adjudicate a “mere hypothetical question” or one that depends upon contingent future events that may or may not occur. Cairn first moved a court in the US District Court for the District of Columbia seeking confirmation of the arbitration award and then filed a petition in the New York court to seek declaration of Air India as “alter ego” of the Indian government and so it should be made liable to pay the $1.26 billion arbitral award. An international arbitration tribunal in December last year set aside the levy of capital gains tax, using a 2012 retrospective legislation, on a 2006 reorganisation of the India business that Cairn carried before listing it on local stock exchanges. It ordered India to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld to enforce levy. With India refusing to pay, Cairn moved courts in the US. “Cairn’s petition to confirm the Award is pending in the District Court for the District of Columbia,” Air India said in the August 23 petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
30-08-2021||Business||Ease of doing business still cumbersome at grass-root level: CII report||Doing business at the level of grassroots is proving to be cumbersome for companies, This along with the high cost of doing business is styming the animal spirits of the private sector, according to a survey by industry chamber CII released on Sunday. However, it said that significant recovery in corporate performance is expected in 2021-22 as the government’s pro-growth initiatives and announcements have helped nurture the animal spirits of the sector, according to a CII survey. “Responding to the question on what is affecting the animal spirits of the private sector, majority of the CEOs (51 per cent) indicated that ease of doing business was still cumbersome at the grass roots, followed by cost of doing business (other than capital cost) being high, as indicated by 32 per cent of the CEOs,” CII said in a statement. About one-third of the CEOs indicated that the current capacity is still in excess of demand, it added. The survey also said about 46 per cent of the 117 CEOs, who participated in the survey, expected more than 10 per cent revenue growth of their respective company in the first half of the current fiscal compared with the first half of pre-pandemic year 2019-20. “The CEOs’ poll clearly indicates significant recovery in corporate performance with both topline (revenue) and bottomline (profit) growth expectations to be better than the pre-pandemic levels. “The government’s pro-growth initiatives and announcements have helped nurture the animal spirits of the corporate sector which has seen the worst economic shock of our lifetime,” it added. On exports, it said the majority of the CEOs polled indicated that countries, including the US and Canada, will post significant growth in the first half of the current fiscal year, followed by Europe, West Asia and Africa and Asia-Pacific. “About 70 per cent of the CEOs polled expected inflation to be up to six per cent during the year 2021-22, which is within the RBI’s inflation range and should help the RBI retain low interest rates to promote growth,” it said. FSDC meet on Sept. 3 Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has called a meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) on September 3 to discuss the state of the financial sector and a strategy to support the nascent recovery of the pandemic-hit economy. This would be the 24th meeting of the FSDC and the first during the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
30-08-2021||Business||Five golden rules every beginner must know before investing in stocks||Investing in stock markets is a great way to grow your wealth over the long term. However, it is not as simple as depositing funds and just hitting the buy button on any random stock. If you have never invested before, the good news is that the process is now much simpler and easily accessible from anywhere in the world. The olden days of paying hefty fees to brokers, who may or may not have had our best interests at heart, are now behind us. Moreover, you don’t need to have a boatload of money to start investing in stocks. A small investment, made consistently over a long period, cumulatively yields great returns over time. Here’s what you must consider before setting foot into the world of stocks. Don’t let emotions get the better of you: “Success in investing doesn’t correlate with IQ; what you need is the temperament to control the urges that get other people into trouble while investing.” says investment guru and chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffet. Investment decisions are driven by your gut, not your brain; don’t let emotions trigger impulsive reactions. It is a sure shot method of cutting the branch you’ve been resting on. Tip: Know your fundamentals, read up on companies, and trust your instincts even if it means going against the trend. Identify your risk-taking appetite before you start investing: This is a measure of “how much you are willing to lose if the market capsizes” and is one of the most important factors that influence your investment strategy. For example, if you are saving for your child’s future, you will be driven to make less risky investments to protect it from market shocks. Long-term investments undoubtedly yield good returns, but the returns depend on the investments you make over time. The more rewarding the investment, the riskier it is. Tip: Invest in multiple sectors. As a beginner, you can reduce risk by diversifying your portfolio. It is called ‘hedging’. Choose performers, not ticker symbols: The most reliable investment is an investment in a company that consistently delivers results. When you embark upon your investment journey, an overwhelming amount of information can appear on your screen and cajole you into making the wrong move. Stocks that rise and fall rapidly when the market sentiment changes are not rewarding but “volatile”. The fall hurts as much as the rise rewards. In order to construct a reliable portfolio, enter stocks of companies that are guaranteed to perform even under challenging circumstances. Tip: Investing in a stock makes you a part-owner of the company. Therefore, prefer investing in established companies (blue chip stocks) that are aligned with your goals and values. Plan to avoid the classic gaffe - buying high & selling low: Intelligent investing based on fundamentals seldom goes wrong. Unless unforeseen catastrophes such as the Covid-19 pandemic hit (from which we are recovering at a steady rate as well), this will help all beginners. Making a BUY decision: As a beginner, you can note down the metrics you measure a company by, or ask yourself ‘What attracts me to this particular company?’ For example, the market strategy, the dividend yield, positive consumer sentiment, etc. As long as the company satisfies your criteria, you should remain invested in it. Making a SELL decision: For this, your reason cannot be the drop in the price of that particular stock. All stocks rise and fall but you must see it through. A sell decision must be based on fundamental changes in the business that you think reduce the worth of that company. Example, losing a large customer or change in the leadership, etc. Tip: Your reasons to enter or exit a stock do not have to match with anybody else’s. Every person measures a company’s performance on the basis of different metrics. If the decision is hard, read rule number 1. Build your portfolio gradually: Time, and not timing is an investor’s best friend. Most investors grow their portfolios expecting to reap the benefits over the years through dividends and price appreciations. This means that an investor can take all the time  he needs to buy stocks. Here are a few strategies to use when building your portfolio: Beginners tend to be excited and over-protective of their investments. It’s okay to get jittery, but do not check on your investments too often and expose yourself to multiple emotional shocks. Check your investments once in a few months or once every quarter, unless the company you invested in comes out with important revelations that could potentially impact its stock prices negatively and harshly. Investing is a game of patience and resilience. Possessing both qualities yields the returns you desire. The writer is founder, Gaurav Bhagat Academy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
30-08-2021||India||Covid: Early indication of third wave in some states, says senior govt doctor||A senior doctor of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said there were early indications of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic in some states that did not experience the severity of the second wave of the viral disease that wreaked havoc in several places across the country, including Delhi. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, said many states had imposed restrictions early, learning from the crisis witnessed in Delhi and Maharashtra earlier this year. “So, they did not see many transmissions,” Dr panda was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He further spoke about the fourth national serological survey that revealed more than 50 per cent of children in the country were infected by the virus, a figure slightly less than adults. Amid widespread fears of an imminent third wave hitting the younger generation hard, Dr Panda said there was no need to panic unnecessarily. “States have that examined their epidemiology and vaccinated their adults can slowly open schools,” he added. The country registered 42,909 new cases on Monday, taking the cumulative infection tally has risen to 32,737,939. A lot of states have gradually started resuming physical classes for students even as concerns over transmission of the virus remained high. Several experts have predicted a peak in the third wave between October and November this year and cautioned against relaxations of curbs, while calling for preparing the healthcare infrastructure to deal with the crisis if it arose. India has so far administered 64 crore vaccines against the deadly virus with more than 14,74,02,213 crore eligible adults having received both doses of the jab. Besides Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute’s Covishield, Russia-made Sputnik V has been administered in small numbers, while Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc are negotiating for legal indemnity. The government recently approved the emergency use of Zydus Cadila's vaccine, ZyCoV-D children above 12 years of age and the doses are likely to become available by October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
30-08-2021||India||Khattar, Amarinder exchange words over farmers' protest||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday accused the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling farmers' unrest in his state, provoking a sharp response from his Punjab counterpart. The exchange took place two days after farmers protesting over laws enacted at the Centre several months back clashed with the Haryana Police in Karnal. Addressing a press conference on the completion of 2,500 days of a BJP-led government in Haryana, Khattar blamed Punjab for the farmers' picking his state for their protests. There is a clear hand of the Punjab government in it, the CM charged. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hit back a little later, accusing the BJP, including the Haryana CM, of taking refuge in shameful lies over the horrendous attacks on protesting farmers. Repeal the farm laws instead of blaming Punjab for the mess your party has put the farming sector in, Singh said in a statement. Also on Monday, a kisan mahapanchayat at Gharaunda in Karnal issued an ultimatum to the Haryana government. The meeting demanded the registration of cases by September 6 against those responsible for Saturday's lathi-charge. Otherwise, on September 7, farmers will lay siege at the secretariat in Karnal, a farm leader warned. Khattar admitted that the choice of words by Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who was caught on camera purportedly telling police to "break the heads" of agitating farmers if they crossed the line, was wrong. But he defended the police action itself. About 10 farmers were injured in the clash. Police said several of their men too were hurt. Haryana Deputy CM and Jannayak Janta Party leader Dushyant Chautala had earlier said the magistrate will face action. But Khattar said, "We will see whether action has to be taken. The DGP is probing the matter and will submit his report. But the officer should have not used such words." In Karnal, Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of a farmer who allegedly died after suffering injuries in the lathi-charge. But the state government maintained that he died at his home and was not among the injured. While issuing the "ultimatum" to the Haryana government, Chaduni also demanded Rs 2 lakh as compensation for each of the injured farmers Apart from the Punjab government, Khattar blamed Congress leaders like former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the Left for the farmers' protests. He slammed Amarinder Singh for seeking his resignation over the police action in Karnal. He said it should be Singh who should quit as around 80 per cent of farmers protesting at Delhi's borders appeared to be from his state. Farmers are happy in Haryana," he claimed. Cautioning farmers against violent protests, the CM claimed that society at large was turning against them. There are limitations on every freedom. There is no absolute freedom," he said. Amarinder Singh trashed Khattar's claim that Haryana police used force only after the farmers disturbed law and order, and pointed at the SDM's controversial instructions. He accused Khattar of defending the "criminal assault" on farmers and warned that the BJP would pay for its "sins" in the upcoming assembly elections in various states. Recalling that farmers had held protests across Punjab for two months before shifting focus to the Delhi border, the CM said there had been no violence in the state. Even recently, when sugarcane farmers staged protests, we negotiated with them and resolved the issue instead of using brute force to try and subjugate them, he added. Responding to Khattar's remark that farmers gave Amarinder Singh ladoos' after the resolution of the sugarcane issue, the Punjab CM said, You repeal the farm laws and not just the farmers but even I will share ladoos with you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
30-08-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath imposes complete ban on meat and liquor trade in Mathura||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday imposed a complete ban on the sale of liquor and meat in Mathura.  The officers concerned are directed to make plans for the ban as well as for the engagement of people involved in such activities in some other trade, he said.  The chief minister was speaking at the Krishnotsava 2021 programme here.  He suggested that those engaged in liquor and meat trade may take up selling milk in order to revive the glory of Mathura, that was known for producing huge quantity of animal milk.  Adityanath also prayed to Lord Krishna to eliminate the novel coronavirus infection.  Every effort will be made to develop Brij Bhumi and there will be no dearth of funds for this. We are looking at a blend of modern technology and the cultural and spiritual heritage for the development of the region, he said.  The priest-turned-politician also complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving a new direction to the country.  He said places of faith neglected since long are being revived now.  Cabinet ministers Laxmi Narain Chaudhary and Shrikant Sharma were also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
30-08-2021||India||Jallianwalla Bagh revamp sparks outrage against Centre||The renovation of Jallianwala Bagh has unleashed a wave of outrage and criticism against the government on social media.  Most of the criticism has been directed at the hi-tech galleries that have replaced the stark, unadorned passage. General Dyer had led his men through this passages and ordered them to open fire on the thousands of men and women holding a peaceful protest on the day of Baisakhi thus killing more than 1,000 Hindus and Sikhs died 102 years ago, creating one of the darkest chapters of Indian history. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had opened the renovated complex on Saturday, saying it is the country's duty to protect its history. Many people on social media have accused the government of destroying history in the name of renovation. Others alleged that politicians rarely have a feel for history. "This is corporatisation of monuments, where they end up as modern structures, losing the heritage value. Look after them without meddling with the flavours of the period these memorials represent," tweeted historian S Irfan Habib. The sharpest criticism so far came from CPM's Sitaram Yechury, who said, "Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise thus". The Congress too slammed the government citing the history of the right wing in India. "Devastated to hear that Jallianwala Bagh, site of the Amritsar Massacre of 1919, has been revamped -- which means that the last traces of the event have effectively been erased. This is what I wrote of the memorial in my book, describing a space that has now itself become history," tweeted  historian  Kim A. Wagner. While inaugurating the renovated complex on Saturday, PM Modi said horrors like the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and the Partition speak of the sacrifices made for India's freedom and should not be forgotten. "It is not right for any country to ignore such horrors of its past," he said, noting that August 14 is now being observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. He had also tweeted a preview of the lights installed in the complex. "At a time when we are celebrating Amrut Mahotsav, we should strengthen our nation''s foundation and take pride in it," the Prime Minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
30-08-2021||India||ED being used to target MVA leaders, alleges NCP||The NCP on Monday said Enforcement Directorate (ED) actions against leaders of the ruling MVA in Maharashtra were politically motivated and driven by vendetta. Speaking to reporters here, NCP spokesman and cabinet minister Nawab Malik said the BJP demands action and the ED obliges immediately by sending notices and conducting raids on its political opponents. "This means that it (ED action) is politically motivated," Malik said. State NCP president Jayant Patil, who is also a minister, said the ED, which usually handles financial crimes, is being used to target leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). "It is not just the MVA, but everyone who takes a stand against the BJP (is targeted). The individual leaders will give a befitting reply," he said, criticising the ED actions against NCP leader Anil Deshmukh and Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab. The NCP is a key constituent in the Shiv Sena-led MVA government. The ED has summoned Parab for questioning on Tuesday in the money laundering case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and others, officials said on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Khattar's anti-farmer agenda exposed, says Amarinder Singh||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's "anti-farmer agenda" has been exposed as he defended the assault on peasants by accusing the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling the unrest against the Centre's three farm laws, Amarinder Singh said on Monday. Earlier in the day, Khattar put the onus of the unrest in his state against the Central legislations on the Amarinder Singh government in Punjab, the Congress and the Left. Hitting back, the Punjab chief minister said, "The BJP's adamant refusal to revoke the laws reflected the vested interests of the party and its leadership, which had once again placed their crony capitalist friends over the common man." Blaming the BJP squarely for the unrest, Amarinder Singh said the crisis would not have assumed such grave proportions had the BJP, including the Haryana chief minister and his deputy, heeded the farmers' concerns and empathised with them "instead of taking refuge in shameful lies for the horrendous attacks on the peaceful farmers". He said Khattar's "anti-farmer" agenda has been exposed as the Haryana chief minister tried to defend the criminal assault on protesting farmers by putting the onus of their agitation on Punjab. "Can't you see that the farmers of your own state are angry with you for your apathetic attitude towards them and your party's stubborn refusal to repeal the farm laws?" he posed. The farmers were fighting for their survival and did not need provocation from Punjab or any other state to protect themselves and their families, CM Amarinder Singh said. "Repeal the farm laws instead of blaming Punjab for the mess your party has put the farming sector in. The BJP will have to pay for their sins in the upcoming Assembly elections in various states and in every poll thereafter," he said. Around 10 people were allegedly injured on Saturday as police lathi-charged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. A Kisan Mahapanchayat on Monday sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathi charge and threatened to lay siege to the secretariat there if their demands are not met by September 6. The Punjab chief minister said the Khattar government's repeated attempts to "forcibly end the farmers' agitation and the derogatory and obnoxious terms used against farmers by various BJP leaders, will backfire". Recalling that the farmers had held protests across Punjab for two months before shifting focus to the Delhi borders, Amarinder Singh said his state had not witnessed a single incident of violence during the period. "Even recently, when sugarcane farmers staged protests, we negotiated with them and resolved the issue instead of using brute force," he added. The Punjab chief minister said he and his government were firmly with the farmers in their anti-farm laws stance and were even giving compensation and jobs to the families of those who have died at the Delhi borders "because of the BJP's follies". "A government or a political party which allows such tragic and totally avoidable loss of lives to continue under its watch cannot survive," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu asks DRDO scientists to intensify research to combat future pandemics ||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Monday asked the scientists of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to intensify research to effectively combat any future pandemic. Around 25 scientists and technicians from Defence Institute of Physiology and Allied Sciences (DIPAS), one of the labs of the DRDO, met Naidu at his residence in New Delhi. "Interacting with them, Shri Naidu said that the pandemic has triggered unprecedented health crisis and severely impacted lives and livelihoods across the world," the DRDO said in a statement. Lauding DIPAS and other DRDO labs for rising to the occasion and developing various indigenous products for the treatment and management of Covid-19, he said that in the wake of the emergence of new coronavirus variants, it is important to be ever vigilant to effectively tackle any future threats, the statement noted. DRDO Chairman Satheesh Reddy briefed Naidu about various products and equipment developed indigenously by DRDO labs for treatment and management of Covid-19. "He expressed his gratitude to the Vice President for inviting the scientists and technicians and sharing his thoughts with them," the statement mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||SC irked as accused jailed for 11 years without framing of charges in the 1993 train blast case||"Convict him or acquit him," an anguished Supreme Court observed on non-framing of charges on an accused jailed for 11 years over serial blasts in multiple Rajdhani Express and other trains in 1993. Underlining the right to speedy trial, the top court sought a report from the special Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act court judge in Ajmer explaining why charges have not been framed against Hameer Ui Uddin. "The Special Judge, Designated Court, Ajmer, Rajasthan is directed to submit a report to this Court within a period of two weeks from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order The report shall clarify why charges have not been framed," a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said. In its order passed recently, the bench said that to facilitate the submission of the report expeditiously, the registrar (judicial) will communicate a copy of the order to the judge directly as well as through the Registrar (Judicial) of the High Court of Rajasthan. During the hearing, advocate Shoeb Alam, appearing for Hameer Ui Uddin said the petitioner has been in custody since 2010 but charges have not been framed and trial is yet to commence. He said that detaining an accused indefinitely without trial is a gross abuse of rights of an individual under Article 21. Alam contended that the special TADA court ought to have granted bail to the petitioner as there is no prospect of the conclusion of the trial in the near future. "The allegations are yet to be proved in trial and there is no justification of pre-trial incarceration for 11 years," he said. Advocate Vishal Meghwal, appearing for the State, admitted that that charges have not been framed against the accused, but contended he was absconding for nearly 15 years. The bench then asked why the charges have not been framed when he has been in custody since 2010. "He is entitled to speedy trial. Convict him or acquit him, we have no problem with that but at least hold the trial. He cannot be kept in custody indefinitely without trial," the bench observed. Meghwal contended that the main reason for the delay in framing of charges is that one of the co-accused Abdul Karim Tunda is lodged in the Ghaziabad jail. "Then either you separate the trial or club the trial with his case but at least start the trial," the bench said. Alam said the Tunda case is not mentioned by the state in its counter-affidavit. In his plea filed through advocate Farrukh Rasheed, the petitioner has challenged the TADA court of March 27, 2019 rejecting his bail application. As per the prosecution case, on December 5-6, 1993, serial bomb blasts took place in Rajdhani express trains -- Bombay to New Delhi, New Delhi to Howrah, Howrah to New Delhi -- Surat-Baroda Flying Queen Express and Hyderabad-New Delhi AP Express. Two passengers lost their lives in the blasts and 22 suffered injuries. Five different cases were registered at respective police stations in Kota, Valsad, Kanpur, Allahabad and Malkaj-Giri. These cases were later transferred to the CBI and re-registered under TADA at Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Hyderabad. Investigation found that the bomb blasts were outcome of one single conspiracy and hence all cases were clubbed together. On August 25, 1994, the CBI filed chargesheet against 13 accused, who were arrested, and nine other absconding accused. Hameer Ui Uddin was shown absconding. The charge sheet alleged that he was one of the accused who carried bomb devices and explosive substances to Kanpur on December 5, 1993. Hameer Ui Uddin was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police and Lucknow Special Task Force on February 2, 2010 and was produced before the Ajmer TADA court on March 8, 2010 which remanded him to judicial custody. In 2010, an 8000-page charge sheet was filed against him under various provisions of TADA and Explosive Substance Act, Prevention of Damages to Public Property Act and the Indian Railways Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Don't reopen schools before kids are vaccinated, says Medanta chairman||Top heart surgeon Dr Naresh Trehan has warned of a potential medical disaster if authorities rush to open schools before children are vaccinated against Covid-19. He says India needs to look at the US where the number of kids being hospitalised with the virus has rocketed since schools reopened and avoid the same fate. “We should be patient for another two-three months till the vaccine arrives, children get vaccinated, and then they should be allowed to go to school but it seems we are in a rush right now to open school,” Trehan, chairman, Medanta Heart Institute in Gurgaon, said at the weekend. And there’s not long to wait before youngsters start getting vaccinated, Trehan said, noting that Zydus Cadila’s three-dose Covid-19 vaccine, developed in India, has just been granted emergency use authorisation for use in adults and children over 12 years. “The vaccine is now around the corner because the drug controller just approved the Zydus vaccine. So even if people get one dose, we know the protection goes up 30 per cent-to-50 per cent,” Trehan told news agency ANI. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said the three-dose “needle-free” vaccine is likely to be available by the first week of October and the company says it expects to supply 10 million doses a month initially. The vaccine offers 66 per cent efficacy against moderate infection and 100 per cent protection against severe Covid-19 according to the company which conducted trials on 28,000 people, the largest coronavirus trial in India. There’s also Bharat Biotech’s homegrown Covaxin shot for which Phase 2 and 3 trials are underway for kids aged between two and 18. Dr Priya Abraham, director of Pune’s ICMR-National Institute of Virology, has called the interim data “very positive.” and said that “hopefully, the results will be available soon, which will then be presented to the regulators. So, by September or just after it, we may have Covid-19 vaccines for children.” Bharat Biotech also has included children in its one-shot nasal vaccine trial. Trehan warns that India with its limited medical resources can’t afford to let peadiatric cases spiral out of control. New daily infections have plunged from their second wave peak of 414,000 in May. Lately, the numbers have moved up from their 30,000-range lows to 45,000, but most of the cases are in Kerala and Maharashtra. Covid-19 seropositivity levels are high in many parts of the country, indicating exposure to the virus that could protect against infection. Double whammy But the double whammy of schools reopening and looming festivals could cause infection numbers to surge. The Central Government is warning that a third wave is imminent and Trehan warns, “if too many children fall sick, we don't have facilities to take care of them.” “There is a warning from Florida, which says that the hospitals are full with children and they don't have any facilities left,” he said. “So, we have to look at it in perspective for India where children are not being vaccinated at all,” he said. Some US doctors on the paediatric front lines say they are seeing more critically ill children than they have at any time of the pandemic and they blame the highly virulent Delta variant which devastated India during the second wave. India’s National Institute of Disaster Management said recently “paediatric facilities including doctors, staff, equipment like ventilators and ambulances are nowhere close to what may be required in case a large number of children become infected." Schools opening in states Across the country, state governments are reopening schools in a phased way. The Delhi government has decided to reopen schools from September 1 but online classes will continue. West Bengal plans to reopen schools after the Puja holidays as long as the Covid-19 situation doesn’t worsen. Schools have reopened in Karnataka for classes 9 and 10 this month but on the first day there was just 20 per cent attendance and online classes continue. Face-to-face classes have already resumed in Uttar Pradesh with 50 per cent capacity. Indian researchers also have begun recruiting children aged two-to-17 years for trials of the US vaccine Novavax, known abroad as Covovax, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) that is also making Covishield, according to the Press Trust of India. The drug regulator has granted permission to SII to conduct phase 2-3 trials of Covovax to cover 920 children — half in the 2-11 age group and half in the 12-17 age group, PTI says. SII has said it is already conducting trials on the vaccine’s safety and efficacy on 1,600 adults in India. Trials needed to fix dose for kids While drugs for adults are frequently prescribed off-label at lower doses for children, vaccines need to be fine-tuned as kids’ immune systems respond differently to vaccinations from an adult’s immune systems. The key in trials is to determine the right dose size for children based on factors like weight and age to ensure effectiveness and minimise side effects. Novavax, a small US-based company, which aims to become a big Covid-19 vaccine distributor to lower-and-middle-income countries, is facing big hurdles on the US regulatory front that could seriously affect the rollout of its two-dose mRNA jab in India. Novavax has applied for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) in India, Indonesia and the Philippines through SII, but earlier this month it delayed filing for regulatory approval with the US’ Food and Drug Administration for the third time this year. The company’s chief executive Stanley Erck said the company needed to get “validation work done” to demonstrate consistency in the vaccine’s manufacturing process.  But in the meantime, the US government has suspended its funding of the vaccine until the company resolves the FDA’s concerns. Last year, the Trump administration as part of its crash vaccine production drive handed Novavax a $1.75-billion contract for 100 million doses, despite the company never having brought a vaccine to market in over three decades. Problem for Serum Institute The New York Times quoted federal officials as saying it was unclear when or if the vaccine will be authorised for US distribution amid concerns over testing and quality control. And that could be a big problem for SII which has already begun manufacturing Novavax and is currently stockpiling the doses. The clinical trial protocol in India filed by SII uses the US Novavax candidate as a comparable reference to check the vaccine’s safety and ability to trigger an immune response. This means that unless the main Novavax is granted approval, SII can’t get approved in India. “We can’t launch Novavax’s vaccine unless we get a licence to launch it. The parent American company has some issues with the USFDA, which should be cleared by the end of October. We will get the license only when the company gets one from the FDA. We are trying to obtain the licence ahead of the parent company, but it’s an uphill task,” SII chairman and managing director Cyrus Poonawalla told ANI. He has mentioned January-February as a possible launch of a kids’ Novavax vaccine if all goes well. Novavax also has expanded its US trials to include paediatric patients aged 12 to 17. It’s clear though that adding the need to vaccinate those under 18 will further strain India’s available vaccine supplies. India will need at least 200 million doses to cater to the paediatric population. India just passed a milestone in giving the first vaccination to 50 per cent of its 950 million eligible adults. But only 15 per cent of adults are double-jabbed. Other vaccines There are other vaccines that could come on the Indian market for adults and children over the next year. Moderna, which has been given approval in India but is not yet available due to wrangling over legal protection sought by the company, has already launched trials of its vaccine in children under 12 in the US and is aiming to submit the data to the US regulator by late fall or early winter. Johnson & Johnson has been approved by India for emergency use and plans to make doses here but there is no availability timeline yet. It plans to start a trial in children as young as 12 of its one-shot vaccine this fall in the US. It’s not immediately known whether J&J has struck a deal with the government over indemnity issues. Pfizer, which has not yet applied to launch in India, has begun trials of their vaccines in children under the age of 12 in the US. India has also approved the Russian-made Sputnik V, and got 3 million doses at the beginning with plans to start domestic production in July or August. Now local production of Sputnik isn’t expected to start until next month with the goal of manufacturing more than 300 million doses annually. Meanwhile, Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Life Sciences is reportedly going to start phase-1 clinical trials of its locally developed Covid-19 vaccine soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Court allows dismissed cop Sachin Waze to get treatment at pvt hospital||A special court here on Monday refused to grant the National Investigation Agency (NIA) the custody of dismissed police officer Sachin Waze for questioning in the Antilia bomb scare case but allowed him to get admitted at a private hospital for the treatment of his heart ailment. The cost of such treatment is to be borne by Waze and his family, the court said. Waze, currently in judicial custody, had told the court through his lawyer that three of his arteries had ‘90 per cent blockage’ and that doctors had advised immediate surgery for the same. He urged the court to permit him to seek private medical treatment saying he did not wish to die in custody like tribal rights activist and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy. Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case, died on July 5, while awaiting bail on health grounds. Last week, the NIA had applied to the special court seeking the custody of Waze for two days, and of his co-accused and former police officer Sunil Mane for five days in the Antilia bomb scare case. Both accused, along with eight other accused arrested in the case, are currently in judicial custody. The special court on Monday also refused to grant the custody of Mane to the NIA. Previously, Waze was in the NIA custody for 28 days and Mane for 15 days. The NIA had sought further custody saying it wanted to question Waze and Mane to corroborate statements of witnesses in the case. The NIA had arrested Waze for his alleged involvement in placing an explosives-laden vehicle on Carmichael Road near billionaire Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia on February 25. Later, he was booked for the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who purportedly owned the car.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Rajnath reiterates need to solve India's border dispute with China through dialogue||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday that India wants a solution to the border dispute with China through dialogue and asserted that the government would never allow the sanctity of borders to be violated. The Modi government has made it clear to the forces that any unilateral action on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) should not be ignored, he said. Singh was delivering virtually the third Balramji Dass Tandon Memorial Lecture organised by Panjab University on the issue of national security. The defence minister said that there have been perception differences on the border with China. Despite this, there are some agreements, protocols which the armies of both countries follow to conduct patrols. Referring to the clashes in eastern Ladakh last year, Singh said Chinese forces had ignored the agreed protocols. "We cannot allow the Chinese Army PLA to act on the LAC in a unilateral manner under any circumstances. "That is what the Indian Army did that day in Galwan and bravely confronted the PLA soldiers and forced them to retreat, he said while terming it as a "historic" incident. India wants a solution to the border dispute with China through dialogue, the defence minister said and asserted that the government will never compromise on issues of the "country's borders, its honour and self-respect". "We will never allow the sanctity of borders to be violated," he said. Recalling the Galwan incident, he said the bravery, valour and restraint shown by the Indian Army are incomparable and unparalleled. In the first deadly clash in the border area in nearly five decades, 20 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 last year in the Galwan Valley in fierce hand-to-hand combat with Chinese troops, triggering a large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both armies at the friction points in eastern Ladakh. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. In a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region, the Indian and Chinese armies completed the disengagement process and restored the pre-standoff ground position in Gogra in eastern Ladakh after 15 months. The development came after the 12th round of military talks between the two sides on July 31 at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point in eastern Ladakh. Earlier, the Indian and Chinese frontline troops had conducted the first synchronised disengagement at the south and north banks of the Pangong lake in February. The Army is trained to press the trigger on seeing the movement of the enemy, but the Indian Army has shown both courage and restraint while working with great maturity, Rajnath Singh said. He said despite this, questions were raised by some opposition leaders on the Army's capability. The defence minister said India has learnt a lot from the 1962 war against China.On improving infrastructure, he said that the Atal Tunnel project in Rohtang, which was on hold for a long time, was completed by the Modi government. This tunnel has strategic importance, he said. The Border Roads Organisation is developing infrastructure projects and all-weather connectivity was being given to Ladakh, he said, adding work on several alternative roads has started. It will also help the people who live in border areas as these people have strategic importance for us, the minister said. Keeping their interests in mind, it is necessary to strengthen the border infrastructure, he said. Referring to the situation in the Northeast, the minister said an era of peace has come in this region in the last seven years. There was a time when the entire region was in the grip of insurgency, he said and dubbed the restoration of peace in the Northeast as the biggest strategic victory of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's tenure. The minister said the government has succeeded in controlling Left Wing Extremism as well in the last seven years. When the BJP government was formed in 2014, as many as 160 districts were facing the Naxal problem, while this number reduced to 50 in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Covid restrictions at border with Kerala to continue: Official||Restrictions on the movement of people enforced at the border with Kerala will continue as there has been no change in the Covid-19 situation in Kerala, Dakshina Kannada district Deputy Commissioner K V Rajendra said. Giving a clarification on reports claiming that the Centre has lifted the requirement of RT-PCR certificates to cross the border, he said the Karnataka government's order mandating the RT-PCR test negative certificates for those coming to DK from Kerala is still in force. The order is meant to contain the spread of Covid-19 and the district administration will continue to implement the same, he said. Rajendra said more than 30,000 new Covid cases are being reported from Kerala daily and the test positivity rate in neighbouring Kasaragod district is around 12 per cent. In Dakshina Kannada, the positivity rate has been brought down to around 2 with a lot of effort and lifting of border restrictions will be like letting in new cases from Kerala. Though it is difficult to implement, the district has no other option than making the RT-PCR certificate mandatory, he said. The test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada district came down to 1.81 per cent on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Rajasthan govt announces cash rewards for Paralympic medal winners||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday congratulated three Paralympic medal winners from the state, announcing cash rewards of up to Rs 3 crore for each of them. Shooter Avani Lekhara, who has won a gold medal at the Paralympic Games in Tokyo, will be given a cash reward of Rs 3 crore, while javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia and Sundar Singh Gurjar will get Rs 2 crore and Rs 1 crore respectively for winning silver and bronze medals. All three players from Rajasthan have already been appointed to the post of assistant conservator of forest in the state forest department. "The players of the state have brought laurels to the country and the state by winning medals, we are very proud of them," Gehlot tweeted. Lekhara scripted history on Monday as she became the first Indian woman to win a gold medal at the Paralympics, firing her way to the top of the podium in the R-2 women's 10m Air Rifle Standing SH1 event. The 19-year-old from Jaipur, who sustained spinal cord injuries in a car accident in 2012, finished with a world record equalling total of 249.6, which is also a new Paralympic record. "Heartiest Congratulations to Jaipur's Avani Lekhara for winning first ever Gold for India in ShootingParaSport! What a superb performance by her in Women's 10m AR Standing SH1 Final as she created history! Entire nation is very proud of her. It's a great day for Indian sports!" Gehlot tweeted earlier in the day. Two-time gold-winning javelin throw veteran Jhajharia clinched a stupendous third Paralympic medal, a silver this time, while Gurjar won a bronze in the men's javelin throw F46 final. The chief minister congratulated the two, calling it a "marvellous moment". "We are so proud of Rajasthan's Paralympic javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia, who grabbed Silver & Sundar Singh Gurjar for claiming Bronze at Men's Javelin Throw event, TokyoParalympics. It's a marvelous moment. Heartiest Congratulations to Dev Jhajharia & Sundar S Gurjar!" he said in another tweet. Gehlot also hailed Yogesh Kathuniya for winning a silver medal in Men's Discus Throw F56. "It's great news for all of us. The nation is so proud!" he tweeted. Kathuniya, a B.Com graduate from New Delhi's Kirorimal College, sent the disc to a best distance of 44.38m in his sixth and last attempt to clinch the silver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Non-bailable warrants against three in fake Covid testing scam during Kumbh||A Haridwar court has issued non-bailable warrants against Mallika and Sharat Pant of Max Corporate services and Dr Navtej Nalwa of Nalwa Path Labs in connection with fake Covid tests conducted during Kumbh. The NBWs against the three main accused in the case were issued on Saturday by the court of chief judicial magistrate, Haridwar. The two firms and their owners were among three companies named in an FIR lodged in connection with the case. After obtaining the NBWs from the CJM's court, efforts are being made by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to arrest them, Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S said. Police teams have been sent to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and New Delhi in search of the accused, he said. The scam pertains to issuing negative Covid test reports to a host of people whose samples were never taken and who did not even attend the Kumbh mela. Noida-based Max Corporate Services, which had been assigned the task of carrying out Covid tests during Kumbh, had outsourced the job to Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs. Two officials in Uttarakhand were suspended last week for their alleged involvement in the fake Covid testing scam during Haridwar Kumbh. Dr Arjun Singh Sengar, the then Mela officer (medical and health), and Dr N K Tyagi, the then officer in charge (medical and health), were suspended on August 26 on Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's orders. The action was based on the recommendation of a probe committee set up by the Haridwar district magistrate to look into the fake testing scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Afghan situation raises new security questions, says Rajnath Singh||The current happenings in Afghanistan have raised new security questions, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Monday, asserting the Central government is alert and capable of dealing with any situation. He also said no anti-national force should be allowed to encourage terrorism from across the border by taking advantage of the developments in Afghanistan. He was addressing the third Balramji Dass Tandon memorial lecture organised by Panjab University on the issue of national security. "What is happening in neighbouring Afghanistan is raising new questions in terms of security and our government is keeping a watch on the developments there," said Singh in his address delivered through video conferencing. Along with the security of Indians, Singh said, "Our government also wants that anti-national forces do not encourage terrorism from across the border by taking advantage of the development there." "We have some more concerns which can become challenges from the point of view of national security," he added. Singh said the Modi-led government at the Centre is alert and capable of dealing with any situation. The Taliban took control of Afghanistan on August 15, capturing all major cities in a matter of days, two weeks before the US was set to complete its troop withdrawal after a vexatious two-decade war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||JK: Infiltration bid along LoC foiled in Poonch||A terrorist was killed as Army troops foiled an infiltration attempt along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district early on Monday, a defence spokesman said. Jammu-based Defence Public Relation Officer Lt Col Devender Anand said that an operation is still in progress in the area. "In the early hours of August 30, terrorists from across the Line of Control made an attempt to infiltrate in the Poonch Sector. Alert Army troops detected the infiltration bid by effective use of the integrated surveillance grid in Poonch sector in the early hours of Monday," the spokesman said. On being challenged by Army troops, a fierce fire fight ensued and one terrorist was killed. His body along with an AK-47 rifle has been recovered. "This action by alert Army troops displays the resolve of the Indian Army to thwart any misadventure along the LoC, Lt Col Anand said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Delhi govt announces host of guidelines for reopening of schools||Mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, alternate seating arrangement in classrooms and avoiding routine guest visits are among the guidelines announced by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for reopening of schools and colleges from September 1. The DDMA has said that students, teachers and other employees living in Covid containment zones will not be allowed to come to schools and colleges. Following a marked improvement in the Covid situation in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday had announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions would reopen from September 1. The Delhi government had clarified that no student would be forced to attend physical classes and the consent of parents would be mandatory. "Schools and colleges should prepare a timetable as per occupancy limit of classrooms following Covid norms. A maximum 50 per cent students per classroom may be called depending upon capacity. The seating arrangement should be done in such a way that seats are occupied in an alternate manner," read the DDMA guidelines notified on Monday. "As the situation varies from school to school and college to college, the institutions may stagger the schedule to avoid crowding in classrooms and at main entrance or exit, the DDMA said. Lunch breaks may also be staggered and preferably be held in open areas as students will remove masks while having food, the guidelines added. While the government has noted that the vaccination centres and activities like ration distribution which were going on in different schools will continue, the DDMA said the area being used for these activities should be separated from the area which will be used for academic activities. "All schools and colleges are advised to ensure that a quarantine room is available for emergency use. Routine guest visits should be discouraged," the guidelines said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Heart-wrenching to see survival of children at stake due to Covid, says SC||Covid-19 has devastated many lives and it is heart wrenching that the survival of children who lost either or both parents during the pandemic is at stake, the Supreme Court said but expressed satisfaction over schemes announced by the Centre and states to provide succour to them. The apex court said that satisfactory progress has been made by the Executive in identifying children who have either become orphans or have lost one of their parents during the COVID-19 pandemic. "We are glad that the UoI (Union of India) and the state governments/Union Territories have announced schemes to provide succour to the children in need. We have no doubt that the authorities concerned would leave no stone unturned to attend to the immediate basic needs of the crestfallen children, said a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose. The top court, which was hearing a suo motu matter on 'Contagion of COVID-19 on children protection homes', noted in its order that over one lakh children have lost either or both parents during the pandemic. The catastrophe caused by the cataclysmic COVID-19 has devastated many lives, especially children at a tender age who have lost their parents, the bench said, adding that it is heart wrenching to note that the survival of so many children is at stake. It said inquiries by Child Welfare Committee (CWCs), in accordance with provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, have to be expedited to identify those children who are in need of care and protection. Immediate steps also have to be taken to ensure that benefits of schemes reach the needy minors, the bench said. The apex court said all children have a constitutional right to free and compulsory elementary education and the State has a duty and obligation to facilitate education for children. "We have no doubt that the State realizes the importance of continuance of education of the forlorn children," the bench said in its August 26 order. The bench noted the submissions of Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, that education of eligible children up to 18 years is sought to be provided for under the PM CARES for Children' scheme launched for support and empowerment of COVID-19 affected children. Bhati told the bench that 2,600 children eligible for benefits under the scheme have been registered by states and out of these, 418 applications have been approved by district magistrates. The bench directed district magistrates to complete the process of approval of applications of the remaining children whose names have been registered for the 'PM CARES' scheme. In case of necessity, fee and other expenditure of the 2,600 children, whose names have been registered for the 'PM CARES for Children' scheme, shall be taken care of by the government of India, it said. The bench said for children, who have lost either or both parents after March last year, state governments shall confer with private schools to waive the fee of distressed children for the current academic year. In case, the private institutions are unwilling to effectuate such waiver, the state government shall shoulder the burden of the fee, the court said, adding, In respect of those children amongst the 2,600 registered under the 'PM CARES for Children scheme', it is open to state governments to request the government of India to bear the fee and other expenses pertaining to their education, for the current academic year. While perusing state-wise details placed before it, the bench said after completion of inquiries, CWCs may identify those children who do not need care and protection, and financial assistance from the states. Such of those children need not be given the benefits that are announced by the state governments. It is only those children who are in need of care and protection, in terms of the (Juvenile Justice) Act, who have to be provided with assistance by the state governments, it said. The bench has posted the matter for further hearing on October 7. In an additional affidavit filed last week, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had told the apex court that over one lakh children are in need of care and protection as they are either orphan, have lost one of their parents or were abandoned during the pandemic since April last year. According to information uploaded on the Bal Swaraj' portal by states and Union Territories, there are 8,161 children who have become orphans, 92,475 have lost either of their parents and 396 have been abandoned between April 1, 2020 to August 23 this year. The apex court had earlier passed a slew of directions for care and protection of children who have become orphans or have lost one parent or were abandoned during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||India logs over 42,000 fresh Covid cases, 380 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 42,909 new COVID-19 infections, which took the total tally of cases to 3,27,37,939, while active cases registered an increase for the sixth consecutive day, according to Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll has climbed to 4,38,210 with 380 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has increased to 3,76,324 and comprise 1.15 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.51 per cent, the health ministry said. It said active cases in the country increased by 7,766 cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 14,19,990 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far in the country to 52,01,46,525. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 3.02 per cent. It is above three per cent after 35 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.41 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 66 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,19,23,405, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 63.43 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 380 new fatalities include 131 from Maharashtra and 75 from Kerala. A total of 4,38,210 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,157 from Maharashtra, 37,278 from Karnataka, 34,878 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,818 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,541 from Kerala and 18,423 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Three houses collapse after heavy rains, 2 killed||Two people were killed and several others went missing after three houses collapsed in a village following heavy rains in Dharchula sub-division of the district, an official said on Monday. The incident occurred in Jumma village late on Sunday night, Pithoragarh District Magistrate Ashish Chauhan said. Two bodies were recovered and a search operation was underway for those still missing, he said. "We are holding an emergency meeting on how to tackle the situation. More information will be available after the meeting," the district magistrate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Light rain expected in Delhi today||The national capital woke up to a cloudy morning on Monday and the city is likely to receive light rain or thundershowers towards the evening, the India Meteorological Department said. The minimum temperature was recorded at 25.3 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is expected to reach 34 degrees Celsius, it said. The city on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 25.8 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's average, and a maximum temperature of 34.7 degrees Celsius. Good rainfall in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the capital, according to the weather experts. Normally, the capital gauges 247.7 mm rainfall in August. The IMD had earlier predicted normal rainfall for Delhi this month. The air quality in the city was recorded in the "moderate" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 158 at 8.05 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Goa govt extends Covid curfew again till September 6||The Goa government has once again extended the COVID-19 induced statewide curfew till September 6. A notification to this effect was issued on Sunday. The 24-hour curfew was first imposed on May 9 this year and since then it has been extended regularly. The Goa government has opened the majority of activities in the tourist state but the areas like casinos are yet to be reopened. Goa's COVID-19 tally went up by 74 on Sunday to reach 1,73,791, an official had said. The state had 945 active cases as of Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Haryana: Death adds to outrage over lathi-charge on farmers||Outrage against the police lathi-charge on farmers in Haryana grew on Sunday as a farm leader equated the assaulters with “sarkari Talibanis” and the death of a farmer inflamed tempers. Waking up to the political cost, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala sought to control the damage by saying action would be taken against Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who was purportedly caught on camera asking the police to break the heads of the protesters. “The use of such words by an IAS officer for farmers is condemnable. Definitely, action will be taken against him,” Chautala, leader of the JJP that shares power with the BJP in Haryana, said on Sunday in response to questions from journalists. In sharp contrast, chief minister and BJP leader Manohar Lal Khattar had defended the police and blamed the farmers on Saturday. Later on Sunday, it emerged that Sushil Kaajal, a farmer who was said to have suffered injuries in the lathi-charge at the Karnal toll plaza on Saturday, died of a heart attack. The death was announced by the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union chief, Gurnam Singh Chaduni. According to Chaduni, Kaajal, who owns one-and-a-half acres of farmland, had been participating in the farmers’ protests over the past nine months. Karnal inspector-general of police Mamta Singh denied the allegation that Kaajal was injured in the lathi-charge. The farmer had a meal at his home in the evening and went to sleep but was found dead in the morning, Singh said. The family did not lodge any complaint, nor was any post-mortem done. The cremation was done by the family, she added. The BJP-led Centre has been saying it has no record of deaths linked to the farmers’ months-long protest although the unions say that hundreds of farmers have lost their lives while taking part in the open-air agitation that has survived a brutal winter and a summer. The Punjab government alone has confirmed over 200 deaths among the protesting farmers. Ramandeep Singh Mann, a commentator on agriculture who has been closely tracking the farmers’ protest, tweeted that Kaajal was injured in the police lathi-charge at the toll plaza. “He was injured on the head and body, and at night he died of a heart attack. Who will take responsibility for this?” Mann tweeted a picture of another man with a heavily bandaged nose and said: “He is Gurjant, he suffered the brunt of the police lathi-charge yesterday, his nose was broken; but now he has lost 50% of his eyesight also. All this because Khattar was hell-bent on not having his program in Chandigarh, but in Karnal, where he knew farmers will oppose his program.” The All India Kisan Sabha has already given a call to its units to organise demonstrations across the country against the high-handed manner in which Haryana police had treated agitating farmers even as Punjab farmers took to the streets on Sunday in solidarity with the Haryana farmers. Addressing a meeting at Nuh in Mewat of Haryana, Rakesh Tikait of BKU said that if farmers were called Khalistanis, officers who ordered brutal action against farmers could be called “sarkari Talibanis”. The wire service ANI quoted him as saying: “Yesterday, an officer ordered (policemen) to hit farmers on their heads. They call us Khalistani. If you would call us Khalistani and Pakistani, we would say ‘sarkari Talibani’ have occupied the country. They are ‘sarkari Talibanis’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Supreme Court to resume physical proceedings from September 1||The Supreme Court will resume physical proceedings from September 1 following a directive from Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday. Matters where physical hearings will be allowed will also have the “hybrid option” — any of the parties or advocates involved can choose to join in through videoconferencing. The apex court has not held physical hearings since March last year owing to the pandemic. Justice Ramana’s directive follows requests from the Bar associations and is based on recommendations of a committee of judges he had set up. According to the standard operating procedure that the apex court registry issued on Sunday morning: ⚫ Final hearings and regular matters (those already admitted by the court) listed on non-miscellaneous days will have the option of physical hearings. The maximum number of advocates per petitioner allowed at a physical hearing is three. (Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays are the “non-miscellaneous days”, when old cases are heard, while Mondays and Fridays are the “miscellaneous days”, when fresh cases can be heard.) ⚫ Any other matter may also be heard in the physical mode on non-miscellaneous days if the bench so directs. ⚫ If the total number of advocates for the parties exceeds 20 at any point during a physical hearing, the excess advocates will be heard through videoconferencing. ⚫ All other matters, including those listed on miscellaneous days, will continue to be heard through videoconferencing or teleconferencing. ⚫ The advocates-on-record (AORs) — through whom petitions are filed — must state if the preferred mode is physical or virtual. This has to be done within 24 hours of the publication of the weekly list of final hearings and regular matters. ⚫ During a physical hearing, one AOR or his/her nominee, one arguing counsel and one junior counsel per party will be allowed entry into the courtroom. One registered clerk, chosen by the AOR for his or her party, too will be allowed in. ⚫ All stakeholders must adhere to the Covid protocol, such as wearing a mask, frequently using hand sanitisers and maintaining physical distancing. The high courts have been allowed to decide when they would resume physical hearings. Delhi High Court will do so from August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||Afghanistan: UNSC drops Taliban from statement on terror||The UN Security Council has on India’s watch dropped a direct reference to the Taliban in a statement urging all Afghan groups to shun support for terrorists, indicating a possible shift in the attitude of its members, including the Permanent-5, towards the group that is sanctioned under UNSC Resolution 1267. “The members of the Security Council reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan to ensure the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country, and that no Afghan group or individual should support terrorists operating on the territory of any country,” the UNSC statement issued by Council president and India’s permanent representative to the UN, T.S. Tirumurti, said on Friday. The statement has been issued in his name as India this month holds the rotating presidency of the UNSC. Less than a fortnight ago, in the immediate aftermath of the fall of Kabul, the UNSC had made a similar observation in the statement — the only difference being that on August 16, the member countries had referred to the Taliban. “The members of the Security Council reaffirmed the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan to ensure the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country, and that neither the Taliban nor any other Afghan group or individual should support terrorists operating on the territory of any other country,” the Council had said a fortnight ago. The significant omission of the Taliban this time was first noted by Tirumurti’s predecessor at India’s permanent mission to the UN, Syed Akbaruddin. Posting the two statements on Twitter, he said: “In diplomacy... A fortnight is a long time. The ‘T’ word is gone... Compared the marked portions of @UN Security Council statements issued on 16 August & on 27 August.…” India had studiously avoided referring to the Taliban in its interventions at two different UN bodies where it spoke on the situation in Afghanistan since the fall of Kabul. Tirumurti spoke about terrorism and India’s concerns about it but did not refer to the Taliban by name in his intervention during the deliberations on the situation in Afghanistan in the UNSC on August 16. Likewise, at the UNHRC Special Session on Afghanistan last week, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, Indramani Pandey, too made no mention of the Taliban while flagging India’s concerns about Afghan territory being used by terrorist groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed. The Taliban too have made what may be described as an overture to India. Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai on Saturday said: “We want to have political and economic relations with India like in the past, including the air corridor, but also we want to improve it. Afghanistan businesses would like access to the Indian market through Pakistan.” This is the senior-most voice from the Taliban yet to speak on Afghanistan’s relations with its neighbourhood under the new regime. Stanikzai is a former army officer who had trained at the Indian Military Academy. Stanikzai, while seeking Indian market access for Afghan businesses via Pakistan, did not disclose whether the Taliban would try to make it a reciprocal arrangement. Currently, under the Afghanistan-Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement, goods from Afghanistan are ferried by land to India and offloaded at Wagah. But the trucks return empty as Pakistan has refused to allow Indian goods to be taken back via the same route which would, in turn, open up the Central Asian market to India. Stanikzai also spoke about maintaining cultural ties with India, raising the question whether India’s best-known export to Afghanistan – Bollywood films and songs – would be allowed under the new regime. The Taliban had banned music and cinema during their first stint in power between 1996 and 2001, and their capture of Kabul saw several musicians break their instruments for fear of punishment. There was no comment from India on the Taliban leader’s statements. New Delhi still views the situation in Afghanistan as fluid, given that the Taliban remain a ragtag group with no clear chain of command. Avinash Paliwal, author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US Withdrawal, tweeted: “Driven by TB’s need for money & recognition, triggered by the need to counter-balance Pakistan, & shaped by internal politics b/w Haqqanis & other factions (Kandaharis/‘northerners’), this statement is just that — a signal. It’s unlikely to yield immediate results. “Rifts within the TB, which many of us have been talking about, are re-emerging/asserting fast as the group struggles to govern & prevent an economic — & resulting political — disaster. It gives India an opening-of-sorts. But is (potentially) a poisoned chalice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||DU, JNU set to introduce four-year undergraduate courses ||Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University are set to introduce four-year undergraduate courses and new models of online education pushed by the NDA government that some teachers say will lower the quality of education and endanger their jobs. Delhi University had earlier introduced four-year undergraduate programmes in 2013 in line with the US model but the Narendra Modi government had got the system scrapped immediately after coming to power in 2014, citing technicalities of the approval process. DU’s top decision-making body, its executive council, will meet on Tuesday to approve the changes, which are part of the National Education Policy. JNU’s executive council will do so on Thursday — after approving the introduction of a range of undergraduate courses in a research-intensive university that mainly taught master’s and PhD programmes. The four-year undergraduate programme will allow multiple entry and exit points – with a certificate after one year, a diploma after two, and a degree after three. However, some teachers who are against the move underlined a “confusion” over the nomenclature: the four-year programmes allow an honours degree after three years, as well as a four-year honours degree — and a four-year “honours in a discipline with research” degree if the student submits a dissertation. JNU and DU are also expected to implement the “academic bank of credit” (ABC), which allows students enrolled in a particular university to study up to 50 per cent of the non-core subjects from any other university of their choice, online or offline. This was one of several measures in education that Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced last month. The credits earned from the other university can be deposited in the ABC and redeemed during the award of the degree from the parent university. Mithuraaj Dhusiya, a member of DU’s academic council, said the multiple entry and exit options and the ABC would lower the teachers’ workload “and the teacher’s job will come under question”. R.P. Tiwari, former member of higher education regulator UGC and a votary of online education and the four-year undergraduate system, said the fears of a reduction in workload were exaggerated. On concerns about the quality of the online education – expressed by former DU executive council member Rajesh Jha to this newspaper – he said the UGC’s pool of readymade e-content had passed quality checks. He said teachers would now have new opportunities to plan and develop online courses in inter-disciplinary subjects that can be offered as elective courses under particular programmes. “Under every academic programme, 50 per cent is core study while the remaining 50 per cent is to be picked from a list of elective courses,” Tiwari, currently the vice-chancellor of Punjab Central University, said. “Universities now have fixed lists of the approved elective courses – the students haven’t much option.” The UGC advertises for e-content development to ensure quality, Tiwari said. Teachers from various universities send their concept notes and short videos providing an outline of the course. A committee of experts selects one of them. Tiwari said the multiple entry and exit points were meant to help students from the disadvantaged segments – who often drop out for lack of resources – return anytime and resume their education. “The blended (online and offline) mode of education is the global model. The e-content will be shared with the students to be viewed at home. The classroom will be devoted to clearing doubts,” Tiwari said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||Covid: Delta variant potency calls for tweak in vaccination policy||The highly contagious delta coronavirus variant may cause breakthrough infections after immunisation more frequently than hitherto assumed, Indian researchers said on Sunday after detecting unexpectedly large proportions of infections in Covishield recipients. Their findings also corroborate an abundance of earlier evidence that Covid-19 vaccines protect recipients from severe disease. But the large proportions of breakthrough infections by the delta variant underline that potential gains could be made by tweaking the vaccination policy, the researchers have said. The researchers have detected signatures of the delta infection in 25 per cent of 95 healthcare workers in five hospitals across the National Capital Region who were fully immunised with two Covishield doses. These infection rates are higher than the 9 per cent observed at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and the 1.6 to 2.6 per cent at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, earlier this year. Doctors in a Delhi hospital had reported a figure of 12 per cent earlier this month. “The primary purpose of protection from severe disease is well met by the vaccines — here, Covishield,” said Anurag Agrawal, a pulmonary medicine specialist turned researcher and director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi. “There was no severe disease or death among this cohort (group) of vaccinated healthcare workers even during one of the worst delta surges,” Agrawal tweeted, referring to India’s second Covid-19 wave that had peaked during late April and early May. But the large proportion of breakthrough infections and a 48 per cent post-immunisation infection rate among single-dose recipients indicate an urgency to revise vaccination policies for more effective use of the existing vaccines, the researchers said. These infection rates were seen in small samples of high-risk people, such as health workers. Still, the 48 per cent infection rate after a single dose is “unacceptably high”, Agrawal and his colleagues wrote in their study, not yet peer-reviewed but posted on Sunday on medrxiv, an online archive for research papers. “The vaccination policy needs to be tailored to the local status of the epidemic,” Shantanu Sengupta, a senior biologist and a member of the study team at the IGIB, told The Telegraph. “In areas with a large proportion of susceptible people and where the delta variant is circulating, it would help to shorten the gap between the two Covishield doses.” The study has also found that Covishield — like other vaccines — sharply boosts immune responses in recipients who have earlier had Covid-19. In populations where large proportions of people are already protected from natural infections, a longer dose gap may be appropriate. The highly contagious delta variant, first detected in India, now makes up over 86 per cent of the virus samples sequenced in the country and has turned up in over 80 countries. Multiple studies from India and other countries have already shown that the delta variant can evade the immune responses generated by the existing Covid-19 vaccines, although the vaccines protect people from severe disease or death. But the IGIB-Max study is the first to quantify the amount of antibodies needed to neutralise the delta variant -- around 1,500 units per ml of blood serum. It also suggests that vaccine recipients with prior Covid-19 infections are the likeliest to show such high antibody levels. The large proportions of breakthrough infections among vaccine recipients bolster the evidence for suggesting that the existing vaccines might not help achieve the so-called herd immunity threshold and stop the epidemic in populations where the delta variant is dominant. The herd immunity threshold is a point at which such a large proportion of people in a population are protected through vaccines or natural infection that the virus finds it hard to spread and the epidemic fades, although a trickle of cases may continue as the infection turns endemic. A study at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, had earlier this month found that a single dose of Covishield offers no protection from symptomatic Covid-19 or from severe disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||Big Bang and cycle of creation and destruction ||It was in the late fifties, still at school, we were all very excited about the new discoveries of the structure of the universe. Fred Hoyle, Dennis Sciama, Herman Bondi, Jayant Narlikar, and others all at Cambridge proposed an attractive and almost serene theory of the structure of the universe — called the “Steady State Theory”. The universe, according to this theory has no beginning, no end, thus, endless both in space and time. There is no beginning, no end; steady state, therefore it was. With the observed expansion of the universe, the void that is created, gets filled in very slowly with new matter, created from hydrogen, ensuring “steady” density of matter across the universe. The idea was rather appealing, if nothing else, purely for its beauty and aesthetic appeal, and the idea was certainly philosophically attractive. Towards the end of the 1950s and beginning of the 1960s Sir Martin Ryle of Mullard Radio Observatory, Cambridge with detailed observations about the distant galaxies revealed that the steady state theory may not be correct. Sir Martin, incidentally was the co-discoverer of pulsars, the rotating neutron stars with Tony Hewish and Jocelyn Bell for which Sir Martin and Tony were awarded Nobel prize but Jocelyn got by passed. The real death blow to the steady state theory came from the “flukey” discovery of two American scientists from Bell Labs, Arno Penzias and Robert W. Wilson in 1964 of microwave electromagnetic radiation coming from all directions of space. The huge antenna used by the American scientists captured the all-pervasive radiation. They were puzzled, couldn’t believe at all. They even suspected bird droppings caused the radiation but that was not the case. Whatever they did, eventually the all-pervasive cosmic radiation persisted, there was no escape. Such radiation had been predicted already by that mercurial and impossibly savvy Russian physicist George Gamow and his colleagues Robert Dicke way back in 1940s. Ultimately for Penzias and Wilson all the elements of the puzzle fitted neatly with the idea of a “flash of the Big Bang” the very birth of the universe 14 billion years ago. The background radiation Penzias and Wilson observed is the “hiss” of the universe after the big bang expanding through space and time. Soon the radiation was referred to as “CMB”, “cosmic microwave background”, at extremely cold temperature 2.725° Kelvin, (0° Kelvin is absolutely zero, and 273° Kelvin is zero degree centigrade). With the discovery of CMB, “cosmythology” became “cosmology”, a quantitative and precise observational science of the universe. One of the most remarkable measurement by COBE (Cosmic Background Explorer) is the perfect black body radiation, discovered by Planck in the beginning of the twentieth century, CMB is probably a near perfect example of black body radiation. Science is never content with the present and what we know at present. The wonderful driving force of science, physics in particular, is to explore what we don’t know yet and that is the beauty of the unknown and the joy of discovery. Now, that the big bang theory is a reality and steady state theory is dead, the obvious question that comes to one’s mind “How did the big bang itself emerge?” Second, “what was there before big bang”? I entered Cambridge university in 1964, with the “flash of the big bang” was all over, very exciting times indeed. Dennis Sciama used to teach us mathematics, on the black board with a chalk, clear and lucid. It was a treat. In an evening lecture (very popular in Cambridge those days), it turns out Dennis had been an ardent follower of “steady state theory” but had the grace and courage to come down from that stand point and become an eager supporter of Big Bang theory. My friend Roger Penrose, Nobel prize winner for physics in 2020, has gone on to question “what happened before the big bang?” and “what caused the bang of the big bang?”. He comes to some remarkably revolutionary conclusion, essentially guided by the famous “second law of thermodynamics” which stated simply says, “chaos is increasing” in this universe along with the increasing entropy. Curiously enough, the entropy at the big bang was unusually small, Roger asserts and he is absolutely right of course. This universe of ours is not for ever, with time and expansion, every inhabitant of this universe, the stars the galaxies, will turn colder. Eventually, long into the future, after many million years from now, the entire universe will turn to an unimaginable grave, the universe will have no sign of energy, coldest ever, with zero temperature, every bit of energy would be spent, total annihilation in the darkness, the dead universe will prevail. But the billions of black holes floating around the universe will carry with them the awesome entropy stored within the black hole and with a finite temperature, called the Hawking temperature. Again as per the dictate of the second law of thermodynamics, the billions of black holes will burst, most possibly at the same instant. That almost infinite amount of entropy and the associated energy will be the next “flash of the big bang”. Roger Penrose describes the event, as the beginning of another “aeon”. There have been endless “aeons”, beyond counts literally. One “aeon” ends and another starts; “nature” has put in the most beautiful and exquisite mechanism, brilliant and awesome yet beyond any normal comprehension. The creation follows destruction and destruction leads to the creation precisely and exactly, effortlessly, just guided by the laws of nature. Clearly in this scheme of thinking there is no beginning or end of time or space — the universe of a sort is always there! Can you hear the echoes of the steady state universe? Roger Penrose is supposed to come to Calcutta, in January 2022 for an international conference to talk on “Are we seeing Hawking Points in the microwave sky?” Well, let’s see!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||LAC: India and China accelerate several infrastructure projects ||India and China have accelerated several infrastructure projects along the Line of Actual Control, including construction of roads, bridges and tunnels, amid the border standoff in eastern Ladakh, sources in the security establishment said on Saturday. The armies of the two countries have been locked in a border dispute in Ladakh since May last year. India and China are also engaged in military and diplomatic talks to resolve the impasse. Twelve rounds of military talks have already taken place. A security official attached to the Union home ministry said the situation in Ladakh was simmering and evolving fast. “The military standoff has forced us to rethink our border strategy with China. Considering the continuous threat of infiltration from the Chinese side, we have stepped up our border infrastructure development programme, including building roads, bridges and tunnels, to counter further Chinese transgressions into Indian areas along the LAC,” he told The Telegraph. Another government official said the motive behind speeding up infrastructure projects was to pre-empt more face-offs and intrusions and ensure better deployment of forces. “The move to enhance capability will bolster the Indian Army’s preparedness to effectively deal with possible challenges and threats,” he said. The Chinese army, he said, has also been rapidly building infrastructure, including roads, bridges and habitats, for its soldiers near the multiple friction points in Ladakh. “They have been carrying out construction works not only at the remaining friction points but also at those points from where the armies of both countries have disengaged so far,” the official said. There has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. Military veterans have questioned the government’s “concessions” in agreeing to create a buffer zone, saying such areas within India-claimed lines meant territory loss for the Indian Army. The border standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains. Both sides have amassed men and machinery at altitudes of 14,000ft and above, and have deployed 50,000 troops each along the LAC in Ladakh backed by artillery, tanks and missile systems. The 3,488km frontier with China passes through the five states of Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Sources in the defence ministry said India was building nearly 70 roads of operational significance along the China border. “China too has been enhancing its border infrastructure by building roads, bridges, a railway network and airports,” a ministry official said. The Border Roads Organisation, an Indian defence ministry outfit, has been tasked with constructing and maintaining border roads, advance landing grounds, tunnels and bridges. “The main purpose behind speeding up infrastructure development programmes is to ensure faster deployment and better maintenance of frontier posts,” the official said. He said that in the past, poor infrastructure along the border on the Indian side had come in the way of countering the threat from China, which has better roads and infrastructure. “The ongoing infrastructure development programme will bolster our preparedness to counter any such threat,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||Communal hate gnaws at livelihood  of the poor||One Muslim trader was coerced into chanting “Jai Shri Ram” while another was attacked for naming his food stall after a Hindu god. Two men have been arrested on the charge of forcing a Muslim scrap dealer to chant “Jai Shri Ram” at a village in Ujjain district of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, an official said. A video shows two youths purportedly telling a middle-aged man in a cap: “How can you do business in our village? Say ‘Jai Shri Ram’.” The man resists for a while, saying “Listen to me” repeatedly, before giving in and chanting Ram’s name and asking: “Are you happy now?” In the Uttar Pradesh district of Mathura — believed to be the birthplace of Krishna — some people threatened a Muslim dosa seller, Irfan, and vandalised his stall because he had named his business after the god. A video clip shows a man tearing down a board that says “Shrinath dosa corner” while another fumes that the name would mislead Hindus into eating at his stall. A voice asks why the vendor has not been using a Muslim name for the stall. Some people are heard chanting a slogan calling “Krishna devotees” to “purify” Mathura. R.K. Rai, sub-divisional officer of police in Mahidpur, Ujjain, said: “Scrap dealer Abdul Rasheed, a resident of Mahidpur town who has been doing this business here for a long time, went to Sikli village to collect some scrap in his mini-truck.” He added that Rasheed was forced to leave the village and warned against doing business in the area. After he left, two men intercepted him at Pipliya Dhuma, roughed him up and forced him to chant “Jai Shri Ram”, Rai said. In a second video related purportedly to the Ujjain incident, two men are seen throwing away scrap from what appears the middle-aged man’s four-wheeler and asking him not to enter the village again. Actress Pooja Bhatt tweeted: “Mera Gaon. Mera Desh. Mera Ram. Mera Bhagwan. Marna toh hum sab ko hai. Aag mein jaloge ya nafrat mein (My village. My country. My Ram. My God. We all have to die. Would you rather burn in fire or in hate)?” Jharda police station-in-charge Vikram Singh Ivne said Kamal Singh, 22, and Ishwar Singh, 27, had been arrested and booked for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, committing public mischief, voluntarily causing hurt, and other charges. Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said similar incidents had earlier occurred in Indore and Dewas. “Has it been happening under a specific agenda? The government is watching everything as a mute spectator,” he said. State medical education minister Vishvas Sarang said the government was “committed to taking action and preventing such incidents” and asked whether the Congress was “behind making such videos and spreading them”. The Mathura incident took place on August 18 at Vikas Bazar. The police registered a case on August 28 invoking the charges of mischief causing damage, and criminal intimidation against unknown people. City superintendent of police Martand Prakash Singh said the police were looking for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Another MLA ditches BJP to return to Trinamul fold ||Another BJP legislator adopted the Trinamul flag on Monday, his return to the TMC coming amidst a controversy surrounding Mukul Roy’s "ghar wapsi"  and the BJP’s efforts to bring the anti-defection law into play in Bengal. Forty-two-year-old Tanmay Ghosh was elected for the first time to the Assembly from Bishnupur this May and took barely three months to return to his former party. Unlike the case of other Trinamul turncoats who lost the elections _  like Sonali Guha, Rajib Banerjee, Prabir Ghoshal, and Vaishali Dalmia _   Ghosh’s return was hastened by the fact that he actually won a seat, and his defection would help bring down the number of BJP legislators in the Assembly. Turncoats who lost are unlikely to be welcomed back into the party. Ghosh did not give a direct reply to whether he would resign from the Assembly seat or  seek  re-election. "The party leadership will decide that,” Ghosh answered. Replying to the same query, state education minister Bratya Basu, who inducted Ghosh into the party, said, “Everything will be done following the rules.” But as per Trinamul’s track record,  switching political camps is done more at the whims of the party bosses than the rule of law. Basu himself admitted to it indirectly. “Many of them (from BJP) are in touch with us and we are calling them to join us. Though their inclusion will be decided by the party,” he said. The BJP had won 77 seats in the Assembly elections. Since then two of its elected representatives have resigned and now two have defected, bringing down the strength to 73. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikary left for Bishnupur Monday afternoon soon after Ghosh's defection. The Bishunpur development comes a little over a week after the arrest of Trinamul turncoat Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, the town’s former MLA and civic body chairperson for over 30 years (he was  a minister in chief minister Mamata Banerjee's first cabinet), over graft charges. Mukherjee is accused of being involved in financial irregularities to the tune of Rs 9.91 crore related to e-tendering during his days as the chairman of the Bishnupur municipality. Last December, Mukherjee joined the BJP along with Suvendu Adhikary in the presence of Union Home minister Amit Shah. BJP workers in Bishnupur did not take kindly to his switching camps and he faced protests in the town that he had served for 30 years. After the BJP denied him a ticket, Mukherjee tried to lobby with the Trinamul and hitch back to the wagon but was refused entry. His arrest on August 22 brought Mukherjee back into Bengal’s political scene where a fierce battle is on between Mamata  and her former trusted minister Suvendu Adhikary. BJP leaders in Bengal suspect Mukherjee is a pawn in a bigger political game that has Adhikary as the target. “Complaints against Mukherjee date back to when he was with the Trinamul. Why did the government, the police and the chief minister turn a blind eye then? Police claim that Mukherjee has revealed some names. Maybe it is an attempt to corner Suvendu but nothing will come out of it,” said a BJP leader. “Tanmay’s joining Trinamul at such a juncture could be a part of a larger political conspiracy," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Krishna Janmashtami to be celebrated on Monday||Krishna Janmashtami will be celebrated on Monday. Devotees mark this auspicious occasion by observing a fast and praying to Lord Krishna. People adorn their homes with flowers, diyas and lights. Temples are also beautifully decorated and lit. The festival to mark the birth of Lord Krishna is also known as Gokulashtami, Ashtami Rohini, Sri Krishnashtami and Srikrishna Jayanti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||John Barla promises to urge Jaishankar to take up closed Bhutan gate issue ||Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla, also the Alipurduar MP, on Sunday promised to urge Union external affairs minister S. Jaishankar to take up the issue of Bhutan gate in the middle of the bordering town of Jaigaon (Alipurduar district) and Phuentsholing (Bhutan). Since March last year, Bhutan has closed the gate, the principal entry point to India, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, commercial activities have drastically declined in Jaigaon, which largely depends on Bhutan. Thousands of Bhutan residents would cross the gate to enter the local market of Jaigaon every day. Barla, who visited Jaigaon for the first time after he was included in the Union cabinet, spoke with members of the local business community and residents. “I will go to Delhi next month. There, I will meet the external affairs minister and will request him to take up the issue with Bhutan. The pandemic situation has improved in both India and Bhutan and if the gate is reopened, it would help the people of both countries,” said Barla. He said that traders apart, many transporters and even people in general of Jaigaon depended on Bhutan. “Many people would walk to Bhutan every day from Jaigaon to serve as daily-rated workers. They are sitting jobless now. Most traders have kept their shops closed for months now. Jaigaon used to buzz with commercial activities but over the past one-and-a-half years, such activities have considerably reduced,” said Barla.. In Jaigaon, there are around 2,000 shop owners and suppliers dependent on Bhutan. There are another 5,500-odd small traders and stall owners, who did brisk business before the pandemic. Goods worth between Rs 1.5 crore and Rs 2 crore would transacted in the local market daily, said sources. Ramashankar Gupta, secretary, Jaigaon Merchants’ Association, said almost 80 per cent of shops were closed now. and many traders, who had come from other states to Jaigaon, were planning to return after selling their shops, houses and belongings. “If someone can’t find even a couple of customers for months, how can he survive,” Gupta added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records 10 weeks of fall in active Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Sunday recorded 10 consecutive weeks or 70 successive days of a fall in its total number of active cases, with 650 new infections, 683 recoveries and six deaths. The total of active cases fell by 39 on Sunday to reach 9,070. The last time the state saw a rise in its total of active cases was on June 20, when it reached 23,016. Over these 70 days, there has been an improvement of nearly 61 per cent. “Around June 20, we were still recording around 2,200 new infections (a similar number of recoveries) and 50-60 deaths daily. Now, we get 600-700 new infections (a similar number of recoveries) and five-10 deaths a day. That is remarkable improvement, and a total turnaround from the devastation of the second wave,” said a minister. “Before the dreaded third wave arrives, this is a very decent stage for Bengal,” he added. Calcutta logged 87 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 88. Sunday was a day, again, of not one of the 23 Bengal districts reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.22 per cent -- the highest ever this pandemic -- still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.51. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.58 per cent on Sunday. “On June 20, the recovery rate was 97.28, while the positive confirmation rate was 4.12,” said the minister. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta reported one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.47 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.2 lakh recoveries and 18,423 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Jawhar Sircar accuses Narendra Modi of running one-man show||Jawhar Sircar, recently elevated to the Rajya Sabha by Trinamul, on Sunday compared the three Prime Ministers that he worked with as a civil servant and launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government on issues ranging from corruption and the rise of “omnipotent oligarchies” to the subservience of the bureaucracy “as courtesans”. “Whenever I compare the three Prime Ministers (he has worked with), Mr (Atal Bihari Vajpayee) Eloquent, Dr. Manmohan Singh, whom I served rather closely, not eloquent, and the third person (Modi) — I won’t describe and leave it to you — only one has claimed that he would purge dishonesty from India and all that. But he is the one who has taken the maximum pains (not to),” Sircar said in a virtual address organised by Manthan, an international think tank based in Hyderabad. The 69-year-old was speaking in a session titled “The State of Civil Services in India”. Sircar, who retired as the Union culture secretary and was the Prasar Bharati CEO till 2016, alleged that important directorial positions in major private companies, “aided and assisted” by financial institutions, were determined on the basis of whether the person is useful to the Prime Minister or not. Sircar accused Modi of running a one-man show, where civil servants are appointed or discarded at the will of one person or people close to him.. He added while political persons would pull strings to appoint civil servants close to them in posts they preferred earlier as well, the matter has become more “acute” now. “During Dr Manmohan Singh’s period, any minister could have his swagger and say that this is my man and I want him... here, I want him there. Finished. But right now it's a one-man show,” said Sircar. He alleged that Modi amended the TRAI Act only to remove legal hurdles in the way of appointing Nripendra Misra as the principal secretary to the Prime Minister. Misra is a former TRAI chairman and the Act, before its amendment, prohibited him from taking up a government job. In his 42-year stint as a bureaucrat, Sircar worked in the Bengal government before taking central deputation to Delhi, during which he served under Vajpayee, Singh and Modi. Sircar resigned as the CEO of the Prasar Bharati in November 2016, owing to his differences with the Modi government. In one of his Facebook posts — one he wrote after being nominated to the Upper House of Parliament — Sircar said that he decided to resign since he couldn’t “carry on with PM Modi’s Hindutva, his autocratic style of functioning and the economic mess he is creating”. Sircar is a prominent member of a section of India’s civil society firmly standing its ground against the saffron regime and its alleged machinations against the core elements of India’s ethos, such as plurality and democracy. This was one of the primary reasons why Trinamul chief and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee nominated him to the Rajya Sabha. In the address on Sunday, Sircar said that India has moved from “liberalisation to oligarchisation”. Taking a dig at the BJP government at the Centre, he said that India is ruled by “omnipotent oligarchies” these days and that the government of India has become “much more impersonal” in the past few years. Elaborating on this, Sircar said the Union government’s recent decision to monetise public assets is actually the Modi regime’s initiative to “repay” the people who gave the BJP money during the polls. “From liberalisation, we went to the loot and scoot regime, where people like Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi would loot the nation and scoot.... Now there is a schematic handover of key assets and key infrastructure to a handful of people whose wealth has multiplied under the Modi regime,” Sircar said. Invoking the conscience of Indian civil servants, Sircar said: “We joined willingly as courtiers. But we must not continue as courtesans.” He referred to two incidents to explain what happens when civil servants fail to perform their duties or go overboard. First, he referred to the district magistrate of Hathras in Uttar Pradesh as a “criminal”, who colluded with a “terrible” administration. Sircar highlighted how the district administration was busy stopping journalists and arresting Muslim scribes instead of taking necessary action. Second, he spoke of the recent incident of Karnal in Haryana where, in a video, the SDM was purportedly found directing policemen to “break heads” of anyone who wanted to cross barriers in the wake of the farmer protests. In both cases and others like these, the court must take umbrage, Sircar said. He believes none of the governments in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, or the Centre will take action against these civil servants and hence the judiciary must be “hyperactive”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Nine-member team from Bengal to visit Delhi for Ghatal funds||A nine-member team from Bengal comprising four ministers, MPs and MLAs is slated to meet Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar next week to demand funds to implement the Ghatal Master Plan and four other similar projects designed to mitigate the damage from natural disasters. Sources said the outreach would take place at the chief minister’s direction. “The Ghatal Master Plan is the main issue for which we will meet the Union minister of Jal Shakti and the vice-chairman of NITI Aayog on Tuesday as directed by our chief minister. We have already received the appointments in Delhi. We will also place proposals for Digha and the Sunderbans master plans, and others pertaining to the erosion of the Ganges as well as desiltation of various barrages, including the DVC,” state irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra said. Apart from Mahapatra, ministers Manas Ranjan Bhunia, Humayun Kabir and Srikanta Mahato will be in the team travelling to Delhi. After touring the flood-hit areas of Ghatal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said she would send a team to Delhi to pursue the Centre in approving the project. During her visit to Ghatal to survey damages from widespread flooding, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said senior Bengal ministers and Trinamul Congress MPs would seek an appointment with Shekhawat to demand funds for the implementation of the Ghatal master plan.Ghatal, where thousands have been rendered homeless, was among the districts that were badly hit by continued floods. After touring the flood-hit areas of Ghatal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would send a team to Delhi. The Ghatal master plan is a cluster of projects that includes the dredging and widening of riverbeds, strengthening of embankments, and widening of the confluences of at least 10 large rivers, including the Kansabati, Rupnarayan and Shilabati in addition to around 40 channels and subchannels, passing through East Midnapore and West Midnapore. In 2012, the state government had sent to Delhi a detailed project report of the plan, estimated at Rs 1,200 crore, and received administrative and financial approvals from the Narendra Modi government in 2015. The Centre had agreed to pitch in 75 per cent of the project cost but later reduced its share to 50 per cent. However, no money has been sent till date, prompting the chief minister to criticise the Narendra Modi government during her recent visit to Ghatal. The state government has already dredged a large part of the Durbachati, Khiraibaksi and New Koshi rivers using its own funds. “The Ghatal Master Plan was a project in which the Centre had given every required approval but did not give us the money. Our chief minister even wrote to the Prime Minister several times. We expect our visit to Delhi next week will be successful,” said Manas Ranjan Bhunia, water-resources investigation and development minister, and Trinamul MLA from Sabang. State government officials said the Ghatal Master Plan was crucial to save the area from annual floods and to mitigate yearly expenditure on the same from the state coffers. “The assessed expenditure stood at Rs 1,200 crore in 2012 and now it will cost more. However, state government has executed a portion of the project. Still, the problem needs permanent solution for which funds from the Centre are mandatory,” said a senior official of the irrigation department. The state government has also prepared a set of proposals for the Sunderbans and Digha. “The issue of Ganga’s erosion is also a serious one, mainly for Malda and Murshidabad. We will also ask the Centre to desilt the basins of the Damodar, including its barrages,” Mahapatra said. In several administrative meetings, she has reportedly expressed her concern about how back-to-back cyclones such as Fani, Amphan and Yaas had disrupted normal life in the Sunderbans and that large stretches of embankment were destroyed. Mamata had reportedly also emphasised on the progress of the Digha Master Plan after visiting the tourist town in the wake of Yaas this May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Former MLA Sikha Mitra back in Trinamul ‘after a hiatus’||Sikha Mitra, a two-term Trinamul MLA in the past, on Sunday joined the party, claiming she never left, although she resigned as the Chowringhee MLA in 2014 amid allegedly testy ties with Mamata Banerjee. She is the wife of deceased Bengal Congress stalwart Somen Mitra, who returned to the Congress after quitting as Trinamul’s Diamond Harbour MP around the same time as her. “My husband became the state president of the Congress, but I was on a hiatus from active politics. I was profoundly touched by the warmth and simplicity of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. She personally called me and asked me to be an active worker of Trinamul. I decided that if I rejoin active politics, it must be under her leadership,” she said. “I had never quit the party (Trinamul). I had resigned as MLA,” she said at a news meet after her joining at Trinamul Bhavan. This summer, she was fielded as the BJP’s Chowringhee MLA candidate, after BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari met her. She later said she had not been asked before the announcement, that Sonia Gandhi had called her up and she could not quit the Congress. An embarrassed BJP changed the Chowringhee candidate. Congress’s state unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “She was with Trinamul in the past. She had joined the Congress. Now, she has returned to the ruling party. It is her decision, her choice… we have always accorded her respect.” Shikha Mitra said sometimes differences emerge, referring to the 2014 falling-out with Mamata, but they now stood resolved. “Mamata Banerjee had called me up after my husband’s demise (on July 30 last year), and we have always shared cordial ties,” she claimed on Sunday, despite having developed a reputation for being one of the chief minister’s most unsparing critics. Her son Rohan stepped down as a state general-secretary of the Congress last month, attributing it to his differences with Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur Projects Limited coke oven plant pulled down to free plot||Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) has begun the process of dismantling a defunct coke oven plant occupying nearly 200 acres as part of the Bengal government decision to monetise unused land in a bid to offset losses of the state-owned power utility. Sources from DPL said they plan to finish the dismantling of the plant, not in use since 2016, within a month. “We have hired an agency to dismantle the coke oven plant and work is on in full swing. We are expecting to finish it within a month and free up around 200 acres,” said a DPL official, adding its scrap would be auctioned off. The DPL’s coke oven plant had five batteries and would produce coking coal, coke-oven gas, and coal tar from its inception in 1961. DPL was the brainchild of then chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy. As many as 1,400 permanent employees and over 900 contract labourers worked at the plant until 2015, before the government started the process to close the unit. “Employees were transferred to various state departments when the plant closed in 2016,” said a DPL official. The Mamata Banerjee government then decided to sell or lease the unused plots of the DPL to clear its debts. Sources said during a survey on unused plots, DPL found over 200 acres were occupied by illegal settlers. As removing them would have been problematic, it was decided to dismantle the coke oven plant. Citu, however, is unhappy with this move and will launch a protest, said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a Citu district committee member in West Burdwan. The chief minister in 2015 had promised to revive the plant, but her government announced its closure next year and now they are dismantling it to free the land and sell it, he added. Sources said it had been decided that the vast township built for its employees on 1,045 acres would be restructured to free around 600 acres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||North East||Himanta offers a 'red carpet' welcome to Mamata Banerjee ||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma offered a “red carpet” welcome to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday, a day after the Trinamul supremo asserted that “khela” (game) would take place in Assam and Tripura after Bengal. Sarma, who was here to meet the family members of Alok Kumar Ghosh, former MLA of Mariani in Assam who passed away recently, said the Trinamul’s entry in Assam would help the saffron camp. “Considering the prospective vote bank that she is eyeing in Assam and her political lines, we will offer her a red carpet welcome if she comes to Assam. This is because we are confident that her plan to develop the Trinamul in Assam will affect the support base of the Congress and the UDF and help us strengthen our support,” Sarma said. On Saturday, both Mamata and Abhishek Banerjee, while speaking at a virtual rally, underscored the fact that they were focusing on Assam and Tripura and intended to oust the BJP from power there. The Trinamul has also managed to get former Congress stalwart Santosh Mohan Dev’s daughter Sushmita Dev — who is known to have a considerable support base in Silchar — on board. There is information that the party is in contact with a couple of other anti-BJP leaders, both in upper and lower Assam. Sarma was brief in his reaction to Sushmita’s defection from the Congress to the Trinamul. “She might have some influence in a district but not in the state as a whole. Also, the more she advocates about the Trinamul, it will be her former party (Congress) and not us that will weaken,” he said. The Assam chief minister was also critical of the Bengal government over the issue of post-poll violence. “Elections were held in Assam and Bengal together. In our state, there had been some tough contests but after the polls, not a single stone was pelted on any house. But here in Bengal, the situation went to such an extent that the court had to order a CBI probe,” he said. Referring to the Gorkha population in Bengal, Sarma said the community had been included in the protected-class category in Assam. “All the cases pending against them in foreigners’ tribunal have been dropped. The Gorkhas are absolutely safe and enjoy complete protection,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
30-08-2021||North East||Ex-HNLC leader encounter: Groups step up pressure on Meghalaya govt||Eleven pressure groups seeking “justice” for the death of a former rebel leader in a “fake encounter” have stepped up pressure on the Meghalaya government to suspend three senior police officers allegedly responsible for the August 13 incident in Shillong’s Mawlai locality. The groups, under the banner of Ka Sur Ki Nong Mawlai (The Voice of Mawlai People), carried out a day-long signature campaign followed by a 2km protest rally from Mawlai petrol pump on Friday in support of their demand to immediately suspend director-general of police R. Chandranathan, East Jaintia Hills superintendent of police Jagpal Singh Dhanoa and SP (traffic) Shailendra Bamaniya for their alleged role in the “encounter death” of former Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) general secretary Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in the early hours of August 13 at his residence. The future course of action by the groups include formally seeking the support of 35 MLAs from the Khasi and Jaintia Hills area and holding a rally to “surrender” traditional Khasi knives before the administration to convey the message that police cannot kill somebody just for possessing a knife. Though police have claimed that Thangkhiew was shot in self-defence after he tried to attack the police team with a knife, it found few takers after his family alleged that the former — and ailing — rebel leader was killed by the cops. The family’s claim fanned anger and protests, leading to the government imposing curfew in Shillong to control the situation on the night of August 15, the day he was laid to rest. Thousands attended Thangkhiew’s funeral. Khrawkupar Nongsiej, president, Federation of Khasi Jaintia & Garo People (Mawlai circle) and Donboklang Kharlyngdoh, president, Hynniewtrep Youths' Council (Mawlai circle) said the signature campaign was the second phase of their ongoing protest seeking justice for Thangkhiew and his family. The duo said they will continue the campaign till the state government suspends the three police officers. Kharlyngdoh also said they will be writing to the MLAs next week seeking their support, adding the legislators should resign if they want to remain silent. “We want the three police officials suspended for a free and fair probe. That people came out in huge numbers to take part in the signature campaign despite rain in the morning reflected the mood of the people,” Nongseij said. “We have collected nearly 10,000 signatures on the two banners, each measuring 14 feet by 10 feet, we put up in two localities of Mawlai. Family members of the deceased former rebel leader also took part in the signature campaign.  We will continue with our protest till our demand is met,” he said. The first phase of the campaign on August 25 saw members of the Ka Sur U Nong Mawlai burn the effigies of chief minister Conrad Sangma, deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong and the three police officers, among others. The seven-day deadline set by the pressure groups for the government to suspend the cops had ended on August 25. On August 18, the state government had entrusted the Meghalaya Human Rights Commission chairperson Justice T. Vaiphei to head the judicial probe into the encounter death of Thangkhiew. The report has to be submitted within three months. Conrad has maintained that action will be taken against those found guilty. He said the judicial probe was ordered to get to the bottom of the encounter case and it would not be appropriate to initiate action before the report comes in. The HNLC was formed in 1993 with the objective of securing an independent Khasi-Jaintia land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
30-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Buzz fades||Temporary solutions can lead to permanent problems. The scourge of global hunger has plagued the world for years: according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, the number of hungry people has increased consistently over the last six years. This, in spite of the United Nations’ resolution to eliminate global hunger as part of its sustainable development goals. Efforts to mitigate food shortage and rising global food prices — projected to increase by about 25 per cent in 2021 compared to last year — have mostly focused on stopgap measures, such as the enhanced use of pesticides and agricultural practices aimed at maximizing crop yield. However, a recent study has identified these very practices to be the primary reasons behind the decline of the population of natural pollinators like bees, butterflies, wasps, and bats, which is adversely affecting the volume of food produced and, thus, contributing to global hunger. Natural pollinators increase crop productivity  — they are essential for the reproduction of three-fourths of food crops and flowering plants — by facilitating fertilization. Their role is particularly significant in countries like India where farmers cannot afford large-scale artificial methods of pollination. Therefore, a decrease in their population would, naturally, lead to a fall in the quality and the quantity of crops. According to a 2016 report, there has been a 300 per cent increase in pollinator-dependent food production over the past half century. But while other causes of food shortage — such as climate change, overpopulation, social inequality — are widely discussed, the impact of the shrinking population of pollinators on global food security is sporadic in the public discourse. The gap between the growing demand for food and its supply needs to be mitigated, but by sustainable means. The need of the hour is to understand the importance of pollinator species and formulate concrete plans to conserve their numbers. India’s environment ministry has taken a step in the right direction by launching a project that enables the study of such ecosystems. But scientific investigations will only yield fruit when their findings are incorporated into grass-root policies. Ecocentric agricultural practices — the use of eco-friendly pesticides, for instance — must be encouraged. The loss of natural habitat for pollinators must be redressed by integrating them into the models of future ‘smart cities’. The larger challenge is to harmonize the needs of ecological sustainability with agricultural production and its practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  Bitter dishes at start of Bengali meal||Bitter bonanza Sir — The article, “The necessity of bitter beginnings” (Aug 29), by Paromita Sen correctly pointed out that an authentic Bengali meal is incomplete without a bitter dish. In fact, it is traditional to consume at least one bitter dish before commencing the main course. Bitter dishes like uchchhe bhaja, neemer jhol, neem-begun, shukto, tetor dal, uchchhe sheddho and helencha shaaker bora are an integral part of the mealtimes in most Bengali households. This is not all. It is also a time-honoured custom for Bengalis to consume juices of bitter ingredients or water in which some bitter item has been soaked. Chiratar jol and neem juice are just two of these medicinal concoctions that most Bengalis have been forced to have at some point. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — Ayurveda preaches the virtues of bitterness — particularly in late spring and early summer, bitters are said to ward off diseases like measles and chickenpox. Although preparations like neem begun and uchchhe bhaate celebrate the bitterness of the produce, not all Bengali bitter dishes are harsh. Shukto is a mild, milky bitter curry commonly made with a number of vegetables and served at the beginning of a meal. Health benefits notwithstanding, a small helping of bitters at the start of a meal can help prepare the taste buds for the more elaborate dishes. A.K. Sen,Calcutta Sir — All over the subcontinent, bitter foods are both friend and salve as well as powerhouses of nutrients. Fenugreek seeds and leaves, bitter gourd, guar, papdi and vaal are staples as are leaves of the neem plant, night jasmine, pointed gourd and amaranth. Souryajit Mukherjee,Calcutta Expensive thirst Sir — Rich Indians have discovered artesian water sourced from aquifers in the Himalayas. Besides concerns about the sustainability of a venture that disturbs pristine Himalayan ecosystems which are known biodiversity hotspots, it must be noted that it takes three litres of water to produce each one-litre plastic bottle, which is likely to end up in landfill. This is a thirst that will suck the earth dry. Jharna Roy Chowdhury,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Move it||The delay of investigative agencies in filing chargesheets no longer raises eyebrows. Referring to complaints against members of parliament and members of the legislative assembly, the Supreme Court recently focused on the unfairness of letting cases hang over the heads of legislators for an unspecified time. A bench headed by the Chief Justice of India reportedly remarked unfavourably on the lack of explanation in the reports of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate as to why charges have not been framed in allegedly serious cases against legislators for 10 to 15 years. If anything was found in an investigation, charges should be framed; otherwise the case should be closed. The Supreme Court said that it did not wish to demoralize the agencies and was aware of their problems arising from inadequate infrastructure and manpower. They were overburdened, as were the courts — one CBI court reportedly had 900 cases. But that did not account entirely for the inordinate delay in framing chargesheets; it was mentioned that quite a few of the pending cases would call for life imprisonment if proven. Offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, too, were plentiful, and the court reportedly felt that the ED showed very little movement. It had apparently attached crores worth of property but had not framed charges. The Supreme Court’s remarks cut through layers of undesirable practices by investigation agencies that feed into the delay of the justice system. The amicus curiae suggested a monitoring committee which would ensure that investigations are completed within a reasonable time, while the court reportedly asked the solicitor general to find out from the directors of the ED and the CBI what they needed in terms of infrastructure and manpower. The Supreme Court’s stand may act as a spur to the agencies in question; in that case, it can be hoped that chargesheets would be framed in time for all accused, not just legislators. Earlier, the Madras High Court had reportedly said of the CBI that the ‘caged parrot’ should be released from government oversight and made into an independent agency answerable to Parliament. At a time when the scene of alleged crime and detention is so messy as to endanger the people’s trust in the system, the courts’ interventions offer hope of positive change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||Old tricks||Violent Islamist movements, as current events in Afghanistan demonstrate, have had some success in Muslim countries that were invaded by the United States of America. But they have failed everywhere else, and the whole Islamist ideology is getting long in the tooth. Revolutionary ideologies rarely prosper after they pass the age of 50. There is much media chatter at the moment about how the Taliban’s victory will inspire like-minded groups elsewhere and lead to a steep rise in terrorist attacks. Some of this is just journalistic panic-mongering, but various military and political interest groups will also promote this notion for their own purposes. Therefore, we will soon find ourselves being urged to engage in a new ‘war on terror’. It wouldn’t be as big, long and counter-productive as the first one, but much time, money and many lives would be wasted if it got off the ground. So think of this as an aide-memoire on why that would be a very stupid thing to do. The Taliban are Afghans, of course, but Islamist terrorism is primarily a phenomenon of the Arab world. That is the part of the Muslim world where the rulers are most brazenly cruel and corrupt. Many Arabs have been attracted to Islamism as a possible way to replace those regimes; some of them have concluded that only violence can bring Islamists to power. A minority of Arabs, then, buys the Islamist argument that the deplorable state of the Arab world is because Muslims are failing to live their lives as god intends: in the radical version of Islamic observance that Islamists believe is the only correct interpretation of god’s will. The solution to the Muslim world’s current plight, therefore, is to instal revolutionary Islamist regimes that will enforce that version of god’s will, whereupon with god’s help they will start to win. A united Muslim world will arise that breaks its current shackles, achieves great power and prosperity — and in some versions, converts the entire world to Islam. An attractive vision for many Arabs who were near despair, and the 1970s, ’80s and ’90s were filled with attempted Islamist revolutions, from Algeria to Saudi Arabia, all of which failed. The Islamists never managed to convince enough people that this pipe dream was worth dying for. So around 1999 an Islamist leader called Osama bin Laden came up with a new strategy. The only way to mobilize enough Muslims behind the Islamist dream, he believed, was to provoke a direct assault on Islam by the infidels. And the only way to motivate the lazy infidels to play their allotted role in this strategy was to attack them directly — not to conquer them, which was impossible, but to trick them into invading Muslim countries. That was the strategy behind the 9/11 attacks, and it succeeded even beyond bin Laden’s expectations. The outraged US declared the ‘war on terror’ and invaded not one but two Muslim countries: Afghanistan and Iraq. The former had little to do with 9/11 and the latter nothing at all, but the invasions had the effect that bin Laden was seeking. Twenty years later, however, the benefits for the Islamist cause have been quite limited. The Taliban are finally back in power in Afghanistan, and there was an interval when the ‘Islamic State’ controlled a lot of Iraq and even expanded into Syria, but there is still not a single revolutionary Islamist regime in the Arab world. The obvious conclusion is that this strategy has definitively failed. Even with the help of Western invasions and the ‘war on terror’, the Islamists have been unable to convince enough Arabs that they are the right solution to the Arab world’s problems. Doubtless, scattered Islamist terrorist attacks will continue both within and beyond the Arab world for many years, even if none as dramatic as 9/11. But the notion that the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan will lead to a huge new wave of Islamist terrorism is absurd. The Taliban’s victory was discounted in advance years ago, and the idea of provoking US invasions as recruiting tools for Islamist revolutions is now very old hat. Even Washington can see through it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||Follow the Dhaka model||Bangladesh has gone ahead of India in many respects in recent years. Its GDP per head is now higher than that of India. To put this in perspective, on average, a Bangladeshi earns 51 per cent more than someone from Uttar Pradesh and 16 per cent more than an Assamese citizen. Aside from GDP per capita, Bangladesh’s performance in the progress of quality of life is outstanding as reflected in social indicators. Life expectancy is estimated to be about three years longer in Bangladesh than in India. One of the many lessons that Bangladesh holds for India is its remarkable success in reducing fertility, from a high of 6.3 children per woman in 1971 to two children per woman in 2018. The significance of this achievement is best understood after taking into account Bangladesh’s situation at the time of its independence. When Bangladesh’s war of independence ended, the economy was in tatters. The GDP contracted by 7 and 15 per cent in 1971 and 1972, respectively. There were severe problems of mass illiteracy, hunger and malnutrition. The infant mortality rate stood at 158. The birth of Bangladesh was promptly dismissed as a ‘basket case’. However, the young nation demonstrated two things to the world. First and foremost, its impressive economic advancements stand in stark contrast to the neo-Malthusian predictions on the future development of underdeveloped countries. Two, Bangladesh’s success story is also distinguished by the fact that it did not employ a coercive approach like a one-child or a two-child policy to lower fertility rates. Bangladesh’s policymakers purposely avoided taking that line and, instead, implemented a voluntary family planning programme. More importantly, Bangladesh implemented human development programmes — especially girls’ education — to influence the determinants of fertility. The Female Secondary Stipend and Assistance Programme, which provided stipends and tuition waivers to girls attending secondary school, was instrumental in increasing secondary school enrolment for girls from 39 per cent in 1998 to 67 per cent in 2017. Evaluations suggest that the conditional cash transfer programme did not only improve education outcomes but also led to a decline in early marriage. The government also undertook other initiatives to enhance overall human development. Bangladesh’s child immunization programme achieved near universal coverage. The national sanitation campaign made the country nearly open-defecation-free in 2016, and this has significantly contributed to improving health and hygiene conditions. Also, Bangladesh’s successful drive against childhood diarrhoea and the consequent reduction of diarrhoea-specific mortality is another high-achievement tale. In nutrition, especially child nutrition, Bangladesh fares enormously better than India. Twenty-two per cent children are underweight in Bangladesh (2017-18); the figure is 35 per cent in India (2015-16). The key factors that are believed to be responsible for the improvement in nutrition include improving incomes, women’s education and wider access to healthcare. It is worth noting that unlike in India, where the benefits of economic growth are being enjoyed by a tiny segment of the population, Bangladesh’s prosperity is broad-based. Bangladesh’s story is also special because it has successfully reduced fertility much faster than many Hindu-majority states of India by addressing the underlying causes of poverty and underdevelopment. Differently put, the Bangladesh experience reiterates that inclusive economic growth accompanies lower birth rates. To explain, raising living standards beyond subsistence levels refers to increasing opportunities for off-farm work, higher educational achievements and better health, leading, in turn, to changes in families’ motivation for having children and declining fertility. The progress in human development indicators is sluggish in India, particularly for the economically backward states. For instance, in Bihar, as per the NFHS (2019-20), the IMR is still very high (47 per thousand live births) and has been stagnating for years; 42 per cent of the women are illiterate and only about 29 per cent completed 10 years of schooling. Besides, the female work participation rate (4.2 per cent and 2.5 per cent in rural and urban areas, respectively, in 2017-18) is substantially below Bangladesh’s FWPR at 33.9 per cent. The poor socioeconomic conditions of families keep the average age of marriage low in Bihar, leading to a large number of women getting pregnant and bearing children in their teens, thereby contributing to both higher fertility and mortality. The demographic situation in the other Hindi heartland states is more or less similar. As India’s population size is still increasing and the overall well-being of a large majority is yet to reach the desired level, many think that there must be something wrong with India’s population policy and that there is a need for compulsory government control to achieve smaller family size. However, according to the latest data, on average, women are having less than two lifetime births in two-thirds of the bigger states. Only six states — Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh — where women regardless of their caste or religion are also bearing lesser number of babies than their mothers, are yet to achieve the replacement level fertility. But coercion is not the answer to their population woes. These demographically sick states would do well if they take cues from Bangladesh, which is working on enhancing the capabilities of young people and empowering women. The most important takeaway from Bangladesh’s case is this: high fertility is not the cause but a symptom of a deeper malaise like poverty. Soumitra Ghosh is Associate Professor, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Opinion||The final curtain||One of my earliest memories of theatre is of darkness. I am a sleeping child, eyes shut tight, about to be slaughtered at the divine altar. It is Rabindranath’s play, Bisarjan, where the goddess needs human blood. The priest carries me and I feel the silent movement. I knew when the slaughtering machete is to come down on me; my heart screams but I keep quiet as promised. The king’s sword blocks the priest’s machete. He will not allow the sacrifice of life in his land. I would live, grow up to be a real human being. I was three years old. The play was a local affair, performed in a primary school in North Calcutta. My school principal, a giant of a man with great shaggy hair, played the priest. My mother, a professional actor, was the cruel queen. “It’s going to be a little scary,” they’d asked me, “Can you stay quiet?” I had fulfilled that promise. I had played the sleeping child who did not know how close he came to being slaughtered. My tiny role in that play, in many ways, predicted what theatre would mean in my life. A child in a blanket of darkness, the fury of swords over me, a religion thirsty for blood, a king pledged to prevent the murder of innocents — Rabindranath’s play breathes too much reality for this nation to bear. But it was also the semi-conscious nature of the moment, the primal fear and joy of life, the breathing proximity of one of my earliest teachers and, most importantly, of my mother, whose acting life would be a source of much pride, beauty and pain all through her brief life and her short-lived presence in my own. A finely executed play as the work of a local community, an intense classic with political undertones. It speaks so much of Calcutta, a certain Calcutta where I grew up. A wilted tradition of feudal decadence, the languor of unemployed (or under-employed) youth, a sharp, left-leaning political polemic. This was a mixed bag of contradictory things, but they made up everything from which we were asked to keep away if we wanted a rewarding career and a safe life. This was the city to leave behind. For those of us who came of age in the 1980s and 1990s, straddling the liberalization of the last decade through the continuing apathy of communist rule, life and career were to be staked on the desertion of the old drugs. My personal stakes were higher. It was difficult to be the only child of an actor who struggled with career, family, and community all her life for brief luminescence on stage. Starting with Manoj Mitra’s Sundaram, my mother moved through many groups, often forming lasting bonds — Theatre Workshop, Nandikar, several others — before appearing for the last time for Sayak. Glances of her on screen return to me from time to time — as the widow of a slain Naxalite interviewed by a journalist played by Goutam Ghose in Buddhadeb Dasgupta’s Grihayuddha, the sister-in-law of Rani Rashmoni in the early years of the mega serial. A mud-splattered Antigone, carrying the corpse of her dead brother, in Hansgünther Heyme’s production in the open grounds of St Paul’s Cathedral. But middle-class society, too, is its own dramatic stage, especially when it comes to a married woman’s life in theatre. The conflict of belief and passion created intense trauma in its own right and spilled into the alleys run by the communist moral police. Plays remained the bitterly sonorous clash of swords that were too spectacular, too sharply shamed by the public eye. Literature, in the spirit of bourgeois modernity, the quiet isolation and solipsism of print, was the safe space to which one could turn. Safer, more distant, if it be the literature of the West, richer with promise, with the potential to flee a city starting to feel claustrophobic. But how does a Bengali grow up in Calcutta without theatre? My personal terrors, including the emotional death-trap of watching, as a five-year-old, Ma die on stage, would later breathe into my novel, The Firebird. But it also shaped a happy delirium through which I experienced many worlds. There was the amazing universe of Utpal Dutt and People’s Little Theatre — the sharp-white naval revolt of Kallol and its searing explosions, the lyrical pain of the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi in Ekla Cholo Re, a play sharply criticized by a high school friend who would later become a national leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad. The drowsy spring cornucopia of Chaitali Raater Swapno, Dutt’s translation of Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream, where the agile elf, Puck, springs in and out of my fancy. The spellbinding chimera of Bohurupee, led by Kumar Roy, and the death of giants: of Galileo who dared to speak the truth before the world was ready for it, of Joan of Arc who went up in flames at the stake right in front of the stage. The last one, Jean Anouilh’s L’Alouette, translated as Aguner Pakhi, the bird of fire, by my mother’s brother, Arup Rudra, who taught literature at Jadavpur University, branded that image of the burning woman into my soul to inspire, years later, the carving of the novel with the soul of a play. But the last decades of the last century were a twilight hour. While we marvelled at the experimental aesthetics of the plays in halls like Girish Mancha, Academy of Fine Arts, Rabindra Sadan, Madhusudan Mancha, lights started to go out in another set of playhouses, mostly around Hatibagan in North Calcutta, a few of them in the red-light district along Central Avenue. Rangmahal, Star, Circarina, Minerva, Kashi Bishwanath, Biswarupa — if they did not reinvent themselves as a movie hall or a repertory theatre, they became shopping malls or banquet halls. Or, in the case of Circarina, whose owner, the octogenarian, Amar Ghosh, I interviewed in 2012 shortly before his death — just a decrepit, deserted building. There are few things, I realized, more heartbreaking than an abandoned theatre hall, the dust-glazed seats, and, at Circarina, a cobwebbed circular stage. For these playhouses held the hue of a different genre — the babu theatre of feudal culture, the gaudy naturalism of commercial theatre as opposed to the progressive experimentations of group theatre, a binary set in motion since the Indian People’s Theatre Association emerged as a firm voice of the left. Dying in the brightening glare of multi-channel television, the mega serial, and video culture, the loud and often licentious genre of middlebrow culture, once a raging hit with the middle-class Bengali, was allowed a lonely death by a communist government that naturally didn’t care about it. Mysterious fires that enriched realtors and insurance beneficiaries, too, helped cremate some of them. Burnt playhouses hold much of the city’s memories, as they hold some of my own. The sensory trauma and communal spectacle that make up plays pushed me to the quiet safety and privacy of literature. It was not till many years later that I would realize that my imaginative life as a novelist would be strung to the primal rhythms of performance. Saikat Majumdar is Professor of English and Creative Writing at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Gumla born model accuses in-laws of dowry torture||Dhanbad: Pari Paswan, a Gumla based model, who has earlier featured in a number of web series has accused her in-laws of inflicting torture on her for demanding a dowry worth Rs 5 lakh and a car. Pari had lodged a dowry case at Katras police station against her husband and his family including his mother Aasha Devi, his elder brother Chandan Paswan and sister in law Punam Devi on July 17. Niraj was arrested on July 19. “My in-laws have accused me of concealing the fact that I have a baby from my earlier marriage before my marriage with Niraj but quite contrary to that, he was fully aware of the fact and I have photographs to show him playing with my child during his visit to my house prior to my marriage with him,” said Paswan. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: The CRPF 22 battalion on Monday has taken the responsibility to clean the famous Hazaribagh lake which is a cluster of four lakes after a public outrage and Jal Satyagraha by Congress leaders. On Monday, 100 jawans came and started cleaning the lake using equipments as well as tractors to remove the garbage. Local residents as well as political leaders had started an agitation to draw the attention of the district administration to clean the lake. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: Ajit Louis Lakra, former chief engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, who was evading arrest in connection with a Rs 28.34 crore scam of National games, 2011 died on Monday due to a cardiac arrest in a private hospital of Dhanbad. He was admitted on Sunday night in the hospital following the complaint of chest pain and restlessness and he died during the course of the treatment. Notably, a case has been lodged against him and four others 10 years ago and a special court of Anti Corruption Bureau has issued non bailable arrest warrant against him earlier this year after which he was evading police arrest. (Praduman Choubey)  Dhanbad: Two rival groups of Katras trying to establish their supremacy at Chaitudih area of Katras on Monday engaged in violence at a mining site of a private miner, Kejriwal Outsourcing, engaged in coal excavation work on behalf of BCCL during which they fired against each other and also hurled bombs. No one however sustained any injury during the violence. While one group led by a local Congress leader Sheikh Kalim reached the mining site to stop the work demanding jobs for labourers owing allegiance to them, the other group having the patronage of former Baghmara MLA, Jaleshwar Mahto reached there to continue the mining operation. A team of police led by Baghmara DSP, Nisha Murmu who reached the site controlled the situation after which both the groups fled from the site. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Rain alert for Jharkhand in the next 48 hours||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre on Monday afternoon issued a forecast of widespread rain, lightning and thunder in Jharkhand during the next 48-hours. Weathermen said Monday's satellite pictures and wind chart analysis suggested formation of convective clouds in several places. Such clouds usually result in rain accompanied by thunder and lightning. The Met centre issued an alert of heavy lightning especially in southern Jharkhand of three districts of Kolhan - East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. Moderate lightning alert was issued for Simdega, which too falls in southern Jharkhand. Rain data revealed that light to moderate rain occurred at several places over Jharkhand in the last 24 hours. The highest amount of 31mm rainfall was recorded at Tenughat in Bokaro. Weathermen said south easterly wind was prevailing at lower levels of atmosphere in most places. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Monday passing through Bikaner, Ajmer, southern Chhattisgarh and Visakhapatnam. Rain statistics revealed that apart from Tenughat in Bokaro district several other places including Pakur, Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Garhwa and Rajmahal recorded light to moderate rain during the last 24 hours. So far, this monsoon, Jharkhand has actually received 779.1 mm of rain against a normal of 812.4 mm, a deficit of four per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) students to return to campus after 17 months||IIT (ISM) has decided to open the campus for altogether 1901 senior research scholars and final year postgraduate and undergraduate students in two phases on September 1 and September 20 after a gap of more than 17 months. The physical classes however will not be launched immediately and students will be attending classes from their respective hostel rooms. However, the students will be allowed to attend the laboratory and workshop as per the necessity by strictly observing the social distancing norms. While 768 research scholars and M. Tech final year students will be allowed entry during the first phase on September 1, around 1133 final year different PG courses as well as final year B.Tech students will reach campus on September 20. Rajiv Shekhar, IIT (ISM), while talking to The Telegraph Online said, “All necessary preparation for accommodating students are going on in full swing and at present we have allowed only the senior students of different courses.” Mrityunjay Kumar Singh, dean of student welfare of IIT (ISM) said, “All students will have to remain in quarantine at their respective hostels rooms for seven days after arrival at the campus during which food packets will also be provided in their rooms itself by the housekeeping staff.” “All students who have been allowed entry must have taken at least one dose of vaccination prior to arrival at the campus and they will be allowed to venture out of the hostel after the completion of necessary medical tests at the institute health centre,” said Singh. “While the 458 male research scholars will be accommodated at Opal, Jasper and Emerald Hostel, 810 B Tech final year students will be decked up at Amber Hostel while 136 M Sc Tech and 41 MBA final year students will get rooms in Topaz hostel,” he said. “The M. Tech final year students will live in Sapphire Hostel while all girl students will be decked up in Rosaline hostels,” said Singh and added that the students after coming out of quarantine will all have to follow all necessary protocols, like mandatory wearing of masks, maintaining social distance while attending laboratories and workshops, dining in messes etc. “For almost all the students, including the PhD Scholars and final year undergraduate and postgraduate students, physical classes have already been completed in online mode while the necessary guidance about the submission of dissertation etc will be conducted online,” said Singh. Ram Manohar, senior security officer of IIT (ISM) said, “Cent percent vaccination of all 40 mess staff besides the house keeping staff have been completed and besides that we have completed the refurbishment of all the hostels and clearing of some weeds that have grown outside the hostel grounds have also been completed.” “We have also devised the SOP for following any staff being detected positive etc as to how they will be provided treatment and isolation as per necessity,” further said Manohar. Notably, after March last year the campus was closed for students and though some research scholars were allowed entry for a brief period of around two months in between but they were again sent back after the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Railway lady constable saves man from train accident||A 31-year-old man had a miraculous escape from being run over by a Delhi-bound train at Tatanagar station on Sunday night, thanks to the timely action by a lady railway constable. Identified as Munna Sharma, the man wanted to get onto the running Neelanchal Express but his leg slipped off the train while he was still clutching the holding-bar with one hand. As the train had picked up momentum, the passenger's legs were getting dragged between the running train and the platform, creating a dangerous situation. But a railway lady police constable, Anandika Barik, on spotting the man acted with alacrity and ran along the train and succeeded in rescuing the passenger to safety. The rescued passenger who is a resident of Hazaribagh district was subsequently administered first-aid for the bruises he sustained due to the dragging. Inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar, Sanjay Kumar Tiwari said the passenger Munna Sharma would have met a fatal mishap if the lady constable had not acted in time. "The railway police constable, Anandika Barik, is posted in the RPF's crime prevention team. She was on duty in civil dress at platform No 3 when the passenger tried to get into the running train at about 8pm on Sunday," said Tiwari to The Telegraph Online. The inspector quoted the passenger as saying that if his rescue had been delayed by a few seconds further, then he would certainly be under the train's wheels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand hospitals to have solar panels to combat power outages||Jharkhand has started equipping hospitals and other healthcare facilities with solar panels in a move to combat power outages that have led to several casualties across the country during the first and the second wave of Covid-19, officials from the Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (JREDA) said on Monday. The agency has identified about 1,400 government buildings, including Sadar hospitals, Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs) and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs), for the project, said JREDA project director Vijay Kumar Sinha, adding that the government was prioritising healthcare facilities during the first phase of the project in a bid to ensure uninterrupted power  to hospitals in case a third wave of Covid-19 hits Jharkhand. “In the first phase, we are focusing on healthcare centres. Ensuring uninterrupted power supply to hospitals is a priority for us, especially during such testing times,” said Sinha. Several casualties were reported in hospitals due to power outages in various states, including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab, earlier this year. Patients on ventilators were most vulnerable and the worst hit. While no such incidents were reported in Jharkhand during the first and the second wave of Covid-19, the government has been focusing on improving power supply to various hospitals in order to prevent any such accident, an official from the health department said. Health officials in Jharkhand observed during the Covid crisis that uninterrupted power supply was a prerequisite for storing medicines at lower than room temperatures and treating severely-ill patients. JREDA and health department jointly decided to install 2-4 KiloWatt solar panels in each of the CHCs and PHCs to at least store medicines and vaccines, an official said. Sources from JREDA said that rooftop solar panels have already been installed in more than 700 of the identified 1,400 government buildings and the remaining buildings are also likely to be equipped with solar power within the next six months or so. JREDA is also developing a software through which it will be able to monitor the functioning of all the solar panels across the state. Microchips will be installed in each of the solar panels, which will help JREDA engineers identify any glitch in the system without having to move to the location, officials said. Once the hospitals are powered by solar energy, JREDA will start focusing on other government buildings like police stations and residential hostels, JREDA Director K.K. Verma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Rugby and Volleyball matches on National sports day in Dhanbad ||Dhanbad: The Dhanbad District Olympic Association on Sunday celebrated National Sports day by organising two different exhibition matches including a rugby match at Jila School Ground and a volleyball match at Jharapara Volleyball stadium Hirapur. The rugby match titled, Rugby 7 held between Dhanbad and Gomoh team of seven members each coordinated by District Rugby Association witnessed a close encounter between the two teams in which Gomoh team took the team during the first half itself and defeated Dhanbad by a score of 1-0. (Praduman Choubey)  Hazaribagh: A gun battle took place on the border of Chatra and Palamau with police recovering leth machines used to make arms. Arms and ammunition was also found. Officials said extremists of Tritiya Prastuti Committee was present on the border when Palamau, Ranchi and Chatra police surrounded them from three sides following which the gun battle started. However, the extremists fled. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Unidentified men opened fire and injured three on RKTC transport company camp office in Honhe village of Tandwa block. It is yet not clear as to who were behind this firing incident as an outsourcing company was earlier targeted. Police officials refused to come on record as they said it would be too early to say without proper investigation. But sources said investigation has started keeping in mind two angles, one involving extremists and other of dreaded Aman Sahu gang. Officials said firing was done to pressurise the company for levy. Officer-in-charge of Tandwa police station, Vijay Kumar Singh said raids have started to catch the culprits. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: The dead body of a 22-year-old youth, Chhotu Kumar, a resident of Phusbunglow locality of Jharia was found lying on the railway track at New Panderpala area on Sunday morning. A team of Bank More police which reached the site after being informed by the local residents recovered the body and informed his family members after which his body was sent for postmortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College of Dhanbad. Family members of the deceased informed police that he left the house on Saturday night and despite calling several times on his mobile phone he didn't receive the calls. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||State's first Bengali magazine launches in Dhanbad||The first edition of Shilpey Anonyya, the oldest little magazine of Dhanbad, following the grant of RNI registration was launched on Sunday by Dipak Kumar Sen its founder editor in presence of host of literary gems, including Siddharth Roy, editor of Patna based Bengali magazine, Diner Sheshey, at Dhanbad’s oldest literary club Lindsay club. Addressing the gathering, Sen who is the retired the head of department of Mathematics of RS More College, Dhanbad apprised the gathering about the 44 years journey of the quarterly magazine, Aami Ananya, launched by him in 1977 including the challenges with regard to its funding as well as dwindling readership in the present digital era. Sen also pointed to the difficulties faced by little magazines published outside Bengal due to lack of support from the respective government. He appealed to young writers, independent thinkers to contribute their articles in large numbers as little magazines in the present era serve as the flag bearers of independent thought in the present era of globalisation and commercialisation. “In order to help each other the publishers of little magazines constituted a forum for little magazines published outside Jharkhand during the little magazine fair held in Dhanbad in November 8-9, 2019 at Lindsay Club of Dhanbad itself,” said Sen and added that facing a lot of constraints on financial and health front he is committed to bring out the magazine which has been registered as the first Bengali Magazine of Jharkhand. “We have recently organised a story writing contest during the lockdown on the experience of the people during the lockdown after the first phase of pandemic and we were overwhelmed with tremendous response as altogether 127 entries were received on wide range of subjects which shows that the people are still inclined to writing and reading in the present era” said Sen. Siddharth Roy, Chief Editor, Patna based little magazine, Diner Sheshey said lauded the effort of Dipak Kumar Sen for bringing out the magazine since 1977 and shared his concern about the little magazine, “Little magazines publishers due to lack of government support all across the country except in Bengal are facing a lot of difficulty and we had decided to organize the little magazine fair at different other cities and towns in order to popularize our publications during the little magazine fair of Dhanbad of November 2019 but due to pandemic we could not hold the same.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Cyber Peace Foundation issues alert on online gaming risk||Parents, teachers and lawmakers need to be more alert as online gaming gains more and more popularity. Cyber Peace Foundation (CPF), a Ranchi-headquartered organisation that works in the field of internet governance and cyber security across the country, cautioned the stakeholders in a report published a few days ago. “The report aims at creating an awareness about online gaming among various stakeholders,” CPF founder Vineet Kumar replied when asked. “Online gaming became more popular during the lockdown but it should be used cautiously so that nothing untoward happens,” he further said, explaining the need of awareness. The number of online gamers are likely to be around 270 crores across the globe by the end of this year, Kumar cited the report in support of his claim. In India, the market of online gaming was increasing with a compound annual growth rate of 21 per cent and was likely to touch Rs 29,000 crore by 2025, the report added. As online gaming gains popularity, cyber criminals also become active and try to pursue tricks to access personal information, location and financial data, the report cautioned. Besides addiction that may lead gamers to face psychological problems, children and adolescents also often run the risk of downloading malware and even spending too much money for in-app purchases using their patents’ debit or credit cards. A 13-year old boy in Madhya Pradesh committed suicide after spending Rs 40,000 by using his mother’s debit card earlier this year, the report informed, giving an example. Children and adolescents who indulge in online gaming may also encounter inappropriate contents or even sexual predators who allegedly try to meet personally or obtain explicit photos, the report warned. It also suggested certain dos and don’ts. The report advised use of anti-virus and anti-spyware programmes, creating strong passwords and discouraging downloading softwares and games from unknown websites and clicking links, images and pop-ups from unknown sources. It also strongly advised never to give personal and banking information while downloading games. While the government can enforce stricter regulations, teachers can make children aware about the threats involved and parents can convince them to open up whenever they experience something disturbing, the report suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
30-08-2021||Jharkhand||Business community to Hemant: Avoid pitfalls that tripped others||Jharkhand’s new industrial policy is encouraging and investors’ summit is a good initiative but their outcome is doubtful unless the Hemant Soren government takes proactive measures to avoid the dismal experience of the previous governments, feels the business community in the state. The Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy was unveiled at the Investors’ Summit that concluded in Delhi on Saturday, where several investment commitments were made. “We hail the government’s initiative for holding an investors’ meet and introducing an encouraging policy there but the success depends on improving the overall industrial environment of the state,” said Deepak Maroo, former president of the state’s apex trade body, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI). “We had heard about investment pledge of Rs 3 lakh crore when the Raghubar Das government held a global investment summit in Ranchi in 2017 which was much more than Rs 10,000 crore committed yesterday but what was the outcome?” he asked, adding though some textile units were set up after that those were now either folded up or gasping. Soren had assumed power in 2019. “Such efforts were made by some other chief ministers as well but the outcome was a big zero,” said Bikash Kumar Singh, another former FJCCI president,  adding the bureaucracy does not help facilitating improvements. “The textile policy provided it but the units didn’t get the assured incentives, resulting in the investors getting disheartened and finally folding up,” he further pointed out. “It’s true,” agreed Hari Budhia, president of the Association of DVC HT Cinsumers of Jharkhand who owns two industrial units in Ramgarh. “I was entitled to get incentives for setting up an unit in 2016 but the payment is still under process after 5 years,” Budhia informed, adding his experience made him doubtful about the translation of investment promises into reality. “Only those who already have industrial interests in the state will further invest here for extending their activities,” Singh opined as Budhia seconded him and gave examples of SAIL and the Tatas that pledged during the just concluded summit to invest Rs 4,000 crore and Rs 3,000 crore respectively. “We all have heard about the much touted single-window-system in the state but it doesn’t really exist in practice,” alleged Maroo, adding that was why those who come to the state for setting up production units get frustrated soon and start packing up. “The ground reality is wide off the mark from policy assurances,” said Alok Mallik, the FJCCI regional vice-president for Santhal Pargana region, adding availability of land was a major problem, despite the state government giving assurances. “Following the global investment summit on 2017, we saw ground breaking ceremony of about 70 industrial units in Santhal Pargana region but hardly one or two of those finally took off,” he added from Deoghar. “The politicians may be willing to do something but the bureaucracy come in the way,” alleged Maroo, adding their mindset need to changed for bringing in a real change. “We had prepared a roadmap in February this year showing prospects of setting up industries, including textile and solar power units and also effective ways for land acquisition under the provisions of the Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act,” Mallik informed, adding they were never invited for discussions though they had given a copy of their plan to the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
