31-08-2021||Business||India's GDP grows 20.1 per cent in first quarter of 2021-22||India's economic growth surged to 20.1 per cent in the April-June quarter of this fiscal, helped by a low base of the year-ago period, despite a devastating second wave of COVID-19. The gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted by 24.4 per cent in the corresponding April-June quarter of 2020-21, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Tuesday. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic last year. This year, the massive second wave of the pandemic hit the country in the middle of April, which forced states to impose fresh restrictions. However, the economy has still not returned to the pre-COVID level. In value terms, the GDP stood at Rs 32,38,020 crore in April-June 2021-22, lower than Rs 35,66,708 crore in the corresponding period of the 2019-20 financial year. The GDP had shrunk to Rs 26,95,421 crore in April-June last year during the nationwide lockdown. "GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q1 of 2021-22 is estimated at Rs 32.38 lakh crore, as against Rs 26.95 lakh crore in Q1 of 2020-21, showing a growth of 20.1 percent as compared to contraction of 24.4 percent in Q1 2020-21," the NSO said in a statement. With a view to containing the second wave of the pandemic, localised and calibrated lockdowns were imposed during the first quarter of 2021-22, it added. Restrictions were imposed on the economic activities not deemed essential, as also on the movement of people. "The lockdown instructions in various States were duly considered by the National Statistical Office. The impact on economic activities and the data collection mechanisms owing to COVID-19 pandemic has an effect on the Quarterly GDP estimates also. "The impact of these measures on overall economic activity are embedded in source data," it stated. According to the NSO data, gross value added (GVA) growth in the manufacturing sector accelerated to 49.6 per cent in the first quarter of 2021-22, compared to a contraction 36 per cent a year ago. Farm sector GVA growth was up at 4.5 per cent, compared to 3.5 per cent earlier. Construction sector GVA grew by 68.3 per cent compared to 49.5 per cent contraction earlier. Mining sector grew by 18.6 per cent, as against a contraction of 17.2 per cent a year ago. Electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services segment grew by 14.3 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal, against 9.9 per cent contraction a year ago. Similarly, trade, hotel, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting grew by 34.3 per cent compared to 48.1 per cent contraction earlier. Financial, real estate and professional services grew by 3.7 per cent in Q1 FY22 compared to a contraction of 5 per cent. Public administration, defence and other services grew at 5.8 per cent during the quarter under review, compared to (-) 10.2 per cent a year earlier. Meanwhile, China has posted a growth of 7.9 per cent in the April-June period of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||A financial advisor and crypto expert who had a good sum of experience in trading- Manish Yadav||Cryptocurrency has scored up both in calls of fame and success in recent times. Cryptocurrency can be termed as a digital currency that only exists electronically. You usually exchange cryptocurrency with someone online, using your phone or computer, without using an intermediary like a bank. If you have traded crypto in recent times, you would know that the currencies have almost tripled to the amount that existed 5 years ago.  The crypto market had outshined the stock exchange year over year with insane returns never before seen in any financial institution. Short term and long term crypto have made enormous returns for its investors. Numbers of investor are increasing every day and along with traders, people who educate and train crypto-economics are profiting even more. Launching crypto is a very technical process and you might need professional assistance to go through with it. There are lots of mini-steps in between the main milestones on the way to launch a cryptocurrency. The person who educates and trains crypto-economics should have traded in crypto and must have seen its ups and downs, profit and loss to be experienced and capable enough to train. Here you will find a brief clarification on cryptocurrency in the words of Manish Yadav.  Manish Yadav is a financial advisor and crypto expert who had a good sum of experience in trading. He gives advice not only on crypto but also on forex and general financial planning. Five years back when Manish Yadav started trading, the crypto industry not like today had fame or enough recognition and policies in favour of it. This was because of its use in illegal trading and for being used in the silk route of the internet, commonly known as the dark web. During that time, Manish Yadav learned the fundamentals and developed skills in trading. He did not master it in a day. He says that this part of economics requires a lot of patience. He attempted and tested techniques and learned with practical knowledge. Hence in this way, his role in educating people about crypto and helping them make money is favourably justified. It displays a fact that one should not skip the learning part when one has to start trading any commodity. The time invested in learning will incredibly help in winning the goal result. The websites that ensure techniques of earning thousands of dollars in a day is a wholesome scam. Therefore, in such circumstances trusting an experienced trader like Manish Yadav is a strong and wise choice. The cryptocurrency market cap is around $1.5 trillion right now. Just a year and a half ago it was less than $500 billion, and just ten years ago it wasn’t even a billion dollars. The industry has progressed so much in much less time than it is the stuff of legends. Manish Yadav tells that in the last 3 years, he has seen such a huge profit growth in his trading practices. According to him, his achievement depends on two factors. One, a good and strong foundation, and two, patience. No one is a billionaire in a day. Manish Yadav speaks that crypto is the best investment you can make on a risk-adjusted basis right now. It has a lot of potentials, on the condition that you invest in coins with strong fundamentals. According to Manish, you generally shouldn't only invest in tokens that have no backing. This means that those coins are falsely pumped up by a few rich investors. Such investors who try to falsely pump um some coins are caught by ICOs (Initial Coin Offerings). That is the way money is raised to launch a new cryptocurrency. This process is similar to other product launches where the actual product does not come into the market immediately but the sales begin. Here, similarly, the investors can buy the coins before the actual launch and are delivered the product after its official launch. Everyone from a small trader in his room to the Tesla owner himself has cast the light on cryptocurrencies and shown their interest in them. At this point, you are at the right time and the right place if you are thinking of starting your cryptocurrency. The next notable point is that most of the ICOs fail to reach their goal point. The reason a lot of ICOs fail is that the investors do not completely believe in the project. Launching crypto does not mean just putting up a new coin in the market. It is about to maintain its success later. In brief, Manish Yadav states that in the game that is cryptocurrency trading, the main tool one can have is patience. His goal now in life is to simply help people to make money in crypto using his deep knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Omegapro co-founder, Dilawar Singh addresses providing better experience services to their patrons||When the world is still recovering from the setback and repercussion of the Pandemic Captivity. Entrepreneur, Dilawar Singh the co-founder of Omegapro is all set to give the best to its clients and customers with the utmost sincerity he can. Dilawar Singh is a renowned global thought leader for Forex trading, creative undertakings, and cryptocurrency vending. He has toured the world, conveying his discourse around the globe from Asia to Europe, halting in countries like India (where he was born), Japan, the USA, Columbia, UK, and others. This Entrepreneur always understands and reckons in the aspect of quality and integrity. His trademark group of OMG banking is a pioneer that is defined in the future of forex trading. Their establishment has made it easier for people to trade online, keep a track of indices, ETFs, shares, stakes, investment, etc There isn't any means that their application cannot bestow to the related associate masses. However, Dilawar believes and strategies concepts and ideates new ways, brainstorming that, in what more aspects they can offer as an organization to his prospect, subordinates, and consumer. The brilliant magnate believes that the only way to keep succeeding is improving before the need for advancement. So, along with the strategy of providing promising ease in the room of managing finances online, the exchange of payouts, and customizing and altering techniques that suit their customer's financial designs, they are also trying to provide transparency to their customers. The org is also planning to robe itself as a helping guide to its patrons, be it a beginner or an expert, they are trying to make their application modest enough so that even a non-techy person can also use the software with ease and without getting frustrated with hefty procedures and turmoil of complications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 663 points to close above 57k-mark||Extending their record-setting streak, the Sensex rallied 663 points to close above 57,000 for the first time while the Nifty scaled the 17,000-mark on Tuesday, driven by gains in Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finance and TCS amid positive global cues. After touching a lifetime high of 57,625.26 during the session, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 662.63 points or 1.16 per cent higher at its record close of 57,552.39. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 201.15 points or 1.19 per cent to an all-time closing peak of 17,132.20. It touched an intra-day record of 17,153.50. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, Asian Paints, Titan, TCS and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Nestle India, IndusInd Bank and Reliance Industries were the laggards. Domestic equities extended gains with Nifty surpassing 17,000 levels within a month, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Sustained buying momentum across all sectors and favourable global cues aided markets. All key sectoral indices traded in green with metals, financials (excluding banks) and pharma witnessing stronger recovery," he noted. Bharti Airtel was in focus again due to clarity over fundraising and indication of tariff hike. However, midcap and smallcap stocks underperformed on profit-booking, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Equities in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.83 per cent to USD 71.63 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Supreme Court orders demolition of twin 40-story buildings of Supertech||Nefarious complicity of NOIDA with Supertech Ltd in violation of the law allowed the twin 40-storey towers in Emerald Court project, which would have blocked the sunlight and fresh air for the residents, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday while ordering that the structures built so far be demolished. Illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law, the apex court said. NOIDA made no effort to ensure compliance of the Uttar Pradesh Apartments Act 2010, as a result of which the rights of the flat purchasers have been brazenly violated, it said. This cannot point to any conclusion, other than the collusion between NOIDA and the appellant to avoid complying with the provisions of the applicable statutes and regulations for monetary gain, at the cost of the rights of the flat purchasers, said a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, upholding the Allahabad High Court verdict. The order passed by the High Court for the demolition of Apex and Ceyane (T-16 and T-17) does not warrant interference and the direction for demolition issued by the High Court is affirmed, it said. The top court directed that the work of demolition shall be carried out within three months from the date of this judgment. "The record of this case is replete with instances which highlight the collusion between the officers of NOIDA with the appellant and its management. The case has revealed a nefarious complicity of the planning authority in the violation by the developer of the provisions of law," the bench said. The high court has dealt with the collusion between the officials of NOIDA and the appellant (Supertech Ltd), it said. "This is writ large from the facts as they have emerged before this Court as well. The High Court has in these circumstances correctly come to the conclusion that there was collusion between the developer and the planning authority , the bench said. It added that the rampant increase in unauthorized constructions across urban areas, particularly in metropolitan cities where soaring values of land place a premium on dubious dealings has been noticed in several decisions of this Court. This state of affairs has often come to pass in no small a measure because of the collusion between developers and planning authorities, the bench said, adding that from commencement to completion, the process of construction by developers is regulated within the framework of law. It pointed out that the regulatory framework encompasses all stages of construction, including allocation of land, sanctioning of the plan for construction, regulation of the structural integrity of the structures under construction, obtaining clearances from different departments (fire, garden, sewage, etc.), and the issuance of occupation and completion certificates. While the availability of housing stock, especially in metropolitan cities, is necessary to accommodate the constant influx of people, it has to be balanced with two crucial considerations -- the protection of the environment and the well-being and safety of those who occupy these constructions, it said. The top court said the regulation of the entire process is intended to ensure that constructions which will have a severe negative environmental impact are not sanctioned. Hence, when these regulations are brazenly violated by developers, more often than not with the connivance of regulatory authorities, it strikes at the very core of urban planning, thereby directly resulting in an increased harm to the environment and a dilution of safety standards, the bench said, adding, Hence, illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law . It said that the judgments of this Court spanning the last four decades emphasize the duty of planning bodies, while sanctioning building plans and enforcing building regulations and bye-laws to conform to the norms by which they are governed. A breach by the planning authority of its obligation to ensure compliance with building regulations is actionable at the instance of residents whose rights are infringed by the violation of law, it said. The bench, in its 140-page verdict said that their quality of life is directly affected by the failure of the planning authority to enforce compliance and lauded the efforts of home buyers in pursuing the litigation for their rights. Unfortunately, the diverse and unseen group of flat buyers suffers the impact of the unholy nexus between builders and planners. Their quality of life is affected the most. Yet, confronted with the economic might of developers and the might of legal authority wielded by planning bodies, the few who raise their voices have to pursue a long and expensive battle for rights with little certainty of outcomes, the bench said. It said as this case demonstrates, they are denied access to information and are victims of misinformation. Hence, the law must step in to protect their legitimate concerns . The top court said that the sanction given by NOIDA on November 26, 2009 and March 2, 2012 for the construction of T-16 (Apex tower) and T-17 (Ceyane tower) is violative of the minimum distance requirement under the Noida Building Regulations of 2006, 2010 and National Building Code of 2005. The appellant (Supertech Ltd) has raised false pleas and attempted to mislead this Court, while the officials of NOIDA have not acted bona fide in the discharge of their duties, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points to cross 57K mark in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex crossed the 57,000-mark for the very first time, as it jumped over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Infosys, HDFC Bank and TCS amid fresh foreign fund inflows.  In tandem, the broader NSE Nifty was trading a tad below the crucial 17,000-mark.  After touching a lifetime high of 57,124.78 in the opening session, the 30-share index was trading 115.53 points or 0.20 per cent higher at 57,005.29. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.15 points or 0.14 per cent to 16,955.20.  Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Asian Paints.  On the other hand, M&M, IndusInd Bank, SBI and Reliance Industries were among the laggards.  In the previous session, the BSE index ended 765.04 points or 1.36 per cent higher to 56,889.76, and Nifty surged 225.85 points or 1.35 per cent to its record closing of 16,931.05.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) turned net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,202.81 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  "A distinguishing feature of this bull market which started in April 2020, is that it has been remarkably stable without any major correction," V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  So, the newbie retail investors who entered the market since April 2020 (1.42 crore new Demat accounts opened in FY21) have been buying every dip, successfully, he noted, adding that with the Fed giving a commentary favourable to bulls, momentum is likely to take the Nifty to 17,000.  US equities extended gains mostly with S&P 500 and Nasdaq recording fresh highs.  In Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were positive.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.53 per cent to USD 71.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||List of banking aspirants in India grows||The list of banking aspirants in India is growing with the Reserve Bank of India receiving two new applications as part of the on tap licensing for Small Finance Banks. Bangalore based business management software company Tally Solutions and Mumbai based financial intermediary Cosmea Financial Holdings have applied with the regulator for a small finance bank licence. There are 11 licensed small finance banks in India. Many of these banks have migrated from their initial business as a non-bank finance company or a microfinance institution to a small finance bank. Earlier, in April, the RBI had said that eight institutions and individuals have applied for on-tap licences to set up universal banks and small finance banks. UAE Exchange Financial Services, Repatriates Cooperative Finance and Development Bank and Chaitanya India Fin Credit, an entity headed by Flipkart co-founder Sachin Bansal, had sought licences for universal banks. Vsoft Technologies, Calicut City Service Co-operative Bank Ltd, Akhil Kumar Gupta and Dvara Kshetriya Gramin Financial Services were interested in setting up small finance banks, the RBI had said. The RBI in June had given its in principle approval to Centrum Financial to set up a small finance bank. It had set up an advisory panel in March led by former deputy governor Shyamala Gopinath to evaluate the applications  from universal and SFBs, with the latter mandated to focus on priority sector lending and small loans. RBI in 2019 had introduced on tap licensing for small finance banks. As part of the guidelines, the regulator had set a minimum paid up voting equity capital or net worth requirement of Rs 200 crore. For urban co-operative banks looking to convert into small finance banks the initial net worth requirement was Rs 100 crore, which has to be increased to Rs 200 crore within five years from commencement of business. With the Covid pandemic affecting small borrowers, RBI had allowed priority sector classification for loans from small finance banks to microfinance institutions for on-lending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||HSBC appoints former SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar as a non-executive director||Banking giant HSBC has appointed former SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar as a non-executive director for its Hong Kong-based Asia unit. Kumar, who retired from the country’s largest lender after four decades of service in October last year, was previously appointed as senior adviser by Baring Private Equity Asia and an adviser to Kotak Investment Advisors. His experience across India’s financial sector will be an invaluable addition to the board of HSBC Group’s Asian entity as it directs focus on the region, Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation’s chairman Peter Wong said. “The opportunities presented by its 1.4 billion population, 18 million non-resident Indians and 40,000 MNCs make India a key component of HSBC’s growth strategy,” Wong added. HSBC’s operations in India, which include 26 retail branches and other financial services, are a part of HSBC Asia. Kumar will also be a member of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation’s audit committee and risk committee, according to a statement. Canara, BoI ED terms The government has extended the tenure of two executive directors of Canara Bank and Bank of India for two years, the state-run lenders said on Monday. The government has extended the term of office of A Manimekhalai, executive director of Canara Bank, for a period of two years beyond her currently notified terms that expire on 10 February 2022, or until further orders, whichever is earlier, Canara Bank said. Bank of India said the term of office of P.R. Rajagopal, executive director, has been extended for two years, beyond his currently notified term or until further orders, whichever is earlier. His current term was to expire on February 28, 2022, the bank said. Change at BoB Bank of Baroda on Monday said Shanti Lal Jain would cease to be its executive director from September due to his appointment as the MD & CEO of Indian Bank. Jain’ cessation as the executive director of Bank of Baroda will be effective from September 1, 2021, the bank said in a regulatory filing. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business|| NTPC ramps up coal output to meet stock depletion at power stations||State-owned NTPC said it was ramping up coal output from its mines and importing 2.7 lakh tonnes of the fossil fuel under existing contracts amid a massive depletion of coal stocks at power stations. The stocks  have depleted to an average 7-days inventory by the end of August from 13 days at the beginning of the month. Power generators have to cope with a sudden rise in demand as the second wave of the pandemic recedes amid falling coal stocks . The Centre on Saturday said it will ration coal supplies to power plants with high inventories. Supplies to plants with more than two weeks’ inventory will be halted for a week. NTPC said it was geared up to meet rising power demand and recorded electricity generation growth of 23 per cent over the previous year. Under the flexible utilisation of the coal policy, NTPC is arranging coal at the power stations where the stock position is critical. The company also said that it is continuously co-ordinating supplies with Coal India and Indian Railways to augment coal supply at critical stations and diverting rakes wherever required. The power ministry is likely to issue a statutory order allowing the plants of Tata Power and Adani Power at Mundra which have a capacity of 4,400mw to sell electricity on the power exchanges for a month, officials said. This will take the pressure off the domestic coal based plants, he said. NTPC said the Indian states are not buying gas-based power even as the PSU can make available 7 gigawatt of gas-fuelled electricity during peak hours. “Demand has gone up by about 17 per cent in August led by the opening up of the economy and a favourable base impact. This coupled with a lag in coal supply pickup and also coal supply regulation is leading to a shortfall in coal stock at various plants,” Sabyasachi Majumdar, senior vice-president & group head — corporate ratings, ICRA, said. Besides rising demand for electricity which have reduced coal stocks, the monsoons have hit coal supplies amid a lower generation by hydroeletric plants. India’s peak electricity demand reached an all time high of 200.57 giga watt on July 7, 17.6 per cent more than a year earlier. The demand is around 192-193gw at present. Aluminium hit Aluminium companies have said the drastic curtailment of supplies by Coal India Ltd without advance notice have brought the industry to a standstill as it has been left with no time to devise any mitigation plan to continue sustainable operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
31-08-2021||Business||Ola to raise up to $1 billion through initial public offering ||Indian ride-sharing giant Ola plans to raise up to $1 billion through an initial public offering (IPO) and is finalising banks to advise on the fund-raise, three sources told Reuters, becoming the latest startup to join the capital markets boom. Ola, backed by Japan’s Softbank Group, has roped in Citigroup, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said. It has also brought Kotak Mahindra and Morgan Stanley on board, said two other people familiar with the plans. The company, which competes with Uber Technologies, is also in talks with Bank of America and JP Morgan, one of the people said. Ola, JP Morgan and Kotak Mahindra did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Bank of America, Citi and Morgan Stanley declined to comment. The successful listing of food delivery service Zomato, backed by China’s Ant Group, in July has made other technology startups more bullish about raising money through the capital markets, two of the people said. Over half a dozen startups, including payments company Paytm, e-pharmacy PharmEasy and online insurance aggregator Policybazaar, are preparing for IPOs, giving investors such as Ant and Softbank an opportunity to exit. Founded in 2010 by Bhavish Aggarwal, Ola has a majority share of India’s ride-hailing market which took a hit last year as lockdowns kept people at home, forcing the company to cut its workforce and temporarily halt the bulk of its business. Ola also has a growing presence in several global markets such as Australia and the United Kingdom. In July, private equity firms Temasek and Warburg Pincus invested about $500 million in Ola ahead of its planned IPO. At that time, Aggarwal had said the company has made its ride-hailing business “more robust, resilient and efficient” over the last 12 months. “With strong recovery post lockdown and a shift in consumer preference away from public transportation, we are well-positioned to capitalise on the various urban mobility needs of our customers," he had said. In the same month, Ola had also announced the expansion of its employee stock options pool to Rs 3,000 crore and allocation of an additional Rs 400 crore worth of stocks to employees. Bloomberg News first reported of Ola’s IPO plans earlier on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business|| Go Airlines, or ‘Go First’, gets Sebi go-ahead for IPO||Budget carrier Go Airlines, which has rebranded itself as ‘Go First’, has received market regulator Sebi’s go-ahead for its initial public offer. The airline plans to garner up to Rs 3,600 crore through the sale of shares, according to the draft red herring prospectus. It also plans to raise up to Rs 1,500 crore by way of a pre-IPO (initial public offer) placement. The carrier, which filed its preliminary papers for the IPO in May, received its observations on August 26, according to Sebi’s latest update on processing the status of the draft offer documents. The information was updated on August 27 and made public on Monday. In Sebi parlance, issuance of observations implies its go-ahead for the IPO. In June, Sebi had kept in abeyance the processing of Go Airlines’ draft papers for the initial share sale. From the net IPO proceeds, the airline plans to utilise over Rs 2,015.81 crore towards pre-payment or scheduled repayment of all or a portion of certain outstanding borrowings, according to the DRHP. An amount of Rs 279.26 crore would be for “replacement of letter of credits, which are issued to certain aircraft lessors towards securing lease rental payments and future maintenance of aircraft, with cash deposit”. Further, the carrier plans to repay dues of Rs 254.93 crore to Indian Oil for fuel supplied to it, according to the draft plan. The Wadia group owns a 73.33 per cent stake in the carrier while the remaining shareholding is with other entities, including Baymanco Investments. The latter holds a 21.05 per cent stake. Others are Sea Wind Investment and Trading Company Ltd (3.76 per cent shareholding), Heera Holdings & Leasing Pvt Ltd, Nidhivan Investments & Trading Company Pvt Ltd and Sahara Investments Pvt Ltd — all the four entities have 0.62 per cent stake each in the airline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business||Equity benchmarks maintain record-setting spree on all-round buying||The Sensex surged 765 points while the Nifty cruised past the 16900-level on Monday as equity benchmarks maintained their record-setting spree on all-round buying amid supportive global cues. A firm trend in the rupee, which rallied 40 paise against the dollar, added to the momentum. After touching a lifetime high of 56958.27 during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 765.04 points, or 1.36 per cent, higher at its new closing peak of 56889.76, extending its winning run for the third session. The broader NSE Nifty advanced for the sixth consecutive day, surging 225.85 points or 1.35 per cent to its record closing of 16931.05. It touched an all-time intra-day high of 16951.50. The Nifty has closed at fresh lifetime highs in five of the previous six sessions. Bharti Airtel was the top performer in the Sensex pack, rallying 4.44 per cent, after the company’s board raised up to Rs 21,000 crore via a rights issue. Investors were richer by Rs 3.56 lakh crore, with the market capitalisation of all BSE-listed companies reaching a record Rs 247.30 lakh crore. “Domestic equities skyrocketed on strong global cues with the benchmark Nifty just one notch away to surpass the 17000 mark,” said Binod Modi, head-strategy at Reliance Securities. Dovish commentary from the US Federal Reserve chairman in the Jackson Hole Symposium lifted investors’ sentiments globally, he noted. “Global markets strengthened as the anxiety over the Jackson Hole symposium subsided following the dovish tone of Fed chairman Jerome Powell with his wait-and-see approach giving reassurance that the easy money policy will continue this year with a smaller rate of tapering,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Equities in Europe were also trading in the positive zone in the afternoon session. International oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.20 per cent to $71.56 per barrel. The rupee surged 40 paise to close at 73.29 against the dollar, marking its third straight session of gains. The local unit has appreciated by 95 paise against the greenback in three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business||Jio-Google smartphone to launch on September 10||Jio will launch its smartphone — Jiophone Next — in partnership with Google on September 10. Market analysts predict further pricing aggression from Jio in a bid to shore up its subscriber base with the telecom major’s launch of the new phone. According to Trai data, Jio held a 36.98 per cent share in an 118-crore wireless subscriber market in India at the end of June 30, 2021. While Airtel had a market share of 29.82 per cent, Vodafone Idea held a market share of 23.15 per cent. The private operators dominate the telecom industry in India with an overall subscriber share of 90 per cent. “JioPhone Next is expected to be launched on September 10, and it could turn out to be another round of pricing aggression from Jio to accelerate its subscriber market share gains,” said Naval Seth, research analyst at Emkay. Reliance Jio chairman Mukesh Ambani had announced the JioPhone Next launch on Ganesh Chaturthi at the company’s annual general meeting in June. With an Android operating system, the phone is expected to include features such as Google Assistant, language translation, camera with augmented reality features among others while being an affordable 4G smartphone. Sundar Pichai CEO, Google had said that the phone will support an optimized version of Android and will support the latest updates. Jio currently has feature phones as JioPhones and the market is expecting announcement from the company soon on pre-orders of the JioPhone Next.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business||Sunil Mittal pitches for tariff hike and a cut in government levies||Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal on Monday made a strong case for a hike in tariffs and a cut in government levies to save the industry. Mittal said as much as 35 per cent of the industry’s revenues go towards paying taxes even as Airtel and Vodafone are burdened with high AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues along with spectrum payments. Speaking at an analyst call following the announcement by Airtel of a Rs 21,000-crore rights issue on Sunday, Mittal said the issue proceeds would be used in the rollout of 5G services, fibre and the data centre business. “People are consuming average 16GB of data per user per month. It is time that tariffs do take a tick up to make the industry viable and, more importantly, have decent and appropriate returns on capital to grow into more technology areas, to roll out more networks, and become a more viable model of sustainability in the future,” Mittal said. He stressed that the industry needs to have a “right economic model”, and rued that “for far too long, we have played in this game by growing this industry at a very minimal pricing level”. Levies are far too high in the telecom sector, Mittal said adding that “levies and the load on industry needs to be brought down”. Mittal made it clear that Airtel will not shy away from raising tariffs. He argued that tariff changes effected by Airtel over the last few months are a “testimony” that the company has indeed “run out of patience”. Asked if Airtel will take a lead in raising tariffs in the future, Mittal said that the company has already been doing it in a limited manner by pushing up base tariffs to Rs 79. “Can this go to Rs 99 eventually, my answer is yes, the question is when... In the end, we are also bound by market forces, we can’t be outlier beyond a point. You can be having some premium given the strength of the brand but you can’t go beyond a point where you start to hurt yourself,” Mittal observed. “We have seen the worst tariff war, and contraction in average revenue per user,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to raise prices across models||India’s No. 1 car maker Maruti Suzuki on Monday said it would raise prices next month across its models to counter higher input costs. The company did not specify the amount of increase in the prices, the fourth in 2021. “With respect to price increase, we wish to inform you that over the past year the cost of company’s vehicles continues to be adversely impacted due to the increase in various input costs,” the car maker said in a regulatory filing. “Hence, it has become imperative to pass on some impact of the additional cost to the customers through a price rise,” Maruti Suzuki said. “The price rise has been planned across models in September.” MSI executive director (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava told The Telegraph that the “input costs of steel and copper have doubled since April 2020, the prices of precious metals like Rhodium have spiked from Rs 18,000 per gram to over Rs 68,000 per gram since April last year.” “Material costs compromise 75 per cent of our total cost of production hence it is effecting us in a very strong way,” he said. Srivastava said during the first lockdown the company did not raise prices as it expected input costs to soften. “But that did not happen. Now our profitability is taking a hit. So we had to increase prices.” On asked what would be the range of the price hike, he said: “It’s going to be substantial across all models.” Maruti reported a drop in profit after tax at Rs 440.8 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal, a sharp 62 per cent decline on a sequential basis. Prices have already been raised thrice this year in January, April and July. On January 18, Maruti had hiked prices of some models up to Rs 34,000. Again  it increased prices by 1.6 per cent (ex showroom) in April across all models. In July, it had hiked the prices of the hatchback Swift and the CNG variants of other models by up to Rs 15,000. The price rise will come just before the start of the festive season which kicks off with Ganesh Chaturthi on September 10. Rivals Tata Motors, Honda Cars, Mahindra & Mahindra, Renault, and Toyota had raised prices in the July-August period. Input prices The hikes have been exercised to offset the increase in raw material costs such as steel and precious metals. Commodity prices are expected to remain at multi-year highs in the first half of this fiscal before softening in the second half of the year, according to an Icra report. Maruti sells a range of models from entry-level hatchback Alto to S-CROSS, priced between Rs 2.99 lakh and Rs 12.39 lakh (ex showroom Delhi), respectively. With inputs from Calcutta Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
31-08-2021||India||Modi, European Council president Charles Michel discuss Afghan situation, its implications for region||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday discussed with European Council president Charles Michel the recent developments in Afghanistan and their implications for the region and the world. During their telephonic conversation, the two leaders emphasized the importance of a stable and secure Afghanistan and discussed the potential role India and the EU could play in this context, the Prime Minister's Office here said in a statement. Modi and Michel unequivocally condemned the horrific terror attack at the Kabul airport that resulted in many casualties, it said. “Spoke with @eucopresident Charles Michel, President of the European Council, about the evolving situation in Afghanistan. Also reiterated our commitment to further strengthening India-EU relations,” Modi tweeted after his telephonic talk with the European Council president. The leaders discussed the recent developments in Afghanistan and the implications for the region and the world, the PMO said. The two leaders agreed to remain in touch on bilateral and global issues, in particular, the situation in Afghanistan, according to the PMO. Last week, Prime Minister Modi had spoken with his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi and the two leaders stressed the need for international cooperation, including at the level of the G20, in addressing the security and humanitarian challenges arising out of the spiralling crisis in Afghanistan. The US on Tuesday completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, ending a two-decade war and leaving the country in the hands of the Taliban. The Taliban took control of the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul on Tuesday after the last US aircraft took off in the morning, marking an end to the 20-year presence of the US in Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
31-08-2021||India||Amarinder contradicts Rahul over Jallianwala Bagh renovation||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh today appeared to support the renovations at Jallianwala Bagh, for which the Centre has been facing a storm of criticism from opposition, historians and the civil society. The Congress government of Punjab has also been in the line of fire, with many questioning why it did not flag the construction that ended up renovating the site instead of preserving it. The renovations – including the laser show, the entrance with a bas relief replacing the stark corridor -- has only trivialised the sacrifice of more than a thousand men and women and the work should have been stopped at the outset, many have said. "I don't know what has been removed. To me it looks very nice," Singh told reporters today, a stance markedly different from Rahul Gandhi, who called it an "insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh". "Such an insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh can only be done by those who do not know the meaning of martyrdom. I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost. We are against this indecent cruelty," Gandhi tweeted in Hindi earlier today. Singh's comment comes in the middle of a crisis within the state Congress, where a section of leaders have rebelled against the Chief Minister's leadership and wants him removed the top post. While the Central leaders have so far refused to comply, they have also elevated Navjot Sidhu, the biggest challenger of Singh, to the position of the chief of the party's state unit. The crisis has been the biggest headline from the state, till furious comments about the Jallianwalla Bagh renovations flooded the social media. Other opposition leaders had slammed the renovations, saying the new construction robbed the place of dignity, of the loss and horror of the day 102 years ago when British General Dyer opened fire on a peaceful protest. Leaders like CPM's Sitaram Yechury hit hard, citing the history of the right wing. "Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise thus," tweeted Yechury. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi wrote of "the pain... the loss (and) the tragedy" and said attempts to ''beautify' or 'modify' those memories "is doing great damage to our collective history".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Right time to take ‘calculated’ risk: IMA on reopening of schools amid Covid-19||Welcoming the decision of several states to allow re-opening of schools with restrictions, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has termed it a positive step but reiterated the need for strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. As Covid-19 cases continue to remain under the 50,000-mark for the past several weeks, IMD President Dr JA Jayalal said that this is the right time when government should come forward, take a calculated risk and open the schools. "This is a positive move but strict protocol needs to be followed. This is a very complex decision which has to be taken. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) have been issued by the various state governments. All the teachers and the staff who are working in the school should be vaccinated and there should not be more than 20 to 30 students in a class," the IMA president told ANI. "So, I think though this is an experiment that really we are trying. This is worth doing. Considering the possibility of spread, the risk is quite negligible at this moment unless something very catastrophic events taking place. This is the right time when government should come forward, take a calculated risk and open the schools in an appropriate way," he said. Pointing that that IMA has its branches in states and Union Territories, Dr Jayalal said that the medical body is also studying the reports related to the Covid-19 cases after the reopening of schools. "We do get some reports from states, we are studying them. But whether it (spike in Covid-19 cases) is exclusively due to the only after the opening up the school is not very well established," he said. According to some source-based reports, Punjab and Bihar have seen a spike in positivity rate, but some states like Maharashtra and Jharkhand have witnessed a decline in cases after schools reopened. Some states that have opened schools with 50 per cent occupancy and other Covid-related restrictions have seen a rise in the positivity rate among children up to 17 years of age. According to the data, the infection rate among children in July and August shows that states like Punjab, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand have seen a spike in the positivity rate after the reopening of schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||3 women take oath as SC judges, Justice Nagarathna in line to become CJI in Sept 2027||Three women judges, including Justice B V Nagarathna who is in line to be the first woman Chief Justice of India (CJI) in September 2027, took oath of office as judges of the Supreme Court on Tuesday. Prior to the swearing-in of Justices Hima Kohli, Nagarathna and Bela M Trivedi, only eight women judges, including sitting judge Justice Indira Banerjee, were appointed as apex court judges. The Supreme Court, which came into being on January 26, 1950, has seen very few women judges since its inception and in the last over 71 years -- only eight, starting with Justice M Fathima Beevi in 1989. The seven other female judges appointed to the apex court are -- Justices Sujata V Manohar, Ruma Pal, Gyan Sudha Misra, Ranjana P Desai, R Banumathi, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee. Justice Hima Kohli was the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court before being appointed as a judge of the top court. Born on September 2, 1959 in Delhi, Justice Kohli did her LL.B from the Campus Law Centre in Delhi University and was the standing counsel and Legal Advisor of the New Delhi Municipal Council in the High Court of Delhi from 1999-2004. She was appointed as an additional judge of the Delhi High Court on May 29, 2006 and took oath as a permanent judge on August 29, 2007. Justice Nagarathna, who is the daughter of former CJI E S Venkataramiah, was a judge of the Karnataka High Court before being elevated to the apex court. She is in line to become the CJI in September 2027 and would have a tenure of over a month as the head of the judiciary. Justice Nagarathna was appointed as additional judge of the Karnataka High Court in February 2008 and was later appointed as a permanent judge there. Justice Trivedi, born in June 1960, was a judge of the Gujarat High Court before being elevated to the apex court and she belonged to the judicial service category. The first woman apex court judge, Justice Beevi, was appointed on October 6, 1989 and she retired on April 29, 1992 from the top court. She had retired as a high court judge in April 1989 and was later appointed as an apex court judge. Justice Manohar was appointed as an apex court judge in November 1994 and she retired on August 27, 1999. Justice Pal was appointed judge of the top court on January 28, 2000. She retired on June 2, 2006. Justice Misra had assumed the charge of the office of judge of the Supreme Court on April 30, 2010 and she retired on April 27, 2014. Justice Desai was the fifth womon apex court judge, appointed on September 13, 2011. She retired in October 2014. Justice Banumathi, who entered Tamil Nadu Higher Judicial Service as a direct recruit in 1988, was appointed as a judge of the apex court on August 13, 2014. After a tenure of over five years, she retired on July 19 last year. Justice Malhotra, who was a senior advocate before being elevated to the bench directly from the bar, was appointed as an apex court judge on April 27, 2018. She retired on March 13 this year. Justice Banerjee, who was the lone sitting women judge in the apex court prior to the swearing-in of Justices Kohli, Nagarathna and Trivedi on Tuesday, was elevated as a judge of the Calcutta High Court and was later appointed as a judge of the Delhi High Court. She was appointed as apex court judge on August 7, 2018 and is due to retire in September 2022. A total of nine new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges on Tuesday by CJI N V Ramana. Besides Justices Kohli, Nagarathna and Trivedi, the other judges who were sworn-in are -- Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Vikram Nath, Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, C T Ravikumar, M M Sundresh and P S Narasimha. The strength of the Supreme Court has now risen to 33, including the CJI, out of the sanctioned strength of 34.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Facebook 'actioned' 33.3 mn content pieces during June 16-July 31||Facebook “actioned” over 33.3 million content pieces across ten violation categories proactively during June 16-July 31 in India, the social media giant said in its compliance report on Tuesday. Facebook’s photo-sharing platform, Instagram took action against about 2.8 million pieces across nine categories during the same period proactively. The company said it had received 1,504 user reports for Facebook and 265 reports for Instagram through its Indian grievance mechanism between June 16-July 31, and the social media company had responded to all of them. A Facebook spokesperson said over the years, the company has consistently invested in technology, people and processes to keep users safe and secure online and enable them to express themselves freely on its platform. “We use a combination of Artificial Intelligence, reports from our community and review by our teams to identify and review content against our policies. In accordance with the IT Rules, we’ve published our second monthly compliance report for the period for 46 days – 16 June to 31 July,” the spokesperson said in a statement to PTI. This report contains details of the content that have been removed proactively using automated tools and details of user complaints received and action taken, the spokesperson noted. In its report, Facebook said it had “actioned” over 33.3 million pieces of content across ten categories during June 16-July 31, 2021. This includes content related to spam (25.6 million), violent and graphic content (3.5 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (2.6 million), and hate speech (3,24,300). Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (1,23,400), suicide and self-injury (9,45,600), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (1,21,200), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (94,500). ‘Actioned’ content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning. The proactive rate, which indicates the percentage of all content or accounts acted on which Facebook found and flagged using technology before users reported them, in most of these cases ranged between 86.8-99.9 per cent. The proactive rate for removal of content related to bullying and harassment was 42.3 per cent as this content is contextual and highly personal by nature. In many instances, people need to report this behaviour to Facebook before it can identify or remove such content. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. In the May 15-June 15 period, Facebook had “actioned” over 30 million content pieces across ten violation categories while Instagram had taken action against about two million pieces across nine categories during the same period. For Instagram, 2.8 million pieces of content were actioned across nine categories during June 16-July 31 period. This includes content related to suicide and self-injury (8,11,000), violent and graphic content (1.1 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (6,76,100), and bullying and harassment (1,95,100). Other categories under which content was actioned include hate speech (56,200), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (9,100), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (5,500). Between June 16 and July 31, Facebook received 1,504 reports through its Indian grievance mechanism. “Of these incoming reports, we provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 1,326 cases. These include pre-established channels to report content for specific violations, self-remediation flows where they can download their data, avenues to address account hacked issues etc,” it said. During the same time frame, Instagram received 265 reports through the Indian grievance mechanism, and provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 181 cases, it added. Earlier in the day, Google said it received 36,934 complaints from users and removed 95,680 pieces of content based on those complaints, and took down 5,76,892 pieces of content in July as a result of automated detection in the month of July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Supreme Court denies bail to Asaram Bapu for receiving Ayurvedic treatment||The Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed the plea of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, facing varying jail terms including life sentence in sexual assault cases, that his sentence be suspended for few months for undergoing ayurvedic treatment, saying the offence was not an ordinary crime at all . A bench comprising justices Indira Banerjee, V Ramasubramanian and Bela M Trivedi took note of the response of the Rajasthan government that the convict has been provided requisite treatment and dismissed the plea. "Sorry... It is not an ordinary crime at all. You will get all your ayurvedic treatment in jail," the bench observed orally while dismissing the plea. Senior advocate R Basant, appearing for the convict, said that an interim bail for a period of two months can be considered for allowing him to get the holistic treatment of his ailments. Senior Advocate Manish Singhvi, representing the state, said the convict has been getting the best possible treatment in jail and urged dismissal of the plea. A vacation bench, on June 4, had sought the response of the state government on Asaram's plea that his sentence be suspended for two months for undergoing treatment at Prakash Deep Institute of Ayurved near Haridwar in Uttarakhand. In its response, the state government had said that Asaram was hospitalised and in the intensive care unit for the treatment and his plea for transferring him had become infructuous. Prior to this, the state government had told the top court that Asaram was fit and stable but trying to change the venue of his custody on the pretext of medical treatment. Asaram is serving varying jail terms including life sentences in two sexual assault cases. The accused/petitioner with ulterior motives has been attempting to change the venue of his custody, under the guise of medical treatment. Such change, with due respect, is an abuse of the process of law, the state government had said in its affidavit. The accused is also deliberately delaying the pending trial at Gandhi Nagar as well as Jodhpur, raising such pleas with mala fides whereas he is stable and fit, it had said. The state government had said Jodhpur is one of the rare centres, where both the allopathic and ayurvedic treatments are available. It had also said Asaram was tested positive for COVID-19 on May 6 and was having mild symptoms, with low-grade fever and was treated properly. A Jodhpur court, on April 25, 2018, had sentenced Asaram to life in prison after finding him guilty of raping a teenage girl in his ashram in 2013. His accomplices Sharad and Shilpi were sentenced to 20 years in jail by the court in the same case for their roles. The teenager had said in her complaint that Asaram had called her to his ashram in Manai area near Jodhpur and raped her on the night of August 15, 2013. The 16-year-old girl from Shahjahanpur in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh was studying at Asaram's ashram in Chhindwara in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. He was also convicted in a 2002 rape case and sentenced to 20 years in prison. Asaram is also facing a rape case in Surat in Gujarat. Asaram was arrested in Indore and brought to Jodhpur on September 1, 2013. He was under judicial custody since September 2, 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Indian envoy meets Taliban leader for first high-level talks||In the first formal and publicly acknowledged contact, Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai on Tuesday and conveyed India's concerns that Afghanistan's soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the discussions also focused on the safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan and the travel of Afghan nationals, especially members of minority communities to India. The meeting took place at the Indian embassy in Doha at the request of the Taliban side and came two weeks after the outfit seized control of Kabul. The MEA said the Taliban representative assured the ambassador that "these issues" would be positively addressed. "Today, Ambassador of India to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, met Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of Taliban's Political Office in Doha. The meeting took place at the Embassy of India, Doha, on the request of the Taliban side," the MEA said in a statement. It said the discussions focused on safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan and the travel of Afghan nationals, especially minorities, who wish to visit India also came up. "Ambassador Mittal raised India's concern that Afghanistan's soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism in any manner. People familiar with India's ties in Afghanistan said it was the first publicly acknowledged contact between the two sides in over at least two decades. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, replying to questions during his weekly briefing in the last few months on whether India has reached out to the Taliban, has been maintaining that New Delhi is in touch with all stakeholders. It was learnt that India had opened a channel of communication with the Taliban but it was never acknowledged officially. The meeting between Mittal and Stanekzai took place hours after the US completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, ending its 20-year-long military campaign in the country. The last American aircraft left the Kabul airport in the early hours of Tuesday. On Saturday, Stanekzai, in a clear overture, described India as an important country in the region and said the Taliban wants to maintain Afghanistan's trade, economic and political relations with it. "We attach great importance to our trade, economic and political relations with India and want to maintain that relation," he had said. "We also need to keep the air trade open," the Taliban leader was quoted as saying by Pakistani media outlet Independent Urdu. He was referring to the air corridor between India and Afghanistan that was established to boost trade between the two countries in view of Pakistan's denial to allow transit access. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on August 20 held talks with his Qatari counterpart Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani on the Afghan crisis during a stopover in Doha on his way back home from a four-day visit to the US. Doha has been the venue for the intra-Afghan peace talks and the Gulf country has emerged as a crucial player in facilitating the Afghan peace process. Political leaders of the Taliban have been residing in Qatar for years. In September last year, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations featuring various stakeholders including the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha. Jaishankar had joined it through a video conference. Meanwhile, a high-level group comprising Jaishankar, NSA Ajit Doval and a number of other senior officials is focusing on India's immediate priorities in Afghanistan following the drawdown of American forces from the country. Official sources said on Tuesday that the group has been meeting regularly over the last few days following a direction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India's immediate priorities include the safe return of its nationals still in Afghanistan, bringing back the Afghan nationals who stood by New Delhi and ensuring that Afghan soil is not used for terrorism directed at it. "In view of the evolving situation in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Modi recently directed that a high-level group comprising of External Affairs Minister, the National Security Adviser and senior officials focus on the immediate priorities of India," said a source. "It is seized of issues pertaining to the safe return of stranded Indians, the travel of Afghan nationals (especially minorities) to India, and assuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used in any manner for terrorism directed against India," it said. India has been a key stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has invested nearly USD 3 billion in carrying out nearly 500 projects across Afghanistan. India has been in touch with all major regional players including those in the Gulf region on the developments in Afghanistan. The UN Security Council, under India's presidency, on Monday adopted a resolution demanding that the territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists. There have been mounting concerns in India over the possibility of rise in activities of various terror groups including Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Government should come out of cuckoo world, says Faooq Abdullah||Laying emphasis on providing enough security to panchayat leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday said militancy still exists and the government should not live in "cuckoo world and think everything is hunky-dory". Abdullah, a former chief minister, made these remarks in the presence of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at an official event here, organised as part of the parliamentary outreach programme for strengthening Panchayati Raj Institutions. Abdullah requested the Lt governor to strengthen security of panchayat leaders who continue to face threat to their lives and said militancy still exists in the Kashmir Valley. "These panchayat members are the targets of militants and they need to be protected. Don't live in a cuckoo world and think everything is hunky-dory. We still face militancy and God knows what will happen in future," he said in an apparent suggestion to the government. Laying emphasis on the need to protect the country's diversity, Abdullah said there is nothing similar between those who live in Srinagar and Chennai. "The binding factor is only the resolve that we come together to create this country. India is a diverse nation and it cannot prosper if we don't protect its diversity." He further said if the authorities don't protect the diversity, then one cannot protect the nation. "India cannot be run on the basis of one religion. And there is more threat from the enemy within. We know about the enemy which is outside," Abdullah said. He further said there is nothing wrong with any religion and that no religion teaches us to hate people from different faiths. Abdullah mentioned that panchayat elections were held under the governments led by him and his son Omar Abdullah. Reacting to Abdullah, the Lt Governor said, "I want to assure (you) that appropriate arrangements have been made for the security of panchayat leaders. The administration is committed to provide them security and will extend them all possible help to fulfil their duty."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||BJP's Jan Ashirwad rallies a threat amid looming third wave, says Uddhav||In a veiled swipe at BJP, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said "Ashirwad" rallies are being organised despite the threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic "which is putting the lives of people in danger". Speaking virtually after inaugurating an oxygen plant set up by Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik in Thane, the CM said "these people do not seem to care if some people die due to such rallies . Newly-appointed Union ministers of BJP recently organised "Jan Ashirwad" rallies to take blessings of people. As Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) defied the ban and tried to hold Dahi Handi celebrations in Mumbai and Thane on Tuesday, Thackeray said the MVA government was not against any festivals but only fighting against coronavirus. There is the threat of a third wave of Covid-19 but some people are still organising 'Ashirwad' rallies. They are not seeking blessings from the people but they are in fact putting the lives of the people in danger, said Thackeray, who heads Shiv Sena. He said when Sena was formed it was announced that the party will do 80 per cent social work and 20 per cent politics. But today there are parties in the country that are 100 per cent into politics. They do not want to do any work that will benefit the people but they are organising rallies and events that would put their lives in danger, he said. These people do not seem to care if some people die due to such rallies, said Thackeray. Thackeray also said that he was missing the excitement of Dahi Handi due to restrictions, which do not allow public celebrations of the festival. Dahi Handi festival or 'Gopalkala' is celebrated a day after Janmashtami marking the birth of Lord Shrikrishna. I must admit that I am missing the excitement of Dahi Handi and the celebrations for the last couple of years. I had personally attended some such events in the past, Thackeray recalled. MNS celebrated the traditional 'Dahi Handi' festival in Thane and the neighbouring Palghar district, even though the celebrations have been banned in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. A case was registered against four activists of the Raj Thackeray-led party and eight others for violating COVID-19 norms by holding a Dahi Handi programme in the Worli area of central Mumbai on Tuesday and two workers were arrested, police said. The CM said the MVA government was not against any festival but fighting against Covid-19. "It (the pandemic) is not a state (sponsored) programme. Everyone has to follow the guidelines during social life that are common across the world, he said. Thackeray said even the Union government has asked States to take precautions during festivals. One needs to replicate the kind of fight MLA Pratap Sarnaik is putting up against the Covid-19 pandemic (by erecting oxygen generation plant), but unfortunately, it is not happening. Such maturity is not seen in some people. By behaving immaturely, these people are posing a risk to the lives of others, he said. MLA Pratap Sarnaik has organised a "Health Utsav" instead of the Dahi Handi festival this year. This is not a fight for Independence of the country. Here, lives of people are at stake, the chief minister said, apparently referring to public rallies and other events organised by BJP in Maharashtra. Thackeray said he wanted to show the Union government's letter to States asking people to avoid crowding during the festive season, "especially to those who want to organise agitations at public places . "Agitations are being held in defiance of the Covid-19 safety regulations. If you want to do any agitation then do it against coronavirus," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Breakthrough Covid-19 infections found in 25 % healthcare workers: Study||A little more than 25 per cent of healthcare workers were infected with coronavirus despite getting fully jabbed, a recent study has revealed, giving an insight on the breakthrough infections due to the Delta variant. The study, jointly conducted by the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and Max hospitals in Delhi-NCR, found that vaccination breakthroughs were far more common during the Delta-outbreak in Delhi than previously reported. However, the severity of the infection was low and vaccination is crucial to avoid severe illnesses, said Shantanu Sengupta, senior scientist with the IGIB and one of the lead researchers of the study. He also cautioned that of the 25 per cent who were infected, a large number were asymptomatic, so masking is also very important to arrest the spread of infection. Sengupta said nearly 95 healthcare workers who had taken the two doses were studied. They were assessed from 45-90 days after their inoculation. Of the 95, more than 25 per cent saw breakthrough infections. "Immunisation is expected to confer protection against infection and severe disease for vaccines, while reducing risks to non-immunised population by inhibiting transmission. Here, based on serial serological studies, we show that during a severe SARS-CoV2 Delta-variant outbreak in Delhi, 25.3 per cent of previously uninfected, ChAdOx1-nCoV19 (Covishield) double vaccinated, healthcare-workers (HCW) were infected within a period of less than two months, based on serology," the study said. Most infections were unrecognised. The Delta- variant thus causes frequent unrecognised breakthrough infections in adequately immunised subjects, reducing any herd-effect of immunity, and requiring reinstatement of preventive measures such as masking, the paper said. There is a need to have a variant-specific high throughput neutralisation assay to truly assess population immunity and predict outbreak risk, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Supreme Court advises against issuing oral orders, says it would send dangerous precedent||Judges should speak through their judgements and orders and should not issue oral directions as it does not form a part of the judicial record and must be avoided, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. The apex court said the element of judicial accountability is lost where oral regimes prevail and this would set a dangerous precedent and is unacceptable. A bench comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah made the observations in a judgement on an appeal against a verdict passed by the Gujarat High Court which issued oral direction not to arrest an accused in a case of cheating and criminal breach of trust. "Oral observations in court are in the course of a judicial discourse. The text of a written order is what is binding and enforceable. Issuing oral directions (presumably to the public prosecutor) restraining arrest, does not form a part of the judicial record and must be eschewed," said the bench. The top court said the procedure followed by the High Court of issuing an oral direction restraining the arrest of the first respondent was irregular. The bench said that if the High Court was of the view that an opportunity should be granted to counsel for the parties to explore the possibility of a settlement and, on that ground, an interim protection against arrest ought to be granted, a specific judicial order to that effect was necessary. The apex court said that in absence of a judicial order, the investigating officer would have no official record emanating from the High Court on the basis of which a stay of arrest is enforced. The top court said administration of criminal justice is not a private matter between the complainant and the accused but implicates wider interests of the State in preserving law and order as well as a societal interest in the sanctity of the criminal justice administration. The bench said that judges speak through their judgments and orders and the written text is capable of being assailed. Judges, as much as public officials over whose conduct they preside, are accountable for their actions, it said. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by Salimbhai Hamidbhai Menon who had approached the High Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code seeking quashing of FIR lodged against him under sections 405 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc.), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code. During the pendency of the matter in the high court, Menon was arrested. When the proceedings were taken up after the arrest, the High Court was of the view that an opportunity should be granted to counsel for the parties to explore the possibility of a settlement and, on that ground, an interim protection against arrest was granted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Akhil Bhartiya Terapanth Yuvak Parishad (ABTYP) aspires to make India blood sufficient : Sandeep Kothari, National Prez  ||Akhil Bhartiya Terapanth Yuvak Parishad (ABTYP) is the youth wing of  Terapanth sect of Jain community. Based out of India and having a nationwide network of more than 350 branches and 45000 plus youth, ABTYP organises blood donation camp under name of *Mega Blood Donation Drive (MBDD) *. India is currently deficient in about 2 million blood units, the ongoing pandemic and the vaccination have further lowered this deficiency levels. Through their Mega Blood Donation Drive, ABTYP committee strives to make India blood sufficient. Their aim is to ensure that blood is available in every corner of India to anyone in need. Over the years they have organised many shibirs and blood donation camps all over the country. For their remarkable achievements, they have been featured in various news channels and media time and again. The volunteers and ambassadors of ABTYP are relentlessly working towards making India blood self-sufficient. Some of their major accomplishments in the field of blood donation are: Year 2012: They organised the first Mega Blood Donation Drive with Sachin Tendulkar as their brand ambassador and collected 96600 of blood across India in a single day. Year 2014: Being mentioned in Guinness World Record for collecting 100212 units of blood in single day. Celebrities across the country joined this red revolution. Year 2016: The organization conducted a marathon - world longest blood donation drive wherein blood donation camps were organised everyday throughout India from 01st Jan, 2016 to 31 December, 2016 and were awarded and recognised by Govt of India & various State Governments. On learning that plasma can save people from COVID19, ABTYP organized more than 3000 plasma donations camps throughout the country. During the nationwide lockdown, more than 55000 units of blood and 2000 units of plasma from Covid recovered patients were collected and donated to various hospitals and blood banks. These milestone events are recorded in various books of records. Now their mission is to create the biggest virtual blood donor’s data bank. It is commendable to note here that ABTYP also finds a mention in the various books of records like - Asia books of records, India books of records Global Pacific records, Asia Pacific records and so on. The mission of ABTYP is, 'To save as many lives as possible by maintaining a reliable and economical blood supply in India’s remotest locations.' With support from the public, they hope to expand further and help the county become blood sufficient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear pleas challenging Rakesh Asthana's appointment as top cop||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said it will hear on Wednesday a petition challenging the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner and an intervention application filed in the matter by an NGO. "We are keeping the matter tomorrow. Intervention application (by the NGO) will be listed tomorrow along with the writ petition," said a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. On August 25, the Supreme Court had asked the high court to decide within two weeks the plea pending before it against the appointment of senior IPS officer as Delhi Police Commissioner. The apex court had then also permitted NGO, 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' (CPIL) - which has challenged the appointment before the Supreme Court, to move the high court to intervene in the pending plea by one Sadre Alam. Appearing for the NGO, advocate Prashant Bhushan argued that the petition before the high court was a copy-paste of CPIL's plea before the Supreme Court. "We have filed an intervention on behalf of CPIL. Something extraordinary has happened in the matter. The petition is a total copy-paste. Full stop, comma, exclamation mark. The court may list it tomorrow or whenever. See the kind of abuse of process of law that is done," Bhushan stated. He informed the court that NGO's challenge to Asthana's appointment was adjourned by the Supreme Court on the last occasion and that he does not intend to "file another petition here". In the intervention application, the NGO has contended that filing an identical writ petition without mentioning the pendency of the issue before the apex court seems to have been filed to defeat public interest by scuttling the genuine, bona fide and well-researched and deliberated PIL (pending before Supreme Court) . Alam stated that his petition was an outcome of his hard work. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said that the peresent instance was a case of competitive PIL . The 1984-batch IPS officer, serving as the director general of Border Security Force, was appointed Delhi Police Commissioner on July 27, four days before his superannuation on July 31. In his petition before the high court, Alam has sought quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him. The plea, filed through advocate B S Bagga, also sought initiation of steps for appointing Delhi Police Commissioner strictly in accordance with the direction issued by the Supreme Court earlier. "The impugned orders (of MHA) are in clear and blatant breach of the directions passed by the Supreme Court of India in Prakash Singh case as (i) respondent no.2 (Asthana) did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months; (ii) no UPSC panel was formed for appointment of Delhi Police Commissioner; and (iii) the criteria of having a minimum tenure of two years has been ignored," the plea said. It claimed the High-Powered Committee comprising the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister and the Leader of Opposition, in its meeting held on May 24, 2021, rejected the Central government's attempt to appoint Asthana as the CBI Director on the basis of the six-month rule as laid down by the Supreme Court in Prakash Singh. The appointment of Asthana to the post of Commissioner of Police, Delhi must be set aside on the same principle, it said. The petition with similar prayers which has been filed by CPIL before the Supreme Court has urged to direct the central government to produce the July 27 order it issued, approving the inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT cadre. The petition has also urged the apex court to set aside the Centre's order to extend Asthana's service period. A contempt plea in the apex court by advocate M L Sharma has been filed against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for appointing Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner in alleged violation of the judgement in Prakash Singh case. In his petition, Sharma has said that according to the apex court's judgement of July 3, 2018, the process of appointment should begin three months prior to the vacancy and the person being appointed must have a reasonable period of service left.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Son of DMK MLA among 7 killed in Bangalore road accident||Seven persons, including the son of a Tamil Nadu MLA, died when their Audi Q3 crashed at Koramangala in Bengaluru during the wee hours of Tuesday. According to The Hindu, three women and four men were travelling in an SUV when the driver lost control of the vehicle. The car then went over the footpath before hitting the compound wall of a bank. "The incident occurred around 1.30 a.m. The SUV hit the wall with such intensity and speed that it was completely damaged. Though it was meant to seat five persons, there were seven people in the vehicle. The incident was recorded on CCTV cameras in the area," it quoted a police officer as saying. The CCTV footage shows the wheel of the car flying off as it crashed after hitting a pole and then going over the footpath, hitting the wall of a building. Six people died on spot and the seventh passed away in a hospital according to NDTV. DMK MLA Y Prakash's son Karuna Sagar was in the group. All the victims were in their twenties, enjoying a late night joyride in the city, according to NDTV. According to sources in The Hindu, the group was returning to Hosur in Tamil Nadu after a trip to Bangalore. Soon after the incident, staff from a nearby hotel and a few others pulled the victims out of the car and alerted the local police, The Hindu said in its report. "The passengers were trapped inside the mangled vehicle. Rescuers had to use force to open the doors and get them out. Witnesses saw smoke coming out from the engine. They poured water fearing that the vehicle would catch fire," a police source told them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||PM hails shooter Singhraj Adhana for winning Paralympics bronze||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Tuesday hailed shooter Singhraj Adhana for winning the Paralympics bronze at Tokyo, saying he worked tremendously hard and achieved remarkable successes. Prime Minister Modi also spoke with Adhana and congratulated him on winning the Bronze medal. Adhana, who took up the sport just four years ago, won the Paralympics bronze medal in the P1 men's 10m air pistol SH1 event in Tokyo on Tuesday. "Exceptional performance by Singhraj Adhana! India's talented shooter brings home the coveted Bronze Medal. He has worked tremendously hard and achieved remarkable successes," Modi tweeted. "Congratulations to him and best wishes for the endeavours ahead," the prime minister said. The 39-year-old shooter, who is afflicted with polio and was making his Games debut, shot a total of 216.8 to finish the event in third place after qualifying for the eight-man final as the sixth best shooter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Dalit girl from Delhi raped, killed in Gurgaon||A 13-year-old Dalit girl from north Delhi's Narela was allegedly raped and killed at neighbouring Gurgaon by a relative of her landlord, officials said Tuesday. They said the landlady's brother Praveen Verma has been arrested on the complaint of the girl's father who made a PCR call when the accused allegedly tried to force the family to cremate the body. In an FIR filed with the police, the girl's father has said, "On July 17, my landlord's wife said that her sister-in-law has given birth to a child and she was taking my daughter along with her to her brother's home in Gurgaon. She also said that my daughter would stay there and could play with the daughter of her brother." However, around 3 pm on August 23, the father was informed by his landlord that his daughter has died, the FIR sates. Around 7 pm, they took the body in a private ambulance to the girl's Narela residence for cremation, it added. When the father got suspicious, he made a PCR call and Narela police station staff reached the spot, and took the body to the Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital in Jahangirpuri, the FIR stated. The father has alleged in the FIR that landlady's brother Praveen Verma, along with others, has killed his daughter. The Gurgaon Police said it has registered a case under sections 302 (murder) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and SC/ST Act. They said further sections were added in the FIR after the postmortem report confirmed sexual assault, and Verma was arrested. Earlier this month, a nine-year-old Dalit girl was alleged rape and killed in Delhi Cantt area. The girl died under suspicious circumstances even as her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI files three more FIRs||The CBI, as part of its probe into cases of post-poll violence in Bengal, has filed three new FIRs in two places, agency sources said on Tuesday. According to the sources, the cases were filed in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram and Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi areas. As many as 31 cases have been filed so far by the agency. After the TMC stormed back to power, the BJP accused the ruling party workers of unleashing violence on its members, leaving several of them dead. The saffron camp also claimed that many homes of party activists have been destroyed, and women raped in various parts of the state. The Calcutta High Court, after taking cognisance of an NHRC report on post-poll violence, handed over the probe to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||India set up high-level group to monitor developments in Afghanistan||A high-level group comprising External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, NSA Ajit Doval and a number of other senior officials is focusing on India's immediate priorities in Afghanistan following the drawdown of American forces from the country after 20 years of presence. Official sources said on Tuesday that the group has been meeting regularly over the last few days following a direction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India's immediate priorities have been the safe return of the Indians still in Afghanistan, bringing back the Afghan nationals who stood by New Delhi, and ensuring that Afghan soil is not used for terrorism directed at India. "In view of the evolving situation in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently directed that a high-level group comprising of External Affairs Minister, the National Security Adviser and senior officials focus on the immediate priorities of India," said a source. "It is seized of issues pertaining to the safe return of stranded Indians, the travel of Afghan nationals (especially minorities) to India, and assuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used in any manner for terrorism directed against India," it said. The sources also said that the group has also been monitoring the ground situation in Afghanistan and international reactions, including the resolution passed this morning by the UN Security Council. The US on Tuesday completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, ending a two-decade war and leaving the country in the hands of the Taliban. The Taliban has taken control of the Hamid Karzai international airport in Kabul on Tuesday after the last US aircraft took off in the morning, marking an end to the 20-year presence of the US in Afghanistan. Supporters of the outfit celebrated across Kabul after the US completed the troops' withdrawal. There is still no clarity on the formation of a government in Kabul, over two weeks after the Taliban seized control of the Afghan capital city. India is adopting a wait and watch approach to see whether the new dispensation in Afghanistan will be solely a government of the Taliban or be part of a power-sharing arrangement with other Afghan leaders. India has been a key stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has invested nearly USD 3 billion in carrying out nearly 500 projects across Afghanistan. India has been in touch with all major regional players including those in the Gulf region on the developments in Afghanistan. The UN Security Council, under India's presidency, on Monday adopted a resolution demanding that the territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists. There have been mounting concerns in India over the possibility of rise in activities of various terror groups including Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka imposes 7-day institutional quarantine for people entering from Kerala||People entering Karnataka from neighbouring Kerala will have to remain in institutional quarantine for a week even if they are vaccinated and carry a negative RT-PCR test report, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said. The measure is also applicable to air passengers from Kerala and they can choose a hotel of their choice, which had been designated for institutional quarantine. Such travelers undergoing institutional quarantine will be tested on the sixth day and if the report comes out negative for Covid-19 on the seventh day, they will be allowed to go. "It has been decided in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday that travelers coming from Kerala, whether they have taken vaccines or have a negative RT-PCR test report, will have to compulsorily stay in institutional quarantine," Sudhakar told reporters here. According to Sudhakar, the government is working out a strategy in consultation with experts on how to further strengthen Covid prevention drive in the districts bordering Kerala such as Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chamarajanagar. He also said the government may take "even more" stringent measures in the border districts to control the spread of Covid-19. The government has imposed stringent restrictions in view of increasing number of Covid cases in Kerala. Kerala on Monday reported 19,622 new positive cases and 132 Covid-19-related deaths, taking the caseload to 40,27,030 and the toll to 20,673. As the Karnataka government decided to restart from September 6 offline classes for students from class six to eight, Sudhakar said schools cannot be kept shut permanently and have to be reopened because children were lagging behind in their studies. "For the past one-and-half years, our children have made slow progress in education. Education is important for the growth of children. It is the duty of the government to ensure academic future of the children," the Minister pointed out. He added that all preparations have been made and guidelines have been made public on reopening of schools. "In case the positivity rate in certain areas goes beyond two per cent, the schools will be shut and everyone will be tested", the Minister said. Asked if there will be Covid-19-related restrictions during the upcoming Ganesha festival, Sudhakar said the health department has been insisting that no public function should take place, because wherever people gather in large numbers, the threat of the spread of the pandemic increases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Bombay HC raises concern over crowding in public places||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday raised concern over crowds assembling at public places in Mumbai and said if it was not controlled or restricted, the city would face a similar situation as earlier this year when the number of COVID-19 cases surged, leading to the second wave of the pandemic. A full bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, Justices A A Sayed, K K Tated and P B Varale said the government, authorities and citizens should learn from the earlier experience and noted that as per experts, the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic was knocking at our doors. In our meeting of the administrative committee of the HC, lawyers and other experts held on Monday, an expert, Dr Rahul Pandit, who heads the Special Task Force appointed by the Supreme Court, informed that the third wave of the pandemic is knocking at our doors, Chief Justice Datta said. Unless all the safety protocols are not followed, the state will face imminent danger. Dr Pandit was also of the view that at least till April 2022, the nation may not get rid of COVID-19, he said. The high court said photographs published in various newspapers show crowds assembling at beaches in Mumbai, like the Juhu Chowpatty, Girgaum Chowpatty and Marine Drive. "If you (the government) do not control or restrict this, then again the same situation is bound to happen. We need to draw from our experience," the court said. The bench extended all interim orders passed by the high court as well as all subordinate courts and tribunals in Maharashtra and Goa till September 30. "Considering the view placed by the experts, the situation of uncertainty and the ensuing festivities which could pose a threat to the humankind, we are of the opinion that the interest of justice would be served if the protective interim orders are extended till September 30," the court said. The HC also said that its full bench would assemble next on September 24 to review the situation. On Monday, Mumbai reported 334 new COVID-19 cases, the sixth day in a row when the addition to the tally was above 300, taking the infection count to 7,43,832, while the death toll increased by two to reach 15,976, a civic official earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams government's  Jallianwala Bagh memorial revamp, calls it insulting||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday termed the government's revamp of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial an "insult to martyrs", saying only a person who does not know the meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult. Taking to Twitter, the former Congress chief tagged a media report on the outrage on social media over the alleged changes at the Jallianwala Bagh memorial complex with many claiming that it was "destroying history" in the name of makeover. Gandhi's attack came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday dedicated to the nation the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial. During the event, Modi also digitally inaugurated the museum galleries at the memorial. The event also showcased the multiple development initiatives undertaken by the government to upgrade the complex. Tagging the report on the social media outrage over the revamp, Gandhi tweeted, "Only a person who does not know the meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult on the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh". "I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "We are against this indecent cruelty." In another tweet, Gandhi said those who didn't struggle for freedom can't understand those who did. Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill alleged the BJP-led central government project giving a makeover to the "Jallianwala passage is not to preserve but erase the marks of atrocities committed by General Dyer during British rule". "Central vistafication of Jallianwala Bagh passage is ultimate insult to those killed on that fatal day! Shame," he said. Congress' deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi, in a tweet on Monday, said, "Call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity." Such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to base entertainment, he alleged. "Similarly the strobe lights on Parliament are also appalling," Gogoi added. Stressing that it is a country's duty to protect its history, Prime Minister Modi had said that events of the past "teach us and give us direction to move forward". As part of the inaugural event, a wreath-laying ceremony was also held and two-minute silence was observed in the memory of those killed in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. A sound and light show was held to depict the events of the day of the massacre. Over 1,000 people were killed and hundreds wounded on April 13, 1919 when British troops fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands who had assembled in Jallianwala Bagh amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act which had extended wartime repressive measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Modi speaks to Assam CM to take stock of flood situation||With several parts of Assam hit hard by floods, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to take stock of the situation and assured the state of all possible help from the Centre. The flood situation in Assam deteriorated with two persons losing their lives and over 3.63 lakh people suffering in the deluge across 17 districts, an official bulletin said on Monday. In a tweet, Modi said, "Spoke to Assam CM Shri @himantabiswa and took stock of the flood situation in parts of the state. Assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas." Barpeta, Biswanath, Cachar, Chirang, Darrang, Dhemaji, Dhubri, Dibrugarh, Golaghat, Jorhat, Kamrup, West Karbi Anglong, Lakhimpur, Majuli, Morigaon are among the affected districts. "Adarniya Pradhan Mantriji telephoned today to enquire about flood situation and assured all help to Assam to combat this menace", the chief minister said on the microblogging site. Lakhimpur is the worst-hit district with more than 1.3 lakh people suffering, followed by Majuli and Darrang, according to the bulletin of Assam State Disaster Management Authority. "Current flood has gravely impacted the livelihoods of the people. My gratitude to Adarniya Modiji for standing with us at this hour of crisis," Sarma said. At present, 950 villages are underwater and 30,333.36 hectares of crop areas have been damaged across Assam, the bulletin added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||CJI administers oath of office to nine new SC judges||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Tuesday administered oath of office to nine new judges, including three women, of the Supreme Court. The CJI started the swearing-in by administering oath of office to Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka. With the swearing-in of the nine new judges, the strength of the Supreme Court rose to 33, including the CJI, out of the sanctioned strength of 34. The nine new judges who were administered oath of office as apex court judges include Justice Vikram Nath, Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B V Nagarathna. Besides them, Justice C T Ravikumar, Justice M M Sundresh, Justice Bela M Trivedi and senior advocate and former Additional Solicitor General P S Narasimha were also administered oath of office by the CJI. Justice Nagarathna, the daughter of former CJI E S Venkataramiah, is in line to become the first woman CJI in September 2027.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Google removes 95,680 content pieces in July in India||Google received 36,934 complaints from users and removed 95,680 pieces of content based on those complaints in July, the tech giant company said in its monthly transparency reports released on Tuesday. In addition to reports from users, Google also removed 5,76,892 pieces of content in July as a result of automated detection. The US-based company has made these disclosures as part of compliance with India's IT rules that came into force on May 26. On Tuesday, Google said it had received 36,934 complaints in July from individual users located in India via designated mechanisms, and the number of removal actions as a result of user complaints was 95,680 - the highest so far. In June, Google had received 36,265 complaints and removed 83,613 pieces of content as a result of user complaints. It had removed 59,350 pieces of content in April and 71,132 pieces in May. "Some requests may allege infringement of intellectual property rights, while others claim violation of local laws prohibiting types of content on grounds such as defamation. When we receive complaints regarding content on our platforms, we assess them carefully," Google said on Tuesday. The content removal was done under several categories, including copyright (94,862), trademark (807), court order (4), circumvention (3), counterfeit (1), graphic sexual content (1), impersonation (1) and other legal requests (1). Google explained that a single complaint may specify multiple items that potentially relate to the same or different pieces of content, and each unique URL in a specific complaint is considered an individual "item" that is removed. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms - with over 5 million users - will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report must also include the number of specific communication links or parts of the information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. Google's report showed that it had removed 5,76,892 pieces of content in July as a result of automated detection. This number stood at 5,26,866 in June. The company said for data related to automated detection processes, it has included data where the sender or creator of the content is located in India. "In order to attribute a location to an individual sender or creator, we use data signals such as location of account creation, IP address at the time of video upload and user phone number, as available. Please note that senders or creators of content may attempt to evade detection through location-concealing mechanisms," it said. While Google is committed to revealing any bad actors through industry-leading detection tools, reporting based on location attribution should be interpreted as a directional estimate, it added. The company noted that when it receives complaints regarding content on its platforms, it assesses them carefully. "There are many reasons we may not have removed content in response to a user complaint. For example, some requests may not be specific enough for us to know what the user wanted us to remove (for example, no URL is listed in the request), or the content has already been removed by the user when we process the complaint," it explained. A removal action may be taken on a complaint if the content violates Google's Community Guidelines, content policies, or local legal requirements, while for automated detection processes, a removal action is taken if content violates its Community Guidelines or content policies, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||India logs over 30,000 fresh Covid cases, 350 casualties in a day||With 30,941 people testing positive for coronavirus, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,27,68,880, while the active cases declined to 3,70,640, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,38,560 with 350 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.53 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 5,684 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 13,94,573 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 52,15,41,098. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.22 per cent.The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.51 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 67 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,19,59,680, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 64.05 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Tuesday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 350 new fatalities include 132 from Kerala, 67 from Odisha and from 52 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,38,560 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,20 from Maharashtra, 37,293 from Karnataka, 34,899 from Tamil Nadu, 25,081 from Delhi, 22,820 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,673 from Kerala and 18,434 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Calcutta High Court: Centre silent on five judge recommendations||When the Centre cleared five additional judges for Calcutta High Court last week, a curious feature caught the eye of several veteran lawyers. Although the five names proposed by the Supreme Court collegium in February this year were cleared, there was no word on five others the collegium had recommended more than two years ago. Among the five not yet endorsed by the Narendra Modi government for elevation as judges to Calcutta High Court is senior advocate Amitesh Banerjee. The senior advocate is the son of Justice U.C. Banerjee, the former Supreme Court judge who had headed the commission that in 2006 ruled out any conspiracy angle to the 2002 Sabaramati Express fire tragedy in Godhra that killed 58 kar sevaks and was cited as an excuse for the Gujarat riots that erupted when Modi was chief minister. The rejection of the conspiracy theory had gone against the Right-wing narrative that the riots were a spontaneous reaction to a diabolic plot to kill the kar sevaks. The findings of the Justice Banerjee commission, appointed by the then railway minister Lalu Prasad, were contradicted by a commission of Justices G.T. Nanavati and A.H. Mehta, which in 2008 held that the train fire at Godhra was part of “a planned conspiracy”. Subsequently, the Nanavati-Mehta commission gave a clean chit to the then chief minister, Modi. The five names, including that of Amitesh Banerjee, that are yet to be cleared by the Centre for elevation as judges to Calcutta High Court were recommended by the Supreme Court collegium on July 24, 2019. However, the recommendation for the five others the Centre cleared last week was made only on February 4, 2021. According to sources, the Union government has cited no valid reason yet for withholding the names. The terms of the memorandum of procedure require the Centre to cite its objections. But if the collegium iterates the recommendation, the Centre has no option but to fall in line. The Centre has been sitting on the five names at a time Calcutta High Court has several vacancies. Against the total sanctioned strength of 72 judges, made up of 54 permanent and 18 additional judges, Calcutta High Court now has a working strength of 35 judges, with 37 vacancies. High court judges are initially appointed as additional judges and most are eventually made permanent judges. On July 24, 2019, the collegium, headed by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi and including Justice N.V. Ramana (the current CJI), had said in a resolution that was passed: “…On the basis of interaction, the material on record and having regard to all relevant factors, the collegium is of the considered view that S/Shri (1) Jaytosh Majumdar, (2) Amitesh Banerjee, (3) Raja Basu Chowdhury, (4) Smt Lapita Banerji and (5) Sakya Sen (mentioned at Sl Nos 2, 4, 5, 8, and 9 above) are suitable for being appointed as judges of the Calcutta High Court….” The collegium added in the resolution: “…The collegium resolves to recommend that S/Shri (1) Jaytosh Majumdar, (2) Amitesh Banerjee, (3) Raja Basu Chowdhury, (4) Smt Lapita Banerji and (5) Sakya Sen, advocates, be appointed as judges of the Calcutta High Court.” While recommending the five, the collegium had observed: “We have perused the views of the chief minister and the governor for the state of West Bengal placed in the file and the observations made therein. “In order to ascertain suitability of the above-named recommendees for elevation to the high court, we have consulted our colleagues conversant with the affairs of the Calcutta High Court. Copies of letters of opinion of our consultee-colleagues received in this regard are placed below. “For purpose of assessing merit and suitability of the above-named recommendees for elevation to the high court, we have carefully scrutinised the material placed on record. We have also perused the observations made by the department of justice in the file as well as complaints received against some of the above-named recommendees. We do not find any substance therein. Apart from this, we considered it appropriate to interact with all the recommendees.” The sources said that although two years had passed since the recommendation was made, they were not aware of the Centre seeking any clarifications on the candidate judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Images of renovated Jallianwala Bagh induce gasps of horror||Images of a renovated Jallianwala Bagh that Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated on Saturday have provoked gasps of horror in India and Britain, with even pro-government commentators and corporate honchos seeing in the effort “mockery” and “defacement”. The new features include a light-and-sound show, a glass encasing of the martyrs’ well, and a garish embellishment of the stark brick alley through which Reginald Dyer’s troops had entered the premises and shot hundreds of peaceful pro-Independence protesters dead. Mumbai-based senior Swiggy executive Harnidh Kaur tweeted: “Jallianwala Bagh isn’t a place of celebration. It’s a place of mourning and of deep, abiding grief. The starkness of the bagh itself is a reminder of what happened there. What a mockery of everything it once represented.” Suhel Seth, a commentator known for being pro-establishment, tweeted: “I don’t know who is the brain behind defacing both the soul and the body of Jallianwala Bagh. It was and will remain sombre and grave. People were mercilessly killed. To have a son et lumiere and that wretched design shows how removed we are from any level of refinement.” Arpita Das, founder-publisher of the Yoda Press, wrote: “The martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh are now protagonists of a sound and light show. How much lower can this government fall! #Shame.” There was shock in Britain too after pictures of the revamped brick alley, adorned with kitschy embossed figures of people in golden paint, were circulated. Kim A. Wagner, Professor of Global and Imperial History at Queen Mary University of London tweeted: “Devastated to hear that Jallianwala Bagh, site of the Amritsar Massacre of 1919, has been revamped — which means that the last traces of the event have effectively been erased. This is what I wrote of the memorial in my book, describing a space that has now itself become history.” Labour MP Preet Kaur Gill replied: “Our history — being erased! Why?” Cambridge archaeologist Danika Parikh tweeted: “It is so sad to see the changes made to Jallianwala Bagh, the site of a 1919 colonial massacre of peaceful protesters in Amritsar. The original entrance to the garden has been made unrecognisable with this baffling attempt to snazz up a very sombre and moving place of memory.” Several Twitterati drew comparisons with the A-Bomb Dome at Japan’s Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park, where the skeletal ruins of the former Hiroshima Prefectural Industrial Promotion Hall remains untouched. Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi tweeted: “Call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity. Such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to base entertainment. Similarly the strobe lights on Parliament are also appalling.” Modern historian S. Irfan Habib wrote: “This is corporatisation of monuments, where they end up as modern structures, losing the heritage value. Look after them without meddling with the flavours of the period these memorials represent.” The renovation was undertaken by the public-sector unit, NBCC, from 2019 under the supervision of a five-member committee headed by the director-general of the Archaeological Survey of India. The Rs 23.03-crore project was completed in July last year but had been closed to the public because of the pandemic. Actor Ashwin Mushran tweeted: “Forgive me if I let out a cynical laugh when I hear complaints about the history of India not being taught correctly while allowing modern history to be desecrated right under our eyes. This is disrespectful to the memory of the horrific events of that day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Haryana: Khattar defends SDM who asked to 'break heads' of farmers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday defended Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha whom a video purportedly shows ordering police to “break heads” if protesting farmers try to breach a barricade, saying the choice of words was incorrect but the situation warranted strict action. The BJP chief minister’s comments came a day after his deputy from ally JJP, Dushyant Chautala, had said action would “definitely” be taken against Sinha. Upset at Khattar’s remarks, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been spearheading the farmers’ protest against three farm laws, set the Haryana government a September 6 deadline to dismiss Sinha and lodge a murder case against him for a farmer’s death. Police had lathi-charged farmers near a toll plaza on Saturday when they tried to head to Karnal town to stop a state-level BJP meeting that Khattar was to attend. A farmer, Sushil Kaajal, who was said to have suffered injuries in the police action died of a heart attack later. “It is utterly shocking that the chief minister of the state is choosing to brush aside the barbaric and illegal instructions as only a wrong choice of words,” the Morcha said. “It once again clearly reiterates what we have been saying, which is that the Khattar-Chautala government is at war with its own people.” Khattar did not rule out action against Sinha but attached several caveats as he addressed a news conference in Chandigarh. “Though the officer’s choice of words was not correct, strictness had to be maintained to ensure that the law-and-order situation there was kept under check,” he said. “If any action has to be taken (against Sinha), it will first have to be assessed by the district administration. The DGP is also looking into it. To maintain law and order, strictness had to be ensured.” Khattar questioned the protesting farmers’ strategy of boycotting ministers and BJP functionaries. “Today, you have called me here. But if somebody says they would not allow the chief minister to reach a certain place, is that correct?” he said. Khattar said the farmers were not gaining any support with such actions and that there was a public demand to deal with them strictly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Remission hope for people with type-2 diabetes ||People with type-2 diabetes who sustain normal blood sugar for three months or longer without medicines should be considered “in remission”, four international medical societies said on Monday, setting guidelines for a disorder traditionally earmarked for perpetual treatment. “Remission” is a term used to describe the reduction or disappearance of signs and symptoms. A consensus statement from the societies has suggested that diabetes remission may be declared when the value of a blood test parameter called HbA1c that measures the average blood sugar is below 6.5 at least three months after stopping medicines. The statement comes amid the use of three terms — cure, reversal and remission — to describe type-2 diabetes patients who have achieved a disease-free status without taking medicines for significant periods. “Diabetes remission is the most appropriate term,” the Endocrine Society, the European Association for the Study of Diabetes, Diabetes UK, and the American Diabetes Association said. The statement pencilled by a 12-member panel of experts has said that remission “strikes an appropriate balance”, noting that diabetes may not always be active and progressive and yet implying that a notable improvement may not be permanent. People in type-2 diabetes remission would need to take steps to forestall a relapse by monitoring themselves regularly and being prepared to start medications if sugar levels rise, the panel said. It said the testing of HbA1c to document remission should be performed just before an intervention, and no sooner than three months after initiation of the intervention or the withdrawal of glucose-lowering pharmacotherapy. Instead of HbA1c, fasting glucose levels less than 126mg/dl may also be used as an alternative criterion to declare remission, the panel said. HbA1c or blood glucose testing should be done at least yearly to determine the long-term maintenance of remission. Multiple studies and clinical observations over the past five years have suggested that some diabetes patients may reverse the disease and move into long-term remission through drastic weight loss and other lifestyle-linked changes. Among the most cited of such studies are a series by Roy Taylor at the University of Newcastle and his colleagues in the UK who have shown that patients who lose 12kg to 15kg through well-designed diet control can achieve diabetes remission. Doctors in India too have documented diabetes remission. “We see remissions typically in young patients, or those recently diagnosed with diabetes and those who are able to lose significant weight,” said Ambrish Mithal, a senior endocrinologist at Max Hospital in New Delhi. One of Mithal’s patients who had an HbA1c value over 9 in April this year had a value of less than 6 last week. “We know this is reversal, but we don’t know yet how long it will last,” Mithal said. Diabetologists say the duration of remission needs to be tracked. Clinical experience suggests that people find it hard to stick to low-calorie diets for long periods and this makes most people regain lost weight within years. In Mumbai, endocrinologist Shashank Joshi and his colleagues are conducting a clinical trial to document diabetes remission through a regimen that combines lifestyle changes with an artificial intelligence software programme that seeks to tailor those changes to individuals. “The regimen includes eating less, eating right and eating on time, among other interventions,” Joshi said. Clinical observations have indicated that diabetes is reversible in its early years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||JNU approves course linking Islamist and communist terror||Jawaharlal Nehru University’s academic council has approved a counter-terrorism course that links Islamist and communist terror while staying silent on terrorism by members of other faiths or groups. The course content document describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism” and connects it to “State-sponsored terrorism” exclusively by communist China and the former Soviet Union. An academic council member said the proposal was passed on August 17 without discussion, as has been the trend under current vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar. Sources suggested that a final approval from the executive council was a formality. The optional and inter-disciplinary course, “Counter-terrorism, asymmetric conflicts and strategies for cooperation among major powers”, will be offered to Master of Science dual-degree students who choose to study international relations at the newly minted School of Engineering. It will not be taught at JNU’s School of International Studies (SIS). Session III of the course content, “Fundamentalist-religious terrorism and its impact”, says an incorrect and “perverse interpretation of the Koran has resulted in the rapid proliferation of a jihadi cultist violence that glorifies death by terror in suicidal and homicidal variants”. “The exploitation of the cyberspace by the radical Islamic religious clerics has resulted in the electronic propagation of jihadi terrorism world over.” The course content is silent on terrorist violence by adherents of other religions, such as Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse or members of the Lord’s Resistance Army in Africa who have been facing off with United Nations and African Union forces. Arvind Kumar, chairperson of the Centre for Canadian, United States and Latin American Studies who co-designed the course with assistant professor Anshu Joshi of the same centre, told The Telegraph: “It’s based on India’s perspective... how Islamic terrorism has always been detrimental to India’s national security. Jihadi terrorism is a manifestation of Taliban and various terrorist groups perpetrated by Pakistan.” Kumar’s centre functions under the SIS. In 2018, the Delhi Minorities Commission had sent a notice to JNU after “Islamic terrorism” was declared an area of study at the Special Centre for National Security Studies. The varsity later dropped the proposal. “Session IV: State-sponsored terrorism” says: “State-sponsored terrorism has been largely during the ideological war between the West and the Soviet Union and China. The Soviet Union and China have been predominant State sponsors of terrorism and they have been heavily involved in terms of their intelligence agencies training, aiding and providing logistical support to communist ultras and terrorists. “In the post-Cold War period, the trend has been well adapted by several radical Islamic states that have mirrored the earlier tactical strategies of the communist powers and have continued to aid and arm the various terrorist groups.” Kumar said in reply to queries: “(That) China has always supported Pakistan’s effort in promoting terrorism is well known at the global level…. The Soviet Union did everything to promote and expand its ideologies across the globe and hence kept its national interest paramount. What it did in West Europe in particular was a beginning and got intensified when they (Russians) intervened in Afghanistan in 1979.” Ironically, the Soviets spent a decade in Afghanistan fighting Islamist mujahideen backed by Pakistan and the US. Another elective paper, “Significance of science and technology in international relations”, focuses solely on military technology and is, despite the pandemic, silent on vaccines that have been the lynchpin of India’s foreign relations over the past year. School of Engineering dean Ruchir Gupta distanced himself from the matter and said it was the SIS that had designed the counter-terrorism course. “I don’t think anyone objected to the content in the special committee (of the School of Engineering that first vetted the course proposal) and the academic council,” Gupta said. SIS dean Aswini Mohapatra denied knowledge of the counter-terrorism paper, backed the part on jihadi terrorism but was puzzled at the bit on State terror. “The course was not designed by me but by the coordinator (Kumar) for such courses from the SIS (for other schools)…. There is no terrorist group from other religions, as such, that have emerged as a global phenomenon. Smaller groups in India may commit violence in the name of Sanatana Dharma but they are not part of a phenomenon of a number of groups across the world,” Mohapatra told this newspaper. He added: “I don’t know where he (Kumar) got this idea (on the Soviets and China), and how he designed it.” An academic council member said: “The special committee of the engineering school did not even have an SIS professor on it to give an opinion on the course. At the academic council too there was no discussion allowed as the chair would only yield the floor to the engineering representative as it is their course. It was passed in a few seconds.” Moushumi Basu, professor of international studies and president of the JNU teachers association — which has been excluded from the academic council by the vice-chancellor — rued the absence of rigour in the course. “Even a reading list is not included in the course content that was approved. In the IITs, can you get an MS specialisation with a few badly structured courses?” she said. “Even the SIS dean is reportedly unaware of the course. That this (course on Islamic terrorism) has been passed again despite the observations of the minorities commission is very disturbing.” University spokesperson Poonam Kudaisya did not respond to WhatsApp queries from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Tihar authorities to release 1,000 prisoners on parole every 2 months||The Tihar jail authorities have decided to release 1,000 prisoners on parole every two months as part of an ongoing drive to decongest Asia’s largest jail, prison sources have said. “In the wake of a Supreme Court directive, we have decided to release 1,000 inmates on parole every two months to decongest the overcrowded jail amid the pandemic,” a prison official said. Tihar has nearly 20,000 inmates against the sanctioned strength of 10,000. In March last year, the Supreme Court had asked all states and Union Territories to set up panels that would consider releasing on parole convicts who have been in jail for up to seven years. The idea was to decongest jails in an attempt to contain coronavirus outbreaks. The court had suggested that those awaiting trial for offences entailing a maximum sentence of seven years should also be extended a similar benefit. Parole allows a convict to leave the prison on the condition that he would behave appropriately after release and report back to the jail on termination of the parole period. Following the apex court order, the Tihar jail authorities had started the process of releasing prisoners last year. This year till June, they had released 1,500 prisoners on parole. Last year, the jail had released over 5,000 prisoners on emergency bail and parole based on the recommendation of a panel having representatives from the Delhi government, courts and prison authorities. “Prisoners who surrendered on time after their previous parole period and did not indulge in any unlawful activity will be selected the next time. Last year, nearly 300 of the 5,000 prisoners released on parole or emergency bail had been arrested again for street crimes,” another prison official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||LAC: Bust of Tibetan soldier killed in China standoff unveiled||The Indian Army and the Ladakh administration on Monday unveiled the bust of a Tibetan soldier who died defending Indian territory in Ladakh during last year’s Chinese incursion, indicating that there has been no let-up in the hostility between the two countries more than a year into the standoff. The Ladakh Buddhist Association hosted the event in Leh on Monday to mark the first death anniversary of Nyima Tenzing, the 51-year-old soldier of the secret Special Frontier Force (SSF) of the army comprising mostly Tibetans. He died on August 30 last year after stepping on an anti-personnel mine near the southern bank of the Pangong Lake. The incident took place around the time when the Indian Army had launched a major operation to outflank the Chinese in capturing some dominant locations near the southern bank of the lake. A top Buddhist monk from Ladakh, Bakula Rangdol Nima Rinpochey, unveiled the bronze bust of Tenzing on the premises of the Dalai Lama’s residence, Jive Tsal, in Leh. Officers from the army and the paramilitary forces laid wreaths at the bust to commemorate his sacrifice. Among those who paid tributes were Leh sub-area general officer commanding Sunit Mehrotra, Leh chief executive councillor Tashi Gyaltson, Ladakh Buddhist Association president and former Ladakh MP Thupstan Chewang and senior ITBP, police and civil officers. “Leh remembers late Company Leader #NyimaTenzin of 7 #Vikas Regiment on his Martyrdom day. CEC@tashi_gyalson and other dignitaries unveil Bronze Bust statue of late Nyima Tenzing in his memory at Jive-Tsal Leh,” tweeted the official handle of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council. Chewang said their association unveiled the bust with the help of the Indian government, claiming it would go a long way in keeping the memory of the slain soldier alive. “It has been more than a year since China, under its expansionist policy, tried to intrude into our territory, particularly in Ladakh. We are proud of the way the Indian Army defended our territory,” he said. Chewang said the SSF had not only played an important role during last year’s Chinese aggression but also in the Bangladesh and Kargil wars. “The memorial will keep reminding us of the day and serve as an inspiration,” he said. Monday’s event came two days after Penpa Tsering, a Tibetan politician who was elected this year as the second Sikyong (president) of the 17th Parliament-in-exile of the Central Tibetan Administration, concluded his weeklong visit to Ladakh. On Monday, Tsering unveiled a bust of Tenzing at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||Nine judges scheduled to be sworn in at the Supreme Court on Tuesday ||Nine judges are scheduled to be sworn in at the Supreme Court on Tuesday morning, the first time so many judges will take oath of office together at the apex court. The event will be held at the auditorium of the Supreme Court’s Additional Building Complex, not the Chief Justice of India’s court as is the tradition, because the Covid restrictions will allow a limited gathering. According to an official note issued on Monday evening, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana will administer the oath of office to the nine judge designates at 10.30am. The judge designates are Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Vikram Nath, Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, Hima Kohli, Venkataramiah Nagarathna, Chudalayil Thevan Ravikumar, M.M. Sundresh and Bela Madhurya Trivedi, and senior advocate Pamidighantam S. Narsimha. The oath-taking ceremony is usually a solemn event held in the CJI’s court hall that is attended by the spouses, close relatives and friends of the judge designates, among others. However, this time CJI Ramana has directed that the event be held in the auditorium with a limited gathering. “This is done keeping in view the need for strict adherence to Covid norms,” a court spokesperson said. To avoid overcrowding, the Supreme Court registry has decided that only accredited journalists will be permitted entry into the auditorium to cover the event. Around 50 correspondents cover the Supreme Court but only a dozen have accreditation. The oath-taking ceremony will be telecast live on DD News and DD India. Live webcast will be available on the home page of the official web portal of the Supreme Court —https://sci.nic.in. The webcast can also be accessed at https://webcast.gov.in/scindia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar posits himself as prime minister material||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has become the first Narendra Modi ally to posit himself as Prime Minister material. It is moot whether he is taunting Modi with a pitch for greater leverage, or this is the early warning of another political somersault, a Nitish speciality. What is not under doubt is that Nitish’s pitch for prime ministership, if it can be called that, has no legs to stand on. For a start, Nitish doesn’t possess a socio-political base of his own to make such a claim. Besides, his credibility is deeply suspect in political circles, and his unreliability as ally established. The “soft pitch” as a contender to Prime Minister Modi was made at the just ended two-day national council meeting of the Janata Dal United (JDU). It comes on the heels of the JDU queering the pitch for the BJP recently by teaming up with the Opposition parties over the demand for a caste census in the country. The JDU has previously differed with the BJP over a probe into the Pegasus snooping scandal, population control laws, scrapping of Article 370 provisions, uniform civil code, National Register of Citizens, the National Population Register and a host of other issues. “The proposal to denote Nitish Kumar as Prime Minister material was moved by party president Lalan Singh. It was unanimously adopted and was meant to remove confusion over the issue that keeps making news. The proposal makes it clear that he has all the qualities to become the Prime Minister, but is not a contender,” JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi said on Sunday evening. Tyagi’s statement before journalists sparked off a storm of similar statements by JDU leaders on Sunday. “We are just speaking the plain truth that Nitish Kumar is Prime Minister material. It is a fact that he could prove to be a better Prime Minister for the country in the future. We are not saying this to annoy anybody. We don’t care if anybody gets annoyed over this,” said JDU parliamentary board chairman and former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha. However, senior party leaders and those who have worked with Nitish earlier read several meanings into the latest development. “Nitish is a master politician. The statement issued at the end of the JDU national council meeting on Sunday means many things. He has to play a junior partner with 43 seats in the Assembly to the BJP, which has 75, and is not feeling comfortable in the alliance. Several BJP leaders, including its state unit president, have been taking pot shots at Nitish or questioning his policies,” a veteran politician who has known Nitish since his student days in the 1970s told The Telegraph. “This could be Nitish’s warning to the BJP over the situation. He could also be preparing the ground to quit the NDA. It could also be a signal to Lalu Prasad and his Rashtriya Janata Dal to be ready for the future political developments,” he added. The veteran leader also pointed out that the JDU move to anoint Nitish “Prime Minister material” could also be to ensure that he is not left out of the Opposition bandwagon that is regrouping to counter Modi after Mamata Banerjee’s victory in the Bengal elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||ICMR online calculator to help states detect fresh Covid-19 surges||India’s health research agency is set to release an online calculator to help states and districts project and prepare for fresh Covid-19 surges amid lingering uncertainty about the future course of the country’s epidemic. The calculator — or simulator — developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will use key epidemic-linked parameters in any district to project the likelihood of a significant surge in the daily new infections there, allowing authorities time for preparatory steps. “We’re calling it a Covid-19 preparedness simulator — a tool to look for local early warning signals,” Samiran Panda, the head of ICMR’s epidemiology division, told The Telegraph. District or state authorities could use signals of an imminent surge to arrange for beds, oxygen or other infrastructure needed to manage Covid-19 patients and prepare local populations for possible curbs or restrictions to prevent further spread of the infection. The development comes amid speculation and uncertainty about where fresh surges might occur at a time the second wave that peaked in early May hasn’t fully ebbed, large outbreaks persist in Kerala and Maharashtra and transmission continues across the country. Kerala and Maharashtra accounted for over 70 per cent of India’s 376,000 active Covid-19 patients on Monday, but three other states — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu — have active case counts of 10,000 or higher. And 42 districts in 10 states have signatures of large epidemics. The uneven spread and a nationwide survey indicating that 67 per cent of people were protected by antibodies against the Covid-19 virus by early July imply that nearly 400 million people across the country remain susceptible and likely widely scattered across the country. The wide distribution of the susceptible population makes localised early warning signals critical. The ICMR’s simulator will use parameters that can influence the epidemic — the fractions of the susceptible population and vaccinated population, the coronavirus variants in circulation and the current speed of infection spread, among others — to project the risk of surges two or three weeks ahead. “We’re currently fine-tuning the calculator based on feedback from the Union health ministry and health officials in Himachal Pradesh and Kerala,” Panda said. The calculator’s primary objective would be to use “local data for local action”. The simulator will ideally require values of multiple parameters for reliable projections. But if certain values are unavailable as inputs for modelling at a state or a district level, Panda said, users could feed in a range of possible values for the best possible guess for specific sites. “District or state officials could still make use of this Covid-19 simulator and move ahead with their pandemic preparedness plans,” he said. The simulator draws on a model developed earlier this year by the ICMR and Nirmalan Arinaminpathy, a mathematical epidemiologist at the Imperial College, London, to analyse how surges might occur due to highly contagious coronavirus variants, unrestricted public movements and waning immunity. Experts expect local surges will occur wherever and whenever the virus gets opportunities to spread — whether through markets, social gatherings, inter-state travel or other routes. The model developed by Arinaminpathy and his ICMR collaborators Panda, scientist Sandeep Mandal and ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava had indicated in June this year that the size of any third nationwide wave is likely to be significantly lower than the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||Dalit youth lynched in Bihar for alleged cattle theft||A Dalit youth was beaten to death while his friend is battling for life in a hospital after being attacked by a mob for alleged cattle theft in Bihar’s Saharsa district on Monday. The incident took place at Amrita village under Sonbarsa Raj police station when Madhusudan Rishideo, a villager, raised an alarm after he found that his three buffaloes were missing in the early hours of Monday. “The villagers formed small groups and fanned out in different directions to search for the thieves. One group saw two youths loitering outside the village and surrounded them. Soon other villagers also arrived there. Both of them were brought back to the village,” Sonbarsa Raj station house officer Sunil Kumar Bhagat told The Telegraph. Bhagat said both the youths were tied to a bamboo pole and brutally assaulted with sticks and bricks. “One of them died on the spot. The other was in a critical condition and breathing when we arrived there in the morning. He has been admitted to the government hospital in Saharsa,” he added. The deceased is Rupesh Kumar Paswan, a resident of Karyat village under Patharghat police station area, around 2km from the village where he was lynched. The injured youth, Jassi Kumar, is a native of Amrita village itself. Police officers said both of them were friends and had no criminal records. A few villagers said that the two friends used to roam around and had never been suspected of any theft earlier. “It is shocking that the two youths were attacked without any evidence of their involvement in cattle theft. No stolen item was recovered from them. Our investigations indicate that the buffaloes went missing at least a few hours before both of them were attacked,” Bhagat said. Paswan’s body has been sent for post-mortem and the police are preparing to register an FIR in the incident. “We will arrest the people involved in the attack,” the SHO said. Bihar is witnessing an increasing number of incidents of mob lynching, especially of people belonging to the weaker sections of the society and the minority community. A week ago, a Dalit youth was killed when he demanded the 10kg of rice promised to him for a day’s work of paddy sowing in Nalanda district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||Three migrant workers run over by train in Odisha||Three migrant labourers, including a father and son, were mowed down by a speeding train around Sunday midnight at Berhampur in southern Odisha. Four labourers had a narrow escape in the incident. Government Railway Police, Berhampur, investigating officer Aarati Padar told The Telegraph: “All the three labourers who were killed are from Bilaspur district in Chhattisgarh. They were walking on the railway tracks when a train hit them from behind. We reached the spot around 3am on Monday where the bodies were lying on the railway tracks. Other labourers accompanying the deceased had fled the spot in fear. However, they later reported the matter at the local police station.” Sitaram, one of the labourers who managed to escape, told this newspaper: “All the three deceased belong to Vedparsada village under Masturi police station of Bilaspur district. They had come with us to Berhampur to work as labourers at a bridge construction site. During the last one year we were unemployed and tried to survive by cultivating our fields in the village. Following the withdrawal of the lockdown, which facilitated movement, a contractor had contacted us for this job. We came to Berhampur only 20 days back. After the initial work on the bridge was completed, we had decided to leave the place following repeated pleas from our family members.” The bridge where they were working is 3km from Berhampur railway station. Sitaram said they had thought that they would reach Berhampur railway station from Haladiapadar, where the bridge work was going on, by walking on the tracks. “Our train to Bilaspur was scheduled to leave early on Monday. It was pitch dark. All seven of us were walking on the tracks. A train was passing by on another track. Suddenly another train came from behind on the tracks on which we were walking. Since the gateman had alerted us near the railway crossing about the possibility of a train coming , we immediately moved away from the tracks. But the three who failed to hear the sound of the train were hit from behind and died.” Sitaram identified the three deceased labourers as Jageswara Kewarta, 26, his father Lakhnoo Kewarta, 55, and Lokeswar Kewarta, 35. “The news has reached their native village where their relatives are mourning,” said Sitaram. An eyewitness told local reporters: “There were around seven people walking on the railway tracks unaware of the incoming Visakhapatnam-Tatanagar Express. When I saw the headlight of the train from a distance, I shouted at them to move away. But perhaps they did not hear my call and were run over by the train.” The Berhampur unit of the GRP said: “Bodies will be handed over to the relatives of the deceased following post-mortem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||West Bengal||25 injured in stampede at Covid vaccination centre in Bengal||At least 25 people were injured in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district on Tuesday after hundreds of local residents tried to enter a vaccination centre together, leading to a stampede, police said. Six of them were critically injured in the incident, and they are undergoing treatment at Jalpaiguri Sadar Hospital, a senior officer said. "As soon as the main gate of Dhupguri Health Centre was opened, several people tried to get inside the facility pushing each other. A stampede-like situation arose there. Several women were injured. We are probing the matter," the officer said. Locals claimed that hundreds of people queued outside the vaccination centre since morning and social distancing protocols went for a toss. Asked about what led to the stampede, the officer said, "We are probing the matter. According to a preliminary investigation, those who were in the queue tried to enter the centre in the apprehension of a shortage of vaccine doses." The inoculation programme at the facility has been stopped following the incident, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
31-08-2021||West Bengal|| Amid Centre-state shadow boxing, another BJP MLA returns to Trinamul||Trinamul Congress continues with its unhinged poaching of BJP MLAs amidst an administrative tussle that seems to be brewing between the Centre and the state government. On Tuesday, another former Trinamul leader who had switched to the BJP before the polls and won on a saffron ticket from Bagdah in North 24-Parganas, Biswajit Das,  made a formal return, albeit without resigning from his constituency, taking the count of deserters to three till now. At least another seven to eight are expected to quit the BJP in the coming days. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari shot off letters to both the MLAs Ghosh and Das to clear their stand within one week. In the event of no-response to the letter, it will be presumed that they have defected to TMC. This is the second consecutive day when the BJP has lost a legislator to the Trinamul outside the state Assembly. Inside,  how the anti-defection law will play out is anybody’s guess. Das, known for his proximity to Mukul Roy, the first BJP legislator to defect, was perceived to have been negotiating his return since his mentor quit the saffron fold. On that day in June, Das had skipped a meeting called by state BJP  president Dilip Ghosh. While the poaching of elected representatives is on, the state government is likely to be without a full-fledged Director General of Police as the UPSC is yet to submit the panel of names to the state. Late on Tuesday evening, an order was issued by the government that stated: “Manoj Malaviya, Director General and Inspector General of Police (Organisation) and the senior most officer in the IPS cadre in the state, will in addition to his normal duties, hold the charge of Director General of Police… until further orders.” Tuesday happens to be the last day in office for the incumbent DGP Virendra. According to sources, the UPSC was supposed to submit the names on Monday but did not. Even a video conference scheduled between the state and UPSC officials was cancelled at the last moment. “The chief minister is livid at the delay. The state government had submitted the list of 21 officers as the Centre had demanded yet the process has been delayed,” said a source close to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Mamata, however, is not in any mood to leave Virendra, who was appointed as the chairman of the West Bengal Police Recruitment Board on August 18. Caught in the tussle between the state and the Centre is another IAS officer Naveen Prakash, who is also retiring on Tuesday. The former PWD secretary who is perceived to be close to Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was re-employed as principal advisor (infrastructure) to the state government for a period of one year. The order was issued on Tuesday afternoon. According to sources, the government is keen to send the IAS officer to the state administrative tribunal where two posts of administrative members are vacant. “For the appointment to the SAT, the Centre’s sanction is required which is still awaited. While political quibbling is on, such administrative tug-of-war will also continue,” said a senior officer in the state administrative headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri eyes traffic revamp before festive season||The state transport department plans to use its expertise to improve the traffic management system in and around Siliguri ahead of the festive season, Gautam Deb, the chairman of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), said here on Monday. According to him, the State Transportation Planning and Traffic Engineering Directorate (STPTED), under the state transport department, will be engaged for the job. For many years now, traffic congestion has been a headache for residents of Siliguri and nearby. Every day, thousands who visit the city also face the problem. “We will get the expertise of STPTED to improve the existing traffic system of Siliguri ahead of the festive season. On Tuesday, I will hold a meeting with officials of the directorate in Calcutta in this regard,” said Deb. Recently, the civic body has also engaged RITES, another expert agency, for identification of alternative roads and prospective alignments of alternative bridges to reduce traffic from principal thoroughfares of the city like the Hill Cart Road, Sevoke Road, Burdwan Road and Station Feeder Road. On Tuesday, Deb spoke about more plans to decongest the city. “The existing Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus will be shifted to Mallaguri for which the state government has identified an eight-acre plot adjacent to NH31 and we have spoken with the National Highways Authority of India so that necessary space for entry and exit of vehicles is given onsite,” he said. Other proposals include shifting some buses to the PC Mittal Bus Terminus in Sevoke Road and developing a new bus stand at Tinbatti More on the city's southern tip. Sources said that on September 4, a joint inspection would be carried out in these sites. “An alternative road will be developed behind the bus terminus in Sevoke Road to connect with NH 31 and avoid traffic overload on Sevoke Road. All long-distance buses will be shifted to Paribahan Nagar in Matigara,” said a source in the administration. The Darjeeling district administration has also identified a five-acre plot near Ghoshpukur on NH27 on the outskirts of Siliguri to set up a truck terminus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Raids on illegal sand and coal mining gain pace||Police are cracking down on sand and coal smugglers before chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s scheduled inauguration of an industrial unit in West Burdwan’s Panagarh on Wednesday. Sand smuggling kingpin Sujay Pal a.k.a. Kebu was arrested on August 25 from Durgapur. Between then and Monday, police have arrested three dozen sand smugglers and seized over 10,000 cubic feet of sand mined illegally from Damodar and Ajay rivers from across West Burdwan. Two dozen trucks with smuggled sand have been seized from across the district. Around 20 tonnes of smuggled coal were also seized at Salanpur near Asansol. Police said they had set up a joint action team comprising police from West and East Burdwan, Bankura, Purulia, Birbhum and Hooghly where sand smuggling is rampant. The teams are holding raids at Damodar, Ajay, Bhagirathi and other river banks. “Large police contingents are posted where we received complaints of illegal sand mining. We are also keeping vigil on highways to catch trucks with smuggled sand and coal,” said a police officer at the Asansol-Durgapur commissionerate. Sources said Mamata had issued a stern message to stop illegal coal and sand mining. Allegations of involvement of some Trinamul leaders in sand and coal smuggling had prompted Opposition parties to attack her party in the run-up to the Assembly polls this year. “Police chiefs of West Burdwan, Purulia, Bankura and Birbhum were specially alerted from Nabanna to stop coal and sand smuggling” said a police officer. The ADG (law and order) on August 18 instructed police chiefs of all districts and commissionerates for daily raids against illegal sand and coal mining and daily updates to Nabanna. Sources said when the ADG’s instruction was not obeyed properly, the chief minister stepped in to crack the whip. Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner Ajay Thakur was “unexpectedly” transferred to Barrackpore commissionerate on August 27 within three months of his posting in Asansol. He was replaced by Sudhir Kumar Neelakantam. Sources said the sudden transfer was linked to growing sand pilferage in West Burdwan though officials termed it routine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Malda Trinamul Congress feuds show ‘new trend’||A section of representatives of Trinamul in Malda with the two lower rungs of the three-tier panchayat system are teaming up with other parties, mostly the BJP, to table no-confidence motions against panchayat chiefs from their own party and remove them. In Malda, where Mamata Banerjee’s party won eight of the 12 Assembly seats, feuds in Trinamul are showing “a new trend”, said a senior party leader. “This time, panchayat members of Trinamul are removing party pradhans and backing BJP representatives.” In 2018, Trinamul got a majority in around 80 of 146 panchayats in Malda. “As a no-confidence motion can’t be started against an elected panchayat head in the first two-and-a-half years after the boards, it seems these people were waiting for this time to pass,.” said an observer. “Now that the time has passed, they are upping their ante,” said an observer. During the past couple of weeks, a number of such cases have surfaced. Trinamul members of Birnagar–II panchayat in Kaliachak-III block, along with BJP members, have started the process to remove the Trinamul head. “Despite knowing that the BJP will capture the post amid the rift among us, they are determined to remove me,” said pradhan Soma Roy. Trinamul members of Chowki-Mirdadpur panchayat of Manikchak block replaced the Trinamul pradhan with a BJP member. Trinamul expelled them immediately. In Kaliachak–II block, the sabhapati of the Trinamul-run panchayat samiti had to step down when Trinamul and BJP members together voted against him. Trinamul and BJP members of Rathbari panchayat of Manikchak block and some other panchayats of Ratua-I, Habibpur and Harishchandrapur blocks recently joined hands to place no-confidence motion against the pradhans. “Such anti-party moves will not be tolerated. I will submit a report to the state leadership soon, said Krishnendu Choudhury, a state general secretary of Trinamul who hails from Malda. Malda Trinamul chief Abdur Rahim Boxi said a closed-door meeting would be held on Wednesday on this. “Strict steps will be taken against these people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Murder cuffs on father-in-law in Alipurduar||A 30-year-old homemaker was stabbed to death allegedly by her father-in-law at Ramgaon in Alipurduar district on Sunday night. Police sources said Dilip stabbed Bidya Gurung with a dagger during an altercation over the sale of his house. He also attacked Bidya’s mother and sister who had come to meet Bidya. Dilip has been arrested, the police said. In another incident, a resident of Bhupendranagar in Siliguri was arrested with three firearms and six rounds of bullets at Eastern Bypass on Sunday. Police suspect Nitesh Sha to be associated with a racket that deals with illegal firearms. In Cooch Behar, two children drowned at Majhertari village of Dinhata sub-division on Monday. The victims, who are cousins, have been identified as Hasidul Haque, 7, and Mostafa Hossain, 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Ownership of Darjeeling’s legacy hotel Windamere comes under legal scrutiny||Windamere Hotel, considered one of the best colonial accommodations in the country and a landmark in Darjeeling, is caught in an ownership struggle which, tourism industry stakeholders say, has cast a shadow of uncertainty on the future of the heritage property. Sources told The Telegraph that Tenki Tenduf-La Davis, sister of Sherab Tenduf-La, who had been the managing director of the hotel until his demise in February 2015, approached the National Company Law Tribunal, Calcutta, on the ownership issue. Sherab died in Canada. “The Tenduf-la family has approached the tribunal seeking to be recognised as the rightful majority shareholders of the company owning the hotel,” said a source. Elizabeth Jane Clarke is currently the “managing director” of the hotel. Clarke doesn’t belong to the Tenduf-La family, which according to the source, is “claiming” that she is a minority stakeholder. The petitioner has also “apprehensions” regarding the present management dealing with the assets of the hotel. The Telegraph reached out to the Tenduf-La family in the United States as well as a director of Windamere Hotel Limited in Darjeeling. But both the sides refused to comment citing legal constraints. However, both the parties did not deny that a case was being heard at the NCLT and a hearing might take place on September 7. The Tenduf-La family had been associated with the Windamere Hotel from the late 1930s till Sherab’s death in 2015. The iconic 38-room hotel had announced a lockout from July 5 this year, citing pandemic-induced financial stress. The management, however, changed its decision a few days before the lockout was to come into effect following a meeting at the additional labour commissioner’s office in Siliguri. At the meeting, various conditions on wage payment to 50-odd staff members were agreed upon. Windamere Hotel is an attraction by itself carrying Darjeeling’s rich history and is also an important component of the tourism sector in the region. “Good hotels are needed to promote tourism.… We hope the dispute will be resolved,” said a travel agent. The place started as a cosy boarding house for bachelor English and Scottish tea planters — first building was built around the 1880s — was converted into a hotel just before the outbreak of the Second World War. A glance through the names of the 38 rooms at the hotel provides an insight into its rich history. Prince Peter of Greece and Denmark had stayed at the hotel and a room at the main building is named after him. Another room is called the Princess of Siam (as Thailand was previously known) as she had stayed there. Another room is named Chogyal of Sikkim and it was at this hotel that the former king of Sikkim had met his second wife Hope Cooke. The hotel is also famous for its “Christmas Week at Windamere” from December 18 to January 1, which is being celebrated in the same way since 1939. Performers from London’s West End Theatre District had also taken part in this event. In fact, the millennium Christmas of 1999 drew guests from 15 countries, including Brazil, Britain, USA, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, Australia, South Africa, Thailand, Japan and China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Funds crunch in state a blow to road projects||The public works department may be forced to drop several road projects as the state development fund (SDF) is likely to be cut drastically in the backdrop of the government’s plan to reduce expenditures heavily to finance the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme which would cost the exchequer Rs 17,000 crore annually. The south zone of the PWD that looks after roads and bridges in districts like Murshidabad, Nadia, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Calcutta has already been asked to keep its expenditure within Rs 140 crore under the SDF this year. “It is now clear the SDF would be cut drastically throughout the state. The south zone has already been informed about the cut and remaining two zones, North and West, would be intimated soon about the slash,” said a senior government official. Last year, a sum of Rs 640 crore was allotted to the south zone and there are hints that allotment for two other zones — which also used to get Rs 600-odd crore each —would be cut heavily, said officials. “The south zone will now only carry out strengthening and patchwork of the stretches that need urgent repairs,” said a source. The sources said an instruction in the regard had already been sent to the engineers in the districts that fall under the jurisdiction of the south zone. The sources said the cut in the SDF could deal a blow to the PWD’s plan to widen nearly 1,000km of road across the state and work on at least 20 bridges. The chief minister had recently told officials during meetings that no new development project could be taken up as the state did not have enough money. However, Mamata Banerjee has laid stress on maintaining the infrastructure projects set up in the past 10 years. According to the sources, the state is facing difficulty in approving new infrastructure projects as the government’s revenue generation has been hit badly in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, the state government would be forced to cough up at least Rs 17,000 crore annually to run Lakshmir Bhandar scheme which is set to be launched from September 1. “Initially, it had been estimated that a sum of Rs 11,000 crore would be needed to run the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. But as a huge number of women is registering their names for the scheme, the estimated expenditure has been revised to Rs 17,000 crore a year,” said a source. The additional Rs 6,000 crore is being considered to be huge as the government was yet to generate enough revenue even if Covid-related restrictions were relaxed to some extent. “We were generating about Rs 2,500 crore monthly between May and July this year. In August, the revenue would increase to some extent but it would be nowhere near the Rs 5,000 crore mark that was used to be generated before the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati ‘temporarily suspended’ admission process and publication of results||Visva-Bharati authorities on Monday, through a notification, “temporarily suspended” the admission process and publication of results, citing vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty was under “siege”, a move many dubbed an attempt to thwart the ongoing students’ protest. Students owing allegiance to Left-backed unions, including the SFI and the Students’ Unity for New Society, have been staging an indefinite demonstration outside the VC’s home since August 27 night, urging the rustication of student leaders Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty be scrapped. The three, along with others, had become faces of protest against the “whimsical” actions of the VC and his alleged bid to saffronise the campus. The notice on Monday by the coordinator of admission coordination cell of Visva-Bharati states: “I am directed to notify that, because the Hon’ble Upacharya, Visva-Bharati is currently under siege, the admission process in various courses of Visva-Bharati cannot proceed as usual.” It adds that the VC chairs the admission committee and admission coordination cell and the admission cell “needs the physical presence” of the VC “in his office”. “Given these unfavourable circumstances... the admission process stands temporarily suspended,” it read. A separate notice cited the varsity’s inability to publish results citing the same reason but did not specify the exams. Many students and teachers saw in the twin moves a ploy to derail students protesting the rustication. Students said both admissions and release of results were to be done online and the VC’s “physical presence” was not needed. A varsity official agreed that the VC’s role as chairman of the admission cell was a mere formality and a team does the actual job. Two protesting girl students filed a complaint with Santiniketan police around 11pm on Monday accusing the VC and officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar of directing male security persons to pounce on them when they were putting up a festoon. This paper sent a text to Sircar asking for a reply, but none had come when the report was filed close to midnight. The SFI called for a rally on Tuesday that its leader Aishe Ghosh may attend. Earlier in the day, several residents of Santiniketan, including Visva-Bharati teachers, took out a rally to back the protesting students on Monday. In the evening, around 300 teaching and non-teaching varsity staff owing allegiance to the VC took out a rally near the site of the student dharna. Students raised slogans, forcing them to retreat. “The twin notices and the rally by the VC's sympathisers are a ploy to break our movement and we protested with slogans,” said Shreya Chakraborty, a protesting student. Refuting the anti-student charges, Manju Mohan Mukherjee, the VC’s nominee in the executive council, said: “We went to discuss and find a solution to the impasse.” Shreya, however, did not buy Mukherjee’s argument. “If they really wanted talks with us then they should have conveyed that to us before arriving here. Even when we started raising slogans on their arrival, none of them said they had come for talks.” To this Mukherjee said: “We did not inform them earlier as they are our students.” As Chowdhury and some varsity teachers apparently close to the VC claimed around 300-350 of them had marched to the site of the student protest, students accused them of violating Covid protocols. “Students are protesting by adhering to Covid protocols. The sympathisers of the VC assembled in large numbers at the protest site in violation of Covid norms. We will file a police complaint against them on Tuesday,” said a varsity teacher who is known as a critic of the present Visva-Bharati administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||MLA Tanmay Ghosh leaves BJP and returns to Trinamul Congress||Tanmay Ghosh, who had left the Trinamul Congress in March and won the Assembly election from Bishnupur on a BJP ticket, on Monday returned to his old party. Ghosh’s candidature was announced by the BJP within 18 hours of his induction amid intense protests from old-timers in the party. Ghosh is the second BJP MLA after Krishnagar North legislator Mukul Roy to return to Trinamul after the Assembly election results. The BJP’s strength in the 294-member Assembly has come down to 73 with the latest desertion. It also re-ignited fears within the saffron camp of en masse defection of lawmakers. “The BJP is practising vindictive politics in Bengal. During the Assembly elections, they even tried to win Bengal by force. The BJP is using (Union) government machinery to meddle with matters of the state and to ruin the history, heritage and culture of Bengal,” said Ghosh, who is also a former councillor of Bishnupur municipality. Ghosh also said irrespective of political inclinations, all public representatives of the state must work to strengthen chief minister Mamata Banerjee and stand by her pro-people initiatives. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “He (Ghosh) was being linked to the cases lodged against Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, and hence, he joined Trinamul under pressure.” Mukherjee, a member of the first Mamata Banerjee cabinet and former chairman of the Bishnupur municipality, was arrested on August 22 on charges of misappropriation of around Rs 10 crore given to the civic body. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Opposition leader, Suvendu Adhikari, postponed several programs, including a Janmashtami event in his own constituency, and rushed to Bishnupur to hold a news conference regarding the defection. “He had joined the party suddenly, shortly ahead of the polls and was chosen to fight the polls for us.… Anybody would’ve won from this seat because people here were with the BJP,” said Adhikari. Another Trinamul turncoat Saumitra Khan, the BJP’s Bishnupur MP and chief of the party’s state youth wing, said on social media that the Bishnupur MLA made the choice to save his crores of rupees. A section of the BJP’s old-timers asked that if the leaders had known of the defector’s alleged corruption, why he had been inducted into the party. Trinamul spokesperson and Bengal’s education minister Bratya Basu, in whose presence the MLA’s ghar wapsi took place, said: “It is difficult for Bengali MLAs to work in the BJP because they’ve no connection, whatsoever, with the complex, exceptional ethos of Bengal and its people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Ajoy Edwards to resign from Gorkha National Liberation Front||Politician, entrepreneur and social worker Ajoy Edwards on Sunday evening released a video on his Facebook and to the media on WhatsApp where he is seen on the banks of Pangong Lake in Ladakh and announcing his plan to resign from the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) on his return to Darjeeling on September 5. One of the most popular faces in the GNLF, Edwards in the video is heard saying in Nepali that he would “ride a bike” alone to the GNLF office at Dr Zakhir Hussian Road in Darjeeling to submit his resignation. Differences between him and GNLF chief Mann Ghisingh had cropped up recently. “I am resigning from the present post of president, GNLF Darjeeling Branch Committee, and also as a primary member… I will be arriving on September 5... the way I had once driven alone in my bike to help my friend (Mann Ghisingh) I will go alone in my bike and submit my resignation paper,” he said in the video shot at Pangong Lake, made famous in the Bollywood blockbuster 3 Idiots and its equally famous song, “All Izz Well”. Edwards, however, said all is not well. “I had made an address to the GNLF pariwar (family) and that message create a storm on social media. Even then I waited but no directive came to me (from the GNLF leadership). I had thought of remaining an ordinary member but I now feel there is no place left for me in the party,” he said in the video. In that voice message posted in the GNLF WhatsApp on August 23, Edwards had alleged that his friend of “32 to 33 years” and GNLF president Mann Ghisingh had betrayed him not once but on several occasions, sidelined him and bypassed him for Neeraj Zimba. Edwards, however, said he had no grudges against anyone now though in the voice message he had stated his “grouse” against Mann. “I do not have any grouse against anyone now, the GNLF helped me in gaining popularity” Edwards said in his latest statement. Edwards said he would be active in public life. “I will definitely work for the public. I am not someone to keep quiet and stay home. I have been doing one thing or the other since I was a kid,” Edwards said, adding that politics for him was the highest form of social work. Edwards did not make it clear if he would float his own political party or join another party. Edwards, however, made it clear that he would not averse to working both with the state and the Centre. “The permanent political solution (for the hills) is something for the Centre to work out but issues like municipality and panchayat are state issues. Time has come to work with all for the betterment of the hills. Diplomacy at one end should not mean that the other party is an enemy,” said Edwards. “None of us working for the good of us is an enemy.” The BJP promised a permanent political solution for the hills in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto but has not defined it. While expressing hope on the issue, Edwards said time was running out for the BJP. Edwards said he was the one to seek votes for the BJP but reminded all alliance partners of the saffron party that it was the “silent majority” that helped the BJP win the Lok Sabha seat in Darjeeling thrice in a row. “I will stand by the silent majority. I know the silent majority will also not come on the streets to stage a dharna but I will continue to work for them,” said Edwards. The GNLF has also upped its political activities in the hills. Anit Thapa is also set to float a new political party on September 9 but as of now the focus is on Edwards’ entry to Darjeeling hills on September 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases fall below 9,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Monday recorded 510 new Covid-19 infections, 647 recoveries and 11 deaths. The state’s total number of active cases fell by 148 to 8,922, below 9,000 for the first time since April 3, 149 days ago. Monday marked 71 consecutive days of a fall in active cases. “These milestones are timely morale-boosters, more so ahead of the pan-India fears of a third wave,” said a minister. Calcutta logged 81 new infections and two deaths. Monday was again the second consecutive day of none from Bengal's 23 districts reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. The state’s recovery rate was 98.23 per cent, the highest ever this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.5. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.85 per cent on Monday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34. The state currently has over 15.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.21 lakh recoveries and 18,434 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||North East||Assam Congress unit decides to snap alliance with AIUDF||The Assam unit of the Congress on Monday unanimously decided to snap its alliance with the AIUDF formed before the March-April state Assembly polls won by the BJP-led alliance. A statement released by the Assam PCC after its core committee meeting also said it would send a proposal to the AICC leadership on its resolution to end ties with the AIUDF. The AICC had played a key role in forging the alliance. The committee based its decision on the AIUDF’s “behaviour and attitude in relation to the BJP” which had “baffled” the Congress rank and file. Most in the Congress also feel the alliance with the AIUDF could cost the party dear in the pending byelections to five Assembly seats. “The AIUDF leadership and senior members’ continuous and mysterious praise of the BJP party and the chief minister has affected the public perception of the Congress party... after a long discussion the core committee members of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee unanimously decided that AIUDF can no longer remain an alliance partner of the Mahajot and in this regard will send an intimation to the AICC,” said the statement released by media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma. The AIUDF said the “unilateral” decision of the Congress was unfortunate and it would only make the BJP stronger. “We have opposed the BJP in the past and will continue to oppose the BJP in the future. Instead of weakening the Mahajot, Congress should have strengthened it,” said AIUDF spokesperson Haider Hussain Bora. The PCC core committee also discussed ties with the BPF because the latter has “expressed their unwillingness in various forums to remain in the Mahajot”. The committee entrusted Assam PCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah to take a decision and intimate the high command. That the Congress would end ties with the AIUDF became clear when Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi released a statement on August 27 after a one-on-one meeting with Borah. “I believe it is time for the Indian National Congress party in Assam to be independent of the Mahajot. The Congress party is the only party that can take on the BJP. For that we need to strengthen our party organisation across Assam including those constituencies where there are MLAs of the Mahajot. The Mahajot was finalised a few months before the 2021 elections. Prior to that the party has fulfilled its duty as an Opposition party on its own,” Gaurav had said. He had added: “Going forward inside the Assam Assembly, the party may still consult with other Opposition parties if and when the BJP government brings anti-people policies. People have huge expectations from the Congress party and if we will fulfil them, we will form the next government in 2026. I conveyed these sentiments to the APCC president Bhupen Bora today in a meeting with him.” His father — and former chief minister late Tarun Gogoi — had played a key role in forging the alliance despite opposition from several Upper Assam MLAs. The Congress-led Mahajot could win only 50 seats of the 126 seats in the Assembly polls, handing the BJP-led pre-poll alliance a second straight term. The defeat was attributed mainly to the “rejection” of the Congress in Upper Assam, mainly due to its alliance with the AIUDF, and “vote cut” by the two regional parties — Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) — in at least 17 seats. The AIUDF is seen in Upper Assam as a party supporting the cause of illegal Bangladeshi migrants, a perception it had tried to remove by becoming a part of the Mahajot but failed. The Congress had on January 19 announced the pre-poll grand alliance (Mahajot) comprising six parties, including the AIUDF, to take on the ruling BJP in Assam Assembly elections. The Mahajot eventually had 10 parties — Congress, AIUDF, CPM, CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha, Bodoland People’s Party (BPF), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party and the Adivasi National Party (ANP). The Congress won 29 seats out of the 95 it contested and the AIUDF bagged 16 out of the 20 it fought, gaining more out of the alliance than the key player. Those backing the Congress–AIUDF alliance had said the BJP-AGP-BPF together had a vote share of 41.9 per cent in 2011 while the Congress and the AIUDF had a 44 per cent vote share — 31 and 13 per cent respectively. During the 2021 Assembly elections, they also had the support of the BPF and the Left but the alliance still fell short.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
31-08-2021||North East||Assam government meet to discuss tea community problems ||The Assam government on Monday held a first-of-its kind meeting with intellectuals and citizens from the tea tribes to discuss the problems confronting the community and how these can be addressed. The interactive session organised by the state tea tribes welfare department titled “Humder Moner Kotha (Our Thoughts)”, which continued for nearly five hours, is the second community-oriented interaction after the one held for the Muslim community in July. Though details of the discussion were not available, former Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi, who recently joined the BJP, thanked chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for organising the first-of-its kind interaction to know the problems of the tea tribes. Kurmi said seven sub-groups will be formed from among community leaders to interact with community members about their problems and submit a report and a road map on how to tackle their problems within six months. “The government said what they have done in the first 100 days of its second term and what they did in its first term from 2016 for the tea garden people. The government left it to the House to raise the issues confronting the community. The House raised the ST status and the daily wage issue,” Kurmi said after the meeting. The tea tribes in Assam are Adivasis but not all Adivasi people work in the tea gardens, sources said, adding that more such meetings will be held in the future. The overall demand of the Adivasi community, which includes the tea tribes, mainly revolves around four long-pending core demands — according Scheduled Tribe status to the community members, hiking the daily wage of garden workers to Rs 351, setting up of an satellite autonomous council and granting land pattas to the landless. Health, education and electricity are other issues which the community members feel will take care of itself if these demands are fulfilled. A senior Adivasi leader spearheading their cause welcomed the meeting but said nothing concrete will be achieved if the long-pending demands of the community, especially ST status and hike in minimum daily wage of garden workers, were not settled. “We have heard that the government talked about what it did in its first 100 days and what the government plans to do in the short-term and long-term for the development of our community. But there was nothing on according ST status or hiking the daily wage (of garden workers) which have been our demands, something all the parties know,” he said. The Adivasi leader added: “The Centre had introduced a bill to this effect in the Rajya Sabha before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A report was sought from the state government but there is no headway. Nobody knows our situation better than our chief minister. We are hopeful he will take the right steps to resolve pending core issues instead of giving us sops. They need to hear our moner kotha.” The population of the tea tribes will be over 75 lakh and they play a decisive role in about 40 of the 126 Assembly constituencies in Assam, a reason why both the ruling BJP and the Opposition assiduously woo the community but they have been voting overwhelmingly for the BJP since 2014. The meeting also comes in the run-up to the byelections later this year where the community will play a key role in at least two of the five seats that go to the polls. Both the Upper Assam seats were won by the Congress in the last Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
31-08-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Nusrat's choice to not name child's father||Stand together Sir — The actress-turned-member of parliament, Nusrat Jahan, recently gave birth to a boy. Amidst much speculation about the child’s parentage, Jahan has declined from naming the father. Even though she is well within her rights, she has been severely trolled both online and offline. Another actress, Neena Gupta, had faced similar reproach way back in 1989. Little has changed since then. The only difference is that women are now socially and economically more empowered, and are thus able to rally behind one another — as witnessed by the support Jahan received from other single mothers — in times of need. Subhalaxmi Chakraborty,Calcutta Stellar skills Sir — The Indian table tennis player, Bhavina Patel, scripted history by winning a silver medal at the Tokyo Paralympic Games in the women’s singles class 4 finals (“Bhavinaben, Nishad win silver, Vinod waits”, Aug 30). The 34-year-old put up an impressive fight but ultimately lost the match to the top-seeded Chinese paddler, Ying Zhou, who has five Paralympic medals to her name, including gold from Beijing and London. Other Indian para-athletes performed remarkably as well. Nishad Kumar won the silver medal for India in high jump for men on the same day and the discus thrower, Vinod Kumar, clinched a bronze medal in the men’s F52 event — he has since been stripped of the medal after being found ineligible in the disability classification assessment. But the most exciting news came when Avani Lekhara won India’s first gold medal in shooting in the women’s 10 metres air rifle standing SH1 event. Lekhara won the gold medal with a total score of 249.6 in the final, equalling the world record. It is a shame that in spite of such stellar performances, the Paralympics do not receive much coverage in India. Nevertheless, the multiple wins at both the Tokyo Olympics 2020 and the Paralympics will encourage other youngsters in India to overcome hurdles and pursue their dreams. Vinay Mahadevan,Oud Metha, Dubai Sir — Bhavina Patel must be congratulated for winning a silver medal at the Tokyo Paralympics. Her win set off a string of victories with Nishad Kumar and Avani Lekhara following suit. All athletes taking part at the Paralympics must be lauded for their exemplary grit and determination. Sporting facilities and infrastructure in India are abysmal. It is even worse for athletes with special needs. The multiple wins at both the Summer Olympics and the Paralympics must act as an impetus for the ministry of sports to work on improving the sporting infrastructure in the country. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Avani Lekhara, with her win at women’s 10m air rifle standing SH1 event, became the first Indian woman to win a gold medal at the Paralympics. Many in the country do not consider a Paralympic medal to be on a par with those won at the Summer Olympics. This could not be farther from the truth. Athletes at the Paralympics compete with world-class sportspersons from around the globe. Indian athletes have already secured seven medals at the Paralympic Games, including two golds — the same number of medals won by the Indian contingent at the 2020 Summer Olympics. With a few more events left to go, chances are that the tally might go up. This proves beyond all doubt that para-athletes have contributed to Indian sports as much as those who are able-bodied. We should all be proud of these achievements. Noopur Baruah,Tezpur Equally smart Sir — The editorial, “Spectacular species” (Aug 29), rightly points out that human beings have been arrogant in considering themselves more intelligent than other species. The recent discovery by scientists that elephants use a mathematical law in the movement of their trunks and that ants execute an intricate tunnelling behavioural programme to build complex underground cities proves that we know very little about the cognitive ability of animals. There is much to learn from the animal kingdom. We know that birds have an extraordinary sense of navigation, octopuses can carry out complex tasks and have an incredible ability to learn new skills, and dolphins and non-human primates have a complex communication system. With the planet entering the sixth phase of mass extinction, it is high time that governments around the world do all they can to protect wildlife and maintain ecological balance. The survival of all creatures — not just mankind — is crucial for the well-being of the planet. Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — Although scientists have employed biomimicry in technological innovations for a while now, it is rarely accompanied by a commitment to the protection of nature. We are yet to learn the value of non-human lives beyond our selfish gains. We must accord all creatures, big or small, equal respect. Nidhi Ranjan,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
31-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Far from epic||Changes in education, in system and content, seem to be gathering momentum. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre is busy imposing its views and values on syllabi without bothering about facts or disinterested learning. The BJP is not the first to tweak syllabi; this has always been the tendency of ideology-based parties. But the recent changes to the undergraduate history syllabus are not a tweak or two: the BJP is changing not only the interpretation of the past even if it means devaluing facts — downplaying medieval history, for example — but, more dangerously, the concept of the subject, too, by tilting it towards myth and religious texts. The latest changes, however, were made in the English literature syllabus of Delhi University. The Oversight Committee dropped Mahasweta Devi’s classic story, “Draupadi” and works by two Dalit women writers, Sukartharini and Bama, from the course, replacing these with the work of an upper-caste writer, Ramabai. This was done without going through any of the expert bodies of the university, including the committee of courses and standing committee, and was pushed through in spite of the objections of a number of academic council members. Since “Draupadi” describes the rape of a scheduled tribe woman by army officers and her defiance of them through a display of her body when they order her to ‘cover up’, it was presumably unacceptable — and disrespectful to the military. The removal of Bama and Sukartharini’s works needs no recondite explanation. Their replacement by an upper-caste writer’s work is enough. The attempt to erase the harsh realities of existence in India, into which literature affords entry and encourages reflection, is only one aspect of these changes. It is part of the BJP’s agenda to devalue Dalits as subjects and producers of literature, and silence women who speak truth to power through their creations. Instead, the BJP would like literature to be tales of hope and optimism in difficult times that allow a ‘magical escape’, as the vice-president put it recently. Such fairy-tales would be unlikely to have Dalits and custodial rapes. But the project to sanitize a literature syllabus does not match the BJP-led state governments’ enthusiasm to get the 50 per cent cap on reservations lifted. Votes, evidently, are one thing, and academic indoctrination quite another.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
31-08-2021||Opinion||Editorial: True challenge||The assurance of the triumph of truth — satyameva jayate — is inscribed on India’s national motto. Yet, in a Post-Truth polity, one in which contestation over truth — indeed the falsification of truth — is not unprecedented, citizens and institutions have to be mindful about the version of truth that is allowed to be triumphant. The pursuit of truth and its attendant challenges formed the heart of a stimulating memorial lecture delivered by the Supreme Court judge, D.Y. Chandrachud, recently. Mr Chandrachud’s observations and inferences have philosophical and political relevance in the Indian as well as the global context. Given the State’s complicity in manufacturing truth, Mr Chandrachud iterated that speaking truth to power — in other words, demanding accountability from the powers that be — should be transformed into a public undertaking. Public, in essence, implies a shared, collective responsibility. This task, therefore, does not fall on the citizen alone. It needs to be complemented by strengthening institutions such as the media as well as by removing stains from the electoral process. The importance of this initiative is underlined by the fact that the health — survival — of a democracy is predicated upon the endurance of a culture of truth. The judge’s words have a special significance at a time when there is growing evidence in the form of international, credible assessment that the weakening of India’s democratic edifice has coincided with the capitulation of the fourth estate to an authoritarian, albeit elected, dispensation. That the erosion of institutional integrity can be instrumental in impairing the fate of democracy has been demonstrated by the alleged partisanship of bodies that are supposedly the custodians of a democracy. The commitment to uphold truth, Mr Chandrachud warned, is seldom a simple exercise. This is because of the multifaceted nature of truth. This fragmentation is not a feature of the Post-Truth world alone. In diverse, but non-representative, societies that do not accommodate the opinions of those on the margins — Dalits, women, religious and sexual minorities in the Indian set-up — the version of truth that becomes dominant may turn out to be exclusive in nature. The challenge, therefore, is to develop the mechanisms of consensus. But such a concord among communities is likely to remain elusive unless the leverages of power are representative. The Mahatma — arguably the most famous Indian in modern times — was a seeker of truth. Mr Chandrachud’s invocation of truth, its relevance to democracy, and its impediments harks back to the legacy left behind by that great man in the 75th year of Independence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
31-08-2021||Opinion||Porous borders||The reorganization of the Northeast and the creation of new states between 1963 and 1987, all carved out of Assam, left behind unresolved boundaries. The disputed lands have both symbolic and substantive value — natural resources coveted by revenue-deficient states, lush forests with lucrative timber and so on. All these factors combined make for competitive electoral subnationalism. When politicians ignite passions to boost vote banks, one can see why two state police forces of the same country would attack each other. On a visit to Vairengte, after a clash left six Assam policemen dead and scores injured on both sides, three facts became clear. First, the Assam police crossed the buffer zone manned by the Central Reserve Police Force on July 26 and took over the Mizoram police camp at Vairengte. Assam thus tried to revert the status quo by force. Second, the Mizoram policemen, evicted from the Vairengte camp, took positions on the hills around it and, after a brief warning, opened fire on the Assam policemen, inflicting heavy casualties. Third, Assam retaliated with a punishing economic blockade, leading to huge scarcity of essential commodities, especially medical supplies, at a time when Mizoram is battling a particularly vicious wave of Covid-19. The northeastern states seem prone to using force to reverse possession of disputed boundaries as well as to defend their possessions and resorting to inhuman measures like economic blockades when crossed. Assam has a border problem with all states carved out of it. The 1985 Merapani border clash between policemen from Assam and Nagaland led to more than 40 deaths. Assam and Mizoram returned to the peace table after the Union home minister, Amit Shah, intervened. The two sides have agreed to avoid forward patrolling at disputed points, leaving Central forces to take care of the buffer zones. Assam has also lifted the economic blockade. But tempers are still frayed. Despite the belated peace overtures by both governments, it will take a lot of oversight from Delhi to avoid another such clash. Shah had indicated to chief ministers of the northeastern states to resolve boundary disputes before India turned 75 next year. But within days, intrusions were reported along Assam’s borders with Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh as was the clash along the Assam-Mizoram border. This is not enough; enforcing is the key. A joint action committee in Mizoram, led by civil society leaders and backed by all major political parties in the state, has called for a comprehensive boundary commission to resolve the border dispute. A commission helmed by Supreme Court judges and backed by experts can then work out a boundary acceptable to both sides. That is easier said than done. Visiting the disputed areas this month, immediately after the clash, one saw the Assam forest department planting teak in the mountains of I-Tlang, with displaced Mizo shifting cultivators complaining about the loss of jhum pastures handed down to them by their ancestors. Assam’s pitch for constitutional boundary and the Mizo idea of cultural boundary are different: one is a document-backed possession with clearly demarcated plots, the other a loose, mobile idea of community ownership with possession determined by traditional use. Trouble is that both sides are right in their own ways, pointing to a need for reconciliation of not just boundaries but also the outlooks towards borders. Mizoram’s home minister, Pu Lalchamliana, is not optimistic about the outcome of boundary commissions. He insists that any resolution should be based on ‘give and take’, pointing to bilateral negotiations overseen by Delhi. When the Mizos noisily celebrated the achievements of the Indian women’s hockey team and the local girl, Lalremsiami, it seemed that the days of insurgency were a distant memory. But border clashes and economic blockades ignite those passions and do not augur well for India’s global image.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
31-08-2021||Opinion||A nation for Haves||After a decade-long pursuit of billions of dollars in taxes arising from the transfer of Indian assets through the route of offshore companies, the Narendra Modi government, in an astonishing U-turn, has relinquished the tax claims and agreed to refund millions of dollars in capital gains tax. Prime Minister Modi has hailed his measure as a testament to his commitment of providing a ‘stable policy framework’. As recently as May 23, 2021, the government had called the transactions of Cairn Energy an ‘abusive tax avoidance scheme’ and a classic case of ‘double non-taxation’. Cairn Energy was one of the 17 offshore indirect transfer cases, which India wanted to tax. OIT was an egregious technique used by certain multinationals to avoid paying CGT in India where their real assets like oil and gas fields or mines and mineral or telecom licences are located. On top of these real assets, the multinationals had created layers of holding companies (called letter-box or shell companies) incorporated in tax havens like the Cayman Islands, Mauritius or British Virgin Islands. So when the time came to realize capital gains, instead of directly selling their assets, these multinationals transferred the shares of holding companies to buying companies that were also similarly registered in tax-friendly jurisdictions. Hence capital gains were booked in tax havens that did not tax them at all. The Income Tax Act 1961, designed for a pre-liberalization-era Indian economy, did not anticipate this kind of OITs. Hence, there was no explicit provision to tax them. A purposive reading of the Income Tax Act could have still allowed India to tax OITs. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court of India opted for a textual interpretation and quashed the CGT demand in the Vodafone International Holding B.V. v Union of India case in 2012. The Bombay High Court had earlier upheld India’s jurisdiction to tax the Vodafone-Hutchison transaction. In 2012, a weak and discredited UPA II, hobbling under the weight of multiple scams and charges of misgovernance, tried to plug the misuse of statutory ambiguity by introducing an amendment in the Income Tax Act. Under the amendment, the gains arising from the sale of shares of a foreign company were taxable only if it derived substantial value from the assets located in India. But the Bharatiya Janata Party, then in Opposition, and a majority of the mainstream media built a narrative that the United Progressive Alliance was trying to tax multinationals ‘retrospectively’, which was unfair and capricious. They did not care to ask whether the tax was discriminatory or whether it led to double taxation. Or should multinationals not pay their due share of taxes in a jurisdiction from where they derived their economic gains? It was instead projected as yet another example of the UPA’s lack of ability to govern; it didn’t help its cause by speaking in different tones. The BJP promised to repeal the provision after coming to power. But once in power, the Modi 1.0 government persisted with the CGT demands and spent millions of dollars in defending disputes before international arbitral tribunals. Therefore, the question arises how a deplorable tax avoidance scheme became a legitimate public policy for the Modi 2.0 government in a matter of a few weeks. The government’s volte-face is consistent with its overall fiscal policies fuelling hyper-capitalism and jaw-dropping income and wealth disparities. In September 2019, the government slashed the base corporate tax rate by roughly 10 per cent. This has reduced corporate tax collections by approximately Rs 1.5 lakh crore annually. In the April-September 2020 period, corporate tax collections had dropped by almost 40 per cent year-on-year. In the financial year, 2020-21, corporate tax receipts fell by 18 per cent. The 2019-20 Economic Survey shows that Modi’s ‘historic’ tax rate cut has only benefitted the top 1 per cent of the corporate world. It says that corporate rate cut led to a gain of 3.2 per cent-13.5 per cent of the existing tax liability for small and medium companies, while large companies benefitted by about 18.5 per cent-27.3 per cent of their tax liability. Under Modi, India is becoming one of the most inequitable countries in the world. The fortune of India’s 100 billionaires increased by Rs 12,97,822 crore since March 2020, enough to give every one of the 138 million poorest Indian people a cheque for Rs 94,045 each, according to Oxfam’s The Inequality Virus report. Seventy-three per cent of the wealth generated in 2017 went to the richest 1 per cent, while 67 million Indians, who comprise the poorest half of the population, saw only a 1 per cent increase in their wealth. Besides making the rich richer, Modi’s tax policies are also depriving the poor of the income support they desperately need to overcome the loss of earnings caused by the pandemic. The government has not provided any substantial direct financial relief, such as cash transfers, to the poor. This is partly because this government doesn’t have the money and partly because it believes in ‘growing the pie’, $5 trillion and beyond, rather than distributing it equitably. To make up for the steep fall in corporate tax collection (a 7.7 per cent decline in total revenue receipts in 2020-21), the government has gone on a borrowing spree. As a result, its debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to go up to 61.7 per cent in FY22 from 60.5 per cent a year ago, a 16-year-high, raising the spectre of sovereign credit rating downgrade. In many of the 17 OIT cases, the government had already collected millions of dollars in CGT. That will now have to be refunded, further bleeding the exchequer. In contrast to Modi’s inequitable fiscal policies, the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, is rolling back many of the corporate tax rate cuts in the 2017 tax law passed by the former president, Donald Trump. Companies in the US could end up collectively paying hundreds of billions of dollars more in taxes in the coming years. Biden has also managed to make 130 countries agree on levying a global minimum tax rate of at least 15 per cent, which would prevent large corporations from evading taxes. Biden sees tax justice as an important means of making the global economy more equitable for workers and middle-class families around the world. In essence, the 2012 income tax amendment brought in by UPA II was aimed at curbing the double non-taxation of capital gains. For instance, the oil major, Cairn Energy, made a capital gain of US $5.5 billion but didn’t pay any taxes on its gains in any tax jurisdiction, neither in India where it carried out economic activity nor in the United Kingdom where it was headquartered. Therefore, for the Modi government to legitimize a corporate tax avoidance instrument like the OIT as a ‘stable policy framework’ shows it has no comprehension of the construct of tax equity or fiscal justice. Besides cutting down the corporate tax rate, the Modi government had also abolished wealth tax in 2015. To make matters worse, India also doesn’t impose any inheritance tax on its super-rich. Inheritances are taxed at 40 per cent in the US and the UK, at 50 per cent in South Korea, and an average of 15 per cent across the members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Recently, the family of the chairman of Samsung Electronics was asked to pay more than $10.78 billion in inheritance taxes. Even the OECD, in a 2018 report, conceded that “there is a strong case for addressing wealth inequality through the tax system” and has recommended significant, broad-based taxes on capital gains, coupled with similarly efficient levies on transfers of wealth through gifts and inheritance. The question is why a poor country like India does not levy tax on inheritance and wealth? When governments lose tax revenues on such an enormous scale and the ultra-rich walk away without paying their due share of taxes, it is the poor who suffer. India is producing, on an average, 70 millionaires every day even as 22 per cent of Indians live on less than $1.25 a day. Of India’s children under the age of five, 35.7 per cent are underweight; 38.4 per cent of all children under five are stunted. Without redistributive fiscal policies, these children will never be able to escape the poverty trap. In the seven years of his rule, Modi has not once touched upon the issue of inequality. In his Independence Day speech in 2019, Modi said, “Let us never see wealth creators with suspicion. Only when wealth is created, wealth will be distributed.” But if the wealthy are not taxed enough, how will the wealth get distributed? Ashish Khetan is Associate Professor at Jindal Global Law School and specializes in international economic law||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Political parties gear up for Dhanbad municipal elections||Political parties of the coal city are upbeat about the upcoming Dhanbad Municipal Corporation elections. The schedule for the polls has not been announced yet, but that hasn’t stopped them from gearing for elections. Several political parties including, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Marxist Coordination committee have even announced their candidate for the post of Dhanbad Mayor which is reserved for Other Backward Caste. Congress party and BJP are yet to reach consensus for the post of mayor in Congress. Notably, in Congress at least two heavy weight candidates, including former Animal Husbandry and Fishery minister, Mannan Mallick and state executive committee member party, Shamsher Alam have already publicly announced their plan to contest for the mayor’s post. However, Brajendra Prasad Singh, district president of Congress during a meeting of party workers at Bhandaridih of Katras on August 24 called for consensus for all posts, including 55 posts of councillors and post of Mayor to ensure the party’s victory during the upcoming Municipal Elections. “Though, elections will not be held on party lines but we should together to ensure the victory of party supported candidates in order to strengthen the party organization,” said Singh. Mannan Mallick who was also present during the meeting appeared to have mollified his stand. He maintained that despite having expressed his desire to contest the election for the post of mayor he will abide by the party instructions if any and will not impose his decision. Shamsher Alam, who also contested for the post of mayor during the last elections (2015) and secured over 50 thousand votes to remain on second position, however he appealed to the party seniors to sacrifice and rather appealed them to contest for the post of MP and MLA in order to realize the dreams of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. BJP’s former mayor, Chadrashekhar Agarwal, who had secured a landslide victory by securing over 90 thousand votes during the last election of 2015, is yet to announce his plan to contest elections but there are indications of him contesting the elections. Another leader of the saffron party Bhrigunath Bhagat also announced his plan to contest municipal elections for the post of mayor. In a related development, former Nirsa MLA, Arup Chatterjee today announced that the former councilor of Ward Number 36, Rustam Ansari will contest for the post of Mayor from Dhanbad during the upcoming elections. His party Marxist Coordination Committee has expressed confidence in Ansari on the basis of the good work done by him between 2010 to 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Meet Akanksha Kumari, India’s first underground woman miner||Breaking the gender stereotypes, Akanksha Kumari, a 25-year-old mining graduate from BIT Sindri has earned the distinction of being the first woman in the history of Coal India to be working in an underground mine. On August 30, she was officially posted in Churi underground mines in North Karanpura area of the Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), the public sector undertaking made a formal announcement on Tuesday. Hailing the development, Prahlad Joshni, union minister of coal, mines and parliamentary affairs tweeted: “Progressive Governance: To promote gender equality & generate more opportunities, Govt under PM @narendramodi ji allowed women to work in underground coal mines. Ms Akanksha Kumari becomes the 1st woman mining engineer in @CoalIndiaHQ to work in an underground mine.” In Ranchi, where CCL is headquartered, the official stated that while several woman employees of the PSU have been shouldering the responsibilities ranging from officer to doctor to security guard and even running heavy machines like dumper and shovel, but this is the first time when the core mining activity sector in one of the biggest coal mining company is witnessing a progressive change. “The enormity of her achievement can be gauged by the fact that Akanksha is the second mining engineer in the Maharatna Conglomerate Coal India Limited and the first one to work in an underground coal mine,” stated CCL in a statement. A resident of Barkagaon in Hazaribagh district, Akanksha completed her schooling from Navodaya Vidyalaya. She said that hailing from the mining belt, she witnessed coal mining activities from close quarters and was enamoured by it since her childhood. “I developed a natural inquisitiveness towards mines and its activities since childhood, which encouraged me to opt for mining engineering at BIT Sindri in Dhanbad. I graduated in 2018. On August 25 this year, I formally joined CCL (HQ) and was posted in underground mines yesterday,” she said over phone. Before joining Coal India Limited, she worked for three years with Hindustan Zinc Limited’s Balaria mines in Rajasthan. “None from my family has a background in the mining and coal sector but I thank them for their unflinching support that helped me follow my dreams,” she said. CMD CCL P.M Prasad on the other hand maintained that the women in the country are daily scaling new heights and bringing laurels in various fields. “Through her hard work Akanksha has not broken gender stereotypes but she will also motivate a new generation of girls to follow her and break more glass ceilings,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||State Digest: Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited snaps power supply to Heavy Engineering Corporation||Ranchi: Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), state’s power discom snapped its electricity supply to Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC). The public sector undertaking headquartered in Ranchi, owes pending bills worth Rs 129 crore to JBVNL. The action on Tuesday plunged HEC into darkness and completely grounded production at its units such as Foundry and Forge, Heavy Machine Buildings Plant and Heavy Machine Tools Plant. An official of HEC confirmed the developments stating that JBVNL disconnected power supply at around 2pm due to outstanding bills. “The management is working out a solution. HEC, as it is in deep financial crunch and this development will further complicate the situation as the company has slew of business commitments to fulfill to entities like railways, defence, ISRO among others,” he said, unwilling to be named. “State government is in tussling with union power ministry over pending dues of DVC. The tussle complicated after Centre resorted to auto deduction of pending money from state’s RBI account last year. This month too, reportedly, some Rs 700 crores were deducted from state’s account towards payment of DVC. One wonders if the sudden action against HEC is because of state-Centre tussle,” stated another official. JBVNL’s general manager of Ranchi circle P K Srivastava confirmed that they have stopped electricity supply talking to reporters finding no other alternative. “The dues in tune to about Rs 129 is currently outstanding and we haven’t received any payments since over last one year or so. Finally, JBVNL is forced to cut the power connection,” he said. Our Correspondent Dhanbad: Deprived of their pension and gratuity, a delegation comprising retired college and university professors sent off an SOS to the state government through Purnima Singh, the Congress MLA of Jharia. They have demanded for the immediate revision in their pension, in accordance with that of University Grants Commission’s 7th pay scale. The MLA who agreed to the demands made of the members of delegation assured to raise their issue before the government today itself. The five-member delegation led by former president of Vinoba Bhave Teachers Association (VBUTA) while talking to The Telegraph Online immediately after the meeting, “We have particularly raised the issue of such teachers who have retired before January 1, 2016 as they are deprived of the benefits of revision of their pension as per the UGC 7th pay scale.” “We are getting around Rs 10,000 to 15,000 lesser pension every month. We are still being paid as per the 6th pay commission recommendations and not 7th,” said Singh “We can’t understand the reason for delay in the pension revision in Jharkhand when the same has been carried out in majority of other states, including neighbouring, Bihar and Odisha,” said SC Gorai, former Head of the Department of Zoology of RSP College, Jharia who is also the zonal secretary of VBUTA. “Due to non-implementation of UGC 7th scale benefit we are also deprived of our due gratuity as while those who have retired after January 1, 2016 have received around Rs 30 lakh as gratuity others like us who retired before January 1, 2016, when UGC 7th pay scale was implemented in Jharkhand have received only Rs 10 lakh as gratuity” said retired Hindi professor, Mrityunjay Upadhyay. They have also demanded the MLA to increase their gratuity at least to Rs 30 lakh. Praduman Choubey Jamshedpur: A BSF officer’s wife committed suicide by hanging herself at their residential flat in posh Sahara City, which falls under Mango police station area at the wee hours of Tuesday. Identified as Nitu Singh (45), the deceased who a mother of two teen-aged daughters was residing at her house alone while her husband JK Singh, deputy commandant, BSF was posted in Punjab. The deceased had left a six-paged suicide note which the police have recovered from the residence. According to the suicide note, Nitu was depressed due to a prolonged marital dispute with her husband and the in-laws. OC, Mango thana, Vinay Kumar said that the woman could have committed the suicide at the early hours of Tuesday, on the basis of the dead body's condition. “In the morning at about 7 O clock, maid had come to deceased's flat as usual and pressed the doorbell. But despite repeated attempts Nitu Singh who used to stay alone at the flat did not open the door. After an inordinate delay in getting response, the maid informed the neighbours. The neighbours subsequently broke open the door to find her hanging from the ceiling fan. Then only the neighbours informed us,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said while recovering the body, the police found the suicide note in which she mentioned the background of her depressed life in details. "The two daughters were initially staying with the deceased, but later on the deputy commandant had shifted them to a relative's house in Delhi before filing a divorce petition with the Jamshedpur court a year back. This pushed her into depression,” said the police officer. The police have informed the deceased's husband and her parents about the suicide after shifting the body to the MGM medical college's mortuary for post-mortem. Kumud Jenamani||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Mesra and Central Institute of Psychiatry develop app to detect depression||Psychiatrists from the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) and techies from the computer science department of the Birla Institute of Technology (BIT)-Mesra have jointly developed a technology that can detect if a person is suffering from depression or anxiety by reading electrical impulses from their brain with the help of a compatible device. During the research, psychiatrists studied electrical impulses of several people suffering from depression through Electroencephalography and found that the reading from certain parts of the brain were different for people who were depressed when compared to individuals who were not suffering from depression, said Dr Nishant Goyal, associate professor of psychiatry at CIP and one of the key researchers in the project. “Basically, we have developed the algorithm for detecting depression through a compatible device, which would tell if a person is suffering from depression by reading electrical impulses from the person’s brain,” said Dr Goyal, adding that this technology has already been patented and the researchers were waiting for companies to invest in it. Just like smart watches can give readings of heart rate, pulse, oxygen saturation and blood pressure when worn on the wrist, a device which could be worn like a cap or a hat would be able to tell the user if he or she is suffering from depression and in the need of professional help, said Dr Goyal. The technology has been named Hybrid Depression Detection System (HDDS). “We can save lives by using this technology. It has been seen that the chances of fully treating depression and preventing relapses was higher if early diagnosis was made,” said Goyal, adding that people could consult psychiatrists once the device detects abnormal electrical impulses in their brain. Several people suffering from mental health disorders do not seek professional help due to the lack of clarity over the condition of their mental health, say doctors. Unlike physiological ailments, depression cannot be detected through readings on any equipment so far. Mental health disorders have different manifestations in different individuals and people often mistake the symptoms for those caused by other physiological ailments. Many people suffering from depression suffer from symptoms like racing heart, shortness of breath or chest pain. These people are more likely to visit a cardiologist than a psychiatrist, say doctors. “This device could give people clarity on whether they need professional help or not and save lives by ensuring time treatment,” said Goyal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||ISL: Jamshedpur FC ropes in Scottish striker Greg Stewart||Jamshedpur FC completed the signing of foreign players by roping in Scottish forward Greg Stewart. The 31-year-old striker is the sixth off-shore player for the Tata Steel-owned club. Other international players roped in by the club includes Peter Hartley (United Kingdom), Nerijus Valskis (Lithuania), Alex Lima, Eli Sabia (both from Brazil) and Jordan Murray (Australia). Hartley and Valskis have existing contracts with the club. An Indian Super League (ISL) franchise is required to sign a maximum six foreign players. Stewart will make a solid combination with goal machine Valskis and Murray to bolster Jamshedpur's frontline. It remains to be seen as to how head coach Owen Coyle uses him. “Stewart has already signed and some formalities, including registration, needs to be completed,” said a member of JFC team management who is aware of the development. He will stay with the club for a year. Stewart spent most of his career playing for the Scottish Premiership, the first division of Scotland football. He started his professional career in Cowdenbeath FC in 2010. Stewart) bid adieu to Rangers FC in the last week of June. As the Jamshedpur offer came in, without any delay, he chose the ISL side. As Rangers didn’t offer contract extension, Jamshedpur FC was one of those to have made an offer first and got Stewart's nod. Playing for Cowdenbeath FC from 2010 to 2014, Stewart played 140 matches and scored 40 goals. Moreover, he also assisted 19 times. Later, moving to Dundee FC in 2014, his goal-scoring streak continued. Stewart’s impressive performance caught the eyes of the English club Birmingham City FC, and the club went calling him and signed in 2016. Unfortunately, the 2016-17 season was not a fruitful one for the Scottish soccer player, as he came in as a substitute most of the time and scored only six goals in 25 matches. As a return, he was loaned to Aberdeen FC and Kilmarnock FC for two consecutive seasons, respectively. In 2019, Steven Gerard led side Rangers FC signed Stewart on a two-year deal. Making 33 appearances, he scored three goals and assisted seven times. Having the experience of playing in the Europa League, Stewart can play multiple positions, which will be a valuable asset for Jamshedpur. Meanwhile, Jamshedpur FC are busy making travel arrangements for the players, including the foreigners, for the upcoming ISL which kicks-starts in Goa on November 19. The Visas of all six foreign recruits as well as head coach Owen Coyle have already been acquired. "We are busy making travel arrangements for our players who will be reaching Goa directly in September-end or the first week of October for the pre-seasons," said a JFC official. Jamshedpur is desperate to make it to the play-offs this time. The outfit finished sixth with 27 points in the last ISL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Trains cancelled for railway track modernisation work||Due to modernisation of the railway tracks of the new third line between Rajkharswan and Dangoaposi section of Chakradharpur division, South Eastern Railway (SER) issued notification for cancellation of several trains in September. According to the circular issued by Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of SER the Tatanagar-Barbil Passenger (58103) will remain cancelled from September 1 to September 11. The Barbil-Tatanagar Passenger (58104) leaving Barbil will remain cancelled from September 2 to September 12. Visakhapatnam-Tatanagar Special (08572) leaving Visakhapatnam on September 5 will remain cancelled. The Tatanagar-Visakhapatnam Special (08571) leaving Tatanagar on September 6 will also remain cancelled. In a separate circular the South Eastern Railway notified cancellation of Jharsuguda-Gondia MEMU Special leaving Jharsuguda between September 3 to 6. According to the spokesperson of South Eastern Railway the third line development work includes laying of new tracks, installation and renovation of signalling system. The third line project was initiated in 2019 and is expected to be completed by 2022. The third line would help in increasing train traffic in Chakradharpur and Kharagpur divisions of South Eastern Railway. Meanwhile, concerned over the possible third wave, the Covid checking drive has been intensified at the Tatanagar railway station. The A-1 category Tatanagar railway station assumes significance as it falls on the Howrah- Mumbai main line. Currently, the station witnesses a daily footfall of around 30,000 passengers. All passengers arriving at the station from trains coming from various destinations like Mumbai, Visakhapatnam, New Delhi and Bangalore are required to undergo Covid tests conducted by health department with the help of Corona warriors at platform number -1. “Covid tests have been intensified from Monday concerned over the possible third wave,” said HK Balmuchu, director of Tatanagar railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.45 lakh residents get vaccinated in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated over 1.45 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of this disease dropped to 138 as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1,11,286 residents, while the second dose was administered to as many as 34,206 beneficiaries. The state reported at least 19 Covid recoveries against 13 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Monday, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. While 19 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19, Ranchi alone accounted for seven of the 13 fresh cases of infection. However, at least eight Covid patients recovered from the viral infection in Ranchi and the active caseload here dropped to 80. Sahebganj and Latehar reported one case each, while Dhanbad and Deoghar reported two cases each, as per NHM data. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of 55,054 residents and 0.02 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. As per government data, the state has so far reported over 3.47 lakh cases of Covid-19 and 98.48 per cent of the patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. Data available on the Co-Win platform reflected that East Singhbhum vaccinated the highest number of residents among the 24 Jharkhand districts on Monday. At least 122 session sites remained operational in this district and about 30,000 residents were vaccinated there. Nearly 60 session sites remained operational in Ranchi on Monday and over 11,000 residents were vaccinated here, while 65 session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries in Dhanbad and at least 13,000 residents were vaccinated in the district. As per figures shared by the health department on Monday evening, Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to over 1 crore residents and more than 25 lakh of them have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand farmers backed by the Left  protest Haryana lathi-charge||Farmers backed by the Left burnt effigies of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and the BJP-led central government across Jharkhand on Monday to protest the death of a farmer who was said to have suffered injuries in the police lathicharge in Karnal and gear up for the Bharat Bandh on September 25. The impromptu agitation called by the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha (an affiliate of the CPM’s farmer wing All India Kisan Sabha) with support from the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity (an outfit formed last year to coordinate the farmers’ agitation in Jharkhand against the central farm laws) saw peasants coming out in rural pockets in almost all the 24 districts to burn effigies of the Khattar government in Haryana and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and shouting slogans demanding repeal of the farm laws and action against the official who ordered the lathicharge on farmers. “We took the decision on Sunday evening that we need to show solidarity with the farmers who have been beaten and injured by Haryana police on the order of the sub-divisional magistrate and protest vehemently the death of Sushil Kajal who was assaulted repeatedly on the head by the police. Despite it being Krishna Janmashtami, a state holiday, we could manage to galvanise farmers to come out on the roads in 600 locations, especially in rural areas of Jharkhand,” said Sufal Mahato, state convener of the Samity. Farmers assembled on the roads near block headquarters carrying banners of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha and shouted slogans that the “martyrdom” of Sushil Kaajal would not go in vain. “The BJP government wanted to quell the farmers’ agitation through force and assault. But through this agitation in Jharkhand and other states we want to send a message that such lathicharge on farmers would only strengthen our resolve to agitate more vigorously against the oppressive rule of the Narendra Modi–led BJP government. The agitation would continue till 2024 (when general elections are due) until our demands for the repeal of the three new farm laws are fulfilled. We will also show our might during the Bharat Bandh called to protest the lathicharge on farmers and observe 10 months of the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders against the new farm laws,” said Praful Linda, a veteran CPM leader and member of the Samity, in Ranchi. The farmers across the country have been seeking repeal of the three farm laws which they fear would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. The Centre, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce. “As per the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, we would be planning a strategy along with tribal outfits, rights activists and civil society organisations for the Bharat Bandh called on September 25 and ensure it becomes a success by blocking all important roads, highways and railway routes,” said Mahato. Around 10 people were injured on Saturday when the police beat up a group of farmers on a national highway as they headed towards Karnal to protest against a visit by chief minister Khattar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
31-08-2021||Jharkhand||Deoghar bandh for reopening Baidyanath temple||Almost all shops, barring those dealing with essential goods, downed shutters in Deoghar on Monday in support of the daylong bandh called by the Panda Dharma Rakshani Sabha for the reopening of Baba Baidyanath Temple. The traders’ solidarity with the Panda Dharma Rakshani Sabha — a body of priests at the Baidyanath temple — is being attributed to the loss of business owing to its closure. “The shopkeepers and business establishments decided to down shutters voluntarily in support of the bandh called by the priests’ body as the business units are equally affected by the closure of the temple. The economy of the city is linked with the temple that draws a large number of devotees. However, it has been closed since April this year and traders are staring at huge losses. We decided to support the bandh hoping that the government would understand the gravity of the situation and issue an to reopen the temple,” said Alok Malik, a Deoghar-based trader and the zonal vice-president of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI). The restaurants, hotels, shops and other establishments used to earn revenues from hordes of devotees who used to turn up at the temple daily before the pandemic struck. “We fully support the government decision to close the temple for devotees when the Covid pandemic was at a peak. However, with Covid figures going down, all the temples in other parts of India have been opened now. We had met the Jharkhand chief minister in July and appealed for the reopening of the temple as we are staring at starvation. We had no option but to stage a daylong bandh so that the government takes heed of our demand,” said Kartik Thakur, general secretary of Panda Dharma Rakshani Sabha. Thakur claimed that nearly 5,000 households of priests were directly dependent on the revenues from devotees. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said the bandh was peaceful. “No untoward incident was reported from anywhere in the district. Elaborate security arrangements were made at all strategic places. We are abiding with the government directive and will allow devotees at the temple as soon as the government’s disaster management department issues a notification for reopening the shrine,” the deputy commissioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
