02-08-2021||Ludhiana||Amargarh School enter hockey semifinals||Amargarh School and Jatana Coaching Centre won their respective league matches in the junior category to move into the semifinals of the Seven-a-Side Mata Gurmit Kaur and Gurinder Pal Singh Waraich Memorial Jarkhar Hockey League.The tournament is being played at Jarkhar village.Amargarh School beat Rampur 6-5 in a tie breaker, while Jatana Coaching Centre prevailed 3-2 against Nankana Sahib Public School.Earlier, Jarkhar Academy and Rampur Coaching Centre had made it to the last-four stage.Meanwhile, in the sub-junior section, Jarkhar Academy outwitted Ghwadi School 8-3.In the senior category, Darshan Singh Centre beat Amargarh Club 5-4, while Jarkhar Academy registered a 6-3 win over Young Club to seal a berth in the semis. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amargarh-school-enter-hockey-semifinals-291726
02-08-2021||Ludhiana||Basketball championship: Guru Nanak Club, DGSG Public School share honours||Guru Nanak Club and DGSG Public School, Shimlapuri, clinched two titles each in the Ludhiana District Sub-Junior and Youth Basketball Championship for Boys and Girls, which concluded at Guru Nanak Stadium here today.Guru Nanak Club hoopsters won the sub-junior (U-14) and youth (U-17) titles in the girls’ competition, while DGSG Public School dominated the boys’ U-14 and U-17 competition.International Public School, Sandhu Nagar, Civil Lines, finished as runners up in the boys’ and girls’ U-14 category. They also finished third in the girls’ U-17 contest.Cagers from Baba Isher Singh School finished second in the girls’ and boys’ U-17 group, while they bagged third spot in the boys’ U-14 contest.Doraha Public School, Doraha, also made its presence felt, finishing third in the girls’ U-14 and boys’ U-17 categories.Yurinder Singh Hayer, senior vice-president, Punjab Basketball Association, gave away the prizes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/basketball-championship-guru-nanak-club-dgsg-public-school-share-honours-291725
02-08-2021||Ludhiana||Residents seek action against ‘encroachment’ by Ludhiana MC staffer||Residents of Aman Vihar in Chandar Nagar area of the city have complained to the MC against an alleged encroachment in a street of the area.Anirudh Sharma, one of the residents, alleged that the encroachment had been raised by an employee of the Municipal Corporation (MC) Ludhiana. He alleged that the residents were forced to suffer as a portion of the residential structure had been constructed on the road.He said, “We had complained to the civic body in the past too and a team of the MC had once gone to raze the encroachment but it returned without taking any action.”As per the complaint, signed by some residents, they had even requested the alleged encroacher to get it removed but to no avail. The residents further said that they had also complained to the police regarding the alleged encroachment.Now, the residents want MC Commissioner to order the officials concerned to take action and get the encroachment removed from the street.The complainants also threatened that if action was not taken against the violation, they would be forced to stage a protest against the civic body.MS Bedi, MC’’s Assistant town planner, Zone D, said the civic body had given some time to the encroacher to vacate the land. “We will take action against the encroachment by coming Tuesday,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-seek-action-against-encroachment-by-ludhiana-mc-staffer-291724
02-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Ashu presses for increasing city’s green cover||Ludhiana, August 1Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today directed Municipal Corporation (MC) to undertake a massive plantation drive on vacant land for making the city greener.Kick-starting a plantation drive organised by Education Culture Private Limited in E-block of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar here, the minister said that more and more saplings must be planted on the vacant land which would not only enhance the green cover but would also help in checking environmental pollution.He said tree plantation was the need of the hour. “Depleting green cover is a cause of concern for everybody as it poses a serious threat to the environment and human health.”Ashu lauded the plantation drive held by environment-lovers, government departments, educational institutions and private entities and said that every individuals must come forward to save the earth by planting more and more saplings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ashu-presses-for-increasing-citys-green-cover-291723
02-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Government to provide free saplings for Rotary Club plantation drive||Mandi Ahmedgarh, August 1The Rotary project launched earlier to plant one lakh saplings of fruit and shade trees, besides establishing 21 micro forests, received a shot in arm when Minister of Forest Sadhu Singh Dharamsot announced to provide free samplings for the venture.The minister directed the district forest officers concerned to arrange and provide saplings of various shade and fruit trees to Rotary Club teams engaged in the drive.District Governor Parveen Jindal said senior functionaries of the organisations, led by PDG Dharamveer Garg, had approached the Forest Minister to seek organised guidance and necessary paraphernalia required for accomplishing the target of establishing 21 micro forests in the region and planting at least one lakh saplings at venues chosen by 86 clubs of the organisation.Jindal thanked the Forest Minister for the gesture. “Now, when our major burden has been shared by the government, we will channelise our saved resources for protection of the planted saplings,” Jindal said.District chairman SP Sofat said assistant governors concerned had been asked to coordinate with officials at regional offices of the Punjab Forest Department and procure the required number of saplings by submitting copies of requisition letter signed by the Forest Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/government-to-provide-free-saplings-for-rotary-club-plantation-drive-291722
02-08-2021||Open House Monsoon non-preparedness||Civic body should make preparations before the rains||Every year, it is the same old story. Civic authorities do not look into the state of affairs in time. Having a look at the city, one will find roads and pavements in a pitiable condition, making it difficult for commuters. Do the officials concerned not commute on these roads? Are they not aware of the potholes on the streets? Probably, they turn a blind eye and are deaf to the issues raised by the public. They should have proper management, timely plans and implementation of the same, which can do wonders.Dr Navdeep KaurCivic authorities to blameYes, civic authorities should be held liable for the problem of waterlogging in the city. The authorities are showing unfavourable attitude towards the general public. As a result, they suffer a lot during the rainy season. Ludhiana is known as Smart City, but unfortunately, it doesn’t have proper sewerage system and sound pipelines, which is the main requirement. Even after the rain stops, it takes a whole day for the water to drain out. Taxes paid by the general public should be utilised in a proper way and the contractors who take bribe and compromise with the quality of pipeline or sewerage system should be strictly punished and awarded long-term punishment as just monetary penalty is not enough.Ritu PriyaOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONAs the mushrooming of illegal colonies continues unabated in and around Ludhiana, gullible investors remain at the receiving end. Despite repeated warnings and claims by the government, little seems to be done on the ground. What should be done to check the menace? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comPoor drainage causes problemsIt is a common problem each and every year that during monsoon season water accumulates on roads and there is no proper drainage system so far. The local government must be held responsible as this is a recurring problem. It must prepare a concrete plan in advance to meet the problem of laying underground pipes and other sewerage work well before the start of monsoon. It should construct roads after laying proper pipes for drainage of rainwater. Nobody should be allowed to dig roads. Each household or business establishment must provide connection of sewerage, water, phone and electricity by charging the cost from them before carpeting roads and then violators must be punished. We must not throw waste material in open on roads. This may be one of the reasons for accumulation of water on roads. A proper slope must be given to roads for the proper drainage of rainwater. Plastic bags should be banned as it is a big threat not only for this problem but for the environment as well. People should lend their support to the local government to curb such problems as accumulated water may be one of the main causes to produce mosquitoes which spread diseases such as malaria and dengue. After every five year there must be re-carpeting of depleted roadsDr Mohd Saleem FarooquiInitiate action against erring officialsIt is ripe time for the civic authorities to get set go and take some concrete steps to speed up the work to avoid monsoon mess. The monsoon has struck the northern India 15 days in advance, so it is high time for the municipal corporation to ensure proper drainage of the monsoon water, failing which the city will become a pool with only few showers. Actually, the administration is already late as the work should have been started in the month of April only and till now it have been completed. There is a saying it’s never too late. Therefore, the authorities must take necessary steps to avoid the last minute chaos. Action must be initiated against the erring officials for the undue delay in the progress of the work. The delaying tactics will cost dear both to the administration as well as the residents.Bir Devinder Singh BediMonsoon preparedness claims fall flatThe heavy rain that lashed the city a few days back was enough to wash away the tall claims of the civic body regarding monsoon preparedness as most of the city areas were submerged in water and overflowing sewers. Waterlogging threw life out of gear. Open manholes and caved-in roads were giving an open invitation to mishaps as no caution boards were installed and no barricading was done to alert the commuters. A majority of the rain harvesting systems were non-functional. Public should ask questions from the elected representatives when they come to seek votes. In case they still do not listen, rallies and demonstrations be organised to put pressure on them. The Mayor, MLAs, councillors and the commissioner should be persuaded to pull the non-performing officials.RS SEMBHIUrbanisation, climate change reason for floodsWaterlogged roads and overflowing sewer lines have become a common sight every year during monsoon. Given the unprecedented expansion of the city over the last few years and rising threat of climate change, the civic body should construct underground rainwater storage tanks at critical points to considerably reduce waterlogging during heavy rainfall. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) should be set up to clean the city’s drains and prevent waterlogging on roads. The city’s municipal corporation should ensure prompt remedial action in case of drainage congestion and must be well-equipped to deal with any eventuality on account of heavy rain. Deploying smart water management tools could also be effective in tackling the problem of water logging as these would interpret statistics from water-logged points and provide a holistic picture with robust real-time analytics.Akash Kumar, JagraonMC’s indifferent attitude towards public problemsThe civic authorities should be held responsible for their negligence and indifferent attitude towards public issues. Rainwater has becoming a headache for visitors as well as local people during monsoon season. Accumulated rainwater causes inconvenience to the commuters. Given the limited infrastructure of the city to handle such extreme weather, the city has been witnessing flood kind of scenes during monsoon. Open drains built along many roads do not have proper disposal. The district administration should take necessary steps for proper disposal of rainwater on roads.Adish Sood, AmlohMC start work on drainage systemDuring the rainy season, people face great difficulties to walk around or ply vehicles due to flood-like situation in low-lying areas. During this season many houses are flooded with water or are damaged. Many seasonal diseases also appear during the rainy season and people fall sick while some of them lose their lives. This phenomenon is being witnessed by the municipal corporation every year and it does not even try to improve the situation. The municipal corporation must identify waterlogged roads and streets and start work on improving the drainage system. The flood water needs to be pumped out immediately during the rainy days by installing area-wise water pumps and arrange special staff for the purpose. The corporation must earmark special funds for the purposes of pumping out rain water and ensuring all the required facilities for handling the seasonal diseases during rainy season. All dispensaries must be fully equipped with the required medicines, doctors and other medical staff.Gautam DevClean sewers in advanceTransparency and accountability is must to get the aims and objectives achieved timely. If all of us will do our duties honestly and meticulously, the country will become a heaven. In Ludhiana, one-day rainfall creates mess all over the city. Roads and sewers should be repaired and cleaned well in advance before the arrival of monsoon.Dr Sunil ChopraNo to illegal road diggingEvery year during monsoon, we face the problem of accumulation of water on streets, roads and in low-lying areas. People have to face a lot of difficulties and there is always a fear that some vector-borne diseases will break out. Some areas are dug in advance for laying water and sewerage pipes and left incomplete. Residents face hardships during the rainy season. The municipal corporation must prepare a plan to carry out the work of civic facilities well in advance before the start of the monsoon. Each councillor must look into the progress of work such as re-carpeting of roads, proper drainage system and proper flow of portable water. Nobody should be allowed to dig roads for personal use or other functions without prior permission of the municipal corporation. People must cooperate and assist the local government in maintaining civic amenities so that nobody may face any problem during and after monsoon.Farzana KhanAuthorities not serious about public issuesIt is not a new thing for the residents to witness the negligence and insensitivity of civic authorities towards the public welfare related works. Most of these works in the city are either behind the schedule or poorly done. And the prominent reason behind this pathetic behaviour of authorities is that they do not face any major backlash for their delinquency. They are not held accountable for their poor excuse of work which lead to the discomfort of citizens. As a result, they become inconsiderate towards their duties. Hence, in order to resolve this issue, the government needs to take an initiative to revive a sense of discipline and liability among these authorities. The government should also make it easy for the citizens to reach the Grievances Redressal Forum to take a strict action against those who are responsible for the repeated delays and terrible execution of these welfare works. In a democratic set up, authorities and citizens need to work together.Rishika KritiTurning a blind eye towards problemsEvery year the onset of monsoon exposes the appalling state of sewers which becomes a hindrance for the residents. The municipal corporation is answerable for all such mess. The civic authorities are answerable for the solution of public issues yet they turn a blind eye towards them. Their sincere efforts can turn the city into paradise.KAMALDEEP KAUR||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-should-make-preparations-before-the-rains-291721
02-08-2021||---||Man booked for posing as public servant in Haibowal||Ludhiana, August 1The Haibowal police claimed to have booked a man who was impersonating as an official of the National Crime Investigation Bureau.The accused had been duping people on the pretext of getting their works done from the Police Department.He has been identified as Chandar Mohan, a resident of Hargobind Nagar, Haibowal.Investigating officer sub-inspector (SI) Bhajan Singh said the police got a tip-off that the accused had duped many people by posing as the in-charge of the NCRB agency and he was also carrying fake ID cards of the agency.Accordingly, a case of cheating under Sections 420 (cheating) and 170 (impersonating as public servant) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.The sub-inspector said raids were being conducted at whereabouts of the accused to nab him. Fake ID cards would also be recovered after his arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-posing-as-public-servant-in-haibowal-291718
02-08-2021||---||Man fires at cousin, brother over property dispute||Ludhiana, August 1A man fired at his brother and a cousin over property dispute at Jangpur village, near Mullanpur Dakha, on Sunday morning.The victims were rushed to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) here for treatment where their condition was stated to be critical.Station House Officer (SHO), Dakha police station, inspector Jagjit Singh, said Sher Singh (62) had a property dispute with his brother Amrik Singh (70) and a cousin, Hakam Singh (55).Amrik had some property which he wanted to transfer on the name of his cousin Hakam but Sher Singh was objecting to the same.“This morning, Sher Singh brought a weapon and fired four bullets at Amrik. Amrik suffered bullet injuries on his throat, chest and near the neck. Later, he went to the house of Hakam and also opened fire at him,” the SHO said, adding that both victims were undergoing treatment at the hospital.When asked if the accused used his licenced weapon, the SHO said he had a licenced weapon but it was not clear if the same weapon was used in the crime. Sources said the accused had told his brother if he would transfer any property in the name of their cousin, he would kill both of them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-fires-at-cousin-brother-over-property-dispute-291717
02-08-2021||---||Power theft: PSPCL fines 46 consumers||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, August 1In an early morning drive to check power theft, teams of field staff and officials of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) struck at several places in the city and conducted thorough check of energy meters and power lines. In all, more than 1,400 connections were checked in the city as well as other towns including Khanna, Doraha, Jagraon and Amloh with detection of 46 cases of theft through kundi connections or bypassing the energy meters.According to PSPCL officials, total penalty notices of Rs 18.49 lakh were raised against the defaulting consumers and in cases of non-payment of penalty FIRs would be lodged against offenders with anti-power theft police station under relevant provisions of the Electricity Act.Giving more details, the officials said 10 each cases of theft were detected in CMC Division and Sunder Nagar Division where 216 and 196 connections respectively were inspected. In other divisions cases of thefts detected were nine cases in City West (connections checked 170), six each in Doraha (168) and Jagraon (147), three in Amloh (184) and one each in Doraha (168) and City Central Division (162).PSPCL officials said they were duty-bound to continue action to curb power theft and advised the consumers to desist from drawing unauthorised electricity, tempering with energy meters and attempts to bypass the meters and obtain power from kundi connections. “Offenders would be sternly dealt with and in addition to heavy penalty for stealing power they would be liable for criminal action as well,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/power-theft-pspcl-fines-46-consumers-291716
02-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||Soil compaction must after laying sewer pipes: Engineers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 1As various roads were not levelled properly after laying sewer or stormwater drainage pipes, people were forced to face troubles when rainfall lashed the city recently. Experts said the civic body must get soil compaction done as per the norms after laying the pipes.Notably, some vehicles had got stuck recently as portions of the Old GT Road stretch near Clock Tower and Telephone Exchange at the E-block of BRS Nagar caved in after rain. The MC had installed stormwater drainage pipes near Clock Tower while sewer pipes were laid at BRS Nagar.The experts said such incidents could have been averted if soil compaction was done in a proper manner by the contractors concerned.‘Work done in proper way can prevent mishaps’Some vehicles had got stuck recently as portions of the Old GT Road stretch near Clock Tower and Telephone Exchange at the E-block of BRS Nagar caved in after rain. The MC had installed stormwater drainage pipes near Clock Tower while sewer pipes were laid at BRS Nagar. Experts said such incidents could have been averted if soil compaction was done in a proper manner by the contractors concerned.Kapil Arora of the Council of Engineers and a resident of BRS Nagar said: “It is a well-known fact that the work order of laying of sewer disposal /water supply line includes excavation as well as backfilling of soil to be compacted in layers of 6-8 inches. However, contractors, after laying the pipes and constructing the manholes, generally backfill the soil using JCB in one go due to which major voids remain between particles of soil, resulting in sudden settlement as a vehicle passes over it. Such areas become more dangerous during rainy days as the soil settles down with penetration of water resulting into cave-in of soil surface.”“In Ludhiana, the contractors generally leave the compaction job to moving traffic and the technical officials concerned never bother about it. However, such gross negligence may cause fatal injuries to commuters or damage to their vehicles, especially during rainy days, due to excess filtration of water in soil due to the presence of voids. Improper soil compaction also results in breakage of top asphalt surface of roads due to the uneven settlement, resulting into potholes which are again dangerous for commuters,” he said.A former superintending engineer of the Punjab Water Supply and Sanitation Department said: “If the soil compaction was done properly after installing sewer/drainage pipes as per the norms, there would be no problem at all. The contractors concerned are supposed to ensure soil compaction in a right manner. The civic body must get the work done in a proper way.”A former councillor, Inder Aggarwal, said: “Such projects are generally carried out in an unplanned manner due to which people are forced to suffer. These must not be conducted during the rainy season.”MC Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said the road near Clock Tower had been levelled properly. “We are ensuring soil compaction too after laying down the pipes. But, a settlement generally occurs during rains,” he said.MC Superintending Engineer Ravinder Garg said the stretch at BRS Nagar was levelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/soil-compaction-must-after-laying-sewer-pipes-engineers-291714
02-08-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||MC action against illegal constructions in Ludhiana a ‘farce’||Ludhiana, August 1After an outcry, both by councillors of the ruling Congress party and those of the Opposition, during the recent General House meeting against the proliferation of illegal constructions across the city, the building branch of the Municipal Corporation here had taken action against three dozen odd buildings.However, in the absence of a proper follow-up, or rather connivance of the field staff and their supervisory officials, the so called drive turned out to be a mere window dressing as most of the partially demolished or sealed buildings were reconstructed.A spot check of the illegal buildings where action had been taken for violation of building bylaws revealed that the demolished portions had been reconstructed. At a few places, more storeys have been raised, while some other buildings were almost complete.That the so called action of the building branch against the illegally constructed buildings in different parts of the city was no deterrent for unscrupulous builders is evident from the fact that construction of a commercial complex was in full swing behind the Gill Market on the Lohara-Dhandari Road.Many more commercial buildings are coming up along the Sidhwan Canal in the stretch from Ferozepur Road to Ayali and Beermi villages, falling within the Municipal Corporation limits.As per a rough estimate, nearly 7,000 illegal buildings have been constructed in all the four zones of the city – Zone D and A being the biggest culprits with over 2,000 such buildings in each of these zones.Sources in the MC indicated that the field staff (inspectors) and their supervisory officials (assistant town planners) were reluctant to check the menace of illegal commercial and institutional buildings in the city, simply because it was a source of making easy money.“Money collected from unscrupulous building activity is shared at several levels and that is the reason that those who matter in the Municipal Corporation and even the Local Government Department (in Chandigarh) maintain silence or pretend to look the other way,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-action-against-illegal-constructions-in-ludhiana-a-farce-291713
02-08-2021||---||4 more infected in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 1Four persons have tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district today. Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.55 per cent.At present, there are 49 active patients in the district. A total of 85,156 patients have recovered so far.Today, a total of four patients have tested positive in the past 24 hours and no person from other districts has tested positive today.Till date, a total of 20,09,204 samples have been taken, the reports of which have been received. Of these, 19,10,292 samples were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,302 while 11,610 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,093 persons from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.Today, six Covid patients were admitted to hospitals while two were on ventilator support and 41 persons were sent for home isolation.On Sunday, 8,562 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma asked people to continue to observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, otherwise lax attitude will certainly invite the third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-more-infected-in-ludhiana-district-291712
02-08-2021||---||5L doses administered in 43 days in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 1Achieving an extraordinary feat in the battle against the deadliest Coronavirus, the district on Sunday administered its 1.5 millionth jab.Ludhiana, which is already leading the state with the highest coverage of people in its Covid inoculation drive since it was started on January 16, has given 5 lakh jabs in the past 43 days, despite vaccine being short in supply. The district had administered the one millionth jab on June 19 this year.“Vaccine is the only effective weapon to rein in the virus and it would help society to return to normalcy. The district administration would leave no stone unturned by vaccinating every eligible person before the advent of the expected third wave,” said Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.He said the vaccine is being supplied by the Central Government and whenever it arrives, people must take the shots without delay.Dr Bishav Mohan from the DMCH, Ludhiana, said the third wave would have minimal impact on the lives of people if all residents of the district get the vaccine soon.He said vaccinated people would not need hospitalisation even if one contracts the virus and they could be treated at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5l-doses-administered-in-43-days-in-ludhiana-291711
02-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Gang making Aadhaar cards using fake ID proofs busted in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 1The crime wing of the Ludhiana police has busted a gang involved in making Aadhaar cards on the basis of fake residential proofs.The gang was using stamps of MLAs and other officials to get the Aadhaar cards issued. Three members of the gang had been arrested, the police said.The accused have been identified as Raj Kumar, a 48-year-old resident of Mohalla New Subash Nagar, Tibba; 42-year-old Vinod Kumar Bhalla from Tilak Nagar, Rahon Road; and Raj Kumar Sunny (35) of Bajra Colony.Another accused in the case, Kuldeep Kumar, is yet to be arrested, the police added.The police have recovered three laptops, fingerprint scanner, an eye scanner, two printers, 16 Aadhaar cards, five PAN cards, five vote ID cards, nine finger prints, 36 certificates of Aadhaar enrolment form, and one fake stamp from the accused.DCP (Crime) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, Additional DCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti and ACP (Crime) Mandeep Singh addressed a joint press conference in this regard.As per the police, the gang had made more than 500 Aadhaar cards of persons who had no residential proof.“Accused used to charge Rs 1,100 for new Aadhaar card. If a person was not having any residential proof, the accused used to create one as per the wish of the applicant. Even stamps of MLAs were used on the Aadhaar enrollment form,” said the ADCP.The officer said in some forms the accused even used the stamp in the name of legislator Harish Pushkar. However, in reality there is no such MLA in Ludhiana, said the ADCP.“If Aadhar enrollment forms having wrong MLA name were cleared by the authorities concerned, this signals the connivance of Aadhaar officials as well. We are probing the matter further to bust the entire racket,” Bhatti added.Accused used to fill the Aadhar form on the website ID of Deputy Commissioner, Dubri, Assam – DHB_IND_046 – and attach fake residential proofs along with the stamp of the MLA. After stipulated time, Aadhaar card used to be issued, said the police.Only Aadhaar cards pertaining to Assam can be issued using this ID. But in this case, the ID was being operated from Abhi Studio, on the Rahon Road here. It could be possible that the accused had hacked the ID, they said.Security threat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-making-aadhaar-cards-using-fake-id-proofs-busted-in-ludhiana-291710
