03-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana: 75% internal development works complete at hi-tech cycle valley||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 2Poised to emerge as the new investment hub in the industrial capital of Punjab, the upcoming hi-tech cycle valley is inching closer towards completion with 75 per cent of its internal development works already complete, the government has confirmed.While two approach roads and a high-level bridge on way to the state-of-the-art industrial park that will provide plug and play infrastructure to mobility and advanced manufacturing industrial units, coming over 383 acres of land at a cost of Rs 500 crore, have already been constructed, all the basic infrastructure facilities will be provided at the hi-tech cycle valley by February next, a senior officer said.With two major industry honchos — Aditya Birla Group and Hero Cycles — already arriving to set up their units here, the government has also fixed rates for plots put on sale by the PSIEC at the industrial estate located at Dhanansu village near Ludhiana.Sharing details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune here on Monday that industrial plots are being offered at Rs 6,000 per sq yd, while the basic rate for allotment of land chunks beyond 10 acres has been fixed at Rs 4,783.5 per sq yd.He disclosed that all mandatory approvals and clearances for the project, including approval of layout plan, change of land use, EIA clearance and RERA registration, have been obtained.Divulging the status of allied works, ADC (General) Rahul Chaba said 30 acres of land was transferred with physical possession to the PSTCL to set up a 400-KV power supply grid substation, the work on which has also begun, to exclusively provide uninterrupted power supply to the hi-tech cycle valley.He said 378.77 acres of land has been procured for the project at Rs 120 crore.Besides constructing a new 100-ft-wide four-lane 8.3-km-long external approach road to the industrial park from the Chandigarh-Ludhiana NH-5, another alternate route via Budhewal Sugar Mills has been widened and strengthened.A high-level bridge across the Buddha Nullah along the approach road to the project site has also been constructed to ensure hassle-free passage.“Around 75 per cent internal development works of basic infrastructure, like internal concrete roads, storm water drainage, effluent and sewage discharge system, electrical trench and water supply distribution system, are complete while the remaining works will be completed in all respects by February next,” disclosed the DC.While a water reservoir coming in the way of the approach road has also been shifted, the NHAI has initiated the work to construct a 500-metre-long service road for providing access from the NH-5 and the same will be completed by December 31.Recently, Aditya Birla Group has begun work to set up a paint manufacturing unit at an investment of Rs 1,000 crore to offer over 2,000 jobs, including direct employment of 600 persons. Hero Cycles is setting up its anchor unit over 100 acres worth Rs 400 crore, which promises to offer 1,000 direct employment opportunities and produce 4 million bicycles per annum, especially premium and e-bikes.A provision of Rs 22 crore has been made in the Punjab Budget 2021-22 for creation of capital assets in the valley.The state government was developing the cycle valley with an aim to attract new investors not only from within the country, but also from overseas. The approved industrial park would not only attract global investments, but also facilitate Punjab-based industries to expand their capacities thereby generating new employment opportunities in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-75-internal-development-works-complete-at-hi-tech-cycle-valley-292037
03-08-2021||---||5 test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 2Five persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.54 per cent. Till now 85,163 patients have recovered so far.Six patients — five patients from Ludhiana district and one from other states/districts — tested positive in the last 24 hours.Till date 20,16,275 samples have been taken and reports of all of them have been received. As many as 19,17,357 samples were found negative.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,307, while 11,611 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,093 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.Samples of 7,071 suspected Covid patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-292038
03-08-2021||Ludhiana||Cholera case reported from Tibba Road in Ludhiana||A one-year-old boy from Tibba Road has tested positive for cholera. The culture report of the boy has also come positive and hence it is a confirmed case of cholera.A Health Department team today visited the area and did a door-to-door survey. Five water samples were collected and people were made aware of necessary precautions to be taken in this regard. Pamphlets and chlorine tablets were distributed.The team told the residents about the causes of cholera, which include unsafe drinking water, eating raw or undercooked seafood, raw fruits and vegetables and unhygienic food or drinks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cholera-case-reported-from-tibba-road-in-ludhiana-292039
03-08-2021||Harshraj Singh
||Drainage Dept starts plugging breach in Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, August 2 Finally, the Drainage Department has started repairing the damaged embankment of the Buddha Nullah near Talwara village. Currently, sandbags in wire crates are being placed at the damaged site of the nullah embankment. Rakesh Kumar, SDO, Drainage Department, said the work is being done on a priority basis and the breach will be plugged completely within two-three days. Cleaning was also being done near Jainpur village. According to villagers, nearly two weeks ago, a portion of the embankment got washed away during heavy rain. However, it was not repaired timely due to shortage of funds with the department concerned. During the rain last week, polluted water entered more fields. The villagers demand proper strengthening of the nullah banks as they claimed the nullah had overflowed in the past too. They blamed the Drainage Department for not cleaning the drain on time. The villagers said they were still waiting for the government’s attention as nobody came to inspect the fields wherein highly polluted water had entered from the breach in the banks of the nullah. Kamal of Bagga Khurd village said, “Chemical-mixed black coloured water has accumulated in my paddy fields. Everybody knows how harmful the water of the Buddha Nullah is. The crops have been submerged in polluted water for a number of days. Assessment of the fields should be done to know how much damage to crops has been done by the polluted water. Moreover, the nullah banks should be strengthened to avoid chances of floods in future.” Satwinder Singh Bittu, whose wife is sarpanch of Bagga Khurd, said, “Nobody from any department concerned or administration visited to inspect the fields wherein the Buddha Nullah’s water damaged the paddy crop and fodder. We want that all the assessments should be done on a priority basis and then compensation should be paid accordingly.” He said, “As the water is not flowing properly due to collection of a huge amount of waste in the nullah near Jainpur, the water of the Buddha Nullah had overflowed, washing away the embankment portion. Along with strengthening the banks, the drain should also be cleaned at the earliest.” Varinder Kumar Sharma, DC, said the water did not remain accumulated in the fields for long period. There is no report of any major damage to crops, nor has there been any very heavy rainfall. Drainage department officials had earlier blamed some persons for excavating soil adjoining the nullah embankment. They said the embankment had got damaged due to the excavation of soil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drainage-dept-starts-plugging-breach-in-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-292040
03-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Seven arrested for immoral trafficking||Ludhiana, August 2The police claimed to have busted a gang on the charge of immoral trafficking with the arrest of seven persons, including four women, from the Ram Nagar locality on Daba Road on Sunday.Among those arrested by SI Manjinder Kaur in a raid conducted on the basis of a tip-off were kingpins of the racket, namely Ankush Verma, a resident of City Garden Colony, and Rajni of Ram Nagar. Another prime accused Abhishek Jalota, a resident of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, managed to escape from the spot.According to the police, the trio was operating a racket of immoral trafficking at the house of Rajni where rooms were also provided by charging Rs 2,000 or more. During the raid, the police seized Rs 15,000 from the place.Others arrested by the police and booked under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Immoral Traffic Act were identified as Rajvir Singh, a resident of Satguru Nagar, Subodh Kumar, a resident of Captain Nagar, Manorama of Daba village, Lovepreet Kaur, a resident of Azad Nagar and Radha of Ram Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-arrested-for-immoral-trafficking-292042
03-08-2021||Manav Mander||Protesting doctors lock Civil Surgeon’s office in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 2As the government has failed to accept demands of protesting doctors, they today locked the Civil Surgeon’s office for the next three days and sat outside it. Hence, no work was carried out today.Meanwhile, the Outpatient Department/In-house Patient Department, works related to Unique Disability Identification, Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana, webinars, video conferences, online consultation and elective surgeries remained suspended at the Civil Hospital.Today, only emergency services, Covid related duties, rape-case examinations and medico-legal cases were attended by doctors at the hospital.The doctors are protesting against the recommendation of the Sixth Pay Commission to reduce non- practicing allowance (NPA) of veterinarians, medicos and allied professionals from 25 to 20 per cent along with delinking it from the basic pay structure.“The Civil Surgeon office has been locked round the clock for the next three days and all routine works at the office will remain suspended. OPDs and other services will also remain suspended,” said Dr Rohit Rampal from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA).“Despite assurances by the Health Minister, nothing concrete was being done to accept our demands. Despite working 24x7 during the peak of Covid, the government has made reductions in our salaries,” Dr Rampal said.Meanwhile, people visiting the hospital and the Civil Surgeon’s office had a tough time in the absence of doctors and other employees. In the previous month also, people faced inconvenience as most of the time doctors were on strike.Manjot Kaur, who had come to collect the death certificate of her father, said upon reaching the Civil Surgeon’s office she saw that the room was locked.“I enquired from some people standing near it and I was told that works had been suspended there. I came here from Samrala and it is difficult to travel in such hot and humid conditions,” she said.Another visitor at the CS office who had come to get some documents related to food license said his work would remain stopped till he gets the documents from the department. “It will cause me huge financial loss,” he said.Meanwhile, a patient from Tajpur Road, who had come to see an orthopaedic surgeon, said he was recommended a surgery but now, there was no doctor to guide him.“I have been told to come again next week,” he said.Patients at the Civil Hospital were seen returning without consulting doctors. Some were talking about coming again tomorrow while others decided either to go to private clinics or nearby medical shop to get medicines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protesting-doctors-lock-civil-surgeons-office-in-ludhiana-292043
03-08-2021||---||Ludhiana MC seizes 125-kg polybags||Ludhiana, August 2The Municipal Corporation (MC) has started a special drive to ensure the implementation of the ban on plastic carry bags in the city.On Monday, a team, led by MC Secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon, recovered 125 kg of carry bags from six persons in the city. The MC imposed challans of about Rs 1 lakh on these violators, most of them dealers. About 85 kg of carry bags were recovered from a dealer at Khud Mohalla.Sekhon said they also conducted raids at Field Ganj, Baba Than Singh Chowk and Sabji Mandi on Chandigarh Road, here. He said the drive would continue in the city in coming days.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had announced to impose a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags from August 1.He said dumping of carry bags leads to choking of sewers and road gullies, resulting in waterlogging in various areas.Later, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal formed a special team to check the sale and use of single-use plastic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-seizes-125-kg-polybags-292046
03-08-2021||---||Ludhiana: Veterinarians lay siege to Dy Director’s office||Ludhiana, August 2Irked by delaying tactics of the government over the issue of reduction of non-practicing allowance (NPA), veterinary doctors laid a siege to the office of the Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, here, on Monday.They held a massive demonstration on the premises of the Deputy Director’s office and expressed anguish amid sloganeering against the government.District president of the Punjab State Veterinary Officer’s Association Chatinder Singh Rai said the demonstration was in response to a joint call given by the Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee, boycotting all types of works and it would be continued till Tuesday.He issued a stern warning that if the Cabinet subcommittee formed by the government to adress the issue did not respond positively to their demands by Tuesday, they will not hesitate to lay siege to the state headquarters of the Director, Animal Husbandry, at Mohali.Deputy Director Dr Paramdeep Singh Walia, Assistant Director Dr Neelam Grover and senior veterinary officers from all tehsil headquarters, besides veterinary officers from the district participated in the sit-in.The gathering was addressed by state general secretary Dr Darshan Kheri, state organising secretary Dr Gagandeep Kaushal, Dr Amanpreet Singh and Dr Parshotam Singh.All kind of veterinary services, including artificial insemination, vaccination, departmental meetings and trainings, except vetro-legal, emergency cases and postmortem duties were suspended during the protest.Medical and veterinary doctors of the state are on a warpath since the past five weeks despite that the government is still playing dilly dallying tactics. However, the public is at the receiving end and facing unnecessary harassment due to the ongoing agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-veterinarians-lay-siege-to-dy-directors-office-292047
03-08-2021||Ludhiana||Man, wife from Gill Colony booked for beating up mother||The police have booked Shubham and his wife Kavita Rani, both residents of Gill Colony, under Sections 323, 324, 341 and 354 of the IPC for alleged assault on Sonu Verma, mother of the former, after the victim intervened in a marital dispute between the couple.In a complaint to the police, Pooja, daughter of the victim, said Shubham and his wife were quarreling over some domestic matter when her mother told them to leave the place and settle the issue in their room.She said the couple went out the next morning. They returned in the evening and bolted the door from inside and beat up her mother. The accused also took away two gold earrings, a gold ring, some silver jewellery and Rs 50,000 with them.In another incident of assault, the police have booked three persons, identified as Laadi, Jaggi, Pala Singh, all residents of Lohara, and their two unidentified accomplices under various sections of the IPC on the complaint of Parminder Singh, a resident of Sukhdev Nagar.The complainant said the accused came to his workshop at Daba on the evening of July 31 and attacked him with an iron rod and a sword. He said the reason behind the attack was a police complaint lodged by him against the accused for a theft which had occurred at his workshop a day before. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-wife-from-gill-colony-booked-for-beating-up-mother-292049
03-08-2021||Ludhiana||Man, wife from Gill Colony booked for beating up mother||The police have booked Shubham and his wife Kavita Rani, both residents of Gill Colony, under Sections 323, 324, 341 and 354 of the IPC for alleged assault on Sonu Verma, mother of the former, after the victim intervened in a marital dispute between the couple.In a complaint to the police, Pooja, daughter of the victim, said Shubham and his wife were quarreling over some domestic matter when her mother told them to leave the place and settle the issue in their room.She said the couple went out the next morning. They returned in the evening and bolted the door from inside and beat up her mother. The accused also took away two gold earrings, a gold ring, some silver jewellery and Rs 50,000 with them.In another incident of assault, the police have booked three persons, identified as Laadi, Jaggi, Pala Singh, all residents of Lohara, and their two unidentified accomplices under various sections of the IPC on the complaint of Parminder Singh, a resident of Sukhdev Nagar.The complainant said the accused came to his workshop at Daba on the evening of July 31 and attacked him with an iron rod and a sword. He said the reason behind the attack was a police complaint lodged by him against the accused for a theft which had occurred at his workshop a day before. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-wife-from-gill-colony-booked-for-beating-up-mother-292049
03-08-2021||Manav Mander
||Providing ‘dignity’ to girls during menstrual cycle||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, August 2 Ensuring dignity to girls during their monthly natural cycle is what these bunch of medicos aim at. Extending a helping hand to girls belonging to weaker section of society, they are distributing ‘dignity kits’ to help maintain menstrual hygiene among needy school girl students.  Under the project ‘One Million’, fifteen medical students from Ludhiana in coordination with Indian Development Foundation (IDF) are distributing ‘dignity kits’ which contain 90 sanitary pads, undergarments, towel, detergent, hand washing soap and a cloth bag. Each kit costs Rs 500 but is given free of cost to the underprivileged girls. The kits are manufactured in Mumbai and are supplied to the place wherever required by IDF.  Dr Rohini Dutta, medical intern at Christian Medical College who is also past president of Asian Medical Students Association (AMSA) India said that the project was to start last year but could not kick start due to pandemic.  “Now that senior classes have started reopening, this was the right opportunity to distribute the kits. In Ludhiana, Bharat Sewak Adarsh Vidyalaya at Moti Nagar was the first school which was chosen to distribute the kits. Schools are selected on the basis of the requirement. Need base analysis is currently being done by us and when more schools will be shortlisted, we will be distributing the kits. Indian Development Foundation raises funds online and the work of distribution is executed by team at district levels,” said Dr Rohini Dutta. “Since all the students have not joined back school so we have given kits to the school administration who will be handing over the same to the parents when they come to deposit fees or fulfil any other school related work. Sangeeta Thapar, a teacher from the school is helping us a lot in this regard in managing and coordinating distribution in the school and arranging awareness session with the girls,” said Dr Dutta.  An awareness session is also conducted in the school to clear any misconception in the mind of girls. At BSA Vidyalaya 266 kits will be distributed, said Dr Sargun Virk also from AMSA India and part of project ‘One Million’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/providing-dignity-to-girls-during-menstrual-cycle-292053
03-08-2021||---||Ex-councillor joins AAP||Ludhiana, August 2 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader from Ludhiana East Daljeet Singh Bhola Grewal welcomed former councillor Ram Chandar Yadav to the party today. Bhola Grewal said former councillor Ram Chandar Yadav joined AAP today as he liked policies of the party. Grewal said people were supporting Aam Aadmi Party after coming to know about works done by Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ex-councillor-joins-aap-292055
03-08-2021||Ludhiana||CT varsity launches book titled ‘Hospitality and tourism industry amid Covid -19 pandemic’||Poster-making contestSocial Science Club of Arya College, Ludhiana, in collaboration with the IQAC organised a poster-making competition as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations. Students displayed their creativity through posters related to diverse themes such as Incredible India, Indian freedom struggle and freedom fighters. Satisha Sharma, secretary, ACMC, appreciated the efforts of students and motivated them to nurture patriotic feelings towards the nation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ct-varsity-launches-book-titled-hospitality-and-tourism-industry-amid-covid-19-pandemic-292057
03-08-2021||---||Ludhiana: DC’s office staff go on pen-down strike again||Ludhiana, August 2Visitors were a harried lot as employees associated with The Punjab State District (DC) Offices Employees Union have gone on a two-day pen-down strike on Monday, blaming the state government for ignoring their demands.They have also announced to take a mass leave on Wednesday to mark their protest against Cabinet Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar.The visitors were forced to return as the employees were not working in the offices today. The employees had earlier also went on a strike due to which many people had faced inconveniences.Gurnam Singh Virk of The Punjab State District (DC) Offices Employees Union said they had gone on strike in the entire state to mark their protest against the state government for reducing posts in the offices.He said they had been demanding from the government to promote current employees and recruit new employees to fill vacant posts.“Instead of hearing our voice, now sanctioned posts are being eliminated. Hence, we have decided to observe a pen-down strike on Monday and Tuesday. On Wednesday, we will go on mass leave as we have planned to stage a protest outside the residence of the Cabinet minister,” he added.Routine works affectedMandi Ahmedgarh/ Raikot / Payal: Routine works remained affected at all offices of the civil administration, including subdivision level, sub-registrars and joint sub-registrars, as activists of the Punjab State District (DC) Office Employees Association shunned work in response to the state-level call to observe a pen-down strike from August 2 and 3 and proceed on a mass leave on Wednesday.The shunned work included work related to the fight against the spread of coronavirus and preparations of the Independence Day celebrations at various levels.Besides observing the pen-down strike on Monday and Tuesday, the activists have threatened to join their counterparts coming from other parts of the state during a scheduled gherao of residence of Revenue Minister Gurpreet Kangar on Wednesday.Having failed to receive any response to their appeals for getting their demands accepted, office-bearers and the activists of the Punjab State District (DC) Offices Employees Association had decided to intensify the stir in a phased manner.Repeal of a decision to abolish 359 posts of senior assistants and clerks due to reorganisation of certain districts, shortage of staff, approval of posts at newly constituted subdivisions, irregular payment of salary, cut in allowances and payment of pending dearness allowance were cited as major long-pending demands of the outfit.Malerkotla district chairman Amrit Pal Singh Pannu said besides observing the pen-down strike on Monday and Tuesday, activists and office-bearers from various units would proceed on a mass leave on Wednesday to gherao the residence of Revenue Minister Gurpreet Kangar in Bathinda.“We have already informed the administration that we will not be responsible if progress of works related to registration of title deeds, issuance of certificates, the fight against spread of coronavirus and preparations for the Independence Day function is affected due to the scheduled strike,” said Amrit Pal Singh Pannu.The protesters regretted that the government had taken no notice of their symbolic and peaceful protests in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-dcs-office-staff-go-on-pen-down-strike-again-292059
03-08-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Schools in Punjab reopen for all classes||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 2Schools in the state were reopened for all classes today as the government further relaxed Covid-19 restrictions in the wake of declining number of cases. Students started coming to schools after a long “forced break” and tried to get back to their routine. Though in some of the schools the attendance was thin as it was the first day, at many other schools, good number of students were seen coming to the schools.The school managements made it clear that parents’ consent was must for students to attend offline classes.At Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Bharat Nagar Chowk, in higher classes, good number of students turned up while in classes VI and VII, the attendance of students was low, but teachers expect that by next week, they will get better response from the students. One of the senior teachers said that they were asking students to get the consent letters signed by the parents and majority of the students were getting it.“All are talking about the third wave now and only the children (up to 18 years) are left, who have to be vaccinated yet. We are trying to get all the precautions of wearing masks, using sanitisers, but we cannot keep a check on them every second”, said the teacher.In many private schools, turn by turn classes are being conducted to avoid rush. Paramjit Kaur, Principal, BCL School Shastri Nagar, said that students in groups to attend classes. From next week, students up to primary level will attend classes. “We are not holding classes for all six days. These can be 2-3 days and slowly, we will increase the working days as per circumstances. As far as online classes are concerned, these will not be stopped. Even if offline classes are started, online classes will go a long way”, said the Principal.Sanjiv Thapar, Principal, Government Senior Secondary Smart School PAU, said, “The students are showing interest in coming to schools. Online classes will be stopped once there will be good attendance in offline classes as children are coming back to their normal lives in these Covid times”.Meanwhile, the students were elated to go to school after a long time. Many students carried their mobile phones with them and clicked the classroom pictures to share with their friends whose schools were yet to be opened. Navpreet, a student of a reputed school in BRS Nagar, said it felt good to wear school dress and attend the class.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schools-in-punjab-reopen-for-all-classes-292061
03-08-2021||---||Road near Jagraon Bridge caves in||Ludhiana, August 2 A portion of the approach road to the railway overbridge (ROB) from Vishwakarma Chowk towards Jagraon Bridge caved in today. It is not yet clear how the soil erosion took place, causing the incident. After getting the information, the MC barricaded the damaged portion of the stretch. The staff started repairing the caved-in portion of the stretch on Monday night. Rakesh Singla, SDO, MC, said, “We have deployed a machine and staff to repair the damaged portion of the stretch. We have also excavated the portion around the cave-in that took place due to soil erosion. The compaction is being done as of now. We will inspect the site once again tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/road-near-jagraon-bridge-caves-in-292065
