04-08-2021||---||Patients suffer as doctors, vets continue strike in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 3Doctors continue with their strike against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission. No work was carried out at Civil Hospital and the Civil Surgeon’s office was also shut by the protesting doctors.Today only emergency services, Covid-related duties, rape case examinations and medico-legal cases were attended to by doctors at Civil Hospital. OPD services, surgeries, meetings and other works related to various government schemes were suspended.Doctors are protesting against the recommendation of the Sixth pay commission to reduce non-practicing allowance (NPA) of veterinarians, medicos and allied professionals from 25 to 20 per cent along with delinking it from basic pay structure.“Despite assurances by the Health Minister, no step is being taken to roll back the cut in the NPA. We are left with no other option but to protest,” said Dr Rohit Rampal from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA).Meanwhile, visitors to both Civil Hospital and the Civil Surgeon’s office had a tough time as no staff was available today as well.Patients were seen waiting outside the OPDs for doctors. Some had come from far-off places and had to return without getting treatment.Similar scenes were observed at the Civil Surgeon’s office as well where no work was carried and visitors had to return without their work being done.Meanwhile, annoyed over the reduction in the NPA, agitating veterinary doctors continued their protest for the second consecutive day in the form of a sit-in at the office of the Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, Ludhiana, today, thereby suspending the work in hospitals and the office as well.The doctors condemned the alleged callous attitude of the government towards their genuine demands with heavy sloganeering against it.District president of the Punjab State Veterinary Officer’s Association Dr Chatinder Singh Rai asserted that the protest would be continued till their demands were met. The call for today’s sit-in was given by the Joint Government Doctors Co-ordination Committee.Besides, deputy director Paramdeep Singh Walia, assistant director Neelam Grover, senior veterinary officers and scores of veterinary officers participated in the protest.Darshan Kheri, state general secretary of the association, also participated in the protest.They said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while attending the state-level sit-in protest at Mohali in July had promised to roll back the cut in the NPA by July 30. But nothing was done till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/patients-suffer-as-doctors-vets-continue-strike-in-ludhiana-292775
04-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Work begins for four, six laning of Ludhiana-Ropar highway||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 3The work has begun for four and six laning of the existing Ludhiana-Ropar national highway 205K, including a spur to Kharar with Ludhiana bypass under the Bharatmala Pariyojana, the government has confirmed.Almost 600 hectares of land across 71 villages has been acquired for the 66-km-long greenfield project, which was approved by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways recently, a senior officer said.Vini Mahajan, Chief Secretary OfficialspeakI have directed the departments concerned and all the Deputy Commissioners to expedite the present pace and ensure time-bound completion of all the major infrastructure development projects in the state. The development of economic corridors has been emphasised under the Bharatmala Pariyojana to give connectivity to economically important production and consumption centres in the country.Sharing details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune, here on Tuesday that the project will cost Rs 1,607.54 crore and it will be executed in two parts under the hybrid annuity model (HAM) mode.While the first component comprises a 37.7-km-long stretch of National Highway-205K, the remaining 28.3-km-long portion, including Ludhiana bypass, will be executed in the second part.Under the HAM mode, 40 per cent of the project cost is provided by the government as construction support during the construction period and the balance 60 per cent is paid as annuity payments over the operations period along with interest thereon to the concessionaire.While the 37.7-km-long first stretch of the greenfield highway will cost Rs 794.49 crore, including Rs 410 crore for acquiring 260 hectares land, the second component of 28.3 km, including Ludhiana bypass, will be constructed at the cost of Rs 858.05 crore, including Rs 461.71 crore for acquiring 337.27 hectares of land.Divulging the status of work, the ADC (General), Rahul Chaba, disclosed that the notification and the compensation award for the majority chunk of land being acquired has already been approved and issued by the competent authority.While the award has also been distributed in almost 46 villages, the distribution is in progress in the rest of 25 villages, which will be completed within this week.He said the final presentation with the Environmental Appraisal Committee (EAC) has been completed for seeking the project’s environmental clearance, which was awaited from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change.The proposal for acquisition of 7.75 hectares of forest land falling in the project site has been submitted to the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) after conducting joint verification for getting the clearance from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF).Chaba revealed that three railway overbridges to be built under the project have also been approved by the Northern Railway.“The plan and profile of the project has been submitted and the alignment has been approved,” shared the ADC (General).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-begins-for-four-six-laning-of-ludhiana-ropar-highway-292776
04-08-2021||---||Rain floods Ludhiana city areas again||Ludhiana, August 3As rain lashed the city on Tuesday, waterlogging occurred in its several parts again while sewers overflowed on Panj Peer Road again.Waterlogging also occurred on Hambran Road, Haibowal, Ferozepur Road, Ludhiana-Delhi road (National highway), Giaspura, and many other parts of the city.It was a harrowing time for commuters to pass through waterlogged roads.To avoid waterlogging on Panj Peer Road, the MC had earlier made a way to drain out water through the Barewal drain but the water accumulated on the stretch again. The waste has also got collected in it.A resident, Pankaj Prabhakar, said: “I have been witnessing the waterlogging problem on Panj Peer Road for a long time. Sewers usually start overflowing on Panj Peer Road during rainy days. Earlier, water used to remain accumulated for even two days after rain. Since the MC made efforts to drain out water from Panj Peer Road into Barewal drain, the water accumulation period has reduced. The accumulated water level was seemingly high today but it got drained out within two-three hours. We want a permanent solution to the problem. At all, we are suffering due to the accumulation of stinking sewer water on the stretch.”MC Superintending Engineer Ravinder Garg said Panj Peer Road was a low-lying area and the water gets drained out within one or two hours on Panj Peer Road now. He said the rainwater from a number of areas was also getting accumulated on the stretch. Efforts were on to resolve the issue.Meanwhile, the work was underway to clean the Buddha Nullah near the New Kundanpuri area in the city. According to the School of Climate Change & Agricultural Meteorology of PAU, Ludhiana, 51 mm was recorded till 2:30 pm today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rain-floods-ludhiana-city-areas-again-292778
04-08-2021||---||Work at Ludhiana DC’s office hit as staff continue stir||Ludhiana, August 3Visitors were a harried lot again as employees at the DC’s office continued their strike on Tuesday.Members of The Punjab State District (DC) Offices Employees Union had gone on a pen-down strike yesterday to mark their protest against the state government for not fulfilling their demands.Employees of the DC office, SDM office and tehsil-level offices are participating in the protest. Thus, works related to property registration, marriage registration, arms licences related and others are getting affected.A resident, Satish Kumar, said: “Common people are forced to make repeated rounds to get their works done at government offices as employees are on strike. The government should take steps for the convenience of people and resolve the issue at the earliest.”President of the union Gurnam Singh Virk said they would take a mass leave on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-at-ludhiana-dcs-office-hit-as-staff-continue-stir-292781
04-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana: Probe begins into fake Aadhaar card racket||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 3After the Ludhiana police busted a fake Aadhaar card racket and arrested three accused, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) taking note of the development launched a separate probe in the matter.An official of the UIDAI told The Tribune that “after learning from media reports that the police have detected an unauthorised Aadhaar enrolment centre registered under the general administration Assam running in Ludhiana, we are in touch with the police authorities and in the process of analysing the incident”.The official said it seemed that the accused had forged the residential proof to get a new Aadhaar card and this sort of process signalled a fraud from the front end only and not from the department end. Let the department probe the matter.On August 1, the police arrested Raj Kumar (48), a resident of New Subash Nagar mohalla, Tibba, Vinod Kumar Bhalla (42) of Tilak Nagar, Rahon road, and Raj Kumar Sunny (35) of Bajra colony. Accused Kuldeep Kumar was yet to be arrested in the case. The police had recovered three laptops, a fingerprint scanning machine, an eye scanning machine, two printers, 16 Aadhaar cards, five PAN cards, five voter cards, nine fingerprints, 36 certificates of Aadhaar enrolment form with stamp of MLA Ludhiana Harish Pushkar and a fake stamp of the MLA.ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, who busted the racket, said, Kuldeep was the key member of the gang and once he was arrested, all layers of the racket could be unfolded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-probe-begins-into-fake-aadhaar-card-racket-292782
04-08-2021||---||Two held with 16 stolen mobile phones||Ludhiana, August 3 The Meharban police busted a gang of robbers and arrested two of its members. The police recovered 16 mobile phones and one Activa scooter from their possession.  The accused have been identified as Murad Ali, alias Nanni, of Gagandeep Colony, and Vinay Kumar Rinku of LIG flats, Chandigarh road. Additional DCP Rupinder Kaur Sra in a statement said the police got secret information that above said persons had looted mobile phones from several residents in the recent past. Accordingly, Meharban SHO Simranjit Kaur laid a naka on Rahon Road and arrested them. During checking mobile phones were recovered from the scooter dicky. ADCP Sra said the police would seek further remand of the accused to recover more stolen mobile phones and to arrest their accomplices. She said the recovered mobile phones would be returned after tracing the original owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-held-with-16-stolen-mobile-phones-292784
04-08-2021||---||4 drunken men attack PCR staff at Urban Estate, Dugri, 2 held||Ludhiana, August 3Four drunken men attacked police control room (PCR) staff at Urban Estate, Dugri and also damaged the PCR vehicle.The accused have been identified as Bobby Singh of Nehri Colony, Dugri, Gurjinder Singh of Daba, Gurpal Singh of New Janta Nagar and Dilbar Singh of Satguru Nagar.Complainant ASI Jagtar Singh in a statement to the police revealed that on the intervening night of August 1 and 2, he along with other policemen was patrolling in Dugri when they noticed a Swift car (PB10FZ 5221) outside Domino’s in which the four men were consuming liquor.“When I confronted them for consuming liquor in the open, they started arguing with me and damaged the windshield of the police vehicle. They also attacked me and tore my uniform,” alleged ASI Jagtar Singh.The ASI said he then called more police force from police station and two accused, namely Bobby and Gurjinder, were arrested, while raids are being conducted to nab the other accused.A case under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (whoever voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 505 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and under the Excise Act has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-drunken-men-attack-pcr-staff-at-urban-estate-dugri-2-held-292760
04-08-2021||---||4 tap water samples from near Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah fail test||Ludhiana, August 3Four MC tap water samples collected from Chandar Nagar and New Chandar Nagar located near the highly polluted Buddha Nullah have failed the laboratory test.These samples were collected by the Health Department on a complaint by AAP leader Keemti Rawal.Out of the four samples, two samples were collected from houses of New Chandar Nagar, one from the Government Primary School of Chandar Nagar and one from Bhola Handloom Store in New Chandar Nagar.As per the report prepared by the Department of Microbiology, PAU, Ludhiana, the water samples were found “bacteriologically not safe”. The coliform organisms were present in all four samples. Faecal coliform/E. coli were detected in the failed water samples.Rawal, who is a resident of New Chandar Nagar and runs the Mahatar Sathi Jagriti Manch (NGO) said, “The Ludhiana MC is supplying water in the areas where the water samples failed the test. Even the sample collected from my house has failed the test.”Meanwhile, Rawal has made a written complaint to the Punjab State Human Rights commission regarding the failed water samples. He demanded from the commission to take the required steps in this regard.Rawal said the people can suffer from diseases as water being supplied by the civic body has failed the test. “The people spend a huge amount of their earnings for the treatment of diseases. I demand action should be initiated against the civic body for supplying unsafe water to people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-tap-water-samples-from-near-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-fail-test-292761
04-08-2021||---||Two test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 3Two persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.54%. Till now 85,169 patients have recovered so far.A total of four patients — two from Ludhiana district and two from other states/districts — tested positive in the last 24 hours.Till date 20,24,290 samples have been taken and reports of all the samples have been received. As many as 19,25,368 samples were found negative.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,309, while 11,613 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,093 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.Samples of 8,015 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Nine Covid patients were admitted to hospitals and three were on ventilator support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-test-positive-in-ludhiana-292763
04-08-2021||---||Seven of gang held by Khanna police in theft cases||Ludhiana, August 3The Khanna police claimed to have arrested seven thieves and recovered Rs 2 lakh, Tata 407 vehicle, and some sharp weapons from them.The accused, who are residents of Ludhiana, have been identified as Raju of Aslam Ganj, Suraj of Dhandari Kalan, Rahim Ali Bunty of Lohara, Moti Rai of Tibba, Mohd Abdul Hussain of Dhandari Kalan and Sanjay and Vinod of Dhandari Kalan.Khanna Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal in a statement issued said on July 20, the gang had stolen shuttering and other goods from Rab Steel Enterprises, Korhi village.Yesterday, the police had got a tip-off that the gang of thieves was heading towards Khanna from the Ludhiana side. Accordingly, the police party laid a trap and intercepted a Tata 407 vehicle, following which they were arrested.The SSP said about five members of the gang were yet to be arrested. After their arrest, the police could recover more stolen goods from the gang.The gang had committed several theft incidents in Khanna district in the past few months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-of-gang-held-by-khanna-police-in-theft-cases-292764
04-08-2021||Ludhiana||PO wanted by Haryana Police held in Ludhiana||The special branch cell of the Ludhiana police nabbed a proclaimed offender (PO) wanted by the Haryana Police.In-charge of the special branch Beant Juneja said on information provided by the SSP, Kaithal, the special Branch arrested PO Harvinder Singh, a resident of Bishanpura in Khanna district.The accused was wanted in a theft case registered against him by the Kaithal police in 2005, inspector Juneja said, adding that the accused was declared a PO on July 16, 2010, and he was absconding since then.Juneja said during the investigation, it had been found that the accused had total six cases of theft registered against him in various districts of Punjab and Haryana. After nabbing Harvinder, he was handed over to the Kaithal police for necessary action.A few days ago, the special branch had also nabbed another proclaimed offender, Raj Kumar of Shimlapuri, wanted by the Kaithal police in a drug case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/po-wanted-by-haryana-police-held-in-ludhiana-292766
04-08-2021||---||1,100-kg plastic bags seized by Ludhiana MC staff||Ludhiana, August 3The Municipal Corporation has intensified its drive against the use and sale of banned plastic carry bags in the city. A team, led by MC Secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon, on Tuesday seized 1,100-kg plastic carry bags. The team had also seized around 125-kg plastic carry bags on Monday.The team leader, Jasdev Singh Sekhon, said they conducted raids at Jawahar Nagar Camp and Sabzi Mandi on Hambran Road today. A total of 11 quintals of plastic carry bags were seized during the raids, while the team imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on seven violators. He said they would continue similar drive in the coming days.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had announced a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags from August 1. MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal then formed a special team to check the sale and use of single-use plastic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-100-kg-plastic-bags-seized-by-ludhiana-mc-staff-292768
04-08-2021||---||3 pvt firm workers robbed of Rs 16.94 lakh at gunpoint near Neelon canal||Ludhiana, August 3Three armed men looted Rs 16.94 lakh from three employees of Sairam Agritech Private Limited, Bathinda.Complainant Neeraj Kumar of Sehajwal village, Ropar, told the Samrala police that today at around 5 am he left home with an amount of Rs 6.54 lakh, he had collected on behalf of the company. He parked his car at his colleague, Talwinder Singh’s, house in Ropar and they left toward Bathinda in Talwinder’s Swift car. He said Talwinder was also carrying Rs 4.10 lakh. Neeraj said on the way company manager Baljit Singh also sat in their car and he was also carrying Rs 6.30 lakh.He said at around 7.15 am, when they reached near Neelon canal, one i10 car rammed into our car. Three armed turbaned men came out of the car and snatched our three bags containing Rs 16.94 lakh at gunpoint. The robbers also took away our mobile phones, he said.The complainant said he could not notice the exact car number but he had rough idea of the car number.DSP Samrala Harvinder Singh said the police were scrutinising CCTV cameras installed in the area to get clue about the robbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-pvt-firm-workers-robbed-of-rs-16-94-lakh-at-gunpoint-near-neelon-canal-292771
04-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||Ludhiana resident gets 7-year jail for abetting wife’s suicide||Ludhiana, August 3Additional Sessions Judge Lukhvinder Kaur Duggal has convicted Rajinder Kumar (33 years) of New Satguru Nagar, Mundian Kalan, Ludhiana, in a suicide case of his wife Hemleen Kaushal, aka Preeti.The woman committed suicide by hanging with a ceiling fan just four years after the marriage leaving behind a son.He was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years along with a fine of Rs 25,000.Additional Public Prosecutor Pooja Singhal said that a case against the accused was registered on Feburary 21, 2016 on the statement of Navdeep, brother of victim at Jamalpur police station. The complainant had stated to the police that the accused used to harass his sister under the influence of liquor and in respect of that many time, panchayati compromise was got effected between them.On 20.2.2016 at about 6 pm, his sister Hemleen informed her mother Raksha through mobile phone that her husband was harassing her under the influence of liquor. After some times, sister-in-law (jethani) of his sister namely Seema Kaushal informed that Preeti had hanged herself and they were taking her to the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-resident-gets-7-year-jail-for-abetting-wifes-suicide-292773
04-08-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Shivam Gupta of Kundan Vidya Mandir tops CBSE Class X exams in Ludhiana district with 99.6% marks||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 3The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has declared Class X results today and most of the students have passed the examinations, scoring good marks.Shivam Gupta of Kundan Vidya Mandir (KVM), here, has topped the district by scoring 99.6 per cent marks. Keen to be a computer engineer from the IIT, Shivam studies on a regular basis but sitting hours are not that prolonged. As his mother says: “He studies in a relaxed manner and remains always focused and dedicated.”His father Deepak Gupta is a businessman while mother Ruchika is a homemaker. The proud mother said: “He loves cricket and plays the game with his friends. Besides, he has recently got the 4th rank in the state in the NTSE. In Ludhiana district, he bagged the top spot.”Shivam said his school principal and teachers were too helpful whenever any kind of assistance was required. His class teacher motivates him to always do better in life.Besides, Harman Khatra and Jhanvi of the KVM school and Sukhmanpreet Kaur from Guru Nanak Public School have scored 99.2 per cent marks in Class X.Jhanvi of Kundan Vidya Mandir is now pursuing Class XI (medical). A resident of Krishna Nagar, she wants to be a surgeon.She says:” We should be consistent and work hard.”Arushi Sharma of the KVM has got 99 per cent marks. With her, Arkita from Jesus Sacred Heart School, South City, has got 99 per cent marks. Arkita is now pursuing Class XI (medical). She wants to be a cardiologist. Her parents are government schoolteachers. She loves listening to music and reading books.Since no board exams were held this year due to Covid-19, the results are compiled by the schools on the basis of performance of students in all internal exams.“Everything was done internally by the schoolteachers. The schools would provide maximum marks to their students. Results are compiled on the basis of those marks,” said the principal of a school, wishing not to be quoted.She added that hardly there would be any student who would not be passed. In fact, all students must have got marks beyond their imagination, said the principal.While there was a improvement in the passing percentage as compared to the last year as over 17,000 students across the country had been placed under the compartment category. These students would appear in an offline exam on August 16, the CBSE said.Since the schools are opened now, many of the students got to know about the results at their schools only. Nitya, a student of Class X, said she had taken the mobile in school and when she got to know that she had scored 87 per cent marks, she immediately texted her parents to break the news since they were not aware about her roll number. The students looked happy and excited after declaration of the results.Ludhiana police chief’s son stars in tricitySanyam Agrawal of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Collegiate Public School, Sector 26, Chandigarh, scored 100 marks in four subjects – English, mathematics, science and social science. His marks in main five subjects are 499 out of 500, which translates to 99.8 per cent. He has scored a 100 per cent in the best of five subjects, which included 100 marks in information technology, an additional subject. He also has a YouTube channel, Learn with Sanyam, having 8,000 subscribers. The son of Rakesh Agrawal, who is the Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, he has taught many unprivileged students from Class VIII. Sanyam has been associated with NGOs that offer help to the needy. He draws inspiration from his father and has his own way of serving the community. Sharing his examination strategy, he said he used to makes his own notes from NCERT books.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shivam-gupta-of-kundan-vidya-mandir-tops-cbse-class-x-exams-in-ludhiana-district-with-99-6-marks-292759
