07-08-2021||Manav Mander||Continue breastfeeding even if Covid positive, say doctors||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 6Unlike the pattern followed during the first wave, where newborns were separated from their mothers if the latter was Covid positive, now doctors opine that the mother and kid should not be separated during the pandemic, even if the mother has caught the infection. All babies should be exclusively breastfed for the first six months, irrespective of Covid status. PrecautionsDiscussing the same during the ongoing breastfeeding week (July 31-August 6), Dr Rajinder Gulati, member of the Indian Paediatric Association, said Coronavirus was usually not transmitted through breast milk. In contrast, the baby would receive antibodies from the mother.“After delivery, even if the mother is Covid positive, the baby and mother should not be separated. All babies should be exclusively breastfed for the first six months and Covid is not transmitted through breast milk,” Dr Gulati said.The lactating mother should wear a mask while nursing the child. She should also keep her hands clean by frequently washing them with soap and water or using sanitiser, he further added.Another neonatal expert said it is breast milk that gives immunity to the baby to fight against infection and should be given to the infants after following every precaution.Dr Ashwani Singhal, Senior Consultant, Department of Neonatology at Sapling Hospital, said breastfeeding the child from birth to one year was beneficial for both mother and the child. A nursing woman is safe from deadly diseases, like breast cancer, while mother’s milk protects the baby from many diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/continue-breastfeeding-even-if-covid-positive-say-doctors-294252
07-08-2021||Sports Correspondent
||Ludhiana beat Fatehgarh Sahib by inning, 104 runs||Ludhiana, August 6 Ludhiana beat Fatehgarh Sahib by an inning and 104 runs in the first league match in group B in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament played at GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road here on Friday. Yesterday, the visitors, in their first innings were bundled out for a paltry total of 59 runs in 45.3 overs and at draw of stumps, Ludhiana were 198 for two after 53 overs. Resuming at overnight score, the hosts declared their first innings at 245 runs without losing any further wicket after 69.3 overs. Last night not out batsmen, Jaiveer Singh and Armaan Walia, completed their centuries. Both of them remained unbeaten chipping in with 108 runs and 101, respectively. Trailing by 186 runs, Fatehgarh Sahib again failed to put any semblance of resistence and their second essay folded at 82 runs in 55.3 overs, thus losing the match hands down. Anmoljit Singh of Ludhiana, who had grabbed five wickets in the first innings, captured three wickets in the second innings while Shabd Tangri claiming four wickets, including a hat-trick. He sent down three overs, gave away just five runs and secured four wickets. Savinay Kakkar got three for 23 in 8.5 overs. As Ludhiana scripted victory by an innings, they earned seven points, including one bonus point. In the next match, scheduled to be played here on August 8 and 9, Ludhiana will take on Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-beat-fatehgarh-sahib-by-inning-104-runs-294253
07-08-2021||---||Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta dedicates indoor stadium, book corner to police families||Ludhiana, August 6Dinkar Gupta, Director General of Police (DGP), Punjab, on Friday dedicated a series of police initiatives under the Ludhiana Commissionerate, including a state-of-the-art indoor sports stadium and a ‘Book Nook’, a modern library space, to police families and their children.Guide book for disposal of unclaimed vehiclesWhile throwing open the indoor stadium-cum-gymnasium, he said soon, civilians would also be able to avail the membership of the stadium. The major objective of the robust sports infrastructure was to further engage cops in sports and fitness activities. The building has been made by the Vardhman Group under CSR.Gupta, accompanied by Ludhiana CP Rakesh Agrawal, also inaugurated a modern library ‘Book Nook’ at Police Lines to promote reading habit among the wards of police personnel. A brainchild of ADCP Zone 1-cum-DCPO Pragya Jain, the project was completed within 72 hours, the DGP added.Gupta also inaugurated a centralised and integrated women and children counselling unit complex at Rishi Nagar here. The complex would accommodate the offices of ACPs and in-charges of women cells of all four zones in the city.Earlier, the women cells were functioning from four zonal offices located at random buildings, which were in dilapidated condition. The renovation work was completed with the efforts of JCP J Elanchezian and DCP Ashwani Kapur.Mobile app for servant, tenant verificationThe DGP on Friday launched a mobile platform for quick and timely verification of servants, tenants and employees by owners. Starting from Friday, landlords would no more require to visit Saanjh Kendras for verification of their servants and tenants as the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police have developed a mobile application for the entire state which will allow the house owners to register for the verification and pay fees using cell phones, said Gupta.The DGP said in case a servant commits a crime and absconds, details submitted during the verification could help the police trace the suspect. CP Rakesh Agrawal said the app had been specially developed keping in view recent thefts committed by servants.The domestic helps got hired without any police verification or local reference. Some of them resort to stealing valuables of their employers and sometimes endangering their lives also, without leaving any trail to follow.A nominal fee of Rs 200 will be charged online from the public for the service of police verification of the servants. Verification of tenants and employees can also be done through it.The app can be downloaded from Google Play Store by searching PPSAANJH.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-dgp-dinkar-gupta-dedicates-indoor-stadium-book-corner-to-police-families-294254
07-08-2021||---||Civic body acts against illegal constructions near Chand Cinema in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 6The Municipal Corporation carried out a drive against slums near Chand Cinema in Ludhiana on Friday.Mohan Singh, Assistant Town Planner (ATP), Zone A, said they had removed 25 shanties (slum dwellings). The civic body had conducted a drive to remove the shanties last month, but these 25 dwellings had come up once again. The MC would set up a waste compactor at the vacated site. An encroachment was also removed from Circular Road, he added.Meanwhile, MC Zone D staff took action against shops being constructed in violation of building by-laws in BRS Nagar. Besides, a shop in a residential area in Ghumar Mandi was also razed, MC officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-acts-against-illegal-constructions-near-chand-cinema-in-ludhiana-294256
07-08-2021||---||Man held for raping 3-yr-old stepdaughter in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 6A man has been arrested for allegedly raping his three-year-old stepdaughter at a migrants’ vehra situated on the Badewal road. The accused has been identified as Rajnish Sahni.The incident occurred late on Thursday evening.Sarabha Nagar SHO Paramdeep Singh said a migrant woman had married Rajnish after the death of her husband. Yesterday, when the couple went to work, their two children, including a three-year-old girl, were alone at home.When the accused returned home, the children were playing outside. He took the girl inside the room and committed the crime. However, other migrants heard the cries of the child. They caught hold of the accused and beat him up and later handed him over to the police.The victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital for treatment. The SHO said the accused was arrested after registering a case against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-for-raping-3-yr-old-stepdaughter-in-ludhiana-294257
07-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||Amid drive against plastic bags, Ludhiana MC Secy transferred||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 6When the Municipal Corporation (MC) was carrying out a special drive against banned plastic carry bags in the city, MC Secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon has been transferred to the MC, Abohar, raising many eyebrows.Sekhon was leading the team that had seized over 1,200 kg of plastic carry bags during raids in two days recently. Now, questions are being raised over transfer of the officer amid the drive.The exact reason behind the transfer was not clear yet. But, a senior Congress leader was unhappy with the campaign, led by Sekhon, sources said.On July 29, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had ordered regarding formation of a 13-member team (to be led by Sekhon) for the prevention of use and sale of single-use plastic. The MC superintendent concerned had further issued the order in this regard on July 30.The date mentioned on the transfer order issued by the Department of Local Government was July 30 but the order was received by the MC office today (August 6) via email, an official said.During the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government in the state, an order was issued that from April 1, 2016, there would be a complete ban on manufacturing, stocking, distribution, reuse, selling and using polythene carry bags and thermocol material that can be used only once. But, the ban was not implemented properly in the city till date.Last month, when a major waterlogging occurred in the city, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had announced to ensure a complete ban on plastic carry bags in the city from August 1 as he blamed improper dumping of such bags for choking the sewer lines and road gullies in the city.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he did not know the reason behind the transfer of the officer. He said the transfer order was issued by the Local Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amid-drive-against-plastic-bags-ludhiana-mc-secy-transferred-294258
07-08-2021||---||Ludhiana: 2 abducted kids recovered from UP, 3 held||Ludhiana, August 6The crime wing of the Ludhiana police recovered two minor children who were kidnapped over a month ago.DCP (Crime) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Sra addressed a press conference in this regard.Dhindsa said on August 5, the police had arrested Raja Ram, alias Raju, a native of UP and at present residing at Dhandari Kalan, his wife Birja Devi, daughter Anjali, alias Puneeta. They were arrested from their native place in UP and the two children, Ravi Kumar (6) and two-and-a-half-year-old Prince Kumar, were recovered. The police handed over the two children to their parents on Friday.The DCP said Raja and his wife wanted boys but the couple had two daughters due to which they kidnapped the two victims.The police said further interrogation of the accused was on to know whether they were involved in any other kidnapping case or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-2-abducted-kids-recovered-from-up-3-held-294259
07-08-2021||---||Covid: One dead, 13 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 6After 18 days, the district reported one death today and the positive cases were also in double digit. Today 13 persons tested positive for Covid.Nine Covid patients were admitted to hospitals, while two were on ventilator support. Today 40 persons were sent for home isolation.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.53%. Till now 85,179 patients have recovered so far.A total of 16 patients — 13 from Ludhiana district and three from other states/districts —tested positive in the last 24 hours.Till date, 20,47,863 samples have been taken and reports of all the samples have been received. As many as 19,48,910 samples were found negative.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,334, while 11,619 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,094 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-one-dead-13-test-positive-in-ludhiana-294262
07-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Hanging fire for decade, southern Ludhiana bypass to be completed soon||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 6Finally, a ray of hope has arisen for the completion of the southern Ludhiana bypass, which was hanging fire for over a decade, if the officials are to be believed.Project reportDate of allotment: January 25, 2010Date of completion: December 31, 2020Bottleneck: Land acquisition and Sirhind canal closureCost of work: Rs328 croreAdministrative approval: Rs449.5 croreTechnical sanction: January 18, 2012Technical sanction amount: Rs411.1 croreTender amount: Rs328.16 croreFunds received by November 2020: Rs383.98 crorePhysical progress: 99 per centTotal expenditure done: Rs393.98 croreThe acquisition of 180 hectares of land, which was required to complete the project, will be completed this month, the government has confirmed.The pending work on the Rs 550-crore greenfield project, which was otherwise 99 per cent complete, was expedited after Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan recently reviewed its progress and instructed the officials concerned to immediately take it up on priority for its early completion. Acting swiftly on the instructions, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma expedited the acquisition proceedings for the remaining land required for the project and removing the bottlenecks, if any, coming in the way.Sharing details, the DC told The Tribune, here on Friday, that the award for acquisition of remaining 129.793 hectares of land spread across 15 villages is pending with the DRO and will be announced by August 15.Divulging the status of the project, ADC (General) Rahul Chaba said a total of 180 hectares of land worth Rs 270 crore is required for the completion of the project, which is in the advanced stage of accomplishment.Having missed several deadlines, the 26-km-long project was allotted on January 25, 2010, on the hybrid annuity model (HAM) mode.The last deadline of the project was December 31, 2020, which was also not met, and in the process the cost of the project has escalated by Rs 221.9 crore, which accounts for almost 68 per cent from the actual work cost of Rs 328 crore fixed in 2010 to present Rs 549.9 crore.Already, 473.773 hectares of land, spread across 15 villages, has been acquired for the project.While no environmental clearance was required, the proposal to acquire 3.49 hectares of forest land falling under the project has already been applied online. “Some observations have been raised and NOCs from the Railways and Irrigation departments were sought, which are being complied with by the DPR consultant,” informed Chaba.A single railway overbridge under the project has been approved by the Northern Railway and the land acquisition cost has been sanctioned as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hanging-fire-for-decade-southern-ludhiana-bypass-to-be-completed-soon-294263
07-08-2021||---||ASI of the Ludhiana police among 3 held with poppy husk||Ludhiana, August 6The Special Task Force (STF) arrested an ASI of the Ludhiana police along with two others and recovered 350 kg of poppy husk from them.The accused have been identified as Daljit Kaur (46), alias Babli, of Bachan Singh Marg, Haibowal, Pawanjit (25), alias Kaka, of Manjit Nagar and ASI Rajinder Singh (53), a resident of the police quarters, at present posted at the Daba police station.STF in-charge Harbans Singh, “Today, a tip-off was received that the ASI along with the two other accused was returning from Madhya Pradesh in a Mahindra Scorpio. Accordingly, our team laid a naka at Dyalpura, near Samrala, where the vehicle was intercepted and 350 kg of poppy husk was recovered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/asi-of-the-ludhiana-police-among-3-held-with-poppy-husk-294264
07-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana cop faces rape allegation||A police post in-charge of the Ludhiana police is facing an allegation of raping a 13-year-old girl. The police have ordered a probe and ADCP Pragya Jain has started investigation in the matter.As per the girl, on July 21 she went to meet her friend in the park from where he took her to the local Civil Hospital. Later, he took her to some hotel where the suspect served her a cold drink laced with sedatives. After drinking the same, she became unconscious. Later, she was raped by him.The next morning, she reached the Civil Hospital where a nurse suggested her to file a police complaint in this regard.“When I went to file a complaint, the ASI in-charge of the police post touched me inappropriately and then took me to some place on the Jassian road where he raped me. Later, he dropped me at an ashram in the city where I stayed for 10 days,” the girl alleged. Recently, she managed to call her parents after which she was taken home and a police complaint was filed. Police Division 2 SHO Satpal said ADCP Pragya Jain was conducting a probe in the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cop-faces-rape-allegation-294284
07-08-2021||---||Sri Aurobindo’s birth anniv celebrated||Ludhiana, August 6Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management organised a seven-day NSS camp on the theme ‘Sri Aurobindo — the divine life’. The camp was organised to celebrate the 150th birth anniversary of Sri Aurobindo. Officiating principal Dr Marinal Gupta motivated students for contributing selflessly to society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sri-aurobindos-birth-anniv-celebrated-294285
07-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Arya College students shine||Saplings plantedLudhiana: Gulzar Group of Institutes organised a plantation drive on its campus to support self-sustained biogas plant. “Students were also given e-sessions for utility and maintenance of the plant. It will also help students have a hands-on learning experience in constructing a mini biogas plant, using locally available material”, said Gurkirat Singh, executive director. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-arya-college-students-shine-294286
07-08-2021||Sunil Kant Munjal||Pre-school’s foundation laid||BCM Kindergarten celebrates teejBCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue, Dugri, virtually celebrated ‘Teeyan Teej Diyan’. Children enjoyed the activity with by dressing up in ethnic attire and savouring kheer and malpuras. They also danced to Punjabi beats and sung songs. The motive of the activity was to instil love for culture in children.MCQ formulation workshop heldDrishti Dr RC Jain Innovative Public School organised a one-day workshop on multiple choice question (MCQ) formulation, conducted by school Principal Gauri Chhabra. Describing the usefulness of MCQs for students, she said such questions help improve memory, understanding, application and analysis in less time. Questions related to each subject were discussed and the doubts of the teachers were also resolved.Plantation drive launchedGreen Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, Ludhiana, launched a week-long plantation drive on its premises. The motive was to foster a culture of responsibility towards nature. Students planted various eco-friendly saplings, like Ashoka, Bonsai, Palm, Neem etc, on the school campus. Chairman Rajesh Rudhra said in every three seconds, forests equals to a football field were being cut down in the world, resulting in increased global warming. So, it was the responsibility of every citizen to plant trees and take care of them.Presentations given onlineJesus’ Sacred Heart School organised class presentations on virtual platform. Students of Grade I exhibited oratory skills on the topic ‘Natural Resources’ through PPTs. Students of Grade IV displayed their knowledge on planetary systems through PPTs on the topic ‘Solar System’.Classes held for peons, sweepersBCM Arya School has arranged special classes to educate its Group D staffers, ie peons, sweepers, lab attendants etc. The staffers are being taught by their colleagues who have good education qualification, under the supervision of teachers. Principal Paramjit Kaur said, “While working for the cause of education, we are also committed to providing the opportunity to the ones who leave no stone unturned in the smooth functioning of the school. We are also running the ‘Each One Teach One’ programme for the past six years as a holiday homework project for the students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pre-schools-foundation-laid-294287
07-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 43-yr-old woman raped, business partner booked||The complainant told the police that she had a partnership with the accused in some business and he used to visit her house frequently to for some bank-related works.A few months ago, he had called her at the house of his friend in Dashmesh Nagar. The accused served her a cold drink laced with some sedatives. After drinking the same, she became unconscious. Later, the accused raped her and also shot a video of the victim in an objectionable state.Recently, Harpreet came to her house. In the presence of her husband, the accused showed her objectionable videos and photos and tried to blackmail her, the woman alleged.She said the accused had demanded money from him and threatened to make her objectionable videos and photos viral on social media if the same was not given to him.Investigating officer Inspector Mandeep Singh said a case of rape was registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to nab him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-43-yr-old-woman-raped-business-partner-booked-294288
07-08-2021||Manav Mander||Mucormycosis patients returning to hospitals with new symptoms||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 6Doctors are now getting patients complaining of pain and numbness over cheeks, dental ache, swelling around eyes, headache, etc, and this is being termed as ‘sequelae’ of mucormycosis.Needs follow-up for a yearThe disease needs follow-up of up to a year. Generally, patients went for CT scan or MRI to confirm that there was no presence of fungus after treatment for a few months. But both these tests are defective in detecting mucormycosis. — Dr Manish Munjal, DMCH, LudhianaUpon surgery, doctors are discovering a hidden mucor, the treatment of which had been left midway by patients. The patients are coming back to doctors after a year and such cases are being reported from Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh.Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, is getting one to two such patients every day. Mucormycosis was a real challenge during the second Covid wave and 599 patients in Punjab were diagnosed with the fungal infection but patients not going for regular follow ups and leaving the treatment midway are now facing the aftermath.“The disease needs long follow-up of up to a year and patients who left the treatment midway are nowin trouble. Generally, patients went for CT scan or MRI to confirm that there was no presence of fungus after treatment for a few months. But both these tests are defective in detecting mucormycosis and only a nasal examination by an ENT expert can confirm it,” said Dr Manish Munjal, head of department of otorhinolaryngology at DMCH.He said most of the patients who were having a ‘sequelae’ of mucormycosis were those who went to private hospitals and did not complete the treatment due to high cost or due to incompetence of the doctor. “Many cases were referred by private hospitals to DMCH, PGI and other government hospitals as mucormycosis is a complex disease and needs regular follow up,” said Dr Munjal.A dentist from the region said he recently got a patient who was complaining of toothache, so the tooth was extracted but after that it came to light that it was infected with mucormycosis.“People are unaware of the fact that treatment of mucormycosis is done free of cost at government hospitals and all the medicine is also given free. The government is providing anti-fungal medicines at the remotest of healthcare centres and surgical interventions at all tertiary care facilities,” added Dr Munjal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mucormycosis-patients-returning-to-hospitals-with-new-symptoms-294143
