08-08-2021||---||Ludhiana lad Keshav Gupta scores 99.94 percentile in JEE-Main||Ludhiana, August 7The city students have excelled in the JEE-Main third session exam results. The National Testing Agency (NTA) had conducted the examination in July and announced the results last evening.Keshav Gupta of Ludhiana has scored 99.94 percentile. He did his Class XII (non-medical) from Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar. Keshav wants to study computer science at an IIT. Currently he is focusing on JEE (Advanced), his mother Sapna Dev Gupta said.Rishi Gandhi has obtained 99.89 percentile in the examination. He did his Class XII (non-medical) from KVM School. “I am preparing for JEE (Advanced) as I aim to study computer science engineering from the IIT-Bombay,” he said.Manas Gupta, who did his Class XII in the non-medical stream from KVM, has scored 99.79 percentile in the exam. He said his full attention is on the upcoming JEE (Advanced) exam. He said, “I want to study computer science or electronics engineering preferably from the IIT-Delhi.”City school student Ishaan Bajaj got 99.73 percentile, Karanraj Mehta 99.57 percentile, Aksh Goyal 99.53 percentile, Loveleen Sachdeva 99.48 percentile, Sehajpreet Singh 99.48 percentile, Vanshika Dhingra 99.46 percentile, Aditya Sharma 99.41, Abhishek Rana 99.37 percentile and Jaskaran Singh 99.32 percentile.Meanwhile, a city lad, Khushang Singla, who did his Class XII from Panchkula, has achieved 99.98 percentile score. His father Ravinder Singla said Khushang wants to study computer science at the IIT-Bombay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-lad-keshav-gupta-scores-99-94-percentile-in-jee-main-294718
08-08-2021||---||Rs 11,494-cr projects to make dist ultra-modern: Chief Secretary||Ludhiana, August 7The Punjab Government has undertaken a slew of major infrastructure development projects worth Rs 11,493.89 crore in Ludhiana district with an aim to transform the industrial hub of the state into a smart and ultra-modern city, said Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan here on Saturday.She was reviewing the progress of major development works during a meeting with the district administration officials.She said a 24x7 surface water supply project is being executed at a cost of Rs 3,383.89 crore, for which the land has been identified and an amount of Rs 38 crore has already been released. Land registration process should be completed by August 31.Mahajan said the land acquisition process for the construction of new national highways — Delhi-Katra expressway, four-laning of Talwandi Bhai to Ferozepur, Ludhiana-Talwandi NH-95, Kharar-Ludhiana and Ladhowal bypass — with a total cost of Rs 5,700 crore should be completed by October 15.The Chief Secretary said in order to give relief to the people from pollution of the Buddha Nullah, a seasonal tributary to the Sutlej flowing through Ludhiana, its rejuvenation at a cost of Rs 650 crore is going on in full swing and the project would be completed by December next year.She said the construction of the international airport at Halwara would be completed by January next to improve the air connectivity of the industrial city, popularly known as Manchester of India, besides bringing investment and jobs for the district.To bolster the industrial sector and create jobs, Mahajan desired that the upcoming hi-tech cycle valley at Dhanansu village should be made fully operational by February next. The valley has already attracted prominent industry players, such as Hero Cycles, Aditya Birla Group and JK Paper Limited. Hero Cycles Limited has already set up their anchor unit with a production capacity of 4 million bicycles per annum, especially e-bikes and premium bikes. Similarly, Aditya Birla Group has proposed to invest around Rs 1,000 crore in the hi-tech valley.The Chief Secretary informed that two new Government Degree Colleges at Burj Hari Singh village in Raikot and the Jamalpur area of Ludhiana city were coming up and both should be ready by October this year. Besides, 35 projects under the Dhandra cluster RURBAN Mission for development of rural areas on the urban fringes with a cost of Rs 100 crore and construction of 17 panchayat ghars in various villages costing Rs 2.34 crore should also be completed by October, she directed.She said the development of 57 village ponds of the district with a cost of Rs 12 crore should also be completed by October.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma apprised the Chief Secretary that the development of 31 ponds has already been completed. Under the smart village campaign, as many as 3,353 development works with a cost of Rs 200 crore are going on in full swing and should also be completed by October. The Chief Secretary said new bus stands are being constructed at Mullanpur Dakha, Raikot and Khanna with a cost of Rs 5 crore, Rs 3.87 crore and Rs 3.73 crore, respectively. The projects for providing water supply and sewerage schemes at Raikot, Samrala and Khanna with a cost of Rs 31 crore, Rs 23 crore and Rs 124 crore, respectively, should be completed by December 31 this year, she asked.Mahajan disclosed that the construction of the much-awaited integrated rail overbridge and rail underbridge project on the Pakhowal road with a cost of Rs 123 crore is going on in full swing and the project would be completed soon. The Chief Secretary expressed satisfaction over the Ludhiana MC generating record revenue from building plans, water charges and property tax, besides floating tenders of development works worth Rs 170 crore.She instructed the district authorities to complete all development projects in a stipulated time frame.24x7 water supply project being executedChief Secretary Vini Mahajan said a 24x7 surface water supply project is being executed at a cost of Rs 3,383.89 crore, for which land has been identified and an amount of Rs38 crore has already been released. Land registration process should be completed by August 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-11-494-cr-projects-to-make-dist-ultra-modern-chief-secretary-294719
08-08-2021||---||Geeta Nagar residents protest against erratic water supply||Ludhiana, August 7Residents of Geeta Nagar in the Gurmail Park area of Ward 14 staged a protest due to the erratic water supply in the area.The residents while carrying buckets gathered in the area to mark their protest against the authorities concerned. They alleged that water was not being supplied properly in the area for the past three days due to which they were forced to face inconvenience.They alleged that they also get contaminated water whenever it is supplied.SAD leader Paramjit Singh said sewers were also lying choked, resulting in sewage overflowing onto streets. He said when they staged the protest today, civic body officials paid attention to the issue.On the other hand, Ward 14 councillor Kuldeep Janda denied the allegations. He claimed that the tube well motor had developed a snag on Friday morning and it was repaired in the evening. There was no water supply problem in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/geeta-nagar-residents-protest-against-erratic-water-supply-294720
08-08-2021||Ludhiana||One dead, 9 +ve in Ludhiana district||Nine persons tested positive for Covid and one death due to the disease was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.53 per cent. Now there are 59 active patients in the district.A total of 14 patients — nine from Ludhiana district and five from other states/districts — tested positive in the last 24 hours. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,343, while 11,624 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,095 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.Till date, a total of 20,55,904 samples have been taken and reports of all samples have been received. As many as 19,56,937 samples were found negative.As many as 8,041 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-dead-9-ve-in-ludhiana-district-294721
08-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Rampur Centre, Amargarh School set up title clash||Ludhiana, August 7Rampur Coaching Centre and Amargarh School in the sub-junior section whereas the Jarkhar Academy and Ghwadi Club in the senior section came out winners in their respective semifinals to assure themselves berths in the title clashes in the Seven-a-Side Mata Gurmit Kaur and Gurinder Pal Singh Waraich Memorial Jarkhar Hockey League being organised at Jarkhar village on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road on Saturday.In the sub-junior category, Amargarh School survived a scare against the Jarkhar Academy before romping home victorious 2-1 to book a place in the final, Harman and Komalpreet struck for the winning side while Manavdeep Singh found the target for the losers.In the second semi-final, Rampur Coaching Centre proved too good for Jatana School as the former wrapped up the issue 4-0. Navjot Singh and Anmoldeep Singh pumped in two goals each to help their side emerge winners.In the senior section, the first semi-final was played between the Jarkhar Academy and Gill Club, Dhamot, in which the former came out triumphant 5-2 whereas in the second semi-final, Gill Club, Ghawadi, defeated Coach Darshan Singh Club of Kila Raipur 4-2 to storm into the final.Olympian Rajinder Singh, chief coach, Hockey Punjab, was the chief guest today. He interacted with players and shared his experiences how to improve the standard of the game. Appreciating organisers of the Jarkhar Academy for their commitment towards the development of hockey, Singh announced that hockey league for sub-junior players would be organised in the state in near future.Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, director, Jarkhar Hockey Academy, thanked Rajinder Singh and other dignitaries for their visit to the village. Sweets were distributed to cheer up the Indian team on winning a bronze medal in Tokyo Olympics.Chief coach with Surjit Hockey Coaching Centre, Jalandhar, Devinder Singh, besides Balwinder Singh, Prof Savinder Singh, Binder Singh (Germany), Jagdev Singh Jarkhar, Dharminder Singh Money, Gurvinder Singh of Kila Raipur, Harkamal Singh and Gursatinder Singh Pargat were among those others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rampur-centre-amargarh-school-set-up-title-clash-294722
08-08-2021||---||Woman alleges police inaction in dowry case||Ludhiana, August 7A woman alleging police inaction in a dowry harassment case has tweeted to Chief Minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh, Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, newly appointed president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee Navjot Singh Sidhu and the adviser to CM Raveen Thukral.The woman, Ria Nanda, tweeted: “Please refer to my complaint number UID 1783316 dated May 16, 2020. I had been mentally, emotionally and physically harassed by my in-laws’ family. My in-laws are having political links with the ruling party so no action has been initiated by the Ludhiana police so far. Please help.”Ria alleged she had been taking rounds of offices of senior police officials and the women police station but no official was dared to register an FIR against her husband and in-laws who had been torturing her for dowry after marriage.“I have visited the women police station several times and every time police officials used to make hollow promises and assured registration of an FIR but nothing happened even after one year. The police talk about justice for women and are establishing help desks at police stations but the ground reality is something different. To get a case registered against accused, one should have political links,” alleged the victim.The woman alleged that she had also sent messages to the Police Commissioner, Ludhiana, about the delay in the registration of an FIR but to no avail. The in-laws of the woman had already told the police that fake allegations were being levelled against them by the woman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-alleges-police-inaction-in-dowry-case-294723
08-08-2021||---||32 doctors awarded degrees||Ludhiana, August 7The Annual Convocation for MBBS batch-2015 and a function ‘Naman-Gratitude to COVID Warriors’ were held at DMC campus today.Vini Mahajan, Chief Secretary of Punjab, was the chief guest on both the occasions. Sunil Kant Munjal, president, and Prem Kumar Gupta, secretary of DMCH Managing Society, Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma and Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal were the guests of honour.Today, 32 medical graduates of batch 2015 were awarded degrees, including two medals and three trophies. The silver medal was given to Dr Dhruvika Tiwari while the gold medal was bagged by Dr Sanchi Baghla, who also got the Best All-Rounder Award.Principal Dr Sandeep Puri read out the college report, stating various activities held in the college for the past one year and academic publications contributed by faculty members.Dr Sandeep Kaushal administered the Hippocratic Oath to the young medicos.Munjal and Gupta congratulated the pass-outs on becoming doctors.Vini Mahajan motivated the students to go beyond their academic pursuits and keep their vision open to observe things around them. She advised them to be extremely humble and sincere to their parents.Earlier, a function ‘Naman-Gratitude to COVID Warriors’ was held to thank all frontline healthcare workers, who worked hard and selflessly during the pandemic.Dr Bishav Mohan, Medical Superintendent of Hero DMC Heart Institute, shared the journey of DMCH in fighting Covid. In his address, he said the recent times were very difficult for the society and it was due to the joint efforts of healthcare workers of various departments that the crucial situation was tackled.He said the Punjab Government and Ludhiana District Administration played a pivotal role in dealing with the crisis.Software launchedChief Secretary Vini Mahajan has stated that 10 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plants and paediatric intensive care units (PICU) had come up in Ludhiana. She launched a software to collect data for surveillance of possible third Covid wave in the district. A similar facility is already available in Mohali and Gurdaspur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/32-doctors-awarded-degrees-294724
08-08-2021||---||Pensioners, staff to hold protests against state government||Ludhiana, August 7The Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners Union has announced to hold protests against the state government for ignoring their demands.A meeting of union members was held today and they expressed disappointment over the state’s Sixth Pay Commission recommendations.They demanded amendment in the pay commission report in view of interest of the employees. They also rejected a government proposal to hike the 15 per cent salary hike offered by a sub-committee.They also demanded regularisation of posts of contractual employees and resumption of old pension schemes. They also sought early release of pending allowances to the employees.They announced that they would stage a tehsil-level protest on August 13 while district-level protest rallies would be held from August 19 to 23. Moreover, the employees would observe a pen-down strike from September 4 to 12, if demands are not met. They have also announced to hold a state-level protest rally on the second day of the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pensioners-staff-to-hold-protests-against-state-government-294725
08-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||Pothole-ridden city roads pose threat to commuters||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 7Five years after Ludhiana’s name was announced to be developed as a smart city, broken roads depict the actual situation in the city.More big potholes have appeared on the roads and internal streets in different parts of the city amid the ongoing rainy season, adding to the woes of commuters.The patchwork to repair the potholes in several areas was not even conducted before the arrival of the monsoon. The MC’s hot-mix plant, wherein material to lay patches is prepared, remains closed during the rainy season. Now, the situation has turned worse on several roads, giving open invitations to mishaps.The potholes on Gill Road, Ishmeet Singh Road, Field Ganj road, Model Town Road, Hambran Road, a stretch along the Buddha Nullah, Dugri Road, Dhandari flyover road, a portion of Elevated Road, Old GT Road, Vishwakarma Chowk to Sherpur Chowk stretch, Focal Point roads and other roads are crying for attention. Even a few potholes appeared on a the recently recarpeted stretch from Jagraon Bridge towards Vishwakarma Chowk. The broken roads are not only posing threat to commuters but also causing damage to vehicles.A teacher from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, located on Gill Road, said: “The main Gill Road has badly broken. Moreover, waterlogging increased the woes of commuters on the stretch.”Rajat Sood, a businessman from the city, said: “If the roads were carpeted or constructed in a good manner, these would not have broken within a short period. The MC should take the matter seriously. The broken roads must be repaired immediately.”Leader of the Opposition in the MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang said: “The potholes are visible everywhere in the city. Accidents are occurring due to broken roads. A girl riding a two-wheeler recently met with a mishap on a potholed road. If the MC can’t ensure patchwork in a right manner during the rainy season, it must take steps to get the potholes filled with cold bitumen, soil or other material to avert mishaps. The Mayor and the MC Commissioner should order officials to get all potholes filled in the next two days.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the MC had started laying patches with cold bitumen on major roads. After rainy days, the hot-mix plant would be made functional and patchwork would be carried out in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pothole-ridden-city-roads-pose-threat-to-commuters-294726
08-08-2021||Ludhiana||Capt, Sidhu to work in tandem, says Tewari||Congress MP Manish Tewari today said the party would work in coordination for a common goal. “There is no doubt that CM Capt Amarinder Singh and PCC president Navjot Sidhu will work together and ensure the return of the party to power in Punjab,” he said during a visit to Ludhiana.On the 18-point charter, he said it was an old practice of the Congress to review the progress of work on election manifesto. “The CM has clarified that most of the things mentioned on the charter have already been completed and the remaining are in the advanced stage of completion,” he said.Addressing a press conference here, he said the BJP’s “arrogance” was responsible for the prolonged parliamentary logjam that threatened to washout an entire session. “Their arrogance is an insult to the parliamentary democracy,” he said.He also warned the Centre against procrastinating the farmers’ stir, saying it could have serious ramifications for not just Punjab, but the entire country. Accusing the Centre of running away from the debate, he said Capt Amarinder had already raised the seriousness of the matter with the central government.He said the Congress and other Opposition parties had been asking the government if it had bought the Pegasus software. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/capt-sidhu-to-work-in-tandem-says-tewari-294728
08-08-2021||Ludhiana||Four phones recovered from jail inmates||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-phones-recovered-from-jail-inmates-294732
