09-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Regular surveys, stricter laws can help bring results||The problem of illegal colonies is grave and it must be addressed at the earliest, otherwise one day Ludhiana will turn into Khori village of Faridabad. The builders paint a rosy picture in the minds of the innocent buyers and dupe them of their hard earned money. It brings double trauma for them -- monetary loss as well as emotional torture of losing one's dream home. Therefore, a strict action against such colonisers is the need of the hour. Surely, they cannot operate without being hand-in-glove with government officials. So, even the role of officials is under the scanner. But, a timely action by the government can save a number of people from this disaster.Bir Devinder Singh BediForm surveillance committeesTo stop the menace of mushrooming of illegal colonies, there is a dire need to take stern action and punish the colonisers severely. There should not be any political patronage to the builders of illegal colonies. A special team, having a retired judge on its panel, must be formed for surveillance on the construction of these colonies. A committee must review the situation in and around the city regularly to keep a check on the mushrooming of such colonies. A phone number must be displayed at various prime places to report the construction of illegal colonies. Citizens must lend their support to the local government to stop such illegal colonies. A case must be filed against those who are constructing illegally.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiPoliticians should adopt honest attitudeYes, investors are taking benefit of the exponentially increasing illegal properties. Basically, politicians are responsible for such types of activities going on around the city. Despite knowing everything about what's going on, they keep their mouths shut and wait for their own share from the mafias. If politicians opt for honest and positive attitude, such activities can easily be curbed. Governments should frame sound policies because at the end, it is the general public which suffers. The court should actively interfere in this matter because it is of general public's interest. Strict punishment policy should be framed by proposing necessary amendments in various laws so that culprits learn a lesson.Ritu PriyaCivic body officials must do duty properlyMushrooming of Illegal colonies continues unabated around the city, essentially due to the negligence of the engineering staff of the Municipal Corporation. These officers do not survey their field enough. Stern action must be taken not only on such colonisers but the already constructed buildings must also be razed and further construction stopped with or without the use of local police. There is a fear that sometimes, these colonisers grease the palms of the officials concerned, as a consequence of which no follow up action is taken. If the corporation staff concerned do their duty fully, illegal colonies cannot crop up in and around the city. Further, those who intend to buy houses must also be educated about the nature of the colonies and some panel action should be taken on them too if they still buy property in an illegal building.Gautam DevZonal teams should inspect sitesIt is a cause of concern that the number of illegal colonies is rising unabated. The Municipal Corporation must form a committee under the chairmanship of the commissioner to keep a check on mushrooming of illegal colonies. The corporation has four zones and each zone must have a team inspecting sites in and around that zone. The Deputy Commissioner must release an advisory to all colonizers not to construct colonies without the required permissions. Those who violate the norms must be punished. A heavy fine should be imposed upon them and their licences must be cancelled. GLADA must check the illegal colonies, along with the corporation.Farzana KhanBook, punish erring developersThe rising urbanisation over the past few years has led to unrestrained construction activities. Sadly, not all such constructions follow laws, leading to a dramatic increase in unauthorised residential colonies in recent years in various parts of the city, especially on the periphery. Deceitful developers and illegal builders even openly advertise their colonies in the media in a bid to befool the gullible public, particularly low-income groups, with false claims and cheap plot offerings. To tackle this menace, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) should take stringent action against developers of illegal and unlicensed colonies that violate the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA) with impunity. Enforcement mechanism of the local development authority must be ramped up and FIRs must be lodged against erring developers.Akash KumarImpose penalty on corrupt colonisersBeing informed citizens, we need to check before investing whether the property is legal or illegal. It will save investors from future complications and will also prevent us from getting trapped into the wrong tactics of properties dealers. The public should not fall for misleading and false claims by the colonisers indulging in corruption. Also, the latter should be fined penalty and should be given punishments.Vinayka SharmaGullible investors being misguided by buildersLudhiana, the so called Manchester of India, is bursting at its seams with a huge population of approximately 18 lakh. Thousands are below the poverty line too. Taking undue advantage of the innocence and ignorance of these people, colonisers and realtors are coming up with illegal residential territories every other day. Most of the times, these colonies lack basic amenities and are not approved by the MC. It seems they are hand-in-glove with the authorities. It is high time the proliferation of these unapproved colonies is checked and exemplary punishment is given to the defaulters.Dr Sunil ChopraPublic should do its dutyWhy do we leave everything for the authorities to do? Illegal colonies do not mushroom in a day. It becomes the prime duty of every citizen to inform the MC if and when new colonies crop up. Through notice boards, banners and loud speakers, the public must be made aware of the status of the colony. Both the seller and the buyer must be heavily fined. Construction should not be allowed to take place and above all, one should not succumb to the pressure of higher ups.Dr Navdeep KaurCarry out regular inspectionsThe mushrooming of illegal colonies continues unabated in and around Ludhiana. To check this menace, the administrative authorities should inspect all areas with a proper strategy, so that strict legal action can be taken against offenders. A survey should be done by the Municipal Corporation to ensure that no one has occupied public property. To curb the menace of illegal colonies, there is a need to abolish corruption.Adish SoodColonisers enjoy politicians’ supportThe prevailing scenario of proliferation of illegal and unlicensed colonies in and around the city has taken an alarming position. In the absence of basic amenities, such as water supply, sewerage, streetlights and sanitation, inhabitants of these colonies face sheer harassment. The unscrupulous developers even advertise their colonies aggressively in print, electronic and social media as they enjoy the patronage and support of political leaders. Money collected from such colonisers is shared at several levels and that is the reason that those who matter in the controlling bodies maintain a silence. Criminal cases should be registered against such colonisers besides imposing heavy penalties on them. The government should take possession of the illegal colonies and ensure development in them, besides recovering regularization fee.RS SEMBHIInstall CCTV cameras, fence at empty landDespite repeated warnings and claims by the government, illegal colonies are increasing day by day. To overcome the situation, the government must allot land with its owners. Moreover, if a portion of land is under the watch of CCTV cameras, illegal colonies can't settle down. The land must be fenced properly so that no trespassing is possible. People must check all papers of the land before buying property. The authorities must take strict action so that the number of illegal colonies could be decreasedSimranjeet KaurCheck sale, purchase of vacant plotsThe initial step to check the expansion of illegal colonies is to cancel the sale and purchase of plots for this purpose. Moreover, the authorities must keep an eye on illegal dealings going on in the area and they must be dealt with sternly.Amarpreet KaurAppoint wardens to keep a check on developersTo reduce the mushrooming of illegal colonies, the government should appoint wardens and ask them to keep a check in their respective wards. Action towards the cause must be taken rapidly and consistently to ensure the word of law comes out strict and the colonisers takes it seriously.Vandita JainResidents, officials must be proactiveThe reasons for mushrooming of illegal colonies are rising demand for affordable housing in the city as a result of migration and lack of vigilance by Municipal Corporation officials. In order to check the menace, both residents and officials need to be proactive. The residents and area councillors should file a complaint if they find out about any illegal colony, while the MC officials should take stringent and on-time action against the builders and investors of such colonies. Also, the government, in order to fulfil demand of affordable housing, should come up with investor-friendly policies and regulations to encourage private investors to comply with these while undertaking construction of such projects.Medha BatraOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONLudhiana district is undergoing a makeover with major infrastructure development projects worth Rs11,494 crore in advanced stage of completion. What else needs to be done to make the industrial capital of the state a better place to live?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/regular-surveys-stricter-laws-can-help-bring-results-295079
09-08-2021||Ludhiana||Neeraj Chopra’s Olympic gold win hailed||Alumni of Satish Chander Dhawan Government College, Ludhiana, were elated at Neeraj Chopra’s gold win at the Tokyo Olympics.Manjeet Sandhu, a retired school principal and alumnus, said the achievement had instilled a new confidence in the youth. This would be a turning point for the athletes of our country, he said.While complementing medal winners Neeraj and Bajrang Punia, another alumnus, Naveen Garewal, said “Bhaala phekna (javelin throw) and wrestling are in our genes,” he commented.Brij Bhushan Goyal, co-ordinator, Alumni Association, said we should not eclipse India’s traditional sports and athletic disciplines in craze for cricket and should utilise our limited resources for promoting traditional games. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/neeraj-chopras-olympic-gold-win-hailed-295071
09-08-2021||Ludhiana||Cricket Tourney: Ludhiana-Mohali tie evenly poised||The second league match in group B in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament being played here at GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road appeared to be an evenly poised one.After containing Ludhiana’s first innings to a small score of 113 runs in 75.2 overs, Mohali too suffered early shocks and were struggling with the score-board reading 32 for four after 20 overs.Batting first, hosts Ludhiana could not put up much resistance and their essay culminated at 113 runs. The only shining patch of the innings was a resolute batting by Savinay Kakkar, who contributed 44 runs after facing 180 balls during his 201 minutes stay at the wicket.For the visitors, Jashandeep Singh took four wickets for 16 runs whereas Namitveer Singh and Kanwardeep Singh scalped two victims each while Guraneh Singh accounted for one wicket. Mohali began its reply on a shaky note, losing the first wicket without opening the account. They went on losing more wickets and were fighting against the wall (32 for 4) when the play was stopped today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cricket-tourney-ludhiana-mohali-tie-evenly-poised-295072
09-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Ludhiana residents hold protest against MC officials||Ludhiana, August 8Residents of street no 7, 8 and 9 in Baba Deep Singh Nagar colony, falling in Zone B, held a protest against officials of the Municipal Corporation and area councillor Kitty Uppal (Ward No 21). They said the officials and the councillor closed their eyes to the perennial problem of overflowing sewage as the sewage accumulates on the road and at times, enters houses and shops in the area.The residents raised slogans and maintained that they were forced to live like animals amid stench of stagnating sewage water all around. “With water accumulating on roads and streets, the colony has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and the residents are exposed to water-borne diseases,” they alleged.Even Congress MLA (from Ludhiana East segment) Sanjay Talwar was not spared with the residents charging him with neglect of the area, .Irate residents served an ultimatum to the MC officials, the councillor and the legislator to redress their grievances without any delay failing which the MLA and the councillor would have to pay a heavy price during the next elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-residents-hold-protest-against-mc-officials-295074
09-08-2021||---||Delhi resident held in Ludhiana for making extortion call in gangster’s name||Ludhiana, August 8The Jagraon police claimed to have solved a case in which a man posing as gangster Sukha Faridkotia had demanded extortion of Rs 5 lakh from a Jagraon-based child specialist, Dr Amit Chakraborti recently.The police had registered an FIR in this regard.The call was made by a Delhi-based man, Inderpal Singh. Inderpal along with his nephew Gurcharan Singh of Jagraon had gone to collect the extortion money but they were nabbed by the police.Jagraon police officials said the Delhi man was an AC mechanic while his nephew was a tailor in Jagraon. Both accused had no notorious past. It was the first time they tried their luck to get extortion money but fell into their own trap.About three weeks ago, a social worker, Kapil Narula, of Jagraon had also received an extortion call and the caller had claimed himself as gangster Sukha Faridkotia and demanded Rs 20 lakh as extortion. The caller had also threatened Narula that if he fails to give money, his children will be killed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delhi-resident-held-in-ludhiana-for-making-extortion-call-in-gangsters-name-295075
09-08-2021||---||Delhi boy ends life in Ludhiana, blames girl||Ludhiana, August 8A 22-year-old Delhi boy committed suicide at his paying guest accommodation at Gurcharan Park on Saturday night. He left behind a suicide note, holding a girl responsible for his death.The deceased has been identified as Mayur Tandon, a resident of Rajiv Nagar, Delhi. Sources said the boy was reportedly in a relationship with a Delhi girl. He took the extreme step after she dumped him.Mayur was on training at some company located in Dugri and had come to Ludhiana about five months ago.PG owner Tarun Talwar stated that Mayur had taken the room on rent. Yesterday, around 8.50 pm, when he went for a round of the PG, he saw the door of Mayur’s room open. He went to check and was shocked to see his body hanging from the ceiling fan.Investigation officer ASI Sukhwinder Singh of Police Division 5 said during the search of the room, a suicide note was recovered in which the deceased had held a girl, a resident of Delhi, responsible for his death. Accordingly, the police have registered an abetment to suicide case against the girl and a probe was on to identify her exact whereabouts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delhi-boy-ends-life-in-ludhiana-blames-girl-295076
09-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||In over two years, STF arrests nine Ludhiana cops with drugs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 8The anti-drug Special Task Force (STF), Ludhiana, has arrested nine police officers of the Ludhiana Commissionerate involved in drug smuggling in the past over two and a half years. Despite the city police launching campaigns against drugs from time to time, its own house needs to be put in order to identify the black sheep.As per the details procured from the STF, the nine arrested police personnel include an SHO-rank officer, Amandeep Singh, who was arrested with heroin in 2019 when he was SHO at Police Division 2.On Friday, the STF had nabbed a serving ASI of the Daba police station, Rajinderpal Singh, along with his sister and one aide, with 350 kg of opium.Whenever any police personnel is arrested in a drugs case, people troll the department on social media.When asked about the involvement of local cops in smuggling, Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said such tainted officials in the department were being dealt with strictly. In his term, he has dismissed 35 cops, who were either involved in drug smuggling, departmental negligence or other crimes. “Now, we are setting up an internal monitoring system to keep a tab over such black sheep and any police official can file a complaint in this regard to a designated senior official. After verifying the facts, strict action will be taken. Name of the cop filing the complaint will be kept a secret,” Agrawal added.More poppy husk, Rs1.60 lakh drug money seized from ASISTF in-charge Harbans Singh said in further probe, 95-kg poppy husk, three luxury cars and Rs1.60 lakh drug money had also been seized from ASI Rajinderpal Singh. Now, the total recovery from him, his sister Daljit and aide Pawanjit has reached to four cars and 445-kg poppy husk.Ludhiana cops nabbed with drugs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/in-over-two-years-stf-arrests-nine-ludhiana-cops-with-drugs-295077
09-08-2021||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Six test positive in Ludhiana||Six persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of patients has reached 97.54 per cent. Now, there are 57 active cases in the district.A total of eight patients (six from Ludhiana district and two from other states/districts) have tested positive in the past 24 hours. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,349 while 11,626 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who succumbed to the virus include 2,095 people from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.Till date, 20,63,746 samples have been taken and all reports have been received, of which 19,64,771 samples were found negative. Today, 7,842 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-six-test-positive-in-ludhiana-295078
09-08-2021||---||3 held for running fake scan centre in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 8A joint team of the Ambala and Ludhiana health officials late on Saturday evening conducted a sting operation at a scanning centre. Surprisingly, no scan machine was found at the centre. Three persons, including a woman, who were said to be running the centre, were minting money by befooling people.On Sunday, the three accused were arrested and an FIR has been registered against them. They were sent to police remand for two days. The accused were identified as Gurnam Kaur from Jaghera village, Lakhwinder Singh from Dehlon and Gurjant Singh from Dharamkot, who is the nephew of Gurnam Kaur.The modus operandi adopted by the accused was that they had a laptop and a recorded video of ultrasound done for sex determination. They would simply put a wire around patient’s abdomen and run the recorded video. Without actually conducting the test, they would tell the gender of the child.An investigation team was formed by Deputy Director, PNDCT, Ambala Health Department, Dr Kulwinder Kaur, on a tip-off. Later, a dummy patient was sent for the test and the accused took the former to Jaghera village and a fake test was conducted. On Saturday evening, the health team raided the centre during which a laptop and other material were seized by the department. A sum of Rs 12,500 given by the dummy patient to the suspects was also seized by the department on the spot. Later in the evening, the police were called on the spot and a complaint was filed.The woman was also involved in a case in which she was duping people by conducting fake ultrasounds in the past. In September 2020, a raid was conducted by a team of the Haryana Health Department during which she was found guilty.Accused sent to two-day police remandOn Sunday, the three accused were arrested and an FIR has been registered against them. They were sent to police remand for two days. The accused were identified as Gurnam Kaur from Jaghera village, Lakhwinder Singh from Dehlon and Gurjant Singh from Dharamkot, who is the nephew of Gurnam Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-held-for-running-fake-scan-centre-in-ludhiana-295065
