10-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana man shoots at wife, mother-in-law||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 10A man shot at his wife and mother-in-law here on Tuesday morning.Neighbours admitted the two to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where their condition is said to be critical.The accused fled the spot after committing the crime.According to information, Jaswinder Singh lived with wife Jaspreet Kaur at Patel Nagar. The two had a fight on Monday night over some issue. Following this, at 6 am on Tuesday he shot at his wife. Then he went to Pratap Nagar and shot at his mother-in-law, Vandana.Hearing the sound of gun shots, neighbours admitted Jaspreet to hospital. Cops patrolling near the place where the mother-in-law was shot at heard the gun shots and rushed Vandana to hospital.According to the police in-charge of the Haibowal, the accused is absconding.Police said it is not clear whether the accused used his licensed weapon. What triggered these events could be known once the injured regained consciousness, they added.The accused is said to be an ex-lecturer at a college, who was currently unemployed.After shooting at his wife and mother-in-law, Jaswinder allegedly went to Nurmahal in Jalandhar where he "shot dead" the alleged paramour of his wife. He had a scuffle with his wife over this issue on Monday night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-man-shoots-at-wife-mother-in-law-295682
10-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Seven-a-side hockey: Rampur Coaching Centre, Jarkhar Academy lift trophies||Ludhiana, August 9Rampur Coaching Centre and Jarkhar Academy emerged champions in the sub-junior and senior sections, respectively, in the Seven-a-Side Mata Gurmit Kaur and Gurinder Pal Singh Waraich Memorial Jarkhar Hockey League organised at Jarkhar village on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road.In the final, Rampur Coaching Centre outwitted Amargarh Hockey Centre, Malerkotla, 4-1 while Jarkhar Hockey Academy beat Gill Club of Ghwadi 8-5 to lift the winners’ trophies in their respective categories.In the sub-junior group, Arshpreet Singh of Rampur Coaching Centre was declared the player of the tournament whereas Navjot Singh of Rampur centre, Angad Singh and Sukhdeep Singh from Amargarh centre while Anupreet Singh of Jarkhar Academy given the best player awards. They were given gift hampers.In the senior section, Sharanpreet Singh of Jarkhar Academy was named the player of the tournament while Pawanpreet Singh (Jarkhar), Ravinder Singh Kala (Ghwadi) and goal keeper Sampooran Singh (Ghwadi) were given the best player awards.Parminder Singh Dhindsa, former finance minister, Punjab, was the chief guest at the prize distribution function. He appreciated members of Mata Sahib Kaur Sports Welfare Trust for providing the best available sports infrastructure and announced a grant of Rs 5 lakh for the development of hockey from the discretionary quota of his father and Rajya Sabha member, Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.Speaking on the occasion, Dhindsa said if his party comes to power, a sports policy, better than that of Haryana, would be framed for the development of sports culture in Punjab. He also urged upon the state government to felicitate Punjab players on the pattern of the neighbouring state by recruiting achievers to gazetted ranks and extend financial rewards.Jagdish Singh Garcha, former Punjab minister, Mann Singh Garcha, Harpreet Singh Garcha, member of SGPC, Manpreet Singh Talwandi, president of the youth wing, SAD, Sukhwant Singh, Sukhdev Singh Chak Kalan, Narinder Pal Singh Sidhu, chairman, Jarkhar Sports Festival, advocate Harkamal Singh, Amrik Singh Minhas, inspector Balbir Singh and sarpanch Balwinder Singh were among those others present.Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, director, Jarkhar Hockey Academy, thanked the chief guest and others for sparing some time and encouraging the budding players. Ravinder Singh Waraich, Dharminder Singh Money and Simran Prabhdeep Kaur, family members of Gurinder Singh Waraich and Mata Gurmit Kaur, were also honoured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-a-side-hockey-rampur-coaching-centre-jarkhar-academy-lift-trophies-295485
10-08-2021||Our Correspondent
||Daun Sahib club win cricket title||Mandi Ahmedgarh, August 9 Cricket teams of the Daun Sahib Cricket Club and Chattewal Cricket Eleven emerged winners and runner-up, respectively, during the Shaheed Amarjit Memorial Day-Night Cricket Tournament that concluded at MGMN Senior Secondary School here today. Rodiwal and Gajjanmajra teams were felicitated for bagging the third position. Deepak Sharma, former councillor, Dr Dipesh Batra, a social activist, and sarpanch Baljit Singh gave away prizes to the winners of the tournament organised by the Gandhi Chowk Welfare Club. Earlier, the event was inaugurated by  Jatinder Sharma Happy. Bhoj Raj Sharma, convener of the event, said 64 teams from various parts of the state and neighbouring states took part in the tournament. Rohit of the winning team was declared the best batsman and Shanty Baba, Kartik Kalyan Ashish of  Daun Sahib were felicitated for their outstanding bowling and fielding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/daun-sahib-club-win-cricket-title-295486
10-08-2021||Sports Correspondent
||Ludhiana beat Mohali in cricket league||Ludhiana, August 9 The two-day league match between Ludhiana and Mohali in group B in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament played today here at GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road ended in a draw, however, on the basis of first innings lead, hosts were declared winners. Yesterday, in reply to Ludhiana’s first innings score of 113 runs, Mohali were 32 for four. Today, the visitors again looked pale shadow of themselves as their first essay culminated at 103 runs in 56.5 overs thus conceding a small but decisive 10-run lead. Manan Sharma top scored as he remained unbeaten on 40 runs, while Vishavjeet Singh and Bikramjeet Singh contributed 16 and 15 runs, respectively. For Ludhiana, Anmoljeet Singh was wrecker-in-chief with figures of 6 for 23 in 23.5 overs. Ludhiana skipper Shabd Tangri gave a matching performance, chipping in with four wickets for 20 runs in 13 overs. In the second innings, Ludhiana were 82 for seven after 55 overs when it was called a day. Jaiveer Singh was the lone fighter, making 47 runs off 146 balls with the help of four boundaries. For the visitors, Jashandeep Singh got three wickets while Kanvarveer Singh took two wickets and Namit Veer capture one wicket. With this win, Ludhiana secured three points to take their tally to 10. In the first match, they had trounced Fatehgarh Sahib by an innings and 104 runs to earn seven points, including one bonus point. The third match will be played on August 11 and 12 at Ropar between Ludhiana and Ropar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-beat-mohali-in-cricket-league-295487
10-08-2021||---||NGOs, employees come in support of Ludhiana MC Secy who was leading drive against poly bags||Ludhiana, August 9To extend their support to MC Secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon, who has been transferred to Abohar amid Municipal Corporation’s drive against plastic carry bags, a large number of city residents, including social activists, members of various NGOs, and Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee members gathered near the Mayor’s Camp Office, Nehru Rose Garden, here.Opposing the transfer order of Sekhon, they sought from the government to disclose the reason behind the decision. They wanted to meet Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu regarding the transfer order but he was unavailable.Also read: 1,100-kg plastic bags seized by Ludhiana MC staffThe MC Secretary was leading the team that had recovered 1,200 kg of plastic carry bags during raids in the city recently. Soon after the action, the MC had received an order regarding the transfer of Sekhon from the MC, Ludhiana, to Abohar.Gursahib Singh from Sikhs for Sikhs, an organisation, said the officer’s appreciable work during the pandemic could not be ignored.“Everyone knows how he ran the sanitisation drive in the city. Moreover, Sekhon was ensuring the cremation of persons who died of Covid-19. Even when families of some persons who died of the virus failed to come forward, Sekhon ensured their last rites too.“Now, Sekhon was leading the team against the banned plastic carry bags when the government issued orders to transfer him from the city. The city needs such officers. We want the government authorities must disclose the reason behind his transfer, otherwise we will oppose the transfer order,” he said.Another NGO representative said: “We have gathered here in support of Sekhon. We want to know the reason behind his transfer. We wanted to meet the Mayor but he was unavailable.”Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee chairman Ashwani Sahota said they had to meet Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu today but he was out of the city. He said they would meet him tomorrow regarding the transfer of the MC official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngos-employees-come-in-support-of-ludhiana-mc-secy-who-was-leading-drive-against-poly-bags-295488
10-08-2021||Ludhiana||Take govt’s achievements to people: NSUI||Asserting that the youth would decide the eventual outcome of the ensuing Assembly poll, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Ludhiana, president Avtish Verma on Sunday exhorted the district cadre to take Capt Amarinder Singh government’s flagship achievements to the grassroots in a mission mode.  Chairing a meeting of the cadre, he lauded state president Akshay Sharma for launching the “NSUI Youth Mission 2022” and asked the district cadre to work in a concerted manner to join maximum youth with the party ahead of the 2022 polls.  On the occasion, the district chief also appointed Gagan Sharma as district vice-president (south).  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/take-govts-achievements-to-people-nsui-295489
10-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Sidhwan Canal waterfront project: Second phase work going on at fast pace — Minister||Ludhiana, August 9Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said today that the work on the second phase of Sidhwan Canal waterfront project was going on at a fast pace and it would come as Diwali gift for residents.During his visit to the site of the Sidhwan Canal waterfront project, he said the first phase of the project (around 1 km length from Ferozepur Road till Ferozepur Railway Line) with a cost of around Rs 4.74 crore had already been completed. He was also accompanied by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, senior Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal, MC Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh, Parminder Singh Soma and others.The minister said the project included development of a green belt, dedicated cycling track, playing zone, dedicated footpath along canal, sitting areas, wall climbing activities, etc.“In the second phase, the canal was being developed on 1.6-km stretch (from Jawaddi Bridge till Dugri Road) at a cost of Rs 5.06 crore. Green belts, dedicated cycle tracks on both sides and a double road along the canal are being developed,” he added.Ashu said it was proposed to develop a waterfront from Dugri Road till Dhuri Line under the 3rd phase of the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sidhwan-canal-waterfront-project-second-phase-work-going-on-at-fast-pace-%E2%80%94-minister-295490
10-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Pensioners flay Punjab Govt’s stubborn attitude||Doraha, August 9The Government Pensioners Association in a meeting presided over by Pawan Kumar Kaushal has condemned stubborn and harsh attitude, especially of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, towards the “genuine” demands of the employees and pensioners. The members collectively viewed that such an obstinate behaviour of the government will prove to be the last nail in the coffin of the present government.Kaushal, while addressing the meeting, said, “In view of the grand rally of Punjab, UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front held at Patiala on July 29, the government immediately summoned leaders of the joint front for a meeting with the cabinet sub-committee on July 30. It seemed that something substantial may come out but due to the absence of the Finance Minister the meeting ended in a fiasco. Another meeting was called on August 3, followed by another on August 4. The outcome of three meetings was no different from the 11 meetings of the Sanyukat Kisan Morcha with the Agriculture Minister on the issue of three agricultural laws. None of the meetings proved to be fruitful.”“Utterly distraught by the non-complying attitude of the government, the joint front on August 7 issued a statement accusing the state government for not acceding to their demands and announced the next action plan for the struggle. Our major demands include favourable amendments in the sixth pay commission, restoration of old pension scheme, release of instalments and arrears of DA, regularisation of the services of temporary employees and enforcement of minimum wage law for honorarium workers,” said Ranjit Singh Tiwana.The Government Pensioners Association of Doraha has decided to take an active part in the struggle against the ongoing dilly-dallying policy of the government at the call of the Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front. The meeting was addressed by Satinder Pal Singh, Kamaljit Doraha, Kamaljit Katana Sahib, Ranjit Singh Tiwana, Balwinder Singh Mangat, Rupinder Singh and Balwinder Singh Bija.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pensioners-flay-punjab-govts-stubborn-attitude-295491
10-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Tree falls on cars near Mint Ghumri Chowk, Model Town||A tree fell on cars parked near Mint Ghumri Chowk, Model Town, here on Monday. Some cars were damaged in the incident. A city resident, Arvind Sharma, who was passing through the area, said, “It seemed the tree in a park had got weakened and fell down today. The tree fell down on parked cars.” An official of the MC’s horticulture wing, Kirpal Singh, said the staff was deployed to clear the damaged tree from the site. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-tree-falls-on-cars-near-mint-ghumri-chowk-model-town-295492
10-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana MC collects record revenue, launches Rs167-cr projects||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 9The Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC) has made a record revenue collection of Rs 24,698.23 crore in the last fiscal 2020-21, which was highest-ever and 41.4 per cent more than Rs 17,467.02 crore earned in 2019-20, the official figures have revealed.Transforming from being the cash-starved to the cash-rich civic body, the state’s biggest MC, both in terms of area and population, has also launched three major smart city projects worth Rs 166.94 crore, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal told The Tribune here on Monday.On being apprised of the development, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, who was here to review the development projects recently, lauded the MC officials for generating a record revenue collection and launching major works to transform Ludhiana into a smart city.Sharing details, the MC Commissioner said the civic body earned Rs 9,714.59 crore from property tax, Rs 8,104.82 crore from water and sewerage charges and Rs 6,878.82 crore from building branch in 2020-21.While the property tax income in the last fiscal was Rs 1,289.5 crore, which accounts for 15.31 per cent, more than Rs 8,425.09 crore earned from this head in 2019-20, the collection of water and sewerage charges in 2020-21 was Rs 3,390.5 crore, accounting for a whopping 71.92 per cent, up and above Rs 4,714.32 crore generated in 2019-20.Similarly, the MC’s income from the building branch in the last fiscal was Rs 2,551.21 crore, accounting for 58.95 per cent, more than Rs 4,327.61 crore earned from this head in 2019-20.The year-wise revenue collection figures for the past six years showed that the civic body collected property tax of Rs 7,824.14 crore in 2018-19, Rs 7,040.7 crore in 2017-18, Rs 6,606.47 crore in 2016-17, Rs 6,944.27 crore in 2015-16 and Rs 5,294.33 crore in 2014-15.From water and sewerage charges, the MC generated Rs 4,232.47 crore in 2018-19, Rs 3,548.59 crore in 2017-18, Rs 3,395.28 crore in 2016-17, Rs 3,602.43 crore in 2015-16 and Rs 4,038.07 crore in 2014-15.The building branch income remained Rs 4,846.73 crore in 2018-19, Rs 3,664.43 crore in 2017-18, Rs 4,082.13 crore in 2016-17, Rs 4,459.85 crore in 2015-16 and Rs 4,781.14 crore in 2014-15.Sabharwal said the major smart city projects launched by the MC included integrated railway overbridges and underbridges on the Pakhowal road at the Ferozepur railway road crossing at Rs 123 crore, safe city project at Rs 35.96 crore and carcass utilisation plant on the design, build, operate, maintain and transfer basis at Rs 7.98 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-collects-record-revenue-launches-rs167-cr-projects-295493
10-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Nigerian woman, taxi driver held with 1.2-kg heroin from GT Road in Doraha||Ludhiana, August 9The Khanna police seized 1.2 kg of heroin from a Swift Dzire taxi (DL-01ZD-1068) coming from the Delhi side and arrested two persons at a police checkpoint in front of a FCI godown on the GT Road in Doraha.Khanna SSP Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the arrested persons were identified as taxi driver Palwinder Singh, resident of Ganesh Nagar Complex, Pandav Nagar police station, New Delhi and a Nigerian women, Princess Chinoye, resident of Adieu Crescent, Ajao Lagos, Nigeria, and presently residing at Uttam Nagar, New Delhi.Grewal said during the questioning of the accused, Chinoye revealed that she had picked up the consignment from Delhi and was going to deliver the same to somebody in Amritsar. The accused confessed that one consignment of heroin had earlier been delivered in Tarn Taran district.A case under Sections 21, 25, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered at the Doraha police station against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nigerian-woman-taxi-driver-held-with-1-2-kg-heroin-from-gt-road-in-doraha-295494
10-08-2021||---||One tests Covid positive in Ludhiana, lowest daily count this year||Ludhiana, August 9Today only one person, the lowest this year, tested positive for Covid. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.54 per cent.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said under the Mission Fateh of the Punjab Government, the number of Covid-19 patients getting cured in Ludhiana district is increasing with each passing day. He said there are 54 active patients in the district at present and 85,201 have recovered so far.Five persons — one from Ludhiana and four from other states/districts — tested positive for Covid in the last 24 hours.Till date, a total of 20,70,127 samples have been taken and reports of all the samples have been received. As many as 19,71,147 samples were found negative. Now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,350, while 11,630 patients belong to other districts/states.Total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,095 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.The samples of 6,381 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-tests-covid-positive-in-ludhiana-lowest-daily-count-this-year-295495
10-08-2021||Our Correspondent||19 booked for ruckus, assault in New Subhash Nagar, Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 9The police have booked 12 persons and their seven unidentified accomplices under Sections 452, 323, 427, 148, 149, 506 and 354 of the IPC for creating a ruckus, alleged assault and causing damage to scooter of Umesh Kumar, a resident of Basti Jodhewal, in New Subhash Nagar.In his complaint, Umesh said he had gone to visit his sister Monika in New Subhash Nagar on the evening of August 6.“Around 9 pm, I saw that a DJ was playing loud music and the accused were performing ‘lewd’ dance outside their house. When I intervened in the matter, they beat me up mercilessly. When I ran inside my sister’s house to escape, the assailants followed me and roughed up my sister. They also damaged my Activa scooter,” he said.The police have booked Ashu, his brothers Sahil and Dulla, Ashu’s mother, all residents of New Subhash Nagar, Waris, his brother Appu of Punjabi Bagh, Pradeep, Sandeep and Nikka, all residents of Tibba Road, Puni Don of Mayapuri, Ravi and Adin, residents of Rishi Nagar, and their unidentified accomplices. Further investigation in the matter was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/19-booked-for-ruckus-assault-in-new-subhash-nagar-ludhiana-295496
10-08-2021||---||Ludhiana: Day after Tajpur Road cave-in, sewer line repaired||Ludhiana, August 9A day after a big portion of Tajpur Road caved in, trapping a commercial vehicle near Amrit Kanda Chowk, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has started the work to repair the damaged sewer line.According to information, the vehicle was parked outside a liquor vend, when the portion of the road caved in.MC Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said a sewer line had got damaged due to which the road portion had caved in.He said the work to replace the damaged sewer line had been completed. A big portion of Ishmeet Singh Road near the Model Town cremation ground had caved-in last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-day-after-tajpur-road-cave-in-sewer-line-repaired-295497
10-08-2021||Ludhiana||3 get 10-year RI in drug cases||The Court of Additional Sessions Judge Lukhvinder Kaur Duggal has convicted Mandeep Singh, alias Deepa, of Aaitiana village, Sudhar, in a narcotics case.He was sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment (RI). The accused was also ordered to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh.The court held that the prosecution had successfully proved the guilt of the accused beyond any doubt. The court also declined the plea of leniency raised by the accused.According to the prosecution, the police had recovered 350 gm of intoxicating powder from the accused. A case against him was registered at the Dakha police station on September 1, 2016.However, during the trial he pleaded innocence and claimed false implication. But after appreciating the evidence on record and convinced with the submissions, it found him guilty.In another case, the Court of Additional Sessions Judge Jarnail Singh has sentenced Sunny Heer (23) and Ramandeep Kumar (21), residents of Banga, falling under SBS Nagar district, to undergo RI for 10 years. They were also ordered to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh each.The police had recovered 320 intoxicating injections from the accused at the local railway station. They failed to show any valid licence or permit to carry the injections.A case against them was registered at the Railway police station on May 10, 2017. After perusing the evidence on record, the court found them guilty. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-get-10-year-ri-in-drug-cases-295498
10-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||Badly damaged Dugri-Dhandra Road stretch in Ludhiana cries for attention||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 9The badly broken stretch of Dugri-Dhandra Road has become a nightmare for commuters amid the rainy season. Shopkeepers said accidents were common on the stretch but the authorities concerned are yet to pay any attention.The shopkeepers on the road wanted that the state government should direct the department concerned to get the road recarpeted/reconstructed with a proper provision of rainwater drainage at the earliest. They also want redressal of issues related to solid waste management on the stretch.Sanjeev Gupta of the Dugri-Dhandra Road Shopkeepers Association said: “The stretch from the police station chowk up to Jain Mandir Chowk on Dugri-Dhandra Road was in a dilapidated condition again. We had sent complaints to the Chief Minister, Punjab, Ludhiana MC and also complained to the PWD regarding the poor condition of the road but to no avail. Accidents usually occur on the stretch. Moreover, no road gullies have been constructed for drainage of rainwater on the stretch.”He said a portion of the road was recarpeted a few months ago, when they raised the matter before the MC but it was broke down within months.Dr Surinder Jindal, who runs a clinic, said: “We face inconveniences due to the poor condition of the road. When vehicles pass, scattered stones on the broken stretch get bounced and hit commuters and doors of shops. Even the glass of my clinic door had broken several times due to the same. We appeal to the authorities concerned to get the road recarpeted in a proper way at the earliest.”The shopkeepers have also demanded redressal of issues related to open dumping of garbage in the area. Mayor Balkar Singh said the road was not under the MC’s jurisdiction. ADC, Urban Development, and ACA, GLADA, Sandeep Kumar said he would check the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/badly-damaged-dugri-dhandra-road-stretch-in-ludhiana-cries-for-attention-295499
10-08-2021||Ludhiana||Traders’ party picks Gurnam Singh Charuni as CM face||A newly launched political outfit of traders — Bharatiya Aarthik Party (BAP) — today extended support to farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, asking him to lead the party in the upcoming Assembly elections under “Mission Punjab 2022”. The traders said Charuni would be their CM face.At a meeting, a group of traders, led by party president Tarun Jain Bawa, said the party would support Charuni in the elections. Charuni, however, said they had not formed a political party yet, but were moving in that direction.He said: “Under ‘Mission Punjab 2022’, we want to introduce honest people in politics by rejecting political parties that have been looting and introducing wrong policies. The traders today extended their support to me for the mission.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traders-party-picks-gurnam-singh-charuni-as-cm-face-295361
