11-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Eatery manager booked for rape||3,900 banned tablets seizedLudhiana: A surprise checking in the Central Jail led to the recovery of 3,900 intoxicating tablets. Jail officials suspected that someone from outside the jail seems to have thrown the packet of the banned medicines. Assistant Jail Superintendent Harminder Singh said on Monday night, jail officials carried out a surprise checking in the jail during which a packet was spotted near the outer wall. When it was checked, intoxicating tablets were seized. The official said it could be possible that some unknown persons had thrown the packet from outside. An inquiry would be initiated to verify if any jail inmate was supposed to get the packet or not. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-eatery-manager-booked-for-rape-296134
11-08-2021||To felicitate the academic achievers of council examinations 2020-21||Academic achievers felicitated||Farewell to Class XII studentsTagore International School, Sahnewal, organised a farewell party for the outgoing students of Class XII. School Managing Director, Principal and staff joined to bid goodbye to the students. The Vice-Principal announced the winners of the titles of Mr and Ms Charming, Mr and Ms Elegant and Mr and Ms Tagore. The students thanked their teachers for their efforts. Director Swati Aneja said, “Not to be dismayed at goodbyes, go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live in the life you have imagined for yourself.”Neeraj Chopra congratulatedThe management, staff and students of Green Grove Public School, Doraha, congratulated Neeraj Chopra on his historic and remarkable win at the Tokyo Olympics. Pridhi, Vidhushi, Mehak, Puneet, Khushman, Akiriti, Harleen and many other students congratulated Neeraj. School President JPS Jolly sent a special message to the Olympian and said it was indeed a proud moment for every Indian. Chairperson Satinderjeet Kaur Jolly, vice-president Navera Jolly and Principal Suzy George too shared their congratulatory messages with students and staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/academic-achievers-felicitated-296133
11-08-2021||CT University collaborated with Harvard Business School online to offer high-impact online courses to its students||CT varsity collaborates with Harvard||Webinar on ‘Coexisting with Covid-19’The S Government College of Science Education and Research, Jagraon, organised a webinar on ‘Coexisting with Covid-19’. Prof Nirmal Singh, vice-director of the college, accorded a warm welcome to the resource person, Manisha Maini, a renowned doctor of the area. Nidhi, NSS programme officer, told participants about the theme. He said it was the need of the hour to organise such programmes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ct-varsity-collaborates-with-harvard-296132
11-08-2021||Ludhiana||Faculty programme on GIS, remote sensing||An online advanced level faculty development programme (FDP) on ‘GIS and remote sensing and its applications’ is being organised at the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC).The programme with applications in the water resources management is being held from August 9 to 13. As many as 200 participants from the entire country, including faculty members, PhD research scholars and officials from academic institutions and industries, are taking part in the five-day online programme.Dr Ravindra K Soni, Director, eGovernance, AICTE, New Delhi, and Prof Prosun Bhattacharya from the KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden, were the guest of honours for the inaugural event.Dr Soni discussed how online faculty development programmes enhance skills and knowledge of the participants remotely during the pandemic.Prof Bhattacharya enlightened the participants with his expertise in the field of groundwater quality research and delivered a lecture on global groundwater research using geospatial technologies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/faculty-programme-on-gis-remote-sensing-296131
11-08-2021||---||Vaccinate farm animals against foot-and-mouth disease: Expert||Ludhiana, August 10Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) caused by a virus is a contagious disease which spreads fast from one animal to another, if any of them at the farm is affected by the same.Loss of animals has been noticed from some areas of the state. Hence, it is important to take precautionary measures.Dr Deepti Narang, HoD, Veterinary Microbiology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, said three types of FMD virus were prevalent — O, A and Asia-1 — among which O was the most prevalent. The virus affects cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats and pigs but severely hits the milch cattle.Hence, it affects dairy farmers economically due to loss of milk production and loss of productive animals.“The current season is heavily prone to the occurrence of such type of infections in the animals due to which it is important to take extra care before and during the rainy season. Vaccination for the FMD must be done to protect the animals and should be done every six months. The vaccine can protect from all three types of the virus,” she said.Biosecurity measures at the farm should be undertaken such as keeping the farm area clean and hygienic. Milking machines, ropes, feed and fodder and other equipment used for sick animals should not be used for other animals at the farm. Animal attendants should take extra hygienic measures after attending the sick animals and should not attend other animals.The farm should be disinfected regularly and overcrowding of animals should be avoided. The farmers could easily identify the sick animals with symptoms such as high fever, vesicles in mouth and foot and excessive salivation. If such signs were seen, the animal should be isolated from the rest. The animals must be tested at laboratories and appropriate treatment from veterinary doctors should be taken to control the disease at the farm. There was a programme of the Central Government to protect animals from the FMD by vaccinating them, so the animals must be vaccinated on a regular basis, Dr Deepti said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccinate-farm-animals-against-foot-and-mouth-disease-expert-296130
11-08-2021||---||Need to inculcate moral, ethical values in youth: SGPC president||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 10Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College held an event today to deliberate upon the status and future of educational institutions. Those present included principals of all schools and colleges run by the SGPC, members of the Dharam Parchar Committee and managers of some gurdwaras.Bibi Jagir Kaur, president of SGPC, focused on the need of consolidating the capabilities and strengths of all educational and religious organisations so that the young generation could be guided, motivated and empowered to excel in their career. She said there was a strong need to inculcate moral and ethical values in the youth to develop a sound society. The SGPC-run institutions had adequate infrastructure and more efforts were being continuously made to further improve the facilities, she added.Harjinder Singh Dhami, Chief Secretary, SGPC, stressed the need to bring about positive attitude in people about Sikh institutions. Appointment letters were given away to newly recruited teachers of schools and colleges.Sukhminder Singh, Secretary Education of SGPC, said the communication gap needed to be improved. “We should work out solutions to increase enrolment in SGPC schools and colleges,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/need-to-inculcate-moral-ethical-values-in-youth-sgpc-president-296129
11-08-2021||Ludhiana||Dr Surjit Patar resents move to set up industrial park near Sutlej and Mattewara Forest||As the government has proposed to set up a modern industrial park near the Sutlej and Mattewara Forest, Padma Shri awardee poet Dr Surjit Patar visited the area and expressed his resentment against the sale of eco-sensitive prime land for industrial growth in the state.During his visit along with social and environmental activists Ranjodh Singh, Manjinder Singh Bawa, advocate JS Sandhu, MS Grewal, Ashwinder Sethi, Karan Jain, Prof Bhupinder Pattar, Rajinder Kaur, Patar met various residents of Sekhewal, Machhian Kalan and Mattewara villages to express solidarity with local residents, who will be badly affected with the decision.Ranjodh said: “The NGT has already earmarked floodplains along river beds to stop further erosion. Moreover, the flora and fauna of the forest will be completely destroyed in the wake of the upcoming textile and dyeing industrial park in the vicinity of the prime natural reserves.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dr-surjit-patar-resents-move-to-set-up-industrial-park-near-sutlej-and-mattewara-forest-296128
11-08-2021||---||No leave for cops till Aug 16: Ludhiana Commissioner of Police||Ludhiana, August 10To strengthen security arrangements ahead of the Independence Day celebrations in the city, Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal has cancelled all leave of police personnel.The CP even asked the entire force not to take even a single leave till August 16. These directions were issued to ensure that the Ludhiana police make enough deployment on city roads and to keep a tab over anti-social elements ahead of Independence Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-leave-for-cops-till-aug-16-ludhiana-commissioner-of-police-296127
11-08-2021||---||Residents question Ludhiana MC’s anti-encroachment drive||Ludhiana, August 10A tense situation developed when a team of MC officials from all zones went to remove encroachments, in the shape of ramps and other structures, outside some houses at Upkar Nagar on Tuesday.Raising questions and opposing the drive, some of the area residents blamed the civic body for ignoring alleged violations at a hotel building in the street. They alleged that the hotel belonged to a councillor, so the civic body failed to take any action in this regard.Meanwhile, the MC staff could remove encroachments outside four to five houses only. After residents’ opposition, the staff also removed an illegal structure outside the hotel.Municipal Town Planner SS Bindra said they took action against the violations as per the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. They would inform the court about the action taken today. As per the information, the hotel owner had paid composition fee earlier. If any complaint was received, they would inspect the building again, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-question-ludhiana-mcs-anti-encroachment-drive-296126
11-08-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Mandi Ahmedgarh: Administration seeks pupils’ Covid testing, parents reluctant||Mandi Ahmedgarh, August 10Authorities of various government and private-aided schools of the region feel sandwiched between parents and senior functionaries of the administration on the issue of getting students tested for Covid.While a substantial number of parents have refused to give consent to get their wards tested for the virus, district authorities want all constituents, including students, teachers and associated staff, to test negative.Heads of various schools of the region have asked students to tell their parents to either get them tested or allow the testing at school.Perusal of a communiqué sent by the Director Education Department (DPI) to schools of the area revealed that all constituents attending schools should be screened to rule out infection. District Education Officers (senior secondary) have been advised to monitor the process of testing by getting at least one per cent of constituents tested in their presence or in the presence of their delegates.“All DEOs will coordinate with government, private-aided and recognised schools and ensure that guidelines on prevention of spread of coronavirus are followed religiously,” reads the concluding paragraph of the letter, signed by the Director. Records about progress of daily testing are to be uploaded on theofficial portal of the Education Department.Investigations further revealed that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has also recommended that PCR or rapid antigen tests should be conducted even in the absence of symptoms of the virus among students and staff of various schools of all levels. Screening in the schools had previously only been recommended if a cluster of cases had been identified.District Education Officer, Malerkotla, Malkit Singh has also written to the District Health Authorities to arrange healthcare teams to conduct tests at all schools falling under his jurisdiction, according to the schedule prepared by block-level officials.However, Maternal and Child Health Officer Dr Mamta Goel said students of various schools visited by their teams were reluctant to get tested. “We have received a request from the principal of a school we visited for testing today to stagger the testing programme as students were not ready to get tested without permission of their parents,” Dr Goel said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mandi-ahmedgarh-administration-seeks-pupils-covid-testing-parents-reluctant-296125
11-08-2021||---||Ludhiana lawyers to abstain from work today||Legal CorrespondentLudhiana, August 10District Bar Association (DBA) president Gurkirpal Singh Gill and secretary Gagan Deep Singh Saini have condemned the registration of an FIR against Abohar Bar Association president, secretary and three other office-bearers on the accusation of abetment to suicide of an employee.Showing solidarity, the DBA has announced to abstain from work on August 11. The Bar leaders would go to Abohar to attend a meeting of Bar association leaders of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-lawyers-to-abstain-from-work-today-296124
11-08-2021||---||Ludhiana Councillor’s spouse held for misbehaviour||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 10The Moti Nagar police have arrested Congress councillor Kitty Uppal’s husband Deepak Uppal for misbehaving with PCR officials.ASI Baldev Singh said he, along with his colleague Ram Kishan, had went to buy ice-cream on the Metro road on the night of August 8. When they reached the spot, Deepak reached there in his Maruti Swift car and asked them about their place of duty.“Deepak was reportedly under the influence of some drugs. When we started making his video, he started an argument and snatched my mobile phone and threw it on the road. Later, we called the Moti Nagar police after which he left the spot,” the official said. The accused was arrested today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-councillors-spouse-held-for-misbehaviour-296123
11-08-2021||---||Gangster brought on production warrant to Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 10The Ludhiana police brought notorious gangster Karanvir, alias Karan Walia, on production warrant from Tihar jail today. He was wanted in some cases of gangwar reported in the city recently.Additional DCP IV Rupinder Kaur Sra, while addressing a press conference, said the gangster’s interrogation had led to the recovery of two illegal .32 bore pistols and arrest of one of his gang members, Jaswinder Singh alias Paras of Gora village near Sidhwan Bet.Sra said in June first week, Karan, along with Raja Bajaj, Mani Lawrence, Paras and other gang members, had brutally beaten up members of an opposing gang and had created law and order situation in the city.Paras, in his interrogation, had revealed that he was in touch with Gurbir alias Guri of Dakha, who was lodged in Nabhajail. Gurbir was running a drug smuggling racket while being in jail and on his directions, Paras had been supplying heroin to his clients.The ADCP said they would apprise the jail authorities of the alleged drug racket so that appropriate action could be taken. Earlier, Raja Bajaj was brought on production warrant from Tihar Jail and Rishab Benipal was brought on production warrant from the Faridkot jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gangster-brought-on-production-warrant-to-ludhiana-296122
11-08-2021||---||After Mayor’s inspection, Ludhiana MC repairs badly broken Gill Road||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 10As commuters had been facing a lot of inconvenience due to water accumulation on the badly broken Gill Road stretch, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Tuesday inspected the road.He directed officials to get the road repaired immediately.Even days after the recent rainfall, the Municipal Corporation (MC) had failed to get accumulated water removed from Gill Road (Malerkotla Road) near Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College in Ludhiana, leaving the commuters in trouble. Traffic jams were also being witnessed on the waterlogged stretch that is in a shambles.A resident of the Gill Road area, Sikandar Singh, said: “Waterlogging is a major problem on the road due to which we had suffered a lot. Two-wheeler riders generally lose balance on the potholed stretch. The broken road is damaging vehicles too. The MC must install a drainage system to avoid waterlogging and afterwards, the road should be reconstructed.”The Mayor said: “Even after six days, water was still accumulated on the stretch. I had visited the site yesterday and directed officials to take immediate steps to get the water removed and repair the road. Later, we contacted the principal of GNDEC so that required steps be taken to get the accumulated water removed.”“The repair work was carried out last night when the traffic movement was slow. I visited the road again early this morning. Except for one pothole, the road had been repaired. I also directed the officials to get the remaining pothole repaired also,” he said.The Mayor said tenders for recarpeting of the road had already been floated and the work would be completed by December. The waterlogging issue would also be resolved.Sandhu said they would get a stormwater drainage system installed to resolve the chronic waterlogging problem on the stretch.People from various villages and areas located on Malerkotla Road would get a relief from the three-decades old waterlogging problem after the installation of the drainage system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-mayors-inspection-ludhiana-mc-repairs-badly-broken-gill-road-296120
11-08-2021||---||Government orders release of Rs 50K to make direct way to Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar’s home in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 10Despite repeated demands, the government has failed to ensure the repair of the ancestral house of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar at Mohalla Naughara in Ludhiana. Members of All-India Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust have also blamed the authorities concerned for delaying the process of making a direct way from Chaura Bazar to the martyr’s ancestral home.Responding to the MC’s letter in this regard, the Department of Local Government on Tuesday asked the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) to release an amount of Rs 50,000 to the Department of Economics and Sociology, PAU, Ludhiana, to conduct a social impact assessment for acquiring 40 sq yards of land required to make a direct way to the martyr’s house from Chaura Bazar. Besides, a memorial would also be constructed by the LIT.Tribhuvan Thapar, a member of the trust, said, “We have been making repeated requests to the authorities concerned to ensure repair of the martyr’s house but to no avail. The government must direct the authorities to ensure repair of the house and beautification of the area at the earliest.”He further demanded that the process to make a direct way to the birthplace of the martyr should be expedited. He also demanded that a security guard be deployed outside the martyr’s house so that nobody could dump garbage there. Notably, the trust members have been complaining about unsanitary conditions near the martyr’s house for a long time but the civic body had failed to take necessary action to date.“We have also deployed workers on our own to carry out repairs outside the house,” said Tribhuvan Thapar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/government-orders-release-of-rs-50k-to-make-direct-way-to-shaheed-sukhdev-thapars-home-in-ludhiana-296118
11-08-2021||---||20 students among 29 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 10After only one person testing positive for Covid yesterday, today 29 tested positive, while no death due to the disease was reported.With the reopening of schools, Covid cases from schools have started emerging once again. Today 20 students tested positive from two government schools.Eight students tested positive from Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, and 12 students tested positive from Government High School, Kailash Nagar.Both the schools have been shut till August 24 and contact tracing of the positive patients is being done. Medical teams have been appointed and tests of both students and teachers are being done. The Health Department has collected samples from 50-60 government schools and the drive will continue in the coming days as well.There are 69 active patients in the district at present.Till date, a total of 20,78,593 samples have been taken and the reports of all have been received. As many as 19,79,596 samples were found negative.Now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,367, while 11,630 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,095 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.Samples of 8,466 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-students-among-29-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-296116
11-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Man shoots at wife, her mother, kills paramour in Haibowal||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 10A man, Jaswinder Singh Virdi (37), shot at his wife Jaspreet Kaur, alias Shivani (34), and his mother-in-law Vandana (55) in Haibowal early this morning.Both have been admitted to Dayanand Medical College by neighbours where their condition is said to be critical. The house of the mother-in-law of Jaswinder is at Hakikat Nagar, while he resides at Pavitar Nagar, Haibowal.After firing, he went to Nurmahal in Jalandhar district where he shot dead 22-year-old Rohit with whom he suspected illicit affair of his wife. Jaswinder was captured in the CCTV cameras while he was fleeing on his Activa scooter (PB08CW1923).Assaulter is joblessWhen Jaswinder Singh Virdi lived in Jalandhar, he used to work for a college by making students take admission in it. He got unemployed after shifting to Ludhiana during lockdown. His wife was working at some jeweller shop.Neeraj Chaudhary, SHO, Haibowal police station, said Jaswinder had been living with his wife Jaspreet at Pavitar Nagar in a rented accommodation for around eight months along with their son Damanjot (15) and daughter Jasleen Virdi (13). The two had a fight on Monday night over some issue. After this, at 6 in the morning, he first shot at his wife from a .32-bore weapon and a bullet pierced her cheeks.Then he went to Hakikat Nagar and shot at his mother-in-law Vandana, who owns a vend there.As per the statement of Jaspreet’s sister, Jaswinder was suspecting illicit affair of his wife with Rohit of Nurmahal and Jaspreet’s mother was aware of the same, due to which he planned to kill them all.The SHO said before shifting to Ludhiana, the couple lived in Lohara, Jalandhar, and they had family relationship with Rohit and his family.Additional DCP Sameer Verma said, “Illicit relationship could be the cause of the crime but exact cause will be known once the injured women regain consciousness and record their statements.”.The police suspect that an illegal weapon could be used in the crime.Also read: 22-yr-old shot in Nurmahal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-shoots-at-wife-her-mother-kills-paramour-in-haibowal-296115
11-08-2021||---||20 students from 2 government schools in Ludhiana test positive for Covid||Ludhiana, August 10Days after re-opening of schools in Punjab, 20 students from two government schools in Ludhiana have tested positive for Covid-19.While 12 students are from GHS in Kailash Nagar, eight studied in GSSS in Basti Jodhewal.Read alsoDistrict Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma has ordered immediate closure of both schools till August 24.Testing of all students and teachers in both the schools has also been ordered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-students-from-2-government-schools-in-ludhiana-test-positive-for-covid-295750
