12-08-2021||---||10 injured as building collapses in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 12At least 10 people, including 2 children, were injured as a building collapsed on RK Road here on Thursday.Seven seriously injured persons were admitted to hospital.The building was sealed by the MC recently but the seal was later broken by the owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-injured-as-building-collapses-in-ludhiana-296661
12-08-2021||---||Samples of 1,500 students to be collected in Ludhiana daily||Ludhiana, August 11A day after 20 students from two schools in Ludhiana tested positive for Covid, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday took stock of the sampling drive in Government Senior Secondary School, Cemetery road, and directed the Health Department to further augment the testing drive of the school students and ensure taking 1,500 samples daily.Sharma asked the Health Department to further increase the number of sampling teams from 250 to 300 to ensure aggressive sampling, early detecting, containing and treating the potential Covid cases.He asked the officials to instantly upload the data of the positive cases in the Cova app, which would further help the rapid response teams (RRT) in collecting the samples of their family members and others at the earliest and assist the administration to curb the spread of the virus.He ordered the District Education Officers (DEOs) to ensure that only fully vaccinated staff teaches the students in schools besides strictly observing of wearing masks and social distancing by all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/samples-of-1-500-students-to-be-collected-in-ludhiana-daily-296539
12-08-2021||---||22 fresh cases in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 11Today 22 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district.Now, the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,401, while 11,632 patients belong to other districts or states. There are 99 active cases in the city at present.Eight students of Government Senior Secondary School of Basti Jodhewal and 12 students of Government High School of Kailash Nagar had tested positive for the virus in the district on Tuesday. Both, schools have been shut till August 24. The Health Department collected samples of students for Covid test today also. The department will receive the test reports tomorrow.Samples of 9,280 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.According to the Health Department, a total of 20,87,873 samples have been taken and the reports of all of them have been received. As many as 19,88,840 samples were found negative.The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,095 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said today that after a gap of two months, Ludhiana has reported Covid cases in double digits in the last two days, which shows a slight surge in the cases.Addressing the Ludhiana residents in his weekly Facebook live session on the official page of the DPRO Ludhiana, the Deputy Commissioner said, “We all need to remain cautious as the cases have been reported from the two schools, which is a matter of concern.”He said after the surfacing of the cases, the administration has been conducting a special sampling drive in 12 mohallas of Ludhiana to which the infected students belong and action is being taken accordingly.He informed that the district administration is committed to tackling any kind of exigency in view of any surge in Covid cases and health infrastructure has been ramped up in Ludhiana. MC conducts disinfectant spray at schoolsAfter 20 students of two schools tested positive for Covid-19, the MC has started sanitisation drive in the schools. Superintending Engineer, MC, Rajinder Singh said they sprayed disinfectant at Government Senior Secondary School of Basti Jodhewal and two schools in the Subash Nagar area. The drive was carried out on Tuesday also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/22-fresh-cases-in-ludhiana-district-296540
12-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Work begins for six-laning of Ludhiana-Bathinda highway||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 11The drive from Ludhiana to Bathinda will soon be smoother and faster as the work has begun to six-lane the 75.543-km-long national highway 754-AD at the cost of Rs 1,716.17 crore, the government has confirmed.The part of Ludhiana-Ajmer economic corridor (EC-8) will be completed in 24 months under the Bharatmala Pariyojana Phase-I, the officials have said.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan reviewed the progress of the project at a high-level meeting held here recently and instructed the officials concerned to expedite the present pace for ensuring its completion within the stipulated time frame.Sharing details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune, here on Tuesday that the acquisition of 525.19 hectares of land is in the advanced stage of completion and the pending award for 17 villages will be announced by August 15.Divulging the status of the greenfield project, ADC (General) Rahul Chaba said the widening and strengthening of the highway is being undertaken by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in two parts under the hybrid annuity model (HAM) mode.The first component of the NH-754-AD will comprise 30.3 km, while the second part will run into a 45.243-km stretch.While 13 bids were received for the package 1 on the project’s southern-end, 12 bidders have evinced interest to construct package 2 on the northern-end.“Following the technical evaluation of the bids received for both packages, the financial bids of the technically qualified bidders will be opened to allot the work to the lowest bidder,” said a senior NHAI officer.While 201.67 hectares was acquired for the first stretch, the second leg will require 323.52 hectares of land spread across 36 villages in different parts of the district.The civil cost of the project has been estimated at 1,596.3 crore — Rs 639.07 crore for first part and Rs 957.23 crore for the second component — while Rs 119.87 crore has been earmarked for the land acquisition.The 30.3-km-long first package of this six-lane access controlled greenfield highway will begin from junction with the Amritsar-Bathinda NH-754-A near Tallewal village at Rampura Phul in Bathinda, while the second 45.243-km stretch from junction with the Moga-Barnala NH-703 will connect with the Delhi-Katra expressway (NE-5) at Ballowal village in Ludhiana.The new Ludhiana-Bathinda expressway will pass through 36 villages in three districts of Ludhiana under Ludhiana and Rajkot tehsils, Barnala under Barnala and Tapa tehsils, and Rampura Phul tehsil in Bathinda.The ADC (General) revealed that the proposal for seeking approval to acquire 5.96 hectares of forest land falling under the project has been submitted to the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) after conducting a joint verification and the same will be accorded by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF). “The plan and profile of the project stands submitted,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-begins-for-six-laning-of-ludhiana-bathinda-highway-296541
12-08-2021||Lovleen Bains||Regular classes fail to start in Ludhiana colleges||Sahnewal, August 11Regular teaching, which was to commence from today as per the guidelines issued by Panjab University, could not be initiated in most of the colleges. Reason: Colleges were given just two days to admit the students to the next class and had to begin teaching work from the third day itself.Avinash Kaur, officiating principal of Gobind National College, Narangwal, said “We had a break from August 1-8. It was on August 9 that regular admissions for ongoing classes began. The students had no idea of the admission dates and the colleges had a tough time informing them. The speed of admissions in all educational institutions is slow. The students are either being informed telephonically or through Whatsapp groups to get admitted as early as possible. But it is practically impossible to begin teaching from the third day of admissions. In rural colleges like ours, it is all the more difficult to get in touch with students sitting in the rural exterior.”Kuldeep Kaur Dhaliwal, principal of Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Kottan, shared, “The university has given us just two days to admit regular students to the next class. This is too short a time. Even if we keep informing students each day, they will take another week or so to come and get admitted and the regular classes may commence in an effective way in no case before a week’s time. We are somehow trying to tie up with the students to appraise them of the admission dates and commencement of their classes. Contacting each and every student personally takes time. In any case, more time is required to admit students otherwise there is no fun in beginning classes. The teaching days of the semester can be fulfilled easily since the exams would be held in December.”“The teachers too are in a fix. The ones who are admitted, though less in number, are enquiring about the commencement of classes. But if the teachers begin teaching today, those admitted afterwards shall be at a loss or the teacher would have to keep repeating the same thing again and again to accommodate the newcomers. The university should have given at least a week’s time to the colleges to admit students and begin with teaching,” opined a college professor.Sunita of Sahnewal said “I have to take admission in BA final year. Yesterday, I got a call for admission from my college. I was also informed that my classes shall begin from August 11. I did not know that admissions and classes would begin almost at the same time. I need at least a week to arrange the fee since my family is going through a severe financial crisis. I am worried that I will have to miss my classes till I am admitted. It being the final year, each and every day of study counts”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/regular-classes-fail-to-start-in-ludhiana-colleges-296542
12-08-2021||---||Ludhiana MC demolishes illegal shed on Malhar Road||Ludhiana, August 11The Municipal Corporation on Wednesday demolished an illegal shed on Malhar Road. Assistant Town Planner (ATP) MS Bedi said the property owner was getting some shops constructed on the road without any permission or getting change of land use certificate from the civic body.The property owner had not got the building map approved from the department. As the construction work was going on illegally, they demolished the structure on the stretch today, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-demolishes-illegal-shed-on-malhar-road-296543
12-08-2021||Ludhiana||Security up in Ludhiana   ahead of I-Day||Ahead of the Independence Day celebrations on August 15, the Ludhiana police increased checking of vehicles in the city. Senior police officials are also accompanying police personnel at nakas to supervise the drive.Joint Commissioner of Police (City) Deepak Pareek said SHOs of all police stations had been told to stay alert and keep a tab over anti-social elements in their areas.“The SHOs are installing nakas and conducting checking of vehicles. Suspicious persons are also being questioned. The police force will ensure safe celebrations of Independence Day in the city,” he said.The JCP (City) said teams of dog squad and bomb squad have also been conducting checkings at public places such as bus stand, railway station and crowded places.He said PCR vehicles were also conducting 24x7 patrolling in the city to ensure safety of residents.Pareek said police personnel in civvies would also conduct foot and vehicle patrolling to identify miscreants. The police also advised residents to inform the police if they notice anything suspicious.Sources said the police also increased security at RSS shakhas to ensure that no untoward incident takes place in the city. Earlier, some armed miscreants had opened fire outside RSS shakhas and even a RSS leader was killed in Kailash Nagar. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/security-up-in-ludhiana-ahead-of-i-day-296544
12-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana restrict Ropar to 116 runs in 1st innings||Ludhiana restricted Ropar to a small total of 116 runs in the first innings in the third group B match in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament being played at Government College ground, Ropar, on Wednesday.Batting first, hosts Ropar appeared clueless and were bowled out in 63 overs. Except for Jeevanjot Singh, Bhavyam Jain and Arshjot Singh, no other batsman looked comfortable. Jeevanjot contributed 39 runs while skipper Bhavyam scored 16.For Ludhiana, Anmoljit Singh and Shabd Tangri were the main wicket takers. Singh sent down 20 overs, gave away 26 runs and scalped four victims whereas Shabd captured three wickets in 14 overs after conceding only 11 runs.Ludhiana began its reply on a positive note, posting 23 runs on the board in 12 overs without losing a wicket. Soham Baggan and Jaiveer Singh were at crease with 12 and 10 runs against their names. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-restrict-ropar-to-116-runs-in-1st-innings-296545
12-08-2021||---||Husband, in-laws booked by Samrala police for assaulting woman over dowry||Ludhiana, August 11A woman was brutally attacked by her husband and in-laws as she failed to fulfil their demands for dowry at Samrala in Khanna.The Samrala police registered an attempt-to-murder case against her husband Gurmel Singh, Gurmel’s mother Davinder Kaur, Amandeep Singh and Navsat Singh.The complainant, Ramandeep, said since the first day of her marriage, her husband Gurmel Singh and in-laws had been mentally and physically torturing her for dowry. On August 4, her in-laws abused her badly and the next day they started beating her up.“Later, I called my mother and when we were about to leave the house, they started thrashing me. The accused attacked me with a sharp weapon and I suffered an injury on my hand,” the woman alleged.Investigating officer ASI Jagjit Singh said a case of attempt to murder and a dowry harassment had been registered against the accused and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/husband-in-laws-booked-by-samrala-police-for-assaulting-woman-over-dowry-296546
12-08-2021||Ludhiana||LDCA cricket trials tomorrow||The Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) will organise selection trials at GRD Global Education Institute ground here to select the district senior team on August 13 at 9 am. Anupam Kumaria, honorary general secretary, LDCA, said selected cricketers would attend a training session at the same venue prior to the finalisation of the district senior team to take part in the Punjab State Inter-District Cricket Tournament for Katoch Shield from August 19 onwards. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ldca-cricket-trials-tomorrow-296547
12-08-2021||---||Covid cases in Ludhiana's govt schools spread panic among parents||Ludhiana, August 11The reporting of Covid-19 cases in two government schools on Tuesday led to panic among school managements, staff, students and their parents. While parents had made up their mind to send the wards to schools but the fresh cases of Covid has again put a question mark. Many parents have again stopped sending their kids to schools.Vedika (name changed), a mother, whose son is in Sacred Heart School, said she had sent her ward to school for two days as limited students were called. “But I am being told by family members not to send him now because cases are coming in schools. He is only four, studies are not that important as his health”, said the worried mother.Sukhdarshan Singh, president, Nakal Virodhi Teachers’ Front, said when they call the parents to send their wards to schools, parents ask for safety of the kids. “Yesterday’s incidence has certainly created panic among parents and students. Though we are calling students rotation wise still parents feel reluctant because we take an affidavit that school will not be held responsible for Covid cases. The parents want schools to take the responsibility of safety of their child, which is not possible”, said the teacher.Many parents feel that till now, the schools were shut and kids were saved. But now the government has decided to open the schools especially at this time when the kids, school students are not vaccinated. “They should have waited for the vaccination. How can we put the lives of our children at stake when none is ready to take the responsibility? Many schools have started physical classes for students, offline tests. We feel the schools should wait, watch and continue with online studies,” said Parampal Singh, a parent at Civil Lines, whose daughter is a Class XII student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-cases-in-ludhianas-govt-schools-spread-panic-among-parents-296548
12-08-2021||---||Regularisation of non-compoundable violations in buildings: Punjab Govt seeks comments on settlement policy draft||Harshraj SinghTribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 11Ahead of the Assembly elections, the state government is going to introduce a one-time settlement policy for regularisation of non-compoundable violations in residential and non-residential buildings.Now, the Department of Local Government has prepared a draft policy, ‘The Punjab one-time voluntary disclosure and settlement of building constructed in violations of the building bylaws policy, 2021’.A copy of the policy draft has been sent to the mayors, commissioners and officials concerned of municipal corporations, councils, nagar panchayats and improvement trusts in the state and asked them to examine the policy draft and send their comments by August 16.As per the draft of the policy, in areas under municipal corporations and Improvements Trusts of Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, a composition fee of Rs 250 per sq ft of the total non-compoundable area on all floors in residential plotted buildings, has been fixed. Front house-line in case of scheme areas will not be compounded as per the draft.Besides, Rs 750 per sq ft composition fee has been fixed for non-compoundable building violations in non-residential buildings, as per the draft.As per the draft policy, non-compoundable building violations in non-residential buildings, disclosed voluntarily under sub-section (1) of section 4, may be settled by the competent authority, on as is where is basis (except the mandatory fire safety requirement including setbacks* and parking requirement as mentioned in Schedule-I of the Municipal Building By-laws, 2018, and public safety/security and public convenience will not be compromised) after spot verification as a one-time measure by realising the composition fee.Notably, thousands of illegal constructions have come up against the building by-laws in the city. Moreover, commercial activities are going on in many residential areas of the city but the authorities took no action to provide any relief to people from such violations.Now, questions are also being raised over the government’s policy draft. Kapil Arora of the Council of Engineers said: “Suggestions should be taken from all stakeholders, including residents of Ludhiana. When the by-laws were made, these were not implemented properly, leaving violators to raise buildings against the norms in the city. Now, the government wants to allow regularisation of the non-compoundable violations in buildings. It would be like cheating with law-abiding residents, who had got their buildings constructed as per the rules.”MC’s MTP SS Bindra said: “It is a draft policy and we are examining it. We will give suggestions that parking violations in buildings should not be regularised. All buildings must ensure parking arrangements.” Copy sent to officials of civic bodiesA copy of the policy draft has been sent to the Mayor, Commissioner and officials concerned of municipal corporations, councils, nagar panchayats and improvement trusts in the state and asked them to examine the draft of the policy and send comments by August 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/regularisation-of-non-compoundable-violations-in-buildings-punjab-govt-seeks-comments-on-settlement-policy-draft-296549
12-08-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Memorial Nursing College students celebrate Teej||Ramandeep Kaur of Post Basic First Year was declared Miss Teej during Teej celebrations at Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Memorial Nursing College at Sarabha village near here on Wednesday.  Mehak (BAMS), Sarabjit Kaur (GNM) and Arashdeep Kaur (B Sc Nursing) were declared winners in mehndi competition, nail art and folk song competitions, respectively. The event was inaugurated by Paramjit Singh, Chairman of the Trust, while Prabhjot Saini, Ajay Chhabra, and Satish Shukla, principals of various constituent colleges gave away prizes to the winners. Special kitchen was arranged to prepare and serve various traditional foods of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shaheed-kartar-singh-sarabha-memorial-nursing-college-students-celebrate-teej-296550
12-08-2021||Ludhiana||Haven’t joined traders’ party: BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni||Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has clarified that he had not joined the newly launched Bhartiya Aarthik Party (BAP).BAP leaders had recently announced that Charuni would be the party’s CM face for the Assembly poll.“Traders had recently announced to contest the upcoming elections, but I want to make it clear that it’s not our party. I have not joined them. Actually, they had invited me to Ludhiana as they wanted to support me for our ‘Mission Punjab’,” Charuni said.“Currently, we are spreading awareness about electing good leaders. We have not made any further strategy. Whenever we will take any decision, it will be announced,” he said. On if he would contest the poll, Charuni said: “It has not been decided yet.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/havent-joined-traders-party-bku-leader-gurnam-singh-charuni-296368
