13-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Hooch tragedy: After over a year in jail, paint store owner granted bail||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 12After spending over a year in jail in relation to the hooch tragedy that killed 120 persons in the state, Ludhiana-based Rajeev Joshi (55), owner of RC Joshi and Company, a paint firm, heaved a sigh of relief as he was granted regular bail by the court. Not only the businessman, even other paint store owners in the industrial area hailed the court’s decision.He got the bail as the SIT probing the matter failed to get any substantial evidence against Joshi, who was made the key accused in the case. Notably, he was accused of supplying three drums of methyl alcohol, suspected to be used for making the spurious liquor.Talking to The Tribune, Joshi said he had spent one year and nine days in jail after he was arrested on August 3, 2020. “Our business is over 70 years old and we have never indulged in any such illegal practice. I took it as my bad luck that I got stuck in the case. I thank the court for considering my bail application and I hope in further probe, justice will prevail and I will come out clean. I am also posing faith in the Police Department that it will extend justice to me,” Joshi maintained.Interestingly, when Joshi was arrested last year, most of the paint store owners had stopped selling methyl alcohol or methanol as they feared that it may land them in controversy.“We still fear that if we accidentally sell methyl to any stranger, we may land in trouble. We are now selling only a minor quantity of methanol, that too after knowing the buyer’s background. Police should not induct any innocent person in such cases,” a paint store owner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hooch-tragedy-after-over-a-year-in-jail-paint-store-owner-granted-bail-296968
13-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana win rain-hit match against Ropar||Ludhiana, August 12The third match in group B in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament played between Ludhiana and Ropar at Government College ground, Ropar, on Thursday failed to elicit any result. However, the visitors were declared winners on the basis of first innings lead of 72 runs.In reply to Ropar’s first innings total of 116 runs scored in 63 overs, Ludhiana resumed at overnight score of 23 for no loss and were well placed (188 for 2 after 57 overs) when rain forced the players rush back to the pavilion. The play could not be recommenced due to wet outfield and the match was awarded to Ludhiana.Last night not out batsmen, Jaiveer Singh and Soham Baggan went on to post 58 runs on the board before the former losing his wicket after making 27 runs. Ludhiana skipper Shabd Tangri joined Soham and the pair surpassed Ropar’s first innings score. The visitors lost their second wicket at the score 178 in the 56th over when Shabd was caught off Dhruv Khanna.Shabd made 82 runs off 114 balls. His essay included one six and nine hits over the fence. Soham remained unbeaten on 63 runs which came off 155 deliveries with the help of eight boundaries.For hosts, Dhruv Khanna secured one wicket for 33 runs and Kunal Sharma got one for 44. The fourth and last league match of group B will be played between Ludhiana and Moga on August 17 and 18 at Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-win-rain-hit-match-against-ropar-296969
13-08-2021||Ludhiana||Sherpur burial ground to be  upgraded||Fulfilling a long-pending demand of Muslims, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu today laid the foundation stone of development works worth Rs 38.93 lakh at the Sherpur burial ground. The money would be used to build a boundary wall, rooms and to maintain the graveyard.  The Mayor was accompanied by Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (Backfinco) vice-chairman Mohammad Gulab. He said the Muslim community in Sherpur, Dhandari, Focal Point and surrounding areas had been seeking infrastructure upgrade of the burial place for several years, following which he had taken up the matter with Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and the Mayor for financial assistance. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sherpur-burial-ground-to-be-upgraded-296970
13-08-2021||---||Lajpat Rai Bhawan at Jagraon soon||Ludhiana, August 12 The state government would soon build a state-of-the-art Lala Lajpat Rai Bhawan in Jagraon where Lajpat Rai spent his childhood. The state government has approved a grant of Rs 1.57 crore. Besides, the government has also released Rs 5 lakh for the renovation of the ancestral house of Lala Lajpat Rai. While paying tribute to the legendary freedom fighter here, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that this state-of-the-art bhawan would be built in his memory for future generations.  The Deputy Commissioner, who also inspected various sites for developing this building in Jagraon, said the monument would be a humble tribute to Lala Lajpat Rai. Sharma asked the officials to submit complete land records, building plans, designs and other documents of these sites at the earliest so that a detailed project report can be prepared and construction work can be initiated expeditiously. Sharma told the state government would perpetuate the glorious history of this place for the coming generations and said that it had also released a grant of Rs 5 lakh for immediate renovation of the ancestral house of Lala Lajpat Rai. He said the Department of Cultural Affairs, Archives, and Archaeology and Museums would soon start the work to preserve this national heritage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lajpat-rai-bhawan-at-jagraon-soon-296971
13-08-2021||---||Specially abled can apply for UDID at sewa kendras, online: Ludhiana DC||Ludhiana, August 12Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that specially abled persons can apply for the Unique Disability Identity Card (UDID) at sewa kendras, common service centres or government hospitals and online personally.The Deputy Commissioner said that in a major reprieve to the specially abled persons, the state government has decided to issue UDID to them. To get themselves enrolled for the card, the specially abled persons can apply through sewa kendras, common service centres or government hospitals by bringing their Aadhaar card, voter card or any proof of age, passport size photograph or any and other relevant document. He said that eligible children could also apply for these cards in their respective schools.He said for the medical examination, weekly special camps are being held in the Civil Hospital where orthopaedics, ENT and eye specialists, psychiatrist, paediatrics and others physically examine the applicants before issuing disability certificate.Sharma said the cards were being issued not only to encourage transparency, efficiency and ease of delivering government benefits to persons with disabilities, but also to ensure uniformity.The Deputy Commissioner said that cards would also help in streamlining the tracking of physical and financial progress of beneficiary at all levels of hierarchy of implementation.He said this would be a huge reprieve to specially abled persons as they would not have to visit the hospitals again and again to get a medical certificate. He added the UDID would be the only document to extend the benefits of government schemes to specially abled persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/specially-abled-can-apply-for-udid-at-sewa-kendras-online-ludhiana-dc-296972
13-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Children in Ludhiana district have 72% seropositivity rate: Survey||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 12The children between six and 17 years of age in Ludhiana district have shown a high Covid seropositivity rate in the country’s first-ever survey exclusively conducted on younger population not yet eligible for Covid vaccination in the country, the government has confirmed.An average of 72 per cent children in the 6-17 year age bracket have been found with antibodies to the SARS-COV-2 virus, the results of sentinel sero-surveillance survey have revealed.In Punjab, the average sero-positivity among the younger population aged between six and 17 years was found to be 59.9 per cent.This was a bit lower than 67.2 per cent sero-prevalence shown among adults in the fourth serological survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical and Research (ICMR) in four districts of Punjab — Ludhiana, Patiala, Jalandhar, and Gurdaspur — last month.While the paediatric survey, which was conducted by the Health and Family Welfare Department in the last week of July, was completed in 14 districts, it was still underway in the rest of nine districts.The results of the state’s third sentinel sero-surveillance survey and the first in India so far to assess the prevalence of the virus infection among children, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that 883 of the total 1,472 samples tested so far have been found with antibodies against the Covid virus.While the highest of 82 per cent sero-positivity among the young population aged six to 17 years was found in Moga district, Faridkot revealed the lowest rate of 48 per cent in the state.Kapurthala stood second with 73 per cent seropositivity, while Ludhiana ranked third in the state with 72 per cent of its children with antibodies against Covid virus.Each district and medical college was supposed to collect 92 samples each — equal from rural and urban areas — to conduct the survey, which was based on analysis of antibodies collected through blood samples.While Amritsar and Faridkot collected 184 samples each, Ludhiana and Fazilka examined 93 samples each, whereas the other 10 districts tested 92 samples each.Among other districts, Tarn Taran showed 67 per cent seropositivity, Malerkotla 65 per cent, Fazilka 64, Fatehgarh Sahib 62, Amritsar 60, Sangrur 54, Ropar 53, Jalandhar 52, Bathinda 50 and Gurdaspur 49.The districts, where the survey is still underway, included Patiala, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Nawanshahr, Mohali, Pathankot, Barnala, Hoshiarpur and Mansa.With the collection of 1,820 samples so far, the state has achieved 76.1 per cent of the targeted 2,392 samples.As many as 10 per cent of the total infected persons in the first and second Covid waves in the state were under 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/children-in-ludhiana-district-have-72-seropositivity-rate-survey-296973
13-08-2021||Ludhiana||Man gets 10-yr jail for raping neighbour||The Court of Additional Sessions Judge Lukhvinder Kaur Duggal has convicted Bobby, a resident of Manjit Nagar, Ludhiana, for raping a 19-year-old girl who was his neighbour. He was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) for 10 years and a fine of Rs 25,000 was also imposed upon him.Bobby was booked at Model Town Police Station on January 23, 2018, on the statement of the victim. She had stated that the accused, along with his wife and children, was residing in the house adjoining her residence. In June 2017, her parents had gone to work and she was alone at home. Around 12:30 pm, Bobby entered her home and raped her. He also threatened her with dire consequences if she told her family about the incident and raped her again some days later. She gathered the courage to tell her mother only when she got pregnant. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-gets-10-yr-jail-for-raping-neighbour-296974
13-08-2021||Ludhiana||CBI probe sought in foodgrain scam||Bikram Singh Sidhu, a city lawyer, has demanded a CBI inquiry into the alleged foodgrain scam worth crores of rupees in the state.Thousands of sacks of foodgrains were found missing from godowns of Jandiala Guru in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Sultanpur Lodhi in Kapurthala, Ludhiana and Ropar.“The minister concerned, along with his associates, had encouraged illegal sale of the produce and did not hesitate to pocket the taxpayers’ money,” Sidhu alleged.He said having ignored these activities in the past over four years, now the minister had suspended two department officials following the food scam worth Rs 20 crore at the PUNSUP godown in Jandiala Guru.“Registration of an FIR against the employees is nothing but an eyewash. What happened to previous scams wherein wheat and paddy were procured from states such as UP, Bihar and Rajasthan in 2017 and 2018 on nominal rates and sold in Punjab at MSP.Sidhu said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had failed to check corruption in the state that had affected people in a big way. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cbi-probe-sought-in-foodgrain-scam-296975
13-08-2021||Ludhiana||Truck driver found murdered in Khanna||A 35-year-old truck driver was found murdered in Khanna on Thursday. The incident came to light when his body was noticed by a nearby dhaba owner. The deceased Rachpal Singh was a native of Jammu.As per information, the driver, along with his helper, was headed to Ambala. When he reached Libra village near Khanna, he reportedly had a tiff with some persons on the highway, which led to his murder.The police suspect that the victim could have met with a minor accident on the highway with some vehicle following which the scuffle took place and he got killed. Even the helper of Rachpal also suffered injuries and was undergoing treatment at the Khanna Civil Hospital.DSP Parminder Singh said the exact cause of murder would be known once the helper of the driver would regain consciousness. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/truck-driver-found-murdered-in-khanna-296976
13-08-2021||---||Legal notice shot off to Ludhiana administration against OTS policy draft||Ludhiana, August 12The Council of Engineers, through advocate HC Arora, has served a legal notice on the authorities concerned against a draft policy, “The Punjab one-time voluntary disclosure and settlement of building constructed in violations of the building bye-laws policy, 2021”. Kapil Arora of the Council of Engineers informed that the directorate of Local Government Department has sent a draft OTS policy for illegal constructions to all ULBs on August 9 for their comments. However, a similar policy was introduced in the year 2019 and the same was challenged by our association in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the matter is still subjudiced, he said.Association member Kulwant Rai said, “By introducing one-time settlement policy again and again since 2003, the prime motive of such policies as well as Punjab Model Building Bye-laws has already been lost due to illegal constructions going on in all urban local bodies in active connivance with the concerned officers of buildings branches.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/legal-notice-shot-off-to-ludhiana-administration-against-ots-policy-draft-296977
13-08-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Responding to Malerkotla DC's call, activists to spread vaccine awareness||The administration has roped in office-bearers and activists of various social organisations to spread awareness regarding the necessity of complete vaccination and following guidelines for protection against the probable third wave of Covid-19.Responding to a call by Malerkotla Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill, office-bearers and activists of various organisations, led by Rotary Club president Ajai Jain, Social Welfare Organisation patron Tarsem Garg and Municipal Council president Vikas Tandon, announced to organise camps, workshops and seminars to facilitate inoculation of second dose to all eligible individuals.Gill said only diligently following the Covid protocols could save residents from falling prey to the apprehended third wave of Delta variant of the virus. She said the administration was fully equipped to provide vaccination to all eligible people.Acknowledging that a large number of residents were yet to receive the second dose, the DC said eligible persons would be given the second dose, irrespective of whether they have received a message on their mobile or not. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/responding-to-malerkotla-dcs-call-activists-to-spread-vaccine-awareness-296978
13-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||No lessons learnt from past building collapse incidents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 12As the MC learned no lessons from buildings’ collapses in the past, another incident took place on Thursday morning when an unsafe multi-storeyed building of RT Woolen Mill, a factory in Industrial Area A on RK Road here, collapsed. MC Commissioner orders inquiryAt least 10 persons, including two children, were injured in the incident when the debris of collapsed building fell on adjoining migrant labour quarters (vehra). About 15-16 rooms in the vehra were damaged. Besides, two more buildings, including a shed adjoining the factory, were also damaged in the incident.A dweller of adjoining vehra, Sidhu said, “I was having breakfast when the incident took place around 8.45 am. Suddenly, the factory building collapsed and debris fell on the rooms in the vehra. We started running to save lives. People were screaming. A number of persons were injured.”Around 250 persons were living in the vehra.Incident could have been avertedNow, the role of MC officials concerned is under scanner as the incident could have been averted if timely action was taken to get the unsafe building demolished.In May 2020, the factory building had caught fire and cracks had developed in it. The building pillars had also become weak after the fire incident. At that time, firefighters had also expressed concern over the bad condition of the building.The MC had woken up only more than a year after the fire incident to declare the building unsafe when councillor Swarandeep Singh Chahal complained about the dilapidated condition of the factory. Chahal had expressed concern that the unsafe building may collapse anytime as its wall had shifted from its original place. He had demanded from the MC to get it razed to avert any tragedy but to no avail.After the B&R branch conducted the survey, the unsafe building was, however, sealed by the MC’s building branch officials on August 5. But, some dwellers of adjoining vehra said the seals were later broken allegedly by the building owner. Sources said the building owner was backed by ruling Congress leaders.A vehra dweller said, “After the seal was broken, somebody told us that the building has been repaired. But, it was not. After the incident, seals have been applied to both gates of the building today again.”An MC officer said, “The factory was lying non-operational after the fire incident but the building owner was planning to make it operational again. A wall of the factory was already in a bad condition.”MC building inspector Navneet Khokhar said, “We had got the factory vacated as a security guard with his family were also staying there. The building was sealed. We had also got the rooms adjoining the factory vacated.”He added, “After the fire incident, the steel of pillars had got damaged. The factory owner was asked to get the building demolished. The debris of collapsed walls has fallen on both sides of the factory.”More unsafe buildings in cityIn July, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had written to the police to take action to get the unsafe buildings vacated in the city. The MC had conducted a survey and found 142 unsafe buildings. However, the majority of these unsafe buildings have not been demolished, posing threat to many lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-lessons-learnt-from-past-building-collapse-incidents-296979
13-08-2021||---||2 held for flashing derogatory message against Punjab CM on highway LED screen||Ludhiana, August 12With the arrest of two men from Ludhiana, the Khanna police claimed to have solved the case in which a derogatory message was posted against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on an LED screen installed on a highway.Manpreet Singh, SP Investigation, Khanna, while addressing a press conference, said the probe and technical evidence collected in the case had led to the arrest of two accused — Kunal Singla, a native of New Model Town, Moga, at present a resident of Gandhi Colony, New Model Town, Ludhiana, and Yogesh Puri, alias Ashu, of Maharana Partap Nagar, Basti Jodhewal, Ludhiana.The SP said the accused hacked a VMS (variable message signboard) of public convenient LED installed on the national highway, in front of Libra village, on the intervening of July 30-31 and flashed some derogatory message against the Chief Minister.A complaint was received from Dharminder Sharma, in-charge of control room, NHAI Ambala, and a case under Section 67 of the IT Act-2000 and Section 500 of the IPC was registered.During investigation, Kunal, who runs a shop of LED signboards at Jammu Colony, Ludhiana, disclosed that on the said night, he, along with Yogesh Puri, was returning to Ludhiana after installing a letter board at a cafe in Kasauli. They halted at Apna Vaishnu Dhaba, Libra, for dinner. Before leaving, they planned the mischief and hacked the VMS to flash the derogatory message against the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-held-for-flashing-derogatory-message-against-punjab-cm-on-highway-led-screen-296980
13-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||Man gets 10-yr imprisonment for kidnapping, sexual assault||Ludhiana, August 12The Court of Additional Sessions Judge KK Jain today convicted Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Lambardar Da Vehra, Barewal Awana, Ludhiana, on the charges of kidnapping and sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. He was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) for 10 years.The court has also ordered Rakesh to pay a fine of Rs 1,10,000, out of which Rs 1 lakh would be paid to the victim as compensation. A case against the accused was registered at Sarabha Nagar Police Station on January 18, 2019, on the statement of the father of the victim.He had stated in his complaint that his daughter had gone to relieve herself but did not come back. They searched for her but to no avail. So, a case was registered and the girl was recovered. The accused was apprehended two days later. After perusing the evidence on record, the court found him guilty and sentenced him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-gets-10-yr-imprisonment-for-kidnapping-sexual-assault-296981
13-08-2021||---||8 fresh cases of coronavirus in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 12 Eight fresh cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the district today.  Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said 87,409 cases from Ludhiana district and 11,633 cases from other districts or states have been confirmed. A total of 2,095 patients of Ludhiana and 1,047 of other districts have succumbed to the virus to date, as per the record of the Health Department, Ludhiana. A total of 9,266 samples were collected for Covid testing today. Out of 87,409 confirmed cases of Ludhiana district, 79,705 patients with 1,784 deceased persons belonged to Ludhiana city subdivision while the remaining cases belonged to five other subdivisions, including Jagraon, Raikot, Khanna, Samrala and Payal in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-ludhiana-district-296982
13-08-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Foot-&-mouth disease: Dumped carcasses raise stink in Ludhiana, Malerkotla districts||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Payal, Aug 12Toxic gases and pathogens emanating from carcasses of more than 150 milch cattle, which died of foot-and-mouth disease and dumped in the fields and open common passages, are posing a health risk to people of two dozen localities in Ludhiana and Malerkotla districts.Will take preventive stepsBesides taking preventive steps, we will coordinate with Animal Husbandry Department so that bodies do not decompose in the open. Dr Rajesh Gupta, District Health Officer, LudhianaHaving already lost precious livestock, dairy farmers of Payal’s Ber Kalan, Latala, Sihar, Kalahar, Nanakpur Jagera, Ahmedgarh, Chhanna, Jandali Khurad, Jandali Kalan, Saraud and Kanganwal had to bear the extra burden of getting rid of carcasses with contractors’ staff at “hadda roris” (where carcasses are dumped) demanding between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000 to remove each dead animal. Ludhiana District Health Officer Dr Rajesh Gupta acknowledged that decomposition and putrefaction of carcasses in the open could cause explosive proliferation of pathogens, besides FMD virus, which could be hazardous for humans and cattle.Dr Ravinder Sharma, a dairy farmer of Ahmedgarh, said he had to pay extra for getting his five bovine carcasses removed, claiming the contractor was supposed to lift these for free to prevent further spread of virus.“I have lost cattle worth Rs 5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh that I spent on their medication,” said Dr Sharma, adding Animal Husbandry Department officials had failed to come to their rescue.Gurdeep Singh, a dairy farmer of Ber Kalan village, claimed he lost 15 head of cattle and the number could exceeded 150 in the region. “Our village had to collect money from each family to arrange for the disposal of carcasses using JCB machines,” he said, apprehending emission of toxic fumes and pathogens could infect other animals and harm humans. Ludhiana Deputy Director Animal Husbandry Dr Paramdeep Singh Walia said 68 milch cattle had succumbed to the FMD at Ber Kalan alone. “However, we have now controlled the situation as no fresh cases are being reported from any of the villages of the block,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/foot-mouth-disease-dumped-carcasses-raise-stink-in-ludhiana-malerkotla-districts-296779
13-08-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||No registration of sale deeds in illegal colonies in Punjab||Ludhiana, August 12In a significant development which could have an impact on mushrooming of illegal and unlicensed colonies in the state, the Revenue and Rehabilitation Department has given an undertaking in the Punjab and Haryana High Court that prevailing government instructions (issued on December 12, 2019) with regard to registration of sale deeds of properties without a no objection certificate and irrespective of the status of the colony (legal or illegal), would be kept in abeyance for the time being.In other words, the department would forthwith stop registration of sale deeds of plots, houses and commercial properties in illegal colonies till the matter was re-examined and a fresh decision taken in light of issues raised in the CWP PIL (Prem Parkash vs state of Punjab).Disposing of the petition, a Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shankar Jha and Justice Arun Palli said in the orders pronounced on August 3 that in view of the statement made by Assistant Advocate General, Punjab, the petition was disposed of with a direction to the authorities concerned to consider and decide the petitioner’s representation as expeditiously as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-registration-of-sale-deeds-in-illegal-colonies-in-punjab-296780
13-08-2021||Ludhiana||10 hurt in Ludhiana building collapse||At least 10 persons, including two children, were injured when a multi-storey building of RT Woollen Mills on RK Road here collapsed on Thursday morning. Seven persons got serious injuries and were rushed to a local hospital.The debris of the building fell on the quarters of labourers on the adjoining plot, leaving 10 injured. A portion of the structure also fell on adjoining two more buildings, including a godown shed.Some of the injured received head injuries and fractures, said eye-witnesses. Relatives of the injured have urged the government to provide them free treatment.In May last year, the factory building had caught fire and its structure had become weak. Following a complaint, the MC’s Building & Road (B&R) branch had surveyed the structure and declared it unsafe recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-hurt-in-ludhiana-building-collapse-296781
