14-08-2021||Ludhiana||Woman ends life, husband booked by Dugri police||son-in-law to not torture my daughter but he didn’t budge and continued the same,” alleged the victim’s father. On the night of August 10, my daughter jumped from the rooftop of her in-laws’ house and was undergoing treatment at a hospital where she succumbed to her injuries on Thursday, the victim’s father added. Investigating officer ASI Jaswinder Singh said a case of abetment to suicide was registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to arrest him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-ends-life-husband-booked-by-dugri-police-297397
14-08-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on 75th I-Day organised at Government College for Girls, Ludhiana||I-Day celebrated in unique wayFor celebrating the 75th Independence Day, faculty and students of hotel management, airlines and tourism departments at CT University, in association with two private firms, attempted for the Limca Book of Records by making 75 varieties of biryani. Sukhwinder Bindra, Chairman, Punjab Youth Development Board, was the chief guest.7-day NSS camp organisedSri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management organised a seven-day NSS camp. A total of 42 students volunteered for the camp and participated in various activities. “The camp was organised to commemorate 150th birth anniversary of Sri Aurobindo. Eye check-up camp, orthopaedic camp, tree plantation and cleanliness drives were held in two of the adopted villages,” officiating principal Marinal Gupta said.Teej celebrated with zestTeej was celebrated with fervour at Gulzar Group of Institutes. Mehndi, rangoli, makeover, pot painting, tattoo making, card making, photography and nail art competition caught fancy of all. Executive director Gurkirat Singh guided the students to celebrate such traditional festivals so as to keep them alive among the present generation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-75th-i-day-organised-at-government-college-for-girls-ludhiana-297396
14-08-2021||Ludhiana||Senior men & women cricket teams announced by Ludhiana District Cricket Association||The Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) today announced teams (senior men and women) for the upcoming Punjab State Inter-District Cricket Tournament, to be organised under the aegis of the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA).Anupam Kumaria, honorary general secretary, LDCA, said 45 men attended the selection trials whereas 35 women participated in it.The selection panel finalised 17 players for the first match of the Katoch Shield tournament, scheduled for August 19 against Fatehgarh Sahib at Ludhiana.The selected players are Gitansh Khera, Nehal Wadhera, Baltej Singh, Hartejsavi Kapoor, Harshit Takkar, Tikshan Tangri, Tanroop Saini, Sunny Pandey, Abhishek Sharma, Deepin Chitkara, Yash Ahuja, Vibhav Kalra, Namish Chaudhary, Som Nath Gautam, Sidharath Om Tiwari, Gurmehar Singh and Tanishak Singla.The players have been asked to report at GRD Global Education Institute ground on August 15 at 9 am. Ankur Kakkar and Rajiv Puri have been appointed coach and manager of the contingent.Meanwhile, the selected women players are Palwinder Kaur, Seema Purohit, Aishmine Kaur, Parineeta, Gurleen Kaur, Moli, Samridhi, Akanksha Saini, Manya Sharma, Divya, Kirti, Avneet Kaur, Jyoti Yadav, Heemiksha, Seerat, Harshita Joshi, Harita Joshi and Harshika Dhammi. Ramanpreet Kaur has been named coach of the team and Harmeet Batra will be the manager. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/senior-men-women-cricket-teams-announced-by-ludhiana-district-cricket-association-297395
14-08-2021||---||Awareness talk on organ donation held at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 13World Organ Donation Day is observed on August 13 every year to spread awareness about the importance of organ donation. Departments of nephrology, urology and transplantation of the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital observed the day on Friday by conducting an awareness talk in the seminar room and by displaying informative printing material at the hospital.In his message, principal Sandeep Puri said organ donation was giving away organs such as heart, liver, kidneys, intestines, lungs and pancreas, after the donor dies, for the purpose of transplanting them into another person who was in need of an organ. The organ donor could play a big role in saving others life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/awareness-talk-on-organ-donation-held-at-dayanand-medical-college-and-hospital-ludhiana-297394
14-08-2021||Ludhiana||Committee to identify 10 electric vehicle charging sites in Ludhiana||Under the National Clean Air Programme, there is a plan to set up 10 electric vehicle charging stations in the city. A committee of officials from different departments has been formed to identify locations for the same.Principal Secretary of the Transport Department, Punjab, Kakumanu Siva Prasad conducted a meeting with the officials of the MC, Transport Department and other departments through videoconferencing on Friday. The discussion was conducted for setting up the charging stations.At present, electric vehicles are being promoted and there is a need to set up such stations. Moreover, the MC is also planning to buy 350 electric rickshaws for door-to-door collection of waste. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/committee-to-identify-10-electric-vehicle-charging-sites-in-ludhiana-297393
14-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Maharishi Valmiki Nagar in Ludhiana to get two parks at Rs 96L||Ludhiana, August 13Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Punjab Minister for Food, Supplies and Consumers Affairs, along with Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, performed the groundbreaking ceremony for a Rs 96-lakh project to develop two parks and a green belt in Maharishi Valmiki Nagar. Chairman of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) was also present on the occasion.Ashu emphasised the need for conservation of environment and enhancement of green cover in the city to tackle the alarming levels of pollution. Even though the government was making efforts at several levels to increase the green cover and plant more saplings, residents ought to come forward for the noble cause.Mentioning the completed and ongoing projects to make the city greener, the minister said the first phase of Sidhwan Canal waterfront project, nearly one km in length, from the Ferozepur Road till Ferozepur Railway Line, had already been completed at a cost of around Rs 4.74 crore. This project included development of a green belt, dedicated cycling track, playing zone, dedicated footpath along the canal, sitting area, wall climbing activities etc.“In the second phase, a 1.6-km-long stretch along the canal (from Jawaddi Bridge till Dugri Road) is being developed at a cost of Rs 5.06 crore while the third phase of the project envisages development of a waterfront from Dugri Road till Dhuri Line at an expenditure of Rs 3 crore,” he added.Among others present at the function were Sunil Datt, secretary of PPCC, Sandeep Salwan, Satish Thaman, Rajiv Kapila, Suresh Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Deo and Asha Rani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/maharishi-valmiki-nagar-in-ludhiana-to-get-two-parks-at-rs-96l-297392
14-08-2021||---||Smart City projects get approval in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 13CEO of the LSCL-cum-MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal conducted a discussion with officials on three projects during the 68th city-level technical sub-committee meeting on Friday.Approval for pre-bid queries were received for supply, installation, testing and commissioning of portable compactors for secondary storage and hook loaders for transportation of municipal solid waste in the MC, Ludhiana, under the Smart City Mission during the meeting.Approval was also given for the selection of a contractor for the refurbishment of ancillary infrastructure for the hockey ground at the PAU. Besides, the committee also gave nod for variation due to additional scope of work for construction of the FPU bypass at the sewerage treatment plant in Bhattian. One of the directors, Sanjay Goyal, was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smart-city-projects-get-approval-in-ludhiana-297391
14-08-2021||Lovleen Bains||Colleges directionless over mode of teaching||Sahnewal, August 13Even though admissions for the new semester have begun and dates to start teaching allocated, the Panjab University has till date failed to specify the mode of study to be adopted for the new session.Rajtinder Jhanji, principal, AS College, Khanna, said, “I had a word with the Vice-Chancellor of the university and expressed concern over the current state of affairs. The university has asked the colleges to begin teaching from August 11, but has failed to issue any instructions regarding the mode of teaching to be adopted. The academic calendar has been issued but whether online or offline classes are to be taken has nowhere been specified.”“As far as the issue of vaccinating the students is concerned, it is for the local administration to organise routine camps in all colleges so that each student is inoculated. The instructions of the DPI, Colleges, to ensure speedy vaccination of all students seems like a Herculean task for the simple reason that as we approach the Health Department for camps, they are generally out of stock of vaccines. Moreover, the vaccination cannot be carried out without the consent of the parents, which is a tedious process, especially when we are not in personal contact with the students,” the principal added.Tejinder Dhaliwal, Principal, Guru Nanak College for Girls, Muktsar, stated “Higher education is already facing great challenges. Proper direction and clear guidelines from the university are most essential.”“The students are asking us the mode of teaching we shall follow. We are at a loss to convey the same in the absence of any instructions from the university,” a college professor maintained.Harpreet Dua, former senator and syndic, Panjab University, said the admission schedule and process was faulty. “There seems to be no practicality as far as the admission schedule and the conduct of classes is concerned. The manner in which the schedule has been prepared has increased the inconvenience of the students. It needs immediate rethinking and rescheduling since the colleges are in a fix as to how to proceed and what to convey to the students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/colleges-directionless-over-mode-of-teaching-297390
14-08-2021||---||Full dress rehearsal held for I-Day function at Guru Nanak Stadium in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 13Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal on Friday participated in the full dress rehearsal to mark the 75th Independence Day celebrations at the local Guru Nanak Stadium.During the rehearsal, the Deputy Commissioner hoisted the national flag and took a salute from the march past, led by ACP Randhir Singh.Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu would hoist the Tricolour on August 15.The Deputy Commissioner and the Commissioner of Police said officers had been assigned duties regarding the event and any sort of callousness was unwarranted and undesirable.They stated that the district-level function this year would be a low-key affair in the wake of Covid-19. As per government guidelines, the gathering would be limited and the function would be kept simple.There would not be any cultural function due to the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/full-dress-rehearsal-held-for-i-day-function-at-guru-nanak-stadium-in-ludhiana-297389
14-08-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana Improvement Trust to auction residential plots carved out of ‘school site’||Ludhiana, August 13Decks have been cleared for e-auction of five residential plots, carved out of chunks of land earlier reserved for a primary school, in a Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar colony of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on Pakhowal Road here. Earlier, a stay order granted by a local court against the e-auction was vacated on Thursday (August 12). The said plots, along with other residential plots and commercial properties, are slated to be sold through e-auction on August 16.LIT officials said the plea made by the affected residents before the court was based on distorted facts. “The Trust, in its submission made before the court, said the land use of the school site, where it later proposed to set up a community centre for public use, was duly got changed under the rules and approval was received from the government for the amended layout plan. Not only this, an alternate site had been provided for construction of a community centre in the colony,” the officials claimed.They further asserted that the LIT expected to get the much-needed financial resources from sale of residential plots and commercial properties for execution of development works in various colonies.In the e-auction, which would now be conducted on August 16 from 9 am to 3 pm, the LIT has made an offer for sale of 37 booths, four special purpose shops, one chunk of commercial site and 24 residential plots in its colonies, including Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Maharishi Valmiki Nagar, Model Town Extension and Kitchlu Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-improvement-trust-to-auction-residential-plots-carved-out-of-school-site-297388
14-08-2021||---||Rs 17-lakh loot case cracked by Khanna police, 4 held||Ludhiana, August 13The Khanna police claimed to have cracked the Rs 16.94 lakh loot case and arrested four robbers. The police also recovered Rs 3.60 lakh from the accused.The accused have been identified as Jatin Kumar of Ekta Colony, Rajpura; Vijay Kumar, alias Vicky, also of Ekta Colony; Sandeep Singh, alias Deepu alias Mand, of Adarsh Colony, Rudarpur in Uttarakhand; and Satpal Singh of Rudarpur.SP Investigation Manpreet Singh in a press conference said that on August 3, the gang had snatched Rs 16.94 lakh from Neeraj Kumar and two other employees of a Bathinda-based company Sai Ram Agritech near Samrala. The employees were carrying the company’s cash.The robbers had forcibly stopped their (complainant) car and snatched three bags containing Rs 16.94 lakh at gunpoint.The SP said technical investigation identified the car’s original number PB-11-CU-1873 and at a naka arrested the accused. The accused were in a Santro car bearing fake number PB-11-1113.Accused Vijay had met Sandeep and Satpal in jail where they had planned to form a gang of robbers.The police said further probe was on to inquire if the gang was involved in the past incidents of loot or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-17-lakh-loot-case-cracked-by-khanna-police-4-held-297387
14-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||Remaining part of factory being demolished||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 13A day after the unsafe multistorey building of RT Woolen Mill on RK Road here collapsed, the work to dismantle the remaining portion of the building has begun on the site. The MC has ordered the building owner to get the remaining portion demolished.The civic body had got the adjoining vehra and another building vacated yesterday for safety reasons as a portion of the unsafe building was still standing on the site. Big cracks are visible in the front portion (which had not collapsed) of the factory building.An MC official said the factory was constructed in over 1,000 sq yard area. Municipal Town Planner Monika Anand said the building owner had got the work started to demolish the remaining portion of the building.Two patients still under treatment at hospitalMeanwhile, dwellers of the adjoining vehra have been forced to suffer a lot after the incident took place.Debris of the collapsed building had fallen on rooms in the vehra, leaving at least 10 injured, including two children.Seven seriously injured patients were rushed to Mohandai Oswal Hospital. Of them, a woman, Pooja, and her two-year-old son Arush were still undergoing treatment at the hospital on Friday. The woman was discharged from the hospital but she was admitted to the hospital again as her condition was not good.Ravi, brother of Pooja, said: “My sister has received serious injuries on head and other parts of the body. She has undergone a surgery. My nephew Arush had also received a major head injury. I just want from the authorities concerned to ensure free treatment for my sister and her son.”Notably, the dwellers, including Sunil Kumar Yadav, Mulkhan Verma, Pawan Kumar, Govind and Manoj, were also injured in the incident. Kin of the injured have demanded that compensation be paid to all the injured persons so that they could get the required treatment.Dwellers staying in dharamshalaFollowing the incident, all vehra dwellers were asked to vacate their rooms. They were shifted to a nearby dharamshala by the vehra owner. They said they used to pay the monthly rent of the room but now, they were staying in dharamshala.A dweller said: “We have vacated the vehra as a portion of the collapsed building was yet to be demolished. Now, the vehra owner has made an arrangement for us at the dharamshala. We are 200-250 people staying in the dharamshala. We have been asked not to return to the vehra till the entire portion of the building was demolished. We are forced to suffer more after the adjoining factory building collapsed. We don’t know for how many days we will have to stay in dharamshala.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/remaining-part-of-factory-being-demolished-297386
14-08-2021||---||6 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 13Six persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district on Friday.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.48 per cent. Till now, 85,214 patients have recovered.A total of 11 patients (six new from Ludhiana district and five from other states/districts) have tested positive in the past 24 hours.Till date, 21,11,151 samples have been taken and all reports have been received. Of these, 20,12,098 samples were found negative.The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,415 while 11,638 patients belong to other districts/states. The persons who lost their lives included 2,095 from Ludhiana and 1,047 persons from other districts.Today, 14,012 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Also, 5,904 samples were collected from 87 schools across the district today. Regular testing is being done in the schools to keep a check on Covid cases.Four Covid patients were admitted to hospitals and one patient from other district was on ventilator support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-297385
14-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||3 owners booked in Ludhiana factory collapse case||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 13In a yesterday’s factory collapse incident, the Moti Nagar police registered a case against the owners of RT Woollen Mill.The accused have been identified as Tara Chand and his sons Deepak Singal and Amit Singal of Inder Nagar.Ten persons had suffered injuries as debris fell on them. The city has witnessed incidents of factory collapse in the past and the police had registered cases against the owners but there is hardly any case in which the police managed to achieve conviction of the accused.On November 20, 2017, five-storeyed factory Amarson Polymers at the Suffian chowk had collapsed killing 16 persons, including nine firefighters. The police had initially registered a case of culpable homicide under Section 304, IPC, but later during probe, the case was converted to Section 304-A, IPC, and owner Inderjit Singh Gola had got bail. The case is pending in the court.On April 5, 2021, an under-construction building at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar had collapsed killing four workers. The police had then registered a case of culpable homicide against factory owner Jaswinder Singh and contractor Mohammad Harun. They were arrested. Jaswinder had go bail, while Harun’s bail was dismissed. The case is pending in the court.On October 11, 2018, four workers had died of asphyxia after a fire broke out at a four-storeyed hosiery unit, Kalra Knitwear, in Street No 1 of Kalyan Nagar near Kamla Lohtia SD College in Ludhiana. The police had booked the unit owner, Sumit Kalra, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder (Section 304 of the IPC) as the unit was found locked from outside, giving the labourers no option to escape. The accused were arrested in the case and they later got bail. Presently case is pending in the court and next hearing is August 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-owners-booked-in-ludhiana-factory-collapse-case-297384
14-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana gym owner among two held with 5.3-kg heroin||The Special Task Force wing of the Ludhiana police nabbed two persons with 5.3 kg heroin here. The police also seized Rs 2.10 lakh in drug money, a Jeep and a motorcycle from the alleged smugglers.The suspects have been identified as Jagjit Singh Idu, 31, of Sunet and Harminder Singh Pannu, 30, of Aman Nagar. Mandeep, alias Pistoli, of Salem Tabri fled the scene.Mandeep owns a gym supplements shop at the grain market in Salem Tabri, while Jagjit runs a gym at Sunet village. The suspects have been in the drug trade for a long time.STF Inspector (Ludhiana range) Harbans Singh said following a tip-off, the STF raided locations in BRS Nagar leading to the arrests and subsequent seizures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-gym-owner-among-two-held-with-5-3-kg-heroin-297334
