15-08-2021||---||I-Day celebrations: Food Minister unfurls Tricolour in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 15Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday gave a clarion call to youth to come forward and encourage the eligible people in receiving Covid vaccine at the earliest to curb the anticipated third wave of the deadly disease. The Minister, who hoisted the national flag during a district-level function to commemorate 75th Independence Day at Guru Nanak Stadium here today, said that state under the decisive leadership of the Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has emerged as victorious in the first and second waves of Covid.He said that when other states were refusing the treatment to the Covid-19 patients but doors of Punjab remained open for outside Covid patients as we considered India is one country and all its people and resources are common. He said that for third wave, the state government has already in mission mode to strengthening the health infrastructure by setting up ICUs, oxygen plants, new medical colleges, recruiting new doctors, paramedics and others to ensure quality medical services to the people. Speaking on the occasion, the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister lauded the civil, police administration, MLAs, Municipal Councillors, industrialists, NGOs, social and religious organizations for their collective untiring efforts and sheer commitment in making Ludhiana number one by vaccinating around 17 lakh eligible beneficiaries and asked the youth to take a pledge for helping every eligible in receiving the Covid vaccine to deal the possible third wave. Ashu also disclosed that from 2017-2018 to 2021-22, Punjab  successfully procured 1259.80 lakh MT wheat and paddy besides, it has made payments worth Rs 2,54,898 crore to the farmers. He added the 1.51 crore beneficiaries are receiving subsided ration under the Smart Ration Card scheme and his department has launched the one nation one ration card scheme. The Cabinet Minister further told that Ludhiana has recorded path-breaking development in all spheres of life during the last four years of the state government. He said that special emphasis has been laid on urban infrastructure development and added work of Rs 650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project, Halwara international airport, three bus stands, Dhanansu cycle valley, surface drinking water supply project, Pakhowal ROB and RUB, up-gradation of Mother and Child Hospital from 100 to 200 beds, is underway on war-footing. Recalling the role of Punjabis in India's national freedom struggle, Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that Punjabis have always led from the front against the tyranny, oppression and injustice unleashed by the invaders from time to time. He said that the lives and message of the great Sikh Gurus would ever act as a lighthouse to motivate the people against the tyrannical and oppressive forces. The Minister also paid homage to great national leaders like Lala Lajpat Rai, Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Shaheed Sukhdev, Shaheed Udham Singh, Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha, Madan Lal Dhingra and others who sacrificed their lives at the altar of freedom of their motherland. Meanwhile, the chief guest took a salute during an impressive march past by seven contingents of Punjab Police (women and men), Home Guards, Airwing, NCC (boys and girls) led by the parade Commander Assistant Commissioner of Police Randhir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/i-day-celebrations-food-minister-unfurls-tricolour-in-ludhiana-297909
15-08-2021||Ludhiana||Three booked in theft case in Ludhiana||The Tibba police have registered a theft case against Bittu Gumber Latia, president of Shiv Welfare Society, Vikas Chabra and his father Amarjit Chabra.Complainant Kunal Kumar of Banda Bahadur Colony said Vikas was working in the washing and dyeing section of his factory. On July 2, he stole 1,600 T-shirts and sold the same to Bittu. Vikas had also stolen his motorcycle on July 27. Investigating officer ASI Gurdev Singh said after registering a case, further probe had been initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-booked-in-theft-case-in-ludhiana-297728
15-08-2021||Ludhiana||Teej celebrated at govt college for Girls in Ludhiana||Teej was celebrated amid gaiety on the campus of Government College for Girls here. Mamta Ashu, councillor, Ludhiana MC, was the chief guest. Principal Sukhwinder Kaur talked about the importance of celebrating such festivals. Sakshi Sharma was awarded ‘Beautiful Mutiyar’ title. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teej-celebrated-at-govt-college-for-girls-in-ludhiana-297729
15-08-2021||Ludhiana||Anganwadi workers stage protest in Ludhiana||Anganwadi workers and helpers staged a protest against the Central and state government outside the DC office here on Saturday evening. They were protesting against the non-acceptance of their pending demands. The protesters said they would continue their protest for a night as per their plan. They announced to hoist the national flag on Sunday morning to mark Independence Day.A leader of the workers said, “Under the ‘Gaddi Chhodo Andolan’, we want the Central and state government should quit. We don’t need such governments in the country. Thus, we have gathered here to mark our protest against both governments. We will continue our protest the whole night today. On Sunday morning, we will end the protest and hoist the flag.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anganwadi-workers-stage-protest-in-ludhiana-297730
15-08-2021||---||Congress government has failed to fulfil poll promises, says Bikram Singh Majithia||Ludhiana, August 14Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Saturday flayed the Capt Amarinder Singh government for failing to fulfil its poll promises.Ridiculing the ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ promise made by the Punjab Chief Minister, Majithia said Capt Amarinder cheated not only the youth but every section of the society with his tall promises and failed to deliver on any of them.He also levelled allegations of corruption in the Food and Civil Supplies Department. Paddy procured at Rs 1,000 per quintal from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar was being sold in Punjab at Rs 1,883 per quintal, he alleged. He demanded a CBI inquiry into the ‘scam’.He further alleged that the Congress government had looted Punjab with open hands and the corrupt ministers were given a clean chit by the Chief Minister.Majithia said on the other hand, the SAD-BSP alliance had adopted a 13-point agenda purely on merit basis and the party was committed to implementing it if it forms the government in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/congress-government-has-failed-to-fulfil-poll-promises-says-bikram-singh-majithia-297717
15-08-2021||---||Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurates facade lightings at southern bypass in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 14Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday inaugurated façade lightings at southern bypass bridge along with Sidhwan Canal on the eve of the 75th Independence Day. The façade light project has been installed at a cost of Rs 2.38 crore under Ludhiana Smart City Mission.Ashu was accompanied by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and others, said the project would definitely add beauty and would catch attention of tourists and locals. He said the Illumination of this structure would not only make the surrounding area vibrant and lively but would also help to boost local economy by promoting tourism.The minister said 1,500 dynamic colour changing RGBW linear lights and 224 RGBW projector lights fitted on both spans of the flyover including 56 foundation pillars across 1.5-km stretch.Work on Dhandra sewage project beginsEarlier in the day, Bharat Bhushan Ashu kick-started sewage and anaerobic baffled reactor project worth Rs 3.26 crore in Dhandra village for boosting infrastructure development, especially in the rural hinterland of the district. The work will be completed in next 15 months, he assured.The project is part of Dhandra cluster which is being developed with a cost of around Rs 100 crore under the Shyama Prasad Mukherji Urban Mission in which 21 panchayats, villages and colonies have been included and these areas will get city-like facilities. MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bharat-bhushan-ashu-inaugurates-facade-lightings-at-southern-bypass-in-ludhiana-297712
15-08-2021||---||Ludhiana residents protest location of proposed industrial park||Ludhiana, August 14Residents came together to protest for a better environment, free from pollution on the Buddha Nullah bridge, near Dhanansu village, here, today. The protest was organised by the Public Action Committee for Sutlej and Mattewara Forest.The protesters have demanded that the government should consider change of the location of the modern industrial park proposed to be set up near the Sutlej and Mattewara. They also shared concern about the cycle valley.One of the organisers, Col CM Lakhanpal (retd) said: “The Sutlej was supplying drinking water to the state and Rajasthan. It is not only providing the same for drinking but for agricultural and other purposes also. We cannot allow to make such an important river polluted like Buddha Nullah. The polluted water is causing health issues in the Malwa region of south Punjab and more degradation will lead to even more issues which the state cannot afford. The southern side of the high-tech cycle valley touches the nullah. Outlet of the sewer system of the cycle valley along the road is into the Buddha Darya. It can have serious repercussions and impact on the ongoing 650-crore rejuvenation project of Buddha Darya if not handled carefully right from this stage.”The protesters said waste from the cycle valley at Dhanansu should not be released into the Buddha Nullah. A protester, Kuldeep Singh Khaira, said a big sewer pipe had been installed to link with the nullah. No waste should be released into the drain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-residents-protest-location-of-proposed-industrial-park-297716
15-08-2021||---||Punjab CM opens children’s Covid ward, three oxygen plants in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 14To tackle the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic effectively by augmenting health infrastructure in government health institutions, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today virtually inaugurated a paediatric Covid care ward in the Civil Hospital and three pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants, built at the cost of Rs 4.21 crore.The ultra-modern paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) has five units and eight multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) beds in it.Doctors and nurses have been trained with the help of Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist from Dayanand Hero Heart Institute. Besides, the ward has ECHO and Cardiology backup from the DMCH.Thanking Dr Rupesh Aggarwal (Singapore) for ‘Project O2 with Zeiss, India’, for donating five PICU beds, Vijay Munjal of Hero Ecotech Limited, Ludhiana, and Dr Bishav Mohan for donating equipment worth Rs 20 lakh for the initiative, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said their generous contribution would go a long way in ensuring quality healthcare services to children in the government health facility.The Chief Minister announced that the government would be augmenting the PICU and level 2 paediatric beds capacity in all 23 districts and four GMCHs to 1,104 paediatric beds.He said the collective efforts of philanthropists, industries and the state government would prove instrumental in saving precious lives from Covid and would help combat the pandemic efficiently.The PSA oxygen plants in Ludhiana were inaugurated by the Chief Minister include 1,000 LPM each at ESI Hospital and Civil Hospital, and 500 LPM at Urban Health Centre, Vardhman.He said the state government had been making double efforts to combat the anticipated third wave and PICU and other children-related health infrastructure were being established in all the districts of the state.Ashu lays stone to upgrade Mother & Child Hospital Foundation stone for upgrading the existing Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) from 100 to 200 beds at precincts of Civil Hospital was laid today by Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.Ashu said that up-gradation work would be completed in the next 15-months and the state government would spend Rs 15 crore.He said that the new mother and child hospital would have six blocks in its two-floor building and would consist of facilities operation theatres, isolation wards, ultrasound rooms, private rooms, separate outpatient departments (OPD) of gynaecology and paediatrics, a general ward, offices and rooms for doctors, staff nurses, separate bathrooms, a canteen and waiting areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-cm-opens-childrens-covid-ward-three-oxygen-plants-in-ludhiana-297715
15-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Covid deaths rose in Punjab last week, positivity remained 0.1%||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 14In what appears to be a cause of concern, the Covid deaths have once again risen in the state last week, the government has confirmed.Vini Mahajan, Chief Secretary The district officials have been instructed to keep a close watch on the positivity rate ahead of the festival season.In the week between August 3 and 9, 26 persons died of the virus, which was 7.4 per cent of the total positive patients, as compared to 16 Covid deaths reported in the state between July 27 and August 2 at the rate of 4.6 per cent case fatality rate (CFR), the official figures have revealed.However, Ludhiana reported only two deaths last week — one each on August 6 and 7.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, who reviewed the Covid situation recently, said the district officials have been instructed to keep a close watch on the positivity rate ahead of the festival season when extra vigil is required to prevent the resurgence of the virus.The current status of Covid in the state analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that the Covid positivity rate remained static at 0.1 per cent between August 3 and 9 as it was recorded between July 27 and August 2.While the number of active cases also went down from 473 on August 2 to 441 on August 9, the number of positive cases slightly increased from 346 between July 27 and August 2 to 352 between August 3 and 9.In Ludhiana, 43 fresh Covid cases were reported last week with single-day highest figure of 13 on August 6. The count of active cases in the district went up from 51 on August 2 to 54 on August 9.The count of discharged patients came down from 470 between July 27 and August 2 to 358 between August 3 and 9, while the number of samples tested in the state also registered a decrease from 2,52,210 between July 27 and August 2 to 2,45,823 between August 3 and 9.The cumulative figures as on August 9 revealed that 1,24,21,036 samples have been tested in the state till then of which 5,99,514 persons had tested positive at the positivity rate of 4.8 per cent and 16,320 had succumbed to the virus at the CFR of 2.7 per cent. Of the total Covid patients, 5,82,753 had since been discharged after having recovered from the virus.While the CFR has been on the rise, the positivity rate has registered a steep decline in the state since June last week.The CFR varied from 6.3 per cent between June 22 and 28 to 7.7 per cent between June 29 and July 5, 6 per cent between July 6 and 12, 6.3 per cent between July 13 and 19, 9.1 per cent between July 20 and 26, 4.6 per cent between July 27 and August 2 and 7.4 per cent between August 3 and 9.However, the positivity rate dipped drastically from 0.7 per cent between June 22 and 28 to 0.5 per cent between June 29 and July 5, 0.4 per cent between July 6 and 12, 0.3 per cent between July 13 and 19, 0.2 per cent between July 20 and 26, and 0.1 per cent from July 27 to August 9.Similarly, the count of active cases also recorded a major decline from 3,639 on June 28 to 2,118 on July 5, 1,494 on July 12, 953 on July 19, 637 on July 26, 473 on August 2 and 441 on August 9.The number of positive cases also decreased considerably from 2,505 between June 22 and 28 to 1,437 between June 29 and July 5, 1,185 between July 6 and 12, 695 between July 13 and 19, 453 between July 20 and 26, 346 between July 27 and August 2 and 352 between August 3 and 9.Also, the discharge figure came down from 5,159 between June 22 and 28 to 2,824 between June 29 and July 5, 1,717 between July 6 and 12, 1,170 between July 13 and 19, 728 between July 20 and 26, 470 between July 27 and August 2, and 358 between August 3 and 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-deaths-rose-in-punjab-last-week-positivity-remained-0-1-297713
15-08-2021||Ludhiana||Woman lawyer booked for extortion in Ludhiana||The Division Number 5 police registered an extortion case against a woman lawyer on the complaint of the District Bar Association (DBA). She has been identified as Rachna Dev.The DBA member said the accused had been filing false complaints against lawyers and police officials. On August 10, the DBA executive was holding a meeting with the Fazilka Bar Association. Later, she entered the meeting room and asked for transfer of chamber. The DBA president asked her to deposit Rs 20,000 fee.“Rachna refused to deposit the fee and uploaded a video on social media and blamed the DBA for demanding Rs 50,000 bribe and also threatened to commit suicide,” said DBA executive in a police complaint.A case was registered against the accused and she was arrested yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-lawyer-booked-for-extortion-in-ludhiana-297706
15-08-2021||Ludhiana||Man suffers bullet injury in Ludhiana, case registered||A man, Mohammad Irfan, suffered minor bullet injury on his arm last night. He was sleeping on the fourth floor of the house at Kuldeep Nagar when a bullet hit his arm.The incident occured at around 11.30 pm last night when he was sleeping on the terrace.“I felt something sharp hit my arm and when I checked, blood started oozing out of the arm. I also heard the sound of firing near my house but I could not identify the person as it was dark,” the victim alleged.ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti reached the spot to conduct an investigation.The police are checking the footage of CCTV cameras to identify the person who fired shots in the air. Residents of the area are also being questioned by the police.A case has been registered in the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-suffers-bullet-injury-in-ludhiana-case-registered-297705
15-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||Factory collapse in Ludhiana: Debris blocks way of machines to raze remaining portion||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 14Though the work to raze the remaining portion of RT Woolen Mill was started yesterday, machines could not be used for the task even today. The debris of the collapsed structure on RK Road was yet to be cleared to make way for the machines.The unsafe factory building had collapsed on Thursday morning, leaving at least 10 persons injured and damaging three adjoining buildings, including ‘vehra’ rooms and a godown shed.The MC had ordered the factory owner to get the remaining portion of the building demolished. A team of the civic body had also been deployed on the site to keep a vigil. As per information, the work to clear the debris was started late today but it was being done manually. MC’s Assistant Town Planner Mohan Singh said “It was a big factory, constructed in around 1,500 sq yards area. A machine was deployed by the building owner yesterday on the adjoining shed side but it could not move ahead due to debris of the collapsed structures. Once a way is made, machines can be used to raze the remaining portion of the building.”Meanwhile, labourers of the adjoining ‘vehra’ are a harried lot as they are unable to collect their belongings. For safety reasons, the dwellers were evacuated as a portion of the unsafe factory was still standing. Around 250 dwellers were shifted to a dharamshala.Councillor Swarandeep Singh Chahal said, “About 50 per cent of my shed got damaged due to the factory collapse. Now, they are trying to move machines from the shed side. The remaining portion of the factory should be razed within a week as our business is getting affected.”An official said that it may take at least two weeks to get the remaining portion of the building demolished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/factory-collapse-in-ludhiana-debris-blocks-way-of-machines-to-raze-remaining-portion-297708
15-08-2021||---||Old building’s part collapses near Neem Wala Chowk in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 14A tragedy got averted when a portion of an old and unsafe building near Neem Wala Chowk collapsed here today. The debris fell on the street but the MC officials said no one was present there at the time of the incident.A resident alleged that some work was going on in the old building and they had complained to the civic body about this but no action was taken. Kunal Sachdeva, a resident, said the building was very old and its portion collapsed today. He said, “The area residents had complained to the MC about the work going on in the building but the complaint was ignored. Now, the incident took place. After the incident, police had also reached the site.”ATP Mohan Singh said the building was around 100 years’ old and it was unsafe.He said the building owner was getting the unsafe building portion demolished on his own when a structure collapsed. “The debris fell on the street but no one was present there. There is no report of any damage to life or property in the incident,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/old-buildings-part-collapses-near-neem-wala-chowk-in-ludhiana-297709
15-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 7 test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 14Today seven persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district. Today 106 active patients were there in the district.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached at 97.48 per cent. Till now 85,221 patients have recovered so far.Till date 21,25,562 samples have been taken and report of all the samples have been received. As many as 20,26,502 samples were found negative.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,422, while 11,638 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,095 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts.Samples of 14,411 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-7-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-297704
15-08-2021||---||Notorious criminal held with illegal weapons in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 14The crime wing of the city police nabbed a notorious criminal and seized illegal weapons from his possession.The accused has been identified as Naveen Negi, alias Nakul, of Geeta Nagar Tajpur road. The police seized two pistols and eight live cartridges from him.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime, Simratpal Singh Dhindsa; Additional DCP Crime Rupinder Kaur Bhatti; ACP Crime Mandeep Singh, addressed a press conference after his arrest.DCP Dhindsa said the police got information that the wanted criminal was present at a farm house in Jhande village. Accordingly, the CIA team conducted a raid and nabbed the accused.The DCP said Neveen was a close aide of gangster Neeraj Kumar, alias Ashu, of Ganesh Nagar and gangster Puneet Bains, alias Mani Bains, of Ghora colony.Naveen was also declared a proclaimed offender in three attempt to murder cases registered against him at different police stations in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/notorious-criminal-held-with-illegal-weapons-in-ludhiana-297707
15-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||3 Ludhiana ADCPs to get police medals||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 14Three Ludhiana police officers, including two women, will get police medals for their outstanding services. The two women ADCPs, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti and Rupinder Kaur Sra, will get the Chief Minister’s Medal for outstanding devotion to duty while ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja will be honoured with the President’s Police Medal for meritorious services on Independence Day.ADCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti has worked hard in the Operation Jack in which leads about gangster Jaipal were shared. Bhatti had performed a leading role through her intelligence inputs in tracing the assassins behind the murder of Balwinder Singh, a Shaurya Chakra awardee.She has also arrested gangster Aman Tattoo, wanted in extortion and other cases.Members of the espionage gang were also arrested in a joint operation with the Jagraon police as the gang was involved in sharing sensitive information regarding the Military Airbase in Halwara. Even the fake call centre scam was busted by Bhatti in which 39 accused were arrested. She was also instrumental in launching social projects such as ‘Vehra Dhiyan Da’ and ‘Shramik Trains for migrants’ in lockdown.“I took this award as the highest honour. it will motivate me to work hard for doing better policing in all respects,” Bhatti said.Rupinder Kaur Sra, ADCP, Ludhiana, has been paying a pivotal role in state government’s efforts to save lives of citizens during the ferocious second Covid wave. For her valuable service to society, Sra would be awarded with the Chief Minister’s medal on the occasion of Independence Day. Right from leading the fight as a nodal officer for crucial contact tracing, the Ludhiana Police officer coordinated and personally monitored the free-of-cost distribution of Covid care kits among patients, arranged Webex sessions of doctors and psychologists from the DMCH with Covid positive police officials. Sra led the drive admirably and motivated several persons, including 18 recovered police officials from Ludhiana to donate plasma. Sra was also the brainchild behind the Ludhiana Police’s Project SAWERA to support and empower rape victims. She also roped in celebrities in a campaign against drugs.She also busted an interstate sex racket active in Ludhiana with the arrest of 14 persons, including 10 girls along with the lady kingpin, besides launching a special drive to arrest proclaimed offenders and bail jumpers successfully, apprehending as many as 43 criminals booked in various cases. Her article ‘Contribution in research and publishing of article “Mask Use Pattern, Public Perception and Barriers to Effective Mask Usage — A Battle far from over” was published in the Indian Journal of Community Health.“Besides this medal, I have already received DGP commendation disc, DGP disc for sewa to society, Parman patra 2020 for works done during Covid, CM medal,” said ADCP Sra.ADCP 2 Jaskiranjit Singh Teja has been serving in Ludhiana for the past over a year and he has solved several major crimes. “I am feeling honoured that I have been awarded with the President Police Medal for Meritorious Services. It is the highest honour and I will continue to serve the Police Department with utmost honesty and dedication. In my career, besides this medal, I have already received six appreciation letters from the Punjab DGP, five DGP’s Commendation Disc, Chief Minister Medal for Meritorious Services. I have solved several blind murder cases, sacrilege incidents, robberies, vehicle thefts by gangs, etc, says Teja.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-ludhiana-adcps-to-get-police-medals-297710
