17-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Ludhiana MC should plant saplings, develop parks to make city liveable||To make the city more beautiful and a better place to live, the state government and the local administration must plant more saplings along the roadsides. Concentration of industries must be outside the MC limits of Ludhiana. Polluting industries and vehicles must be banned, especially the units polluting the Buddha Nullah by letting untreated water into it. Also, traffic must be controlled by installing more CCTV cameras and challaning the violators. Throwing garbage in the open or in canals should be forbidden. Also, the canals passing through the city must be fenced and the Budha Dariya and Buddha Nullah must be cleaned. Residents must responsibly help the administration keep the city clean and green.Farzana KhanSolve traffic, water problemsThe Ludhiana city has been brought under the Smart City project of the Central Government, but truly, nothing has changed in the city. Concrete development is visible to the residents but the much-needed solution to the problem of traffic in the city is still pending. Many flyovers have been constructed but the problem persists. The next problem is air pollution. Residents of the rest of the state might have started using masks during the pandemic, but the city residents have been using them since long due to pollution. Meanwhile, there are many areas where potable water and proper drainage system are yet to be made available. These milestones should be accomplished at the earliest to make the city a better place to live.Bir Devinder Singh BediDevelop parks, lakesLudhiana is known as the Manchester of India but except for a few localities, the city is not worth living. To make life better in the city, the local government should focus on carpeting roads and shifting industries to the outskirts. Also encroachments should be removed and parks should be developed in different localities. Some lakes can also be made in the surroundings of the city for recreational activities. Underways and overbridges for the smooth flow of traffic, fences to restrict the entry of stray animals on roads and allocating proper parking places in markets are some other steps that the administration can take for the city’s betterment.Dr Mohammad Saleem FarooquiBalanced approach neededThe district administration is spending a lot of money on infrastructure for the betterment of the city but besides this, the authorities should keep a check on unused buildings located in the posh localities. There are big malls, old cinema halls and other buildings which are lying unused. Permission must be given to demolish these so that the area can be used for productive purposes. Beautification of the whole city should be kept in mind, not just limited areas. Balanced approach should be followed in order to remove regional imbalances.Ritu PriyaTake up basic issues firstA slew of infrastructure development projects to make the city smart were taken up recently but these do not make sense as the general public is still devoid of basic needs. City roads are in deplorable conditions as they are full of potholes. These are carpeted only once in five years, when elections are forthcoming. Garbage disposal is another problem. Traffic snarls are a major headache for city residents. The administration should resolve these basic problems first and then start major projects.RV SinghComplete projects in stipulated timeThe official machinery must be proactive and ensure completion of development projects in a stipulated time frame. The DC should resolve various issues, like land acquisition, forest clearances etc, to ensure time-bound completion. The existing civil infrastructure should be strengthened and a ring road around Ludhiana should be constructed. The Punjab Infrastructure Development Board should start its own upgrade programmes, like construction of river over-bridges, high traffic corridors and upgrade roads. The residents should plant more trees across the city. The immigrants/refugees should be welcomed and valued in the community to make the city a better place to live.RS SEMBHIDevelopment going on at a snail’s paceA few years ago, Ludhiana was selected to be developed as a smart city but it is very disheartening that all projects meant to change its overall presentation are moving at a snail’s pace and the city, as it exists now, does not resemble anything like it was supposed to be.Residents are yet to get pure drinking water and clean air. Garbage dumps can be seen everywhere, waterlogging is a perennial issue due to poor sewerage system and roads are full of potholes. Most of the parks are in need of maintenance and beautification.Dr Sunil ChopraSet up markets, entertainment zonesThe city needs well-defined market places for sale of locally produced goods and a separate area for indoor games and modern eating places. A large number of visitors come to the city to purchase hosiery and other goods produced here and therefore, we need many more clean, healthy and cost effective lodging places. Likewise, a number of indoor and outdoor places must be developed for entertainment. The authorities can prepare a list of such sites existing in industrial cities of Europe and other developed countries and duplicate them in Ludhiana.Gautam DevReduce carbon footprintTo make the city a better place to live, we must grow more trees and reduce environmental impacts of pollution. Energy conservation is one of the most important things we can do to reduce carbon footprint. The technique of rain water harvesting and solar system should be followed in the city. The industrial waste should not be thrown into water bodies.Adish SoodConstant vigil mustSome projects on the way to completion will raise the living standards and enhance the beauty of the city. At the same time, a thorough check is needed to evaluate the worth of the work done. Regular checks must be carried out by experts and the auditing needs to be made transparent. The findings should be shown to the public, giving them sufficient time to comment. Residents have a right to know how their tax money is being spent. A committee of experts needs to made, constituting of members of various fields, to conduct the audits.JBS NandaUse infra judiciouslyAlthough the district is undergoing a makeover with major infrastructural changes, yet there are some conditions to be fulfilled to make the city a better place to live in. Proper management of the infrastructure is vital so that it does not disrupt the life of common man. If there is no proper management of newly built buildings, it will a major monetary loss and the city will suffer.Kamaldeep KaurOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONWith 20 students from two schools testing positive for Covid, days after reopening of educational institutions in the district, should the children below 18 years of age, who are not yet eligible for vaccination, be allowed to attend physical classes? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-should-plant-saplings-develop-parks-to-make-city-liveable-298332
17-08-2021||Ludhiana||Nehru Yuva Kendra, Ludhiana celebrates Independence Day||Nehru Yuva Kendra, Ludhiana, celebrated the 75th Independence Day with much fanfare and enthusiasm. Under ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav - India 75’, youth from all blocks of Ludhiana participated in the flag hoisting ceremony and singing.Sunil Maifik, secretary, PPCC, who was the chief guest, encouraged the youth to be aware of ongoing schemes of the state government. He said youngsters should take part in nation-building activities.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nehru-yuva-kendra-ludhiana-celebrates-independence-day-298326
17-08-2021||Ludhiana||Man arrested, 8 kin booked for assault in Ludhiana||The police have arrested Jinder Baba of EWS Colony on Tajpur Road, while eight other members of his family and several other accomplices have been booked under Sections 323, 341, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC for alleged assault and issuing threats to Sat Narain, a resident of the same colony, on Sunday. The complainant reported to the police that his grandson was beaten up by one of the children of the accused’s family and when he went to the Jinder’s house to complain, his family members attacked him. “When my family members tried to intervene, they were also beaten up,” he said.In another incident, Abhishek Sikka was arrested and his accomplice Harsh, both residents of New Ashok Nagar, was booked on the complaint of Aman. Aman said the accused were beating up his friend Banty Baggar on Sunday. When he tried to intervene, the accused attacked him with a sword and fled the spot while threatening to kill him.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-8-kin-booked-for-assault-in-ludhiana-298328
17-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Cricket Tourney: Aishmine, Gurleen  star in Ludhiana’s win over Zone A||Ludhiana, August 16Aishmine Kaur (48 not out) and Gurleen Kaur Jassal (4 for 22) powered Ludhiana to script a seven-wicket win over Zone A in the first match of the Punjab State Inter-District Women’s Cricket Tournament being played at the Aryabhatta Group of Institute ground, Barnala, on Monday.Batting first, Zone A comprising players from three districts, Muktsar, Bathinda and Mansa, were bowled out for 97 runs in 45.3 overs.For Ludhiana, Gurleen was the pick of bowlers grabbing four wickets for 22 runs in her full quota of 10 overs. Seema Purohit captured two wickets for 4 runs, Palwinderjeet Kaur secured two wickets for 24 runs and Aishmine Kaur claimed one wicket for 16 runs.Ludhiana players made the required runs in only 20.2 overs after losing three wickets. The highlight of their innings was a fine batting display by Aishmine who faced 59 balls and remained unbeaten on 48 with the help of seven hits over the fence. Seema remained not out of 16 which came off 39 deliveries.Gurleen Kaur was declared the player of the match. In the second match, which will be held on August 18 at Barnala, Ludhiana will take on Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cricket-tourney-aishmine-gurleen-star-in-ludhianas-win-over-zone-a-298329
17-08-2021||Ludhiana||350 take part in athletics meet in Ludhiana village||Around 350 participants (boys and girls) took part in the inaugural edition of the athletics meet, organised at Jathedar Santokh Singh Margind Stadium near the historic Gurdwara Flahi Sahib at Duley village in Ludhiana district.The meet was dedicated to legendary athlete Milkha Singh, who passed away recently. Teja Singh Dhaliwal, an eminent sports promoter and general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association, gave away prizes to position holders. He also donated 50 sports uniforms, 24 footballs and a set of net for the use at the stadium. He expressed hope that it would encourage children of the area to take part actively in sports.Addressing the gathering on the occasion, Dhaliwal said the stadium holds promise for future sprinters such as Milkha Singh and PT Usha since children and coaches were passionate about sports.Daljeet Singh, Lakhvir Singh Rana, Jora Singh Duley, Paramjeet Singh and Davinder Singh Rania, besides coaches Kuldeep Pathak and Kulwinder Singh, were among those present.Results10-km race (boys): Mukul of Kila Raipur first, Sagar of Thareeke second and Nadeem Khan of Kila Raipur third; 5-km race (girls): Jaspreet Kaur of Kila Raipur first, Gagandeep Kaur of Kila Raipur second and Sonia of Rajshai Duley third; 3-km race (girls): Harmanjeet Kaur of Duley first, Jaskirat Kaur of Duley second and Bipandeep Kaur of Chupki third; 100-m race (boys): Gursharan Singh of Duley first, Isheer Singh of Duley second and Jagtar Singh of Duley third; 100-m race (girls): Mandeep Kaur of Duley first, Gagandeep Kaur of Duley second and Gursirat Kaur of Duley third; 3-km race (boys): Arshdeep Singh of Kila Raipur first, Jot of Duley second and Sehajpreet Singh of Rurka third. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/350-take-part-in-athletics-meet-in-ludhiana-village-298330
17-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district continues to be safe at 0.1% positivity rate||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 16Ludhiana, which being the largest district in the state with maximum population of four million, remained the worst-hit during the deadly second Covid wave. It continues to remain safe and recorded the lowest positivity rate, a key indicator of virus surge, of 0.1 per cent during the week between August 3 and 9, the government has confirmed.Having made a remarkable turnaround from being the worst-hit to the safest district in the state, Ludhiana’s hit rate was on a par with the state’s average positivity of 0.1 per cent between August 3 and 9, the official figures have revealed.Varinder Kumar Sharma, DCOfficialspeakWe have been keeping a constant watch on the virus situation and continuing aggressively with the five-pronged strategy of test, trace, treat, vaccinate and strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour to avert the resurgence of deadly infection.This was even half than the earlier record low of 0.2 per cent positivity rate registered in the district last month between July 2 and 8, when the state’s average hit rate was 0.4 per cent.The safe trend has been persisting for the past two months when the district had made a remarkable turnaround by recording the daily positivity rate even below 1 per cent.The development holds significance as Ludhiana had earlier assumed the dubious distinction of being the worst-hit district with the maximum number of daily Covid cases and deaths till May.If it was mayhem in May when the second Covid wave had rapidly slid into a devastating crisis with the health facilities unbearably falling short, oxygen supplies running low and many dying even without seeing a doctor, June had given a sigh of relief with the signs of gradual retreat and impact of deadly virus plateauing and the safe trend continued in July and August when the hit rate further dipped to as low as 0.1 per cent last week.This U-turn is all the more significant as the daily positivity rate has dropped by a whopping 19.56 per cent from the highest-ever ratio of 19.57 per cent in the past three months. The district had touched its peak of virus surge on May 2.The daily hit rate has been plummeting constantly since the last week of May.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana’s positivity rate even plummeted below the weekly average of 0.1 per cent in August as it was recorded 0.05 per cent on August 1, 0.07 per cent on August 2, lowest-ever 0.02 per cent on August 3, 0.1 per cent on August 4, 0.06 per cent on August 5, 0.16 per cent on August 6, 0.11 per cent on August 7, 0.08 per cent on August 8, 0.02 per cent on August 9, 0.2 per cent on August 10, 0.37 per cent on August 11, 0.09 per cent on August 12, and 0.04 per cent on August 13.While Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Mansa, and Nawanshahr districts reported no Covid case during the week between August 3 and 9, Fazilka topped the state with the highest hit rate of 0.6 per cent.Among other districts, Mohali recorded 0.5 per cent positivity rate, Bathinda and Pathankot 0.3 per cent each, Barnala, Jalandhar, Patiala and Faridkot 0.2 per cent each, Tarn Taran, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur, Ropar, Moga and Muktsar registered the hit rate of 0.1 per cent each on a par with Ludhiana and state average.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-continues-to-be-safe-at-0-1-positivity-rate-298331
17-08-2021||Ludhiana||Five arrested for gambling in Ludhiana||Drinking at public place: 3 nabbedLudhiana: The police have arrested three persons, identified as Anil Kumar of Phullanwal, Amar Nath, a resident of Punjab Mata Nagar, and Milan Kumar, a resident of Moti Bagh Colony, under Sections 68, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act for consuming liquor at a public place. The police said the three accused were caught drinking at the corner of a road turning towards Gobind Nagar in Dugri. OCMan held with 10-gm heroinLudhiana: The police arrested a man with 10-gm heroin here on Sunday. The suspect, identified as Deepak Kumar of Janta Colony, Gill village, was nabbed by the police while going in a Verna car near Arora Palace on Gill Road. He was stopped on suspicion at a police check post and during search 10 gm of heroin was seized from him. The police have registered a case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and his car has also been impounded. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-arrested-for-gambling-in-ludhiana-298333
17-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Two arrested for snatching mobiles in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 16The police have arrested two mobile phone snatchers identified as Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Gurpal Nagar, and his accomplice Mandeep Singh, a resident of Kot Managal Singh, and a snatched mobile phone was recovered from them. The duo were apprehended during the investigation of a mobile phone snatching incident reported by Khursheed Ali of Gulabi Bagh on Tibba Road.The victim had told the police that while going home on a scooter with his friend Imran on August 13, two motorcycle-borne youths snatched his mobile phone near the Punjab Mata Nagar cut and fled the spot.The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC against them.One held for stealing power cables, AC pipesThe police have traced a theft of power cables and AC pipes which occurred at an under-construction house in Jain Colony on Jassian Road on August 10 and a man, identified as Rocky, a resident of Jassian Road, has been arrested in this regard. The police said some of the stolen power cables were recovered from the accused. Manav Sood, owner of the house, had reported the theft of cables and pipes from his house and the culprit was identified from the CCTV footage of cameras installed in the building.The police have booked the accused under Sections 457 and 380 of the Indian penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-arrested-for-snatching-mobiles-in-ludhiana-298334
17-08-2021||Ludhiana||Repair freedom fighter’s house, say youngsters||On the occasion of Independence Day, members of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha carried out a bike rally from Pakhowal to Sarabha. They were demanding urgent repair of the ancestral house of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha at Sarabha village. Earlier, they had submitted a memorandum to the DC, Ludhiana. However, they said the house had not been repaired yet.Sabha president Rupinder Singh Chounda and committee member Karamjit Singh Manuke said at present, the ancestral home of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha, which was being maintained by the government Archaeological Department was in a bad condition.“Walls are getting damaged while cement plaster is falling from the walls. Roofs are leaking while cracks are also visible,” they said.“We had earlier raised the demand for the early repair of the home but nothing has been done by the government so far. We will intensify our struggle for the maintenance of the martyr’s home,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/repair-freedom-fighters-house-say-youngsters-298335
17-08-2021||---||Tributes paid to Goa Liberation Movement hero Karnail Issru||Ludhiana, August 16Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday paid floral tributes to Shaheed Karnail Singh Issru during a state-level function held at Issru village of the district.They garlanded the statue of the martyr in the village. Charanjit Kaur, wife of Shaheed Karnail Singh Issru was also honoured on the occasion.Addressing the gathering on the martyrdom day of great revolutionary Shaheed Karnail Singh Issru, who laid down his life during the liberation of Goa from the Portuguese regime, here, at his native village, the ministers said: “We Punjabis inherited the spirit of sacrifice from the great Sikh Gurus, especially Guru Arjun Dev and Guru Teg Bahadur who made supreme sacrifice against the tyranny unleashed by the Mughals, for the sake of humanity.”They said the legacy of self-sacrifice perpetuated from one generation to other and was one of the major force behind Punjab’s great contribution to the country’s freedom struggle.They said it was on record that Punjabis, who account for two per cent of country’s total population, had made huge sacrifices in terms of life imprisonment, capital punishment and even exile in captivity (Kalpani).They said the enormous contribution of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Udham Singh, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Lala Lajpat Rai, Sohan Singh Bhakna and several others would continue to inspire younger generations.They said there would be no shortage of funds for the ancestral village of Shaheed Karnail Singh Issru. Whenever MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli or the village panchayat wants to carry out some development project, the government would allocate funds for the development of the village.AAP pays homageThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leadership, led by party’s state president and MP Bhagwant Mann and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema, on Independence Day, paid homage to the hero of the Goa Liberation Movement, martyr Karnail Singh Issru. The leaders paid tributes at the memorial of the martyr and raised revolutionary slogans as a a tribute to freedom fighters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tributes-paid-to-goa-liberation-movement-hero-karnail-issru-298336
17-08-2021||---||Food Minister recalls role of Punjabis in freedom struggle||Ludhiana, August 16Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu hoisted the Tricolour during a district-level function to commemorate 75th Independence Day at Guru Nanak Stadium here on Sunday.Recalling the role of Punjabis in the country’s freedom struggle, the minister said Punjabis had always led from the front against tyranny, oppression and injustice unleashed by invaders from time to time.He said the message of the great Sikh Gurus would always act as a lighthouse to motivate people against oppressive forces.The minister also paid homage to freedom fighters such as Lala Lajpat Rai, Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Shaheed Sukhdev, Shaheed Udham Singh, Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha, Madan Lal Dhingra and others who sacrificed their lives for their motherland.He gave a clarion call to the youth to come forward and encourage eligible people for receiving Covid-19 vaccine at the earliest to curb the anticipated third wave of the disease.The minister said Ludhiana had recorded path-breaking development in all spheres of life during the past four years of the Congress-led state government. A special emphasis had been laid on urban infrastructure development and works of Rs 650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project, Halwara international airport, three bus stands, Dhanansu cycle valley, surface drinking water supply project, Pakhowal ROB and RUB and upgrade of Mother and Child Hospital from 100 to 200 beds were underway on a war-footing.Meanwhile, the chief guest took a salute during an impressive march past by seven contingents of the Punjab Police (women and men), Home Guards, air wing, NCC (boys and girls) led by parade Commander Assistant Commissioner of Police Randhir Singh.Ashu also honoured around 36 prominent officers, doctors, NGOs, and persons from various walks of life for their remarkable contribution to society and the battle against Covid-19. He also distributed sewing machines and wheelchairs among the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/food-minister-recalls-role-of-punjabis-in-freedom-struggle-298337
17-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 5 test positive in two days in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 16Five persons tested positive for Covid in the district in two days. Yesterday two and today three persons tested positive, while no death was reported in the district on both days.Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached at 97.49 per cent. Till now 85,232 patients have recovered so far.Till date 21,45,266 samples have been taken. As many as 20,46,196 samples were found negative.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana district so far is 87,427, while 11,643 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,095 from Ludhiana district and 1,048 from other districts.Samples of 8,150 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Today only two Covid patients were admitted to hospitals and one patient from other district was on ventilator support. As many as 95 patients were home isolated.400 vaccinated at Ghulal village||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-5-test-positive-in-two-days-in-ludhiana-298338
17-08-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Uncle held for man’s murder in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 16The crime branch of the city police has cracked the blind murder case of Sapan Kumar Sahu (40), employee of a brick kiln contractor, who was found dead in his room in Raj Enclave on Jagirpur Road here on Sunday morning. The deceased was found in a pool of blood, apparently killed while sleeping with an iron rod or some other blunt weapon, by his employer Sidhu Kumar, who had gone to his house as Sahu was not attending his phone calls.The police had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC on the statement of Sidhu Kumar, resident of Namdev Colony here. He said he had called Sahu on his telephone early in the morning for transportation of a consignment of bricks. “But since there was no response from Sahu, I went to his house and the door was opened by Sahu’s maternal uncle, who lived with him. When both of us went to his room, we found Sahu in a pool of blood with his head having been crushed with an iron rod or heavy blunt weapon,” Sidhu had said in his complaint.Giving details, Joint Commissioner of Police Sachin Gupta said in the course of investigation of the blind murder, the prime suspect seemed to be the maternal uncle of the deceased, Sarvan Kumar Sah, who broke down during interrogation and confessed to the crime. Accordingly, Sarvan Kumar Sah, resident of Raj Enclave, Jagirpur Road, was arrested and charged with murder.The police said Sarvan Kumar Sah revealed that he had remained in jail for drug trafficking and came out on bail in March this year. He said during his absence, his nephew Sapan, who lived in the same house, had developed illicit relations with his wife.On the intervening night of August 14 and 15, he hit Sapan Kumar with an iron rod when he was preparing his bed to sleep in and concocted a story that thieves had broken in and had killed his nephew, the JCP said.Was hit with an iron rod||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/uncle-held-for-mans-murder-in-ludhiana-298325
17-08-2021||Manav Mander||Afghan students fear for safety of kin back home as Taliban return||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 16Students from Afghanistan studying in universities in Ludhiana are worried about their families back home as Taliban insurgents swept Kabul after the US-backed Afghan government collapsed.Fearing the return of dark days for women, they say: “People are not comfortable with the Taliban.”Ahmad Mubasher, Resident of Baghlan province, AfghanistanFreedom will be compromisedAll these years, youngsters have been living life on their own terms. Women have been studying, working and going out, which will now be stopped all of a sudden.Ahmad Mubasher, who is pursuing PhD from Punjab Agricultural University, said: “We are four sisters and four brothers. I am feeling sorry for the women of my country as their freedom will be compromised now.”Belonging to the North province Baghlan, Ahmad said back in his country, life had stopped after the Taliban gained control. “All these years, youngsters have been living life on their own terms. Women have been studying, working and going out, which will now be stopped all of a sudden. People in Afghanistan have experience with the Taliban and now fear the worst,” he said.Ahmad has been in constant touch with his family for the past couple of days, but today he could not get through the call due to network issues.A student pursuing MVSc in veterinary microbiology at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, on the condition of anonymity, said although Taliban had announced that they would not be interfering with the life of people, it was just a farce statement.“I am scared after whatever is happening in my country. I am more concerned about my sister and wife. My sister, who is a doctor, has quit her job as she no more feels safe. I will be returning soon to be with my family,” he said.Another PhD student from PAU said his family had to abandon their house and take refuge in one of their relative’s place. “Taliban taking away the freedom of women is the worst nightmare that is coming true,” he said.Abdullah Alishangi, 20, of Kabul who is pursuing MBA from the Punjab College of Technical Education, said: “Now that the Taliban have taken over, they will try to win the confidence of people by taking them along. Earlier, if anybody used to step out of the house, we never used to be sure whether he/she would return home or not. Now, this fear will diminish as the Taliban have taken over and they will try to restore peace and normalcy to win over people. But this will come at the cost of the freedom of women,” Alishangi said.A brother of three sisters, he is upset as now his sisters would have to follow certain restrictions in their own country. “Now, women will have to wear hijab and require a male escort for travelling. There will be separate space in offices for men and women and no female teacher will teach at boys’ schools,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/afghan-students-fear-for-safety-of-kin-back-home-as-taliban-return-298147
