18-08-2021||Ludhiana||50 nurses participate in meet on kidney care at Aykai Hospital in Ludhiana||The nursing department of urology, nephrology and transplant institute of Aykai Hospital organised a continuing nursing education programme with the theme ‘Kidney Care-Must Know!’.Keeping in view the Covid-19 protocols, only 50 nurses participated in the conference.Chief urologist and transplant surgeon Baldev Singh Aulakh said the nursing department plays a vital role in patient care, hence improving their knowledge would be of substantial value and such sessions would continue to take place in the future too. The aim of the meet was to spread awareness about taking care of kidneys and enhancing the knowledge of nurses about kidney disease and their nursing management, especially during the pandemic.Guest speaker Ritu P Naihar, associate professor, CMC, discussed about the basics of renal system in which she explained role of kidneys in haemoglobin production, maintenance of acid-base and water balance, increasing bone strength and removal of waste products from blood, followed by Dr Ritika Bansal, consultant, nephrology, Aykai Hospital, who shared detailed knowledge about risk factors of the kidney disease, tips to monitor kidney functions and how to maintain a healthy lifestyle to prevent the disease amid Covid.The last session was covered by Neelam Dass, associate professor, Mohan Dai Oswal College of Nursing, in which she gave comprehensive knowledge about the nursing management of chronic kidney disease. A quiz was also held during the meet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/50-nurses-participate-in-meet-on-kidney-care-at-aykai-hospital-in-ludhiana-298807
18-08-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Students flout Covid norms in Ludhiana schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 17Recently, 20 schoolchildren tested Covid positive in two different government schools in the city, following which panic gripped the authorities and intense testing started taking place in schools. The government may have issued guidelines to be followed to avoid spread of infection and the school managements may be trying their best to adhere to the protocol, but as far as students are concerned, they neither look worried nor cautious in observing Covid norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.At Shadeed Sukhdev Thapar Secior Secondary School for Girls in Kochar Market, a majority of students were seen without masks during recess time. One of the students said, “We are asked to wear masks all the time but it is not possible. We feel suffocated and since it is recess time, we prefer inhaling fresh air outside”.Students did not even maintain social distancing. They were seen roaming in groups and buying eatables from near the gate in good number.Even at Government Primary School, Kochar Market, children were seen playing without masks during the recess and sharing their lunch. Even while getting mid-day meals in a queue, no distance was maintained among the students.Teachers also looked helpless in the situation. One of the teachers, on the condition of anonymity, said “We take their responsibility when they reach here. We get their hands sanitised and make sure that masks are not removed in classrooms. But during recess and when the school gets over, we cannot go after them ensuring that they follow the norms. Testing is being done in the school but it hardly serves any purpose because not all students are tested. Random checking of 40-50 students is done and then the teams from the Health Department move to other schools”.At Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetry Road, children were seen wearing masks in classes and the rush of students was also manageable. Principal Taskeen Akhtar said earlier 50 per cent students were called on rotation basis but now, 30 per cent students were being called due to Covid cases reported in the government schools.Meanwhile, school managements said after Covid cases being reported, parents were again reluctant to send their wards to schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-flout-covid-norms-in-ludhiana-schools-298808
18-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana hold fort against Moga in cricket tournament||Ludhiana, August 17Hosts Ludhiana were in a commanding position against Moga on the first day of the fourth and the last league match in group B in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament being played at GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road here on Tuesday.Batting first after winning the toss, the visitors, in their first essay, were bundled out for a paltry score of 91 in 54 overs. At draw of stumps, Ludhiana were 113 without any loss after 39 overs.Moga skipper Harish Kumar’s decision to bat first turned out to be a miscalculation as their batsmen, except Sagareshver Khattri and Sukhsehaj Narang, failed to cope up with Ludhiana bowlers and surrendered meekly.Sagareashver contributed 32 runs while Sukhsehaj remained unbeaten on 31 runs but that was not enough to steer their side to reach the three figure mark.For Ludhiana, skipper Shabd Tangri and Karanjot Singh were the most successful bowlers, chipping in with three wickets each. Shabd got three for 10 in 11 overs while Karanjot secured three for 16 in 13 overs. Anmoljit Singh, Guneet Sahni, Chirag Anand and Adhiraj Singh Mangat scalped one victim each.Ludhiana began its reply on a sound note with the opening pair of Karanveer Rana and Jaiveer Singh posting 113 runs on the board without being separated. Karan was batting on 75 and Jaiveer was not out on 36.Harish Kumar used as many as seven bowlers who failed to deter Karanveer and Jaiveer and the pair not only enabled their side surpass rivals’ score but take first innings 22 runs lead also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-hold-fort-against-moga-in-cricket-tournament-298809
18-08-2021||---||Punjab Govt, SIDBI to support six-month plan to boost MSME||Ludhiana, August 17The Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME), in partnership with the Government of Punjab and Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) and supported by Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), has opened up the application process for the second cohort of Growtherator Ludhiana. The aim of the programme is to advance Punjab’s transformation ‘Saada Karobaar Punjab di Shaan’ and helping Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) scale up their business efficiently. The Growtherator is a small business accelerator programme (six-month cohorts) to support 30 promising enterprises in improving their productivity, efficiency and profitability significantly.The programme invites applications from profitable businesses with annual revenue of Rs 2 crore to Rs 10 crore in service industry, and Rs 10 crore to Rs 50 crore in manufacturing trade or export businesses with at least three years of annual filings. Businesses with annual revenue of Rs 2 crore to Rs 50 crore, that are led by women (majority equity owned by women), are also encouraged to apply.Sachit Jain, vice chairman and MD, Vardhman Special Steels and Chair, GAME Punjab Taskforce, said “As the second wave of Covid-19 is behind us, it is important to set our sights on the recovery of MSME. Punjab currently has close to 3 lakh MSME and it is imperative that we nurture, encourage and support local entrepreneurship with the larger aim of driving growth. The focus is to ensure we tap into more businesses and propel them towards growth.”Upkar Singh, CICU president, said “Ludhiana is teeming with MSME that have potential for exponential growth but little access to opportunities. The first cohort of Growtherator addressed the gaps and equipped MSME to chart a new path for seamless growth. As we set out for the second cohort, the aim remains to create ample opportunities while helping MSME overcome the challenges posed by Covid-induced slowdown”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-govt-sidbi-to-support-six-month-plan-to-boost-msme-298810
18-08-2021||---||Overflowing sewers, stinking water supply irk residents||Ludhiana, August 17 Residents of Ward 18 on Chandigarh Road have complained about accumulated sewage water in a park in the area. They also complained that the water being supplied to the area by the civic body was contaminated. Premjeet Singh of Sector 39 on Chandigarh Road said the water was getting accumulated in the park. Also, the area residents were being supplied visibly contaminated and stinking water. It seemed that sewage was getting mixed in the water supply line, he claimed. The residents have demanded that the civic body resolve the problem of choked and overflowing sewers in the area as the chances of the spread of a disease cannot be ignored. They demanded from the MC to ensure safe drinking water supply and cleanliness in the area. MC Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/overflowing-sewers-stinking-water-supply-irk-residents-298811
18-08-2021||---||Govt says only ‘fully vaccinated’ staff  to take offline classes||Ludhiana, August 17Reports of many students testing Covid positive have come to light from government schools in various districts of Punjab, including Ludhiana. Following this, the state government has reportedly issued directions that only fully vaccinated teachers can take physical classes.The order has left the teachers and staff members, who have not received the second dose, confused as to whether they are eligible to take classes or not. Teachers at government schools maintain that there should be clarity on the issue as up to 50-60 per cent staff are only half vaccinated (just one dose).A teacher at Government School, Kot Mangalsingh, here said no clear instructions had been issued in this regard, so there was utter confusion among teachers.“The government has asked us to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health, which says that only vaccinated persons can take classes. However, teachers are still getting themselves vaccinated. Many of us are due for second dose after a month or so. We are coming to schools, teaching the students but there should be clarity on this from the state government,” the teacher said.Devinder Singh Chinna, media coordinator, said schools were awaiting clear instructions on the issue but till then, it was mandatory for all to follow guidelines and attend schools. “Even one dose provides the much needed protection. All teachers are expected to come to schools and take classes while clear instructions may follow anytime soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-says-only-fully-vaccinated-staff-to-take-offline-classes-298812
18-08-2021||---||SDO honoured for resolving waterlogging problem on Ludhiana's Damoria Bridge||Ludhiana, August 17For resolving the chronic waterlogging problem on Damoria Bridge, MC SDO Anshul Garcha has been honoured at the district-level event held at Guru Nanak Stadium to mark Independence Day.His name was recommended by MC president Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal.Major waterlogging was being witnessed on Damoria Bridge during rainy season, due to which a large number of residents suffered. During the lockdown last year, Garcha had started handling the task to get the issue resolved. No waterlogging was witnessed at the bridge site even when heavy rainfall lashed the city during the ongoing rainy season, as per civic body officials.Garcha said: “It was a challenging task for me to resolve the problem of waterlogging on Damoria Bridge in about three months. The 1-km-long drain was cleaned by using different methods. A huge amount of silt was removed from it. Trolleys had made about 2,300 rounds to shift the removed waste and slid from the drain.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sdo-honoured-for-resolving-waterlogging-problem-on-ludhianas-damoria-bridge-298813
18-08-2021||---||Shifting of stray cattle to shelters sought in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 17Though the Municipal Corporation (MC) collects crores of rupees as cow cess every year, many head of stray cattle are still roaming on the city roads. Now, the Environmental and Welfare Association of New Janta Nagar and Shimlapuri have sought that the civic body ensures shifting of stray cattle roaming on the city streets to gaushalas or shelters at the earliest.Sher Singh, president of the association, said the MC had stated earlier that the stray cattle would be shifted to gaushalas but hundreds of them were roaming on the internal and main roads of the city. A number of fatal mishaps had taken place due to the stray cattle while some persons had even been attacked by them, he said.The stray cattle were commonly seen roaming near Dana Mandi on Gill Road, Bahadurke Road, Shimlapuri, Pakhowal Road, Hambran Road, Tajpur Road, Chandigarh Road and Jalandhar Bypass. Sher Singh said, “It is the responsibility of the Ludhiana MC to take necessary steps to shift the stray cattle from the roads to gaushalas at the earliest”.The issue was raised during the last House meeting, where MC’s Senior Veterinary Officer Dr Harbans Dhalla had maintained that they were shifting the stray cattle from the city areas to gaushalas. He had said that about 145 heads of cattle had been shifted to a new shed at Burj Pawat and there was plan to construct three more sheds there. A gaushala has also constructed a shed and stray cattle from the city areas would be shifted there, he had added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shifting-of-stray-cattle-to-shelters-sought-in-ludhiana-298814
18-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Dakha SHO’s suspension politically motivated: Akali MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 17The SHO, Dakha, Jagjit Singh, was suspended by the Senior Superintendent of Police, Ludhiana (rural), Charanjit Singh.Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Dakha Manpreet Singh Ayali alleged that the SHO was suspended as he had sent policemen for flag-hoisting function arranged by him on the Independence Day at Dakha.Ayali alleged that before the Independence Day function, he had written to the SSP for required security arrangements for the flag-hoisting ceremony. As per the protocol, the SSP asked the SHO, who then sent policemen for presenting guard of honour during the flag-hoisting ceremony and when his rivals from the Congress came to know about this, they forced the SSP to suspend the SHO for extending favour to the opposition party.Ayali said initially the SHO was sent to the Police Lines but later he was suspended.“The SHO should not have been suspended as he did what the protocol demanded. We will take up the matter at the government level,” said Ayali.Sources, however, maintained that the SHO had faced action because he had not registered a case in some property dispute of a woman. Senior authorities had asked the SHO to register a case but the SHO had not acted. On coming to know, the SSP suspended him.The SSP could not be contacted despite repeated phone calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dakha-shos-suspension-politically-motivated-akali-mla-manpreet-singh-ayali-298815
18-08-2021||---||46-year-old schoolteacher sets herself ablaze in Ludhiana, dies||Ludhiana, August 17A 46-year-old private schoolteacher committed suicide by setting herself on fire at her residence in the Kundanpuri area.The deceased has been identified as Shalini. Her father had died a few years ago and she had been staying with her elderly mother.As per information, the victim, who was unmarried, was under depression for the past few months. This morning, her charred body, which was lying on the rooftop, was noticed by a neighbour. The latter raised an alarm and called the police.Investigating officer ASI Krishan Lal of the Police Division 8 said a suicide note was also recovered from the room of the woman in which she had not held anyone responsible for her death. She mentioned in the note that she was under depression due to which she was committing suicide and leaving her mother alone.The ASI said the victim might had committed suicide early this morning. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC were initiated by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/46-year-old-schoolteacher-sets-herself-ablaze-in-ludhiana-dies-298816
18-08-2021||---||Notorious smuggler held, 484-kg poppy husk seized in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 17 The Focal Point police nabbed a notorious narcotics smuggler and recovered 484 kg of poppy husk from his possession. The accused has been identified as Raj Kumar of Panglia, Koom Kalan. ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sra while addressing a press conference said when a police party was patrolling on the Kohara road, they noticed an Hyundai Accent car parked near the vegetable market. After seeing the police party, the accused tried to flee the spot but was chased by police personnel. Later during the search of the car, 66 kg of poppy husk was recovered. During questioning, the accused confessed that he had bought poppy husk from his uncle Balbir Singh, his wife Sukhi and Sukhi’s friend Kamaljit Singh. The ADCP said later, the police conducted a raid at an empty plot from where 352 kg of poppy husk was also recovered. A car parked near the spot was also checked from which 66 kg of poppy husk was recovered. A total of 484 kg of poppy husk was recovered. She said the police remand of the accused would be sought from court to bust the entire supply line and raids were also being conducted to nab aides of the nabbed smuggler. Raj also had a notorious past as he was arrested by the Haryana Police in 2019 with poppy husk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/notorious-smuggler-held-484-kg-poppy-husk-seized-in-ludhiana-298817
18-08-2021||---||2 minor sisters drown in Sutlej near Machhiwara||Ludhiana, August 17Two sisters drowned in the Sutlej near Machhiwara yesterday. The duo along with their friends had gone to take bath in the river but got drowned. The deceased have been identified as Lalita (15) and Shivani (12).As per the deceased girls’ father Sunil, he and his wife are labourers. Yesterday when they left for work, their daughters along with other locality children went to take bath in the Sutlej.He said while bathing, the two girls got swept away in the current. Other children raised alarm and called the villagers. Before the villagers could come, the girls had drowned. Their bodies were fished out. The family performed their last rites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-minor-sisters-drown-in-sutlej-near-machhiwara-298818
18-08-2021||Ludhiana||4 test +ve in 
Ludhiana  district||Four persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported from the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.49 per cent.640 jabbed on 2nd day of vax driveDoraha: A total of 640 beneficiaries were vaccinated on the second day of the free vaccination drive conducted by Guru Nanak National College, Doraha, in collaboration with CII Foundation and medical partners SPS Hospital, Ludhiana. Around 400 beneficiaries were vaccinated on the first day of the camp at Ghulal village yesterday.Now there are 97 active patients in the district at present. A total of six patients — four from Ludhiana and two from other states/districts —tested positive in the last 24 hours.A total of 21,56,113 samples were taken, out of which 20,57,037 have been found negative. Now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,431, while 11,645 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,095 from Ludhiana and 1,048 from other districts. “Samples of 10,847 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly,” said Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-test-ve-in-ludhiana-district-298819
18-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||Ludhiana: Woman lawyer lands in jail, loses licence to practice||Ludhiana, August 17Rachna Dev, a woman lawyer facing accusations of blackmailing and presently behind bars in a case registered on the complaint of the District Bar Association, has received a major setback with the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana removing her name from the rolls with immediate effect, thus taking away her licence to practice.The decision was taken by the disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana in a pending inquiry proceeding against her following the complaint of a city lawyer.Divulging the details, DBA president Gurkirpal Singh Gill, secretary Gagandeep Saini and vice-president Parvinder Singh Pari said the Division Number 5 police had registered an extortion case against the lawyer on a complaint of the District Bar Association (DBA).She was arrested and remained in police custody for three days. Today she was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by the Court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Singh.The DBA office-bearers said the accused had been filing false complaints against lawyers and police officials.On August 10, the DBA executive was holding a meeting, when she entered the room and asked for transfer of a lawyer chamber in her name. The DBA president asked her to deposit a fee of Rs 20,000. She refused to deposit the fee and uploaded a video on social media blaming the DBA office-bearers of demanding Rs 50,000 bribe and also threatened to commit suicide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-woman-lawyer-lands-in-jail-loses-licence-to-practice-298820
18-08-2021||Manav Mander||Rush for vaccination goes up in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 17A rush of people has been witnessed at Covid vaccination session sites after various state governments, including Punjab, made it mandatory to either show vaccination certificate or negative RT-PCR report for entry into the state.People planning to visit hills getting jabbedPeople who were earlier reluctant to get inoculated, including migrants, are now coming up for vaccination. Meanwhile, people who wish to travel to the hilly areas in the near future are also completing their vaccination.People who were earlier reluctant to get inoculated, including migrants, are now coming up for vaccination.Ram Parkash, a native of Bihar, said the family with whom he lives got him the first dose but he was reluctant to get the second after his fellows said it would lead to some health issues.“I am planning to visit my home in Bihar but to enter back into Punjab, I would need to be fully vaccinated or I will have to undergo the test. Getting vaccinated is a better option, so I got my second jab yesterday,” he said.Babli, who works as a domestic helper, said although she was keen on getting vaccinated, her husband was against the decision.“In a few months, we will be going back to our hometown to attend a wedding. So now we have decided to get ourselves vaccinated as otherwise we might face a problem in our return journey,” she said.Meanwhile, people who wish to travel to the hilly areas in the near future are also completing their vaccination.“Entry to both Himachal Pradesh and Punjab will be done only if one is fully vaccinated or undergoes the test. I enquired from some hotels and they are also asking for complete vaccination certificate for a stay. My holiday has been delayed but I am getting myself vaccinated first. Undergoing an RT-PCR test is scary and I want to avoid that,” Asees, a MBA student, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rush-for-vaccination-goes-up-in-punjab-298821
18-08-2021||Ludhiana||Vegetable vendor found murdered in Khanna's Gill Colony||A vegetable vendor was reportedly killed in Khanna. His body was found on a road in Gill Colony on Tuesday morning.His head had serious injuries that signalled that he was attacked with a sharp weapon.The deceased has been identified as Mithilesh Rai of Khanna.Mithilesh left home on Monday night and informed his family members that he was going to meet Shankar and would return in a couple of hours. When he failed to return, the family searched for him the whole night. This morning, some passers-by noticed his body and informed the police. On the complaint of Mithilesh’s family, a case of murder was registered against Shankar and raids were on to nab him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vegetable-vendor-found-murdered-in-khannas-gill-colony-298822
18-08-2021||---||Delegation meets NGT panel head over industrial park site near Sutlej and Mattewara forest||Ludhiana, August 17A delegation of representatives of civil society organisations for the protection of environment met Justice Jasbir Singh (retd), who is heading the NGT monitoring panel, in Mohali over the issue of the proposed Modern Industrial Park to be set up near the Sutlej and Mattewara forest.Ex-serviceman writes to Capt AmarinderA city resident, Col CM Lakhanpal (retd), has sent a reminder letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, requesting him to take necessary steps for the shifting of the proposed modern industrial park. He said the industrial park should not be set up at an eco-sensitive site.The representatives are demanding from the government that the project site be shifted to save the river and the forest area.Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, president, Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Seva Society, Faridkot, and convener of Naroa Punjab Manch, said: “People of the Malwa belt have no option but to drink toxic water of the Sutlej. The Buddha Nullah is spreading diseases in the area which is affecting humans and as well as animals. Also, the Rs 650-crore Buddha Darya rejuvenation project which had given us a ray of hope is again turning to hopelessness with the announcement of the proposed dyeing and textile themed park near Mattewara.”Kultar Singh Sandhwan, MLA Kotkapura and senior vice president of Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Seva Society said, “Renaming of Mattewara Textile Park as Modern Industrial Park Koomkalan is a PR exercise designed to mislead people of the state on the issue.”He appealed to representatives of all political parties in the state to fight together on the issue for the future of the state.A city resident, Col CM Lakhanpal (retd), has also sent a reminder letter to the Chief Minister, requesting him to take necessary steps for the shifting of the proposed modern industrial park. He said the industrial park should not be set up at an eco-sensitive site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delegation-meets-ngt-panel-head-over-industrial-park-site-near-sutlej-and-mattewara-forest-298823
18-08-2021||---||Traders meet Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu over use of poly bags||Ludhiana, August 17Plastic carry bag traders met Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Tuesday, requesting him to allow use and sale of above 50 micron polythene carry bags in the city.Sandhu said the civic body would allow above 50 micron carry bags in the city. He said no compromise would be made on banned single use plastic items and guidelines of the government would be followed. Earlier this month, the MC had carried out a drive against plastic carry bags and seized around 1,200 kg of poly bags during raids. Later, the drive was stalled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traders-meet-ludhiana-mayor-balkar-singh-sandhu-over-use-of-poly-bags-298824
18-08-2021||---||Zirakpur-resident Lt Col booked on charge of raping wife||Ludhiana, August 17The Dakha police have registered a case of rape against a serving Lieutenant Colonel posted at the Baddowal military base here on a complaint of his wife. He has been identified as Lt Col Nitin Sharma, a resident of Zirakpur.The complainant told the police that she got married to Lt Col Sharma in December 2010. Soon after the marriage, her husband started torturing her saying that though he was a senior officer in the Army, her parents had not spent enough money on the wedding as per his standards.Since her husband continued to torture her, in 2019, she shifted to her parents’ house in Khanna. In March 2021, her husband assured that he would give a mutual divorce if she came to attend a party at the Baddowal military camp on April 10.“After attending the party, my husband took me to the guest house of the military camp where he tried to violate me. On August 14, she had come to take their son, who was living with him at Baddowal for the past few days. When I reached there, my husband asked our son to sit in the car. Then he took me to a room where he developed physical relations with me against my wishes,” the woman said.Sub-inspector Kamaldeep Kaur said after registering a case, further proceedings had been initiated in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/zirakpur-resident-lt-col-booked-on-charge-of-raping-wife-298793
