20-08-2021||---||Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu reviews development projects in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 19 To review the progress of various developmental projects under the Smart City Mission, National Clean Air Programme and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu conducted a meeting with officials at the MC’s Zone D office. Ashu directed the officials to ensure timely completion of all ongoing projects and reiterated that there should be no compromise when it comes to quality standards. He said to increase the green cover and contribute towards saving the environment, several new green belts and leisure valleys had already been developed in over 50 acres across the city while many more were either under construction or in the pipeline. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, LIT Chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and other officials were present during the meeting. The minister directed MC officials to undertake a massive plantation drive on vacant land in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-bharat-bhushan-ashu-reviews-development-projects-in-ludhiana-299736
20-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||NBA picks up 4 city basketball players||Ludhiana, August 19The Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) is on cloud nine as four of its players at the Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA) are earning applause in the international circuit.RS Gill, a former DGP and president, PBA, said the Basketball Federation of India (BFI) had selected Jagdeep Singh Bains, Amjyot Singh Gill and Amritpal Singh to represent the Indian senior men’s team at the FIBA Asia Cup-2021 Qualifying Tournament, to be held at Jeddah in Saudi Arabia from August 20 to 22. Two of these players, Amjyot and Amritpal, had also played at the 21st Commonwealth Games held in Australia in 2018, besides other overseas matches.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of the association, said another star player trained at LBA, Princepal Singh, had been drafted in the NBA, where the other three players were also drafted.Princepal is the fourth player in the NBA’s latest selection from India. He is currently in news for his big leap, as he became a part of the Sacramento Kings’ squad (USA), which went on to win the NBA Summer League-2021.Senior coach Rajinder Singh praised Princepal for his dedication, which he said was exemplary at the LBA.Meanwhile, the Association has urged the local business community, residents and schools to come forward to promote basketball in big way as the city had the potential to produce more international players. Ludhiana would soon get two more indoor basketball courts, under the Smart City project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nba-picks-up-4-city-basketball-players-299737
20-08-2021||---||Lawyer’s photos depict nature during lockdown||Ludhiana, August 19 A photo exhibition depicting ‘Nature Around Ludhiana’ was inaugurated on World Photography Day today. The exhibition displayed mesmerising scenic beauty and the nature of the district, shot during the second lockdown by city lawyer Harpreet Sandhu. Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma along with Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal inaugurated the exhibition. The Deputy Commissioner after inaugurating the event said Sandhu through his exhibition had given a meaningful message on the nature and urged citizens of the city to must have a glimpse of unexplored serene locations of the district which were highlighted in the exhibition. He appreciated the dedicated efforts of the lawyer for coming up with an innovative idea, portraying changing perspectives of the nature and its significance in human life. The Commissioner of Police applauded the concept of the exhibition, initiated by Sandhu, as a good step to promote unexplored nature serene locations of Ludhiana. Sandhu said through the exhibition, he aims to highlight unique locations around the district. He started the work with a sense of professional commitment to understand the changing perspectives of nature during the Covid-19-induced lockdown in 2021. To conceptualise the task, he captured through his lens beautiful vibrant colours of the nature around the countryside such as Sidhwan Bet, Machiwara, Mattewara, Khaira Bet, Halwara, Punjab Agricultural University, banks of the Sutlej.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lawyers-photos-depict-nature-during-lockdown-299738
20-08-2021||Sports Correspondent
||Discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur , coach felicitated||Ludhiana, August 19 The management of Harvest Institutions, Jassowal, held a felicitation function at the Harvest International School on Thursday to honour discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur and her coach Rakhi Tyagi. Though Kamalpreet Kaur (25), native of a village in Muktsar district, failed to finish among medal winners at the Tokyo Olympics, she produced a stupendous show to match India’s best-ever performance in the discus throw event at the games.  Kamalpreet measured her best throw at 63.7m to finish sixth among the 12 finalists. The duo was honoured with cash awards and momentos. Kamalpreet was given a cash prize of Rs 10 lakh while her coach received a cash prize of Rs 2.50 lakh. The amount was transferred online in their respective accounts. Hardeepak Singh, IAS (retd), brother of Harvinder Sran, president of Harvest Institutions, handed over replica cheques to the duo in the presence of their family members. The organisers also honoured family members of the player and her mentor. Appreciating Kamalpreet’s feat, Hardeepak said her historic achievement may not have been possible, but for the motivation and tutelage of her trainer Rakhi. He wished them more success in the future competitions. Former DIG Gurdeep Singh, general manager CN John, principal Jay Sharma, vice-principal Puja Chandpuri, besides Harvest Tennis Academy manager Gaurav Bhardwaj, school faculty and students, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/discus-thrower-kamalpreet-kaur-coach-felicitated-299739
20-08-2021||Ludhiana||‘Ludhiana MC forcing sewer men to do manual scavenging’||Punjab State Safai Karamcharis Commission chairman Geja Ram Valmiki has once again raised questions over the working of the MC, Ludhiana, during a meeting held at Circuit House on Thursday.  He accused officials of forcing sewer men to do manual scavenging.  He alleged that the sewer men were still being forced to enter the manholes against the law and also without any safety gear. Notably, in a meeting last month, Geja Ram had announced to lodge FIR against MC officials responsible for allegedly forcing a sewer man to do manual scavenging at Jugiana.  He had also accused the civic body officials of disrupting the meeting and demanded an FIR against them but MC officials had then denied the allegations. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-forcing-sewer-men-to-do-manual-scavenging-299740
20-08-2021||Ludhiana||Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust writes to Local Govt Dept||The Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust has written to the Principal Secretary of the Local Government Department as the work to acquire a piece of land to make a direct way to the martyr’s ancestral home is getting delayed. Trust members are demanding that the government complete the process at the earliest. The Department of Local Government on August 10 had written to the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) to release Rs 50,000 to the Department of Economics and Sociology, PAU, Ludhiana, to conduct a social impact assessment for acquiring 40 sq yards, required to make a direct way to the martyr’s birth place at Naughara Mohalla. Trust president Ashok Thapar said the Department had issued multiple letters regarding the process but no action had been taken by the departments concerned. He demanded from the Principal Secretary to issue orders to the authorities concerned to complete the process for making a direct way to the birth place of the martyr at the earliest. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shaheed-sukhdev-thapar-memorial-trust-writes-to-local-govt-dept-299741
20-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Nehal slams double ton as Ludhiana declare at 327 for 5||Ludhiana, August 19Flamboyant left-handed batsman Nehal Wadhera cracked double hundred to enable Ludhiana reach a decent total of 327 for five declared on the first day of group B match against lowly placed Fatehgarh Sahib in the Inter-District Cricket Championship for Katoch Shield being played at the Hara School of Cricket ground, Baddowal, near here, on Thursday.Batting first after winning the toss, Ludhiana started on a cautious note, losing wickets at regular intervals. However, skipper and former India U-19 player, Nehal stood his ground. Eventually, he declared the innings at 327 for 5 after 71 overs.He remained unbeaten on 204 which came off 211 balls and laced with 8 sixes and 15 boundaries. Davinder Sidhu made 42 runs while Tanroop Saini contributed 37 and Tanishq remained not out on 21.The visitors were off to a dismal start and were struggling with six wickets down for only 32 runs on the board after 19 overs. Ludhiana medium pacer Baltej Singh scalped four victims after conceding just six runs, while Deepin Chitkara secured one wicket for two runs and Siddhant Tiwari Om took one wicket for two runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nehal-slams-double-ton-as-ludhiana-declare-at-327-for-5-299742
20-08-2021||---||Part of Pakhowal Road RUB to be completed by August 31, says minister||Ludhiana, August 19 After inspecting the project site on Thursday, Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the railways part of the Pakhowal Road rail underbridge (RUB-2) would be completed by August 31, while the construction of the approach road to the RUB would start within this week.  A rail overbridge (ROB) and two rail underbridges (RUBs) are part of an ongoing project on Pakhowal Road, the deadline for which is August 31. The Cabinet Minister said the Pakhowal Road RUB-2 would be used for vehicular                                                            traffic coming along the Sidhwan canal and going towards Sarabha Nagar (near skating rink). Senior officials of the Railways Department had assured that they would complete their part of Pakhowal Road RUB-2 by August 31.  Williamjit Singh, deputy chief engineer (construction division) of the Northern Railways, said during the second wave of Covid-19, the construction work got delayed because there was no supply of oxygen cylinders required for cutting steel. Ashu said the construction of Pakhowal Road ROB and RUB-1 was also going on in full swing. The joint project was worth around Rs 120 crore and would provide much-needed respite from traffic congestion to city residents.  He said during a meeting with the Union Railways Minister in April, the latter had assured that the project would be completed at the earliest. The minister said he had directed the railways staff to prepare a time schedule and submit a progress report, along with photographs, every four weeks. The ROB would be 839.83 metre long and would be constructed from Sidhwan canal towards Hero Bakery side, along Pakhowal Road, over the existing railway track. The RUB-1 would be 458.20 metre in length (from Hero Bakery side towards Sidhwan canal under the existing track), whereas the RUB-2 would be 1,018.46 metre long. Ashu said the project would be beneficial for area residents, who currently suffer due to traffic congestion on Pakhowal Road. The project was one of his main promises to the residents of Ludhiana (West) constituency and he would personally supervise it, the minister maintained. Meanwhile, he said the proposal to construct an ROB near Dana Mandi on Gill Road would also be submitted to the Railways. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/part-of-pakhowal-road-rub-to-be-completed-by-august-31-says-minister-299743
20-08-2021||---||Helpline number for non-emergency services launched||Ludhiana, August 19Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Surinder Kumar Dawar and Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Thursday launched a unified state helpline ‘1100’ for non-emergency government services, besides dedicated a state admission portal for government colleges.While participating in a virtual state-level function presided over by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, they said now, residents could lodge their complaints or raise their grievances against any department on ‘1100’ helpline, a one-stop solution where the issues/complaints would be recorded, forwarded, tracked and solved on a timely basis.The MLA and the Deputy Commissioner said the raised issue or complaint would be transferred through online portal www.connect.Punjab.Gov.in to the departments concerned for further process in a time- bound manner and the complaint would be closed only after complainant gets satisfied with the solution.Meanwhile, they also dedicated an integrated online admission portal for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in government colleges. They said the entire process would be completely contact less. Verification of applicants would also be contact less as the portal was linked to all state boards as well as the CBSE through DigiLocker. They said caste certificate and domicile certificate of the applicants would be auto-verified by the portal.They added that the digital admission system would be helpful for students to get admission in any college by visiting and seeking seats in government colleges by sitting at their homes. There would be a fixed application form fee of Rs 200 only for the applicants, they said, adding that the students did not have to pay prospectus fee separately to every college while applying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/helpline-number-for-non-emergency-services-launched-299744
20-08-2021||---||High drama witnessed at Ludhiana Mayor’s camp office||Ludhiana, August 19 A high drama was witnessed at the Mayor’s camp office on Thursday evening, when a delegation of BJP leaders, including councillors, went to meet Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu. The leaders went to discuss the issue of stopping of a road’s construction work in Ward 31, allegedly by a Congress leader, after which local BJP councillor Sonia Sharma sat on a dharna yesterday. When the delegation went into the Mayor’s office, Sonia sat on the floor. However, the Mayor requested her not to sit on the floor as he was listening to their issue. Afterwards, a BJP leader started making a video but the Mayor told him to stop the same. Meanwhile, an official on duty (with the Mayor) and BJP workers exchanged heated arguments. Pankaj Sharma, Sonia’s husband, alleged that some persons made efforts to push the BJP leader, who tried to make the video, out of the Mayor’s office. “Then, all BJP leaders went out of the room in protest. It was not any House meeting and they could not ask any of our leaders to get out of the room. When Sonia had sat on a dharna yesterday, nobody had paid attention to her due to which she sat on the floor at the Mayor’s office today,” he said. The Mayor said the BJP leaders were levelling false allegations. Sandhu said he had fixed a meeting with only BJP councillors but some other persons were also present. He said: “I had requested Sonia not to sit on the floor but she refused to listen to me. Meanwhile, a person who was not a councillor, started making a video. I requested him not to make the video. Meanwhile, they started exchanging arguments with the MC official who was on duty with me,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/high-drama-witnessed-at-ludhiana-mayors-camp-office-299745
20-08-2021||Nitin Jain||8 students, staffers test +ve in 2 days, count reaches 50 in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 19With eight more students and staffers testing positive for Covid in the last two days, the count of students and staffers testing positive after the opening of schools in the state has gone up to 50, of which maximum 22 cases are from Ludhiana, the government has confirmed.Even as the daily testing in the schools has almost doubled on Wednesday, the positivity rate has dipped by half from 0.04 per cent on Tuesday to 0.02 per cent on Wednesday, the official figures have revealed.The data compiled by the state government, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, showed that 11,109 students and staffers across schools in 22 districts were tested on Tuesday, of which four turned positive, at the hit rate of 0.04 per cent, while the testing figure shot up to 19,414 on Wednesday and the positive cases remained four, bringing down the positivity rate to 0.02 per cent.While one case each was reported in Ludhiana, Amritsar, Moga and Muktsar on Wednesday, one case each was logged in Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Nawanshahr and Sangrur on Tuesday. The government had launched a testing campaign in schools after 20 students from two schools in Ludhiana had tested positive on August 10.The cumulative data of testing in government schools compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department suggested that 50 of the total 71,332 students and staffers tested in 22 districts have been found Covid positive so far, accounting for 0.07 per cent positivity rate.Ludhiana tested maximum of 12,432 students and staffers of which 22 turned positive, followed by two positive cases of 7,237 tested in Amritsar, nine of 3,964 in Bathinda, two of 3,988 in Muktsar, one of 3,302 in Sangrur, two of 2,938 in Ferozepur, three of 2,707 in Fazilka, one of 2,273 in Fatehgarh Sahib, three of 2,210 in Nawanshahr, three of 1,050 in Faridkot, one of 2,429 in Hoshiarpur and one of 1,494 tested positive in Moga.However, 10 districts — Jalandhar, which tested 5,712 students and staffers, Gurdaspur 4,617, Mansa 2,151, Patiala 2,133, Tarn Taran 2,099, Barnala 1,641, Kapurthala 1,516, Pathankot 1,252, Ropar 1,183, and Mohali, which tested 736 students and staffers, have reported no positive case so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-students-staffers-test-ve-in-2-days-count-reaches-50-in-punjab-299746
20-08-2021||Ludhiana||Major fire breaks out in plastic godown at Field Ganj||A major fire broke out in a three-storeyed plastic godown at Kutcha number 16 in Field Ganj early this morning. Around 70 fire tenders were used to completely douse the flame. The godown is located in a thickly populated area and the fire spread panic among the shopkeepers and residents there. When the fire broke out at around 5.45 am, the godown was lying locked. An employee who was sleeping on the third floor of the building had to jump on the adjoining building to save his life, due to which he also suffered minor injuries. A huge stock of polythene, disposables and other material was stored in the godown and almost the entire stock was reduced to ashes. Fire officials said a short circuit seemed to be the cause of fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/major-fire-breaks-out-in-plastic-godown-at-field-ganj-299747
20-08-2021||---||Woman smuggler arrested with 640-gm ganja in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 19The police have arrested a woman smuggler and recovered 640 gm of ganja from her.The smuggler has been identified as Pooja, resident of EWS Colony.Investigating officer ASI Sukhwinder Singh said secret information was received that the woman smuggler was sitting outside her rented accommodation to hand over the consignment of narcotics to her clients.A police party conducted a raid and nabbed the woman with narcotics.The ASI said police remand of the accused woman would be sought from the court to bust the drug supply chain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-smuggler-arrested-with-640-gm-ganja-in-ludhiana-299748
20-08-2021||---||SAD leader Gurmeet 
Singh  Kular among 25 booked for assault||Ludhiana, August 19 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Gurmeet Singh Kular and his brother Vicky Kular are among 25 persons booked for attacking the president of the United Cycle Parts Manufacturing Association (UCPMA) during the annual meeting last night. A case was registered on the complaint of UCPMA president Daljit Singh Chawla. Chawla said a meeting of the association was called to audit the expenses of the association and discuss other issues late last evening. The moment meeting started, Gurmeet Kular, Vicky Kular, cashier Ashru Ram Gupta, Valati Ram, Satnam Singh Makkar, Rajinder Singh Sarhali and 19 unknown persons attacked him. “I suffered injuries and my turban was also tossed by the assailants. My friends intervened and saved me.” Chawla alleged that some people had also entered the meeting hall with weapons and videos regarding the same were also given to the police. About the cause of attack, Chawla said only 150 members were invited for the meeting due to Covid but some members along with Gurmeet had forcibly entered the meeting hall and created ruckus. Gurmeet denied the allegations of tossing turban of Chawla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-leader-gurmeet-singh-kular-among-25-booked-for-assault-299749
20-08-2021||---||Four test Covid positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 19Four persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.5 per cent.Now there are 89 active patients in the district and 83 persons were sent for home isolation today.A total of 21,77,473 samples have been taken, of which 20,78,388 samples were found negative. Now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,439, while 1,048 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,095 from Ludhiana and 1,048 from other districts.“Samples of 10,017 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly,” said Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-test-covid-positive-in-ludhiana-district-299750
20-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana couple alleges police inaction in assault case||A man and his wife held a protest outside the Basti Jodhewal police station, alleging police inaction in an assault case. They demanded registration of a case against a youth who had attacked their 16-year-old son on August 7 at Prem Vihar. The duo held a protest for over two hours following which the police assured them of taking action in the case. Pooja, the boy’s mother, said on August 7, her son Sahil was playing with other children. Later, one of the children indulged in a brawl with him over some issue. After which, she slapped her son and the other boy. “When I was taking my son home, a youth living near our house assaulted and tried to strangulate him. He got serious injuries and remained at the PGI, Chandigarh, for treatment for two days. My child is at home now, but his health condition is not good,” she alleged. On August 8, a complaint was lodged at the police station but they did not register any case. If the police fail to register a case soon, they will sit on an indefinite protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-couple-alleges-police-inaction-in-assault-case-299751
20-08-2021||---||Six-year-old dies in Ludhiana, officials suspect dengue||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 19The Health Department today declared the season’s first suspected death of dengue in the state.154 cases so farOfficials said a six-year-old child, who was a resident of Rauhti Moriyan village in Nabha block of Patiala, had died at a private hospital in Ludhiana. They said the kid died on August 16, but they received the confirmatory reports for dengue on August 18.Following this, a health team today visited the child’s house in Nabha to conduct a survey. State nodal officer Dr Gagan Grover said they did not find any dengue breeding at the house or nearby. “We have sought medical records from the DMCH, Ludhiana, where the kid died,” he said.It has been learned that the kid first visited a private paediatrician in Nabha town and then in Patiala city with symptoms of fever and rash. However, the family members, after the symptoms did not alleviate, took the kid to DMCH, where the kid died during treatment.Patiala health officials said it was the first positive case in the district for dengue.Notably, the state has already reported over 154 positive cases of dengue in this season so far. Dr Grover said Moga, Tarn Taran and Mukstar were the worst-hit, while other districts reported only sporadic cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/six-year-old-dies-in-ludhiana-officials-suspect-dengue-299576
