23-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Can’t risk kids’ lives, open schools only after they are vaccinated||As online classes drag on, fatigued students are becoming asocial and the underprivileged children are unable to attend classes properly. Students now want to go to their respective schools for face-to-face interaction. They should be allowed to continue with physical classes with adequate safety protocols, like masking, social distancing and ventilation. The district administration should provide RT-PCR kits to schools to regularly conduct random tests for early diagnosis. The school time should be restricted to three hours a day, with no recess, as that is the time when students flout Covid norms. Free vaccination camps must be frequently organised in schools so that the staff can get vaccinated on priority. It is also important to inoculate children as and when a vaccine is approved.RS SEMBHIKids more vulnerableAccording to my opinion, young children should not be allowed to attend physical classes because they are more vulnerable to the virus than the elder ones. To mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the school education system, going ahead with blended learning would be ideal for everyone. Essential items, such as mask and sanitiser, should be made available on the campus. The school opening process should be slow and gradual. Senior students should be allowed first, whereas junior students should continue with the online mode as of now.Manavjot SinghFollow protocol strictlyIf 20 students have tested positive, that does not mean we should close all institutions. Even children below 18 years should be vaccinated, as being done in developed countries. Till the time we cannot vaccinate those below 18, Covid protocol should be strictly followed and those infected should be isolated and quarantined. Those likely infected should be tested and education should be started normally, but with norms.Dr HS JollyNot safe yetAfter 20 students tested positive for Covid -19, it is not safe for children below 18 years to attend schools physically as they are not yet vaccinated. The government should wait to re-open schools until Covid cases reduce.Harshita KhullarGive them jab firstTill now, a suitable vaccine for children below 18 years has not been declared in the country. So, this age group is more prone to the infection. Therefore, they must be vaccinated before schools are opened. Another component is vaccination of teachers and other staff. For this, a special programme must be started at schools where teachers and other staff members get inoculated on priority so that they do not become a source of infection. Many schools have opened in the city and every day, there are reports that teachers and students are testing positive. Opening of junior schools would increase such instances and that must be avoided at all costs.Gautam DevClosing schools no solutionThe pandemic has prolonged its stay and with this, there has been an increase in Covid cases among students. But to save loss of studies, the schools must be kept open. Different methods can be adopted for maintaining physical distancing, such as deferred classes, odd-even system, conducting classes in open spaces etc. At any cost, schools must not be closed as that is no feasible solution. There is no fixed time for the pandemic to abate and so we need to learn to live with it. Moreover, doctors are of the view that children have more anti-bodies as compared to adults and so teachers and supporting staff in schools must be vaccinated against the disease so that schools can function normally.Bir Devinder Singh BediStrengthen online teachingIt is very dangerous for children, who are not eligible for vaccination, to attend physical classes. Actually, the situation is very cumbersome. On the one hand, students want to attend physical classes because online studies are not serving the purpose. But the danger of catching the infection while attending classes is also present. Effective contact-less education is the need of the hour. Many parents are of the opinion that they are paying full fees for the education of their children but are not being properly served. So school authorities must make sound arrangements for online teaching.Ritu PriyaConcrete policy neededIt is too early to decide about opening schools for under-18 students. Since this age group cannot get vaccinated yet, the government should formulate a concrete policy before making any announcement. Each teacher must be fully vaccinated. Covid norms must be implemented properly in each school. Consent of parents must be taken and strength of each class should not be more than 10 to 15 students.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiCaution still neededWith the reopening of schools, Covid cases have been reported among students. Children should not attend physical classes yet as their immunity is not that strong to tackle the pandemic. Experts say a third wave is likely in the coming months. So, the administration should make a strategy so that Covid norms are followed by one and all. Moreover, the vaccination campaign has not been completed yet so we must tread cautiously.Adish SoodFollow norms, attend schoolChildren below 18 years of age are not eligible for vaccination so they should not be allowed to attend physical classes. However, there is no harm in going to schools if one follows all norms. Practically speaking, these children go out for shopping, eating and other leisure activities. Hence, going to school is not at all dangerous.Harleen Kaur GrewalCases can still riseStudents below 18 years are not eligible for vaccination, so they should not be allowed to attend physical classes. The third wave is expected to be dangerous for children. As 20 students from two schools in Ludhiana District tested positive, cases can increase if proper measures are not taken. The government should take decisions carefully for the welfare of students and their better development. Rules must be framed by the authorities for proper care of students.Manpriya KaurWait before decidingChildren are more prone to infection and other diseases. The third wave is expected in coming months, so it is not advisable for the government to open schools. Children are not vaccinated and they cannot follow each and every Covid norm. So, the government must wait at least for one or two months before opening schools.Farzana KhanMuch time lost alreadyAs Covid has already caused irreparable loss of studies, so in the interest of students, they should be allowed to attend physical classes with full precautions. Students should be thermoscanned before allowing entry into the school, asked to wear masks and advised to maintain physical distance not only in but outside the classrooms too. Sanitisers should be made available in every nook and cranny of the schools. Classes should be held in shifts to avoid crowding. All teachers need not come to schools daily, their duties must be rotated.Dr Sunil ChopraNot right to open schoolsAs 20 students have already tested positive, the government should order closure of schools. It certainly shows neglect of guidelines. The life of children is most precious. The government should hold seminars, lectures and exhibition regarding Covid appropriate behaviour.JBS NandaMental health at stakeTwenty students of two schools in the district got infected, creating panic among children, parents and school managements. Children below 18 years are not vaccinated but still, these children can be sent to schools for physical classes. During the lockdown, these children were not happy at home and their behaviour has become negative. Some have even suffered from depression. When they will go to school, they will feel the warmth of peers and get advice of their teachers, which is better for their future.Dr Sukhdev SharmaAdhere to Covid normsStudents have already suffered a lot amid pandemic but it is time to pay heed to their studies. Though they are not yet eligible for vaccination they should not be stopped from attending physical classes. Proper adherence to Covid-19 protocol in schools and classes can safeguard students. If anyone shows symptoms, they should be asked to isolate themselves. So, this will not obstruct regular studies of children and they can study in a safe and healthy environment.KAMALDEEP KAURImprove online teachingHealth is wealth, so considering the rise in Covid cases, educational institutions should try to stick to online methods. The educational institutions are actually expected to adapt and bring in the most suitable online teaching methods and techniques. They should be prepared for the worst, keeping in mind the expected third wave of Covid. Educational institution must take a firm decision until the situation gets completely normal.Vandita JainOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONTo de-pollute Buddha Nullah, a seasonal tributary of the Sutlej, its rejuvenation at a cost of Rs840 crore is going on in full swing. Under this project, 200 cusecs of fresh canal water was discharged into the nullah on Sunday. What else needs to be done to free the nullah of pollution? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cant-risk-kids-lives-open-schools-only-after-they-are-vaccinated-300801
23-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Katoch Shield: Ludhiana vs Mohali: Rain mars Day 1||Ludhiana, August 22Rain played spoilsport as the first day’s proceedings in the second match between Ludhiana and Mohali in group B of the Inter-District Cricket Championship for Katoch Shield were washed out on Sunday. The match is being played at the grounds of Hara School of Cricket, Baddowal.Ludhiana skipper Nehal Wadhera won the toss and opted to bat first. Hosts were off to a cautious start and were at six without loss after 6.3 overs when it began raining, forcing the players to rush back to the pavilion. The play could not resume due to wet and slushy outfield.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/katoch-shield-ludhiana-vs-mohali-rain-mars-day-1-300794
23-08-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Jarkhar Academy, village residents join hands to save budding player’s life||Mandi Ahmedgarh, August 22Mandeep Kaur (24), a budding basketball player of Jarkhar village in Ludhiana district, has been diagnosed with cancer. But she is not ready to surrender to the dreaded disease and is determined to fetch laurels to her village and the nation one day through the sport.Office-bearers of the academy, led by Jagrup Singh Jarkhar, have come forward to sponsor her treatment, with the help of sports lovers of the region, including NRIs.Elder among two daughters of a poor Dalit family of Jarkhar, Mandeep has been supporting her father Sikandar Singh financially by working at an automobile company. She is presently undergoing treatment at the Tata Memorial Cancer Hospital in Sangrur.“Though I know it is a dreaded disease, I am sure that my willpower and sportsman spirit will conquer it with prayers and best wishes of the sports world,” Mandeep said.Jagrup Singh said the organisation had already launched measures to save Mandeep’s life. He maintained that the total expense of her treatment would be between Rs 10 to Rs 15 lakh.Jarkhar villagers had called upon philanthropists, including NRIs and corporate, to contribute generously for the noble cause, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jarkhar-academy-village-residents-join-hands-to-save-budding-players-life-300796
23-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Amritsar rout Ludhiana in U-16 tourney, reach final||Ludhiana, August 22Amritsar routed hosts Ludhiana by eight wickets to storm into the final on the penultimate day of the four-day semifinal in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District U-16 Cricket Tournament, played at the GRD Global Education Institute, Hambran Road, today.Ludhiana were all out for 139 runs in 73.3 overs in their first innings while Amritsar scored 165 in their first essay and yesterday, at draw of stumps, the hosts, in their second innings, were in dire straits at 88 for nine.This morning, Ludhiana added only five runs as their innings folded at 93 runs in 63.2 overs. Needing just 68 runs, the visitors faced little challenge as they made 70 runs in 24.4 overs after losing just two wickets to wrap up. Rahul Kumar remained unbeaten on 49, the knock coming off 66 balls with the help of eight boundaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amritsar-rout-ludhiana-in-u-16-tourney-reach-final-300793
23-08-2021||---||Ludhiana's Veterinary University discusses use of paddy straw as animal feed||Ludhiana, August 22Paddy straw burning is a major environmental issue in the state, which poses a serious threat to human health. To explore use of paddy straw as animal feed, a workshop was organised by the Directorate of Extension Education, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), for animal scientists working at all krishi vigyan kendras (KVKs) of the state.Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, stressed on joint efforts of the PAU, GADVASU and line departments to make farmers aware about use of paddy straw as cheaper source of livestock nutrition.He said of the 8 million tonnes of the rice straw being burnt in field, 0.8 million tonnes could be consumed by unproductive animals kept in gaushalas only.Dr Rajbir Singh, Director, Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute (ATARI), advised scientists to find out reasons for less use of paddy straw in the state as compared to other states.Dr JS Mahal, Director Extension Education, PAU, asked all KVKs to start trials to generate reliable data. During the workshop, treatment of paddy straw with urea and molasses to improve its nutritive value, making urea treated bales during harvesting and exporting to adjoining states were discussed, besides its alternate uses in livestock. Misconceptions about ill-effects of paddy straw feeding were also cleared by the scientists. Silica content of paddy straw can be greatly reduced by simply chaffing the straw while oxalates are highly soluble. So, soaking the paddy straw for a short while before feeding takes care of this issue as well.Dr PS Brar, Director, Extension Education, GADVASU emphasised that instead of burning of paddy straw, its feeding for animal production could be a viable option for milk and meat production and thanked scientists for their inputs. Dr US Chahal said research trials would be carried out in near future to store and feed paddy straw as silage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhianas-veterinary-university-discusses-use-of-paddy-straw-as-animal-feed-300795
23-08-2021||---||Commissioner of Police Naunihal Singh’s surprise call to officers in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 22To check the preparedness of the police force and their presence in the commissionerate, Commissioner of Police (CP) Naunihal Singh woke all police officers and SHOs around 3.15 am today and told them to reach the designated places.Officers of the rank of ACP, ADCP and JCP were called to Guru Nanak Stadium, while the SHOs were directed to reach Bharat Nagar Chowk.“I got a call from the police control room around 3.15 am on Sunday… I reached the spot within 15 minutes. I was surprised when I got a call in the wee hours,” an SHO requesting anonymity told The Tribune.Sources said some of the officers were not present at their station but managed to reach the designated place in minimum possible time after receiving the message.No cop will leave the station, and force should remain ready all the time with their weapons and other equipment, Singh, who assumed the office yesterday, reportedly told the force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/commissioner-of-police-naunihal-singhs-surprise-call-to-officers-in-ludhiana-300792
23-08-2021||---||Covid-19: Four more test +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 22Four persons tested positive for Covid in the district while no death was reported today. The recovery rate in the district has gone to 97.55 per cent.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said today that under the ‘Mission Fateh’ of the state government, the number of Covid-19 patients getting cured in Ludhiana district was increasing with each passing day. Today, four new patients from the district had tested positive in the past 24 hours.Till date, a total of 22,06,937 samples have been taken, of which 21,07,831 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,456 while 11,650 belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,095 persons from Ludhiana and 1,048 from other districts.The Deputy Commissioner said whenever the district administration and the Health Department, Ludhiana, find out about any positive or suspected Covid patients, their samples were sent for testing. As many as 8,681 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently to save themselves and others around them safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-four-more-test-ve-in-ludhiana-district-300789
23-08-2021||---||Ludhiana: Hold regular meetings of redressal committee: Member||Ludhiana, August 22A member of the Ludhiana West Subdivision Grievances Redressal Committee, Satish Thaman, has sought from the authorities concerned to hold regular meetings of the panel so that required steps should be taken to get issues resolved on a timely basis.He has also written to the PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu regarding various issues of the city that need to be addressed by the government.Satish Thaman, Member, Ludhiana West Subdivision Grievances Redressal Committee Many issues yet to be resolvedThere are many issues of the city which have not been resolved so far. I have written to the PPCC president in this regard to take up these issues with the state government for early redressal.Thaman said the committee of 29 members was constituted in 2017 but meetings were not being conducted since then. He said: “There are many issues of the city which have not been resolved so far. I have written to the PPCC president in this regard so that he must take up these issues with the state government for their early redressal. Moreover, meetings of the committee should be held regularly.”He demanded from the government to complete the recruitment process for the posts of peon (Service Group-D) for disabled persons in municipal corporations, councils, nagar panchayats, etc.He also demanded that the government should order to scrap old layers before re-carpeting of roads in the city by the authorities concerned. “There is a need to control stray cattle in the city. Fighting bulls on roads injure passersby, thus endangering the lives of commuters. Also, urgent attention should be paid to ensure the desilting of all sewer lines and drains on a top priority basis. The Local Government Department should take steps to make sure all new buildings must have the rain harvesting system and no site plan be approved without mentioning of rainwater harvesting location,” he said.“The district administration and police and other authorities must take strict measures to check the sale and use of Chinese strings in the city. All safai karamcharis in municipal corporations and departments must be regularised,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-hold-regular-meetings-of-redressal-committee-member-300791
23-08-2021||---||Gym owner booked for raping 40-year-old woman in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 22A 40-year-old married woman was allegedly raped by a gym owner at his gym on the Jassian road here. The accused had also made objectionable videos of the woman and later demanded Rs 5 lakh from her for not uploading the same on social media.He has been identified as Dharminder Kumar, owner of World Classic Gym and a resident of Hargobindpura.The complainant told the police that she had joined the gym of Dharminder in 2015. One day, he offered her some tablets and claimed that if she would do exercise after consuming the same, she would lose weight in a few days.“When I consumed the tablets, which could be some sedatives, I became unconscious. Afterwards, the accused raped me,” she said.He had also made her objectionable videos and by threatening to put those videos on social media, the accused continued to develop sexual relationship with her for over five years.“I continued to attend the gym from 2015 to March 2021. After I left the gym, he used to threaten me to visit the gym to maintain the sexual relationship. In June, he demanded Rs 5 lakh and told me otherwise he would viral her the objectionable videos. When I refused to pay the money, the accused sent videos to my son and husband. Later, I garnered courage and informed the police,” the victim alleged.The woman said the accused had also made a fake Instagram ID through which he sent her videos to her younger son. During a probe, the mobile number attached with the Instagram ID was found to be of the accused.Investigating officer inspector Satwant Singh said a case of rape and criminal intimidation was registered against the accused and charges under the IT Act were also added to the FIR. He was yet to be arrested by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gym-owner-booked-for-raping-40-year-old-woman-in-ludhiana-300790
23-08-2021||---||Rain, Rakhi rush spell chaos on roads in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 22The festival of Raksha Bandhan, coupled with heavy rainfall, led to long queues of vehicles on several city roads today. Minimal presence of traffic cops further escalated the issue.The roads where the traffic came to a standstill were Hambran Road, Jassian Chowk, Gill Road, PAU Road, Clock Tower, Pakhowal Road, Ghumar Mandi, Sherpur Chowk, Atam Park, Bus Stand Road, Lakkar Bridge, Gurh Mandi, Police Division 3 Chowk, Field Ganj, Gurdwara Kalgidhar Road, Daresi, Shivpuri Chowk and Fountain Chowk. Although traffic police personnel were present at some intersections, they were unable to manage the traffic load. Some roads witnessed waterlogging too, due to which the traffic crawled at a snail’s pace.Deepak Mahajan, whose car got stuck on the Hambran road, said whenever the city experiences rainfall, traffic comes to a standstill. “The police should plan in advance for the rainy season. At least some diversions should be provided to prevent jams on the main city roads. Not only the traffic police personnel, cops from police stations should also be deployed to ensure smooth flow of traffic,” he added.Another commuter, Rohit Arora, said he remained stuck in the Field Ganj area for half an hour as traffic was moving at a snail’s pace. “We can’t blame the traffic police alone for this mess. Residents who have no traffic sense create more nuisance. If people drive responsibly, this traffic mess can be avoided,” Arora added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rain-rakhi-rush-spell-chaos-on-roads-in-ludhiana-300787
23-08-2021||Raikot||ITBP officer cremated with honours in Ludhiana village||The mortal remains of ITBP ASI Gurmukh Singh, who was martyred during a Naxal attack in Bastar a few days ago, were consigned to the flames with full honours at his native Jhordan village in Ludhiana today. His minor son Gurnur Singh lit the pyre. Gurmukh had joined the ITBP in 1988, and was a distinguished judo and kabaddi player. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/itbp-officer-cremated-with-honours-in-ludhiana-village-300783
23-08-2021||---||Parents prefer antibody test to RT-PCR for kids in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 22After students tested positive for Covid in Ludhiana district, parents are reportedly getting their kids tested for antibodies, not RT-PCR, if they observe any symptoms. Some are going in for the antibodies test even of asymptomatic children.As a result, many kids have shown the presence of antibodies while they were unaware of being Covid-positive at any point of time.A paediatrician from a private hospital said parents were really scared after schools reopened and students started testing positive. “Many were reluctant to get their kids tested for Covid. So, they went ahead with the antibodies test. The fear of social stigma and being isolated seem to be the main reasons for not getting the test done,” the doctor said, adding: “But it is not possible to treat the patient on the basis of an antibodies test as it is not indicative of the present status of the virus.”Dr Bishav Mohan, a senior cardiologist, said getting an antibodies test or CT-scan done could not determine if one was currently infected with the virus. “It takes 2-3 weeks to develop enough antibodies after infection. RT-PCR test is the only medium through which one can diagnose Covid. Rest everything is futile,” he said.An official from the Health Department said: “If a person has symptoms and the test shows presence of antibodies, he should immediately isolate himself.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parents-prefer-antibody-test-to-rt-pcr-for-kids-in-ludhiana-300716
