24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Trust to pay tributes to Dhyan Chand, Kuldeep Jodhan||Mandi Ahmedgarh, August 23The 116th birth anniversary of Major Dhyan Chand, which is observed as National Sports Day across the country, will be celebrated at Jarkhar stadium at Jarkhar village, near here, on Sunday.Dhyan Chand, who was born on August 29, 1905, is regarded as one of the best hockey players.Besides dedicating the celebrations to the memory of Major Dhyan Chand, organisers have planned to install a statue of kabaddi player late Kuldeep Manak Jodhan, the construction work of which is underway on the main stage of the stadium.Narinder Pal Singh Sidhu and Jagrup Jarkhar, chairman and chief organiser of Mata Sahib Kaur Sports Charitable Trust, Jarkhar, respectively, said the organisation had decided to pay tributes to kabaddi player Kuldeep Manak Jodhan, who died in December 2020. Besides achievements of Major Dhyan Singh would be highlighted on National Sports Day, which falls on August 29.A six-ft-high statue of Jodhan, prepared at Bassian, would be a source of inspiration for kabaddi players of the region, said organisers, adding that a kabaddi match would be played during the function on Sunday.Outstanding sportspersons and sports promoters will be felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trust-to-pay-tributes-to-dhyan-chand-kuldeep-jodhan-301303
24-08-2021||Ludhiana||Man killed in accident||Elderly succumbs to his injuriesLudhiana: A day after getting critically injured in a road accident, a 62-year-old man succumbed to his injuries on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Deepak Kamboj of Phase 1, Dugri. Sakshi Kamboj, daughter of the victim, alleged that she along with her father were going to a hospital when a speeding car hit their Honda Activa scooter at an intersection in Phase 2, Dugri, on Saturday. Sakshi, who was also injured, said her critically injured father was rushed to Deep Hospital where he died on Sunday. She is undergoing treatment at Shiv Memorial Hospital. A case under Sections 279, 304-A, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC has been registered against the accused, Vinod Kumar, of Bathinda. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-killed-in-accident-301305
24-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana-Mohali match ends in draw||Ludhiana, August 23The second league match in group B between Ludhiana and Mohali in the Inter-District Cricket Championship for Katoch Shield ended in a draw. The match concluded at the Hara School of Cricket ground, Baddowal, near here on Monday.Yesterday, the play was washed out after only 6.3 overs were bowled when the hosts were six without loss.Today, the play resumed after lunch as the outfield was wet. In the remaining period, maximum 68 overs could be bowled.Resuming at overnight score, Ludhiana in their first innings scored 215 runs in 64.4 overs. Vaibhav Kalra was the top scorer, chipping in with 101 runs off 164 balls with the help of eight boundaries and four sixes. Other notable contributors were Deepin Chitkara (22), Harshit Takkar (27) and Baltej Singh (31).For the visitors, Barinder Sran and Jassinder Singh claimed three wickets each after giving away 24 and 55 runs respectively while Harpreet Brar secured two wickets for 39 runs whereas Gurnoor Singh grabbed one wicket for 22 runs and Maninder Singh took one for 22 runs.Mohali replied with 100 for two in 61 overs when the two captains agreed to call it off. Harpreet Brar played a fiery innings of 85 runs in 35 balls which included seven hits over the ropes and eight sixes.For Ludhiana, skipper Nehal Wadhera secured both the wickets. He bowled two overs, gave away 14 runs and took two wickets. As the match remained unresolved and even one innings could not be completed, the two teams shared one point each.In the third match, slated to be held here on August 25 and 26, Ludhiana will play against Ropar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mohali-match-ends-in-draw-301294
24-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||MC chief marks probe as ESIC issues notices to deposit Rs 60 cr||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 23Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has ordered an inquiry after the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) issued notices to the civic body to deposit around Rs 60-crore ESI contribution. The MC had failed to deposit the ESI contribution of workers deployed for various development projects in the past years, resulting in the notices.Sabharwal, in an order issued on August 18, has asked the MC additional commissioner to inquire into the matter and fix responsibility of the officials concerned so that the required disciplinary action can be taken in this regard.According to information, the civic body had signed agreements with contractors for various development works between 2015 and 2020 and workers were recruited by the contractors concerned for the projects. However, the contractors did not submit their ESI contribution. Besides, the MC had also recruited a number of contractual employees but the ESI contribution of those employees was also not deposited.After inspecting the records, ESIC has served notices to the civic body to deposit Rs 47.51 crore and Rs 12.83 crore.As per one of the notices, Rs 47.51 crore was payable as a contribution for the period between June 2016 to March 2020 on payment amounting to Rs 787.99 crore, made to various contractors. The civic body has been directed to pay the amount within 60 days from the date of order, failing which it shall be recovered under the ESI Act.The role of MC’s officials in accounts and other branches is under the scanner. Sources said a majority of contractors backed by politicians and senior officials did not deposit the ESI contribution of the workers but no action was taken against such contractors.Sabharwal said it was an old matter and following the inquiry, action would be taken against the responsible officials.Sources said that the civic body was also planning to file an appeal or petition before the appellate authority or court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-chief-marks-probe-as-esic-issues-notices-to-deposit-rs-60-cr-301295
24-08-2021||---||Former PAU agronomist passes away||Ludhiana, August 23Dr Gurbakhsh Singh Gill, an eminent agronomist with countless contributions to Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and Punjab peasantry passed away on August 19. He was 96. Dr Gill, who was a distinguished teacher and mentor, was committed to agriculture, Sikhism and service to the humanity.In 1962, when the PAU came into existence, Dr Gill opted for service to the university. He got selected under the Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship to pursue his PhD programme at Ohio State University, USA, which he completed in 1965. After returning from the US, he joined as associate professor of agronomy on the Ludhiana campus. In 1968, he became the chief scientist, ICAR-Central Institute For Research On Buffaloes, Hisar. From there, he joined as professor and head, Department of Agronomy. “Dr Gill’s contributions had made a tremendous impact on the PAU. He established the Department of Agronomy as a leading centre of learning at the national level, said Dr RS Sidhu, Registrar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/former-pau-agronomist-passes-away-301296
24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP govt has made mockery of parliamentary democracy: CPM||Doraha, August 23Presided over by Pawan Kumar Kaushal, a state committee meeting of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) was held at Doraha.The meeting began with tributes to the farmers died during the struggle against new farm Bills. A report on the national and international issues presented by national general secretary of CPM Kuldip Singh described the Taliban-led government in Afghanistan as a puppet in the hands of imperialists. He said in India the situation was no better. The ruling party at the Centre has made a mockery of parliamentary democracy, where without any debate, 32 Bills were passed during this session and each Bill took 10 minutes.All India Kisan Federation (AIKF) president Prem Singh Bhangu said as the farmers’ struggle was getting longer, the ground under the BJP government at the Centre was slipping. “The WTO, the IMF and the World Bank are managing the world economy on their own terms. Excessive production has led to stagnation in the world market and increased unemployment. Agriculture, still being a sustainable source of employment, is being tactfully handed over to the corporate sector. He said a farmers’ convention would be held on August 26-27 in which delegates from all over the country would participate and on September 5 in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, a vast gathering of farmers would be held.Expressing concern over the “deteriorating law and order situation” in Punjab, Pawan Kumar Kaushal said every section of society was getting harassed at the hands of the government. “Employees and pensioners are struggling for implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission with pro-employee amendments in it,” he added.The meeting passed a resolution to support the farmers till their demanded were accepted. It also criticised hike in prices of petrol, diesel and domestic gas. The CPM also termed the hike in sugarcane price as insufficient.Sukhdev Singh, Gurpreet Nastik, Malkit Singh Chandigarh, Zora Singh, Joginder Singh Shehzad and Praveen Kumar Kaushal also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-govt-has-made-mockery-of-parliamentary-democracy-cpm-301297
24-08-2021||Harshraj Singh
||Sewage floods Dhandari Khurd streets||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, August 23 As the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, and elected representatives could not find any permanent solution to overflowing sewage, residents of Dhandari Khurd in Ward 28 have been facing inconvenience due to the years’ old problem. In the ongoing rainy season, the situation has turned worse. Streets were badly flooded with sewage on Sunday and Monday while chances of any disease outbreak remain high in the area. People are forced to walk through the streets flooded with stinking water. It is difficult for many of the residents to step out of their houses due to the accumulation of sewage. Sukhwinder Singh of ‘Guru Ravidas Ji Youth Sports and Welfare Club, Dhandari Khurd, said: “People are forced to live under unsanitary conditions. They are catching skin infections and diseases as they are forced to pass through sewage water. We have raised our voice many times in the past years too but nothing has been done in this regard. The government should find out a permanent solution to resolve the issue.” Another resident said: “Our elected representatives don’t pay any heed towards the issues being faced by us for a long time. The residents had staged protests multiple times in the past but to no avail.” Meanwhile, the issue of overflowing sewage at Durga Colony on the rear side of Krishna Market, near Dhandari Khurd, is also not being resolved. A leader of Aam Aadmi Party said: “People are forced to suffer due to hell-like conditions. Sewage is getting accumulated in streets and on vacant plots, giving an open invitation to diseases. It is the responsibility of the civic body to take immediate steps to resolve the problem.” MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said a manhole structure had collapsed in the area due to which a sewer line had been plugged. “Now, we are going to get the sewer line cleaned with a super-suction machine. The issue is expected to be resolved by Tuesday evening,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sewage-floods-dhandari-khurd-streets-301298
24-08-2021||---||Bluetooth pacemaker implanted in elderly patient||Ludhiana, August 23A city hospital has performed a successful cardiac intervention where Bluetooth-enabled cardiac pacemaker has been implanted in 66-year-old patient.The patient was suffering from slow heart rate and underwent a corrective intervention, where a Bluetooth-enabled Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy Device (CRT-D) was implanted in her, by the hospital’s cardiac team. The Bluetooth-enabled CTR-D was used for the first time in Punjab, claimed cardiologist Dr JS Grewal.Dr Grewal said, “During this intervention, we have implanted an extremely advanced pacemaker which is not only beneficial for people with low heart rate but also the ones who suffer from frequent cardiac short circuits. The pacemaker improves the heart’s pumping function through shocks. Additionally, it is a Bluetooth-enabled device, owing to which, the patient’s ECG can be easily accessed through a smartphone. In the occurrence of any short circuit, the device will prompt the patient,enabling us to take immediate corrective actions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bluetooth-pacemaker-implanted-in-elderly-patient-301299
24-08-2021||Ludhiana||Prize distribution function||CT AWS AcademySchool of Engineering at CT University has started training for the first batch of AWS Academy Cloud Foundations. More than 125 students from BTech CSE, BCA, MCA and diploma have registered for the AWS cloud foundation and took the first step towards their career in cloud technologies. Munish Kaushal, director IT and AWS accredited educator said, “This is intended for students who seek an overall understanding of cloud computing concepts, independent of specific technical roles. It provides a detailed overview of cloud concepts, AWS core services, security, architecture, pricing and support.” The school organised a cleanliness drive in which students participated with enthusiasm.Investiture ceremonySat Paul Mittal School, Ludhiana, invested its newly appointed Junior House and Senior House council with prefectorial responsibilities at Mittal auditorium. The investiture ceremony was held with great zeal and dignity. The beaming faces of the office-bearers bore testimony to the fact that each of the well deserving students is committed to the responsibilities bestowed. Sat Paul Mittal School has always set the standards high. The selection process is an example in itself. All office-bearers were selected in a very democratic manner and priority was given to students being all-rounder, outstanding in academics and co-curricular activities. Meritorious, brilliant and accountable children were appointed after a rigorous selection process. Bhupinder Gogia, Principal, Sat Paul Mittal School, congratulated all the elected members and advised them to keep their thinking and conscience clear. She thanked the parents for being the pillars of strength for the school community. The function concluded with school song followed by the National Anthem. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/prize-distribution-function-301300
24-08-2021||---||PAU holds seminar on crop residue management||Ludhiana, August 23The Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a travelling seminar on crop residue management under the project funded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD).A total of 30 farmers from various villages of Moga district visited research fields and attended presentations of scientists to get the latest information on crop residue management. Addressing the participants, Dr Kuldeep Singh, head, Department of Extension Education, sensitised the farmers to the ill-effects of crop residue burning and advised them to adopt crop residue management technologies in their farms.Dr RS Gill, principal rice breeder, urged them to adopt short- duration varieties of paddy for better paddy straw management in fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-holds-seminar-on-crop-residue-management-301301
24-08-2021||---||25-yr-old man’s suicide: Wife, in-laws booked||Ludhiana, August 23Days after a 25-year-old man allegedly committed suicide, the police have registered an FIR against his wife and in-laws for abetment to suicide. The case has been registered on the complaint filed by the victim’s father Manjit Singh of Malerkotla district.In his complaint to the police, Manjit Singh alleged that his son, Loverpreet Singh, was at his in-laws’ house in Balloke village on August 20 when he passed away. He alleged that Lovepreet’s in-laws had been harassing him. Thus, his son either consumed some poisonous substance or he was given some poisonous thing due to which he died, Manjit Singh alleged.The Haibowal police have registered a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC against the accused, identified as Pawandeep Kaur, wife of the deceased and in-laws Jagdeep Singh and Manjit Kaur. The police said the investigation into the case was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/25-yr-old-mans-suicide-wife-in-laws-booked-301302
24-08-2021||---||One dead, 1 tests positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 23Today no Covid patient from the district was admitted to the hospital. Only one woman patient from Malerkotla (other district), who is on ventilator support, is undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.One person tested positive for Covid, while one person lost his life to the disease in the district today. This is the lowest daily Covid count in the district this year. It was on August 9 also that only one person had tested positive for Covid. No person from other districts tested positive today. Total confirmed cases from the district have reached 87,457. The recovery rate has gone to 97.56 per cent and till now 85,319 persons have recovered from the disease.Today 40 persons were sent for home isolation. Till date, a total of 22,12,590 samples have been taken, of which 21,13,483 samples were found negative. Now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,457, while 11,650 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,096 from Ludhiana and 1,048 from other districts. Samples of 5,653 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-dead-1-tests-positive-in-ludhiana-district-301287
24-08-2021||---||100 cusecs more fresh water released into Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 23A day after releasing 50 cusecs of water into the Buddha Nullah from near Neelon, the Drainage Department released around 100 cusecs of water today.Amid questions being raised by environmental activists and protest by farmers, MLAs Amrik Singh Dhillon and Lakhbir Singh and Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had inaugurated the Rs 9.80-crore project of releasing daily 200 cusecs of fresh water.With a view to rejuvenating the nullah, the Mayor and the MLAs on Sunday said the work was part of the state government’s ambitious Rs 650-crore project to clean the nullah by releasing canal water into the drain through the Neelon drain of the Sirhind Canal.Member secretary of the PPCB Krunesh Garg said the project had been funded by the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).He said they were planning for the project since 2010.An executive engineer from the Drainage Department, Harjot Singh, said they would start releasing 200 cusecs daily once the weather conditions improved. He said up to around 100 cusecs of water was released today.Stop pollution before releasing water: Environmental activistsFarmers associated with a union had also staged a protest against the releasing of fresh water into the Buddha Nullah yesterday when the project was to be launched. Meanwhile, a number of environmental activists have raised questions over the release of fresh water into the highly polluted nullah without eliminating major sources of pollution. Col CM Lakhanpal (retd) said: “Release and flow of water into the Buddha Dariya from the Neelon side of the Sirhind canal should be kept to the minimum to maintain the flow and oxidation process for the degradation of biological waste as an interim measure. Full flow of 200 cusecs of water will be more beneficial after the completion of work on all STPs and CETPs, including dairy complexes.”A member of the Buddha Nullah Task Force, Col JS Gill (retd), had also written to the Chief Minister, requesting him that the water should be released only after completion of rejuvenation of the Buddha Nullah project and stopping all kind of waste into the drain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/100-cusecs-more-fresh-water-released-into-buddha-nullah-in-ludhiana-301288
24-08-2021||---||Mayor inaugurates beautification, development works at Gian Singh Rarewala Market in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 23Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on Monday inaugurated beautification and development works in the decades’ old Gian Singh Rarewala Market which were taken up by the civic body at the cost of Rs 70 lakh.On the occasion, the Mayor stated that it was a long-pending demand of businessmen operating in the market to build washrooms, its beautification, improvement of the parking lot and road carpeting.He said the market was four decades’ old and adjacent to the Regional Passport Office due to which it had become necessary to develop the place to facilitate people.Punjab Youth Development Board Chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra and Punjab Medium Industrial Development Board Chairman Amarjeet Singh Tikka were among those others present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mayor-inaugurates-beautification-development-works-at-gian-singh-rarewala-market-in-ludhiana-301289
24-08-2021||Ludhiana||Two die after being hit by mini-truck||Two persons, including a labourer, lost their lives when a mini-truck hit them near Canal Bridge at Jawaddi, near here, on Monday. They died on the spot.One of the deceased has been identified as Ram Chander (45) of Jawaddi. Hailing from Nepal, he was working as a labourer. The other victim was yet to be identified by the police.The truck was going towards Doraha from the Ferozepur side via Southern Bypass when the accident occurred. It is learnt that the driver took a turn to save a pedestrian after which the truck hit the two victims.The police started a probe in the incident. An FIR has been registered against the unidentified truck driver who had managed to escape after the mishap, leaving the vehicle on the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-die-after-being-hit-by-mini-truck-301290
24-08-2021||Nitin Jain||7 mucormycosis cases in Punjab from Aug 3 to 16, lowest so far||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 23Seven cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, were reported in the state from August 3 to 16, the lowest-ever 14-day count so far, the government has confirmed.The incidence of the serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes has touched a record low in the state in line with the downward trend of the Covid cases, the official figures have revealed.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, showed that the state recorded only seven cases of black fungus among the post Covid patients from August 3 to 16, which was 4.51 per cent of the highest-ever 155 cases reported in a week between May 25 and 31 after the government had notified mucormycosis disease.In Ludhiana, 158 cases and 19 deaths due to black fungus were reported till Saturday, of which 70 patients and 11 deaths were from other districts. On Monday, only 11 active cases were under hospitalisation in the district. However, no fresh case has been reported in the district since August 20.The black fungus cases have been on a constant decline since June 28.From 155 between May 25 and 31, the cases of mucormycosis dropped to 103 between May 1 and 7, and further dipped to 57 between May 8 and 14.While the incidence rose to 84 between June 15 and 21, the cases again started declining and were 46 between June 22 and 28, coming down to 39 between June 29 and July 5, and 22 each between July 6 and 12, July 13 and 19, dipping to 12 between July 20 and 26, slightly rising to 13 between July 27 and August 2, and touching a record low of 7 between August 3 and 16.The state-wise break-up of black fungus cases and deaths suggested that Punjab ranked 13th in the country when it came to total cases, under treatment, cured and deaths.Punjab recorded 684 total cases so far, of which 236 are under treatment, 327 cured and 52 have since died at the case fatality rate (CFR) of 8 per cent.Maharashtra topped the country with the highest of 9,878 cases of black fungus, of which 1,907 are under treatment, 6,501 cured and 1,286 deaths at 13 per cent CFR, followed by Gujarat 6,947 total cases, 415 under treatment, 5,128 cured, and 689 deaths at 10 per cent CFR, Andhra Pradesh 4,502 cases, 1,058 under treatment, 3,006 cured, 358 deaths at 8 per cent CFR, Tamil Nadu 4,308 cases, 2,047 under treatment, 1,788 cured, 370 deaths at 9 per cent CFR, Karnataka 3,765 cases, 1,209 under treatment, 1,729 cured, 411 deaths at 11 per cent CFR, Rajasthan 3,579 cases, 2,509 under treatment, 715 cured, 191 deaths at 5 per cent CFR, Telangana 2,619 cases, 2,593 under treatment, 13 cured, 4 deaths at zero CFR, Uttar Pradesh 2,407 cases, 1,162 under treatment, 957 cured, 249 deaths at 10 per cent CFR, Madhya Pradesh 2,301 cases, 707 under treatment, 1,448 cured, 142 deaths at 6 per cent CFR, Delhi 1,883 cases, 633 under treatment, 865 cured, 332 deaths at 18 per cent CFR, Haryana 1,741 cases, 591 under treatment, 809 cured, 264 deaths at 15 per cent CFR, and Bihar 800 cases, 36 under treatment, 577 cured, and 147 deaths at 18 per cent CFR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/7-mucormycosis-cases-in-punjab-from-aug-3-to-16-lowest-so-far-301291
24-08-2021||---||Daughter-in-law booked for abetting suicide in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 23A woman and her parents were today booked for abetment to suicide. A 60-year-man, Pawan Bhalla, of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar on Noorwala Road had set himself ablaze at his residence on Saturday. Pawan was rushed to DMC Hospital but he later succumbed to the injuries.Asha Bhalla, wife of Pawan Bhalla, alleged that his daughter-in-law and her parents were harassing his husband due to which he took the extreme step. She alleged that her daughter-in-law and her parents had humiliated them after which her husband committed suicide. Pawan Bhalla was a former bank employee.Following her complaint, the police registered an FIR against his daughter-in-law and her parents. The accused have been identified as Ritika Bhalla, her father Rajan Malhotra and mother Santosh Malhotra.Asha Bhalla said her son had married Ritika about 18 months ago and they have a daughter. She alleged that Ritika had also been harassing and forcing her husband to live in a separate house.A case under Sections 306 and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered against the trio at the Basti Jodhewal police station on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/daughter-in-law-booked-for-abetting-suicide-in-ludhiana-301292
24-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana jewellers observe strike against hallmark rule, business hit||Against the ‘undue’ demand of the government to maintain a record of hallmarked jewellery, all jewellers on a nationwide call observed a one-day strike in the city today.Anand Sekri, president, Ludhiana Jewellers Association, said on an average, business worth up to Rs 50 crore got affected due to the strike.“We welcome the government’s decision of getting everything hallmarked. But at the same time, we cannot keep the record of everything that was sold or purchased or prepare the stock lists, etc. The government should confiscate the jewellery without hallmark, but keeping a record of everything was not easy and viable,” he said.The jewellers have made an appeal to the government to withdraw the notification as it will lead to ‘inspector raj’ due to which jewellers will be harassed.There are around 500 small shops and showrooms of jewellery in the city and all were shut due to the decision of the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-jewellers-observe-strike-against-hallmark-rule-business-hit-301293
24-08-2021||---||Punjab Agricultural University develops five varieties of 3 crops||Ludhiana, August 23The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has developed and recommended three new varieties of wheat and one each of berseem (clover) and oats for cultivation in Punjab. These include PBW 803, PBW 824 and PBW 869 of wheat, BL 44 of berseem and OL 15 of oats.The varieties were approved during the meeting of the State Variety Approval Committee held under chairmanship of Dr Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, Director, Agriculture.As per Dr Navtej Singh Bains, director (Research), and Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director (Extension education), PAU, PBW 803 has been recommended for cultivation in the south-western region (Bathinda, Faridkot, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Mansa and Muktsar) under irrigated timely sown conditions. “Its average height is 100 cm and it matures in about 151 days. It is fully resistant to brown rust and moderately to yellow rust. Its average yield is 22.7 quintals per acre,” said Dr Bains.He said PBW 824, recommended under irrigated timely sown conditions, had 104 cm average height and matured in about 156 days.The PBW 869 variety has been recommended for sowing with happy seeder/super seeder in in-situ rice residue-managed fields, based on research and adaptive trials conducted by the Borlaug Institute for South Asia and PAU. Its average height is 101 cm and it matures in about 158 days. It is fully resistant to brown rust and moderately to yellow rust. Its average yield is 23.2 quintals per acre.Clover variety BL 44 grows quickly and has more number of tillers. The OL 15 is single-cut oats variety for irrigated areas of Punjab. Its plantsare tall, have long and broad leaves with more leafiness and tillering ability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-agricultural-university-develops-five-varieties-of-3-crops-301078
24-08-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||In war-torn Afghanistan, music a casualty||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 23“Music killed in Afghanistan!” This is a message sent by a student from Afghanistan to his Indian Ustad Narinder Narula — globally acclaimed sitar maestro — apprising him of the situation there ever since the Taliban took over the reins.The message was sent by Ustad Fazel Sepand, a native of Herat, Afghanistan, on WhatsApp, requesting the Indian maestro to tell the world that music now finds no place in Afghanistan. Fazel runs a music institute named ‘Honarestan Tarana’.Ustad Narula, who was in Ludhiana recently, said: “I have not met Fazel personally. After watching my videos on YouTube, he contacted me on WhatsApp and started taking sitar lessons. However, his recent text left me disturbed. Afghan people are trying to raise their voice for their safety and rights. But as their voices are being suppressed, so are their dreams.”Dreams shatteredFazel’s recent text left me disturbed. Afghan people are trying to raise their voice for their safety and rights. But as their voices are being suppressed, so are their dreams.—Ustad Narinder Narula, Sitar maestroIn his message, Fazel further wrote that his department was shut and everything had come to an end. He asked the maestro to tell him about his other disciples, their culture and how they learn music. He made a request to start a programme on Facebook and other social media platforms for helping young Afghan musicians, who are passionate about singing and playing various instruments. Fazel also wrote that artistes in Afghanistan were poor and didn’t have much support from the world but connecting them with others would definitely heal their wounds.Meanwhile, the local industrialists are reluctant to talk to the buyers or middlemen in Afghanistan. Some of them say their stocks are stuck and there is no response from the buyers there while a few others are avoiding to talk, fearing their calls might be recorded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/in-war-torn-afghanistan-music-a-casualty-301085
24-08-2021||Nitin Jain||After Alpha, Covid’s Delta variant spreading its tentacles in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 22The highly transmissible Delta variant of Covid has been spreading fast in Punjab and continues to be the most dominant variant in the state.The United Kingdom’s Alpha variant has disappeared after dominating the state till March.As per official figures, 96 per cent of the total Covid samples processed for whole genome sequencing (WGS) in July have tested positive for the Delta variant (B.1.617). However, no fresh case of Delta Plus variant (B.1.617.2), which is more virulent in nature, has been reported in the state.Till now, the state has recorded only two Delta Plus cases – one each in Ludhiana and Patiala districts. The cases were registered in June.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, who reviewed the Covid situation here recently, said a new genome sequencing laboratory had started functioning in Patiala for early identification of new Covid variants and it was emerging as a key component in the fight against the pandemic.“All eight samples tested as a trial run have been found positive for Delta,” Mahajan had said, adding that the process was underway for the inclusion of the lab in the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium of Genomics (INSACOG).“The lab will test 92 samples every three weeks from August 14 onwards,” she had informed.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that a total of 2,215 Covid samples had been processed for the WGS between January and July. Of these, 2,081 (93.95%) tested positive for the Delta virus – the variant of concern (VoC).The month-wise break-up suggested that all the 25 samples processed in July tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 24 tested positive for Delta (96 per cent), while a single sample was found to be of B.1.36 variant.In June, 227 samples were processed, of which 211 (92.9 per cent) tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 201 samples (95.2 per cent) tested positive for Delta, four for B.1 (1.9 per cent), two for A (0.9 per cent). One sample each tested positive for Alpha and B.In May, 617 or 94.9 per cent of the total 650 samples tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 547 cases (88.6 per cent) were of Delta, followed by 41 cases of B.1 (6.6 per cent), 23 cases of Alpha (3.7 per cent), and two cases were of AY.1 variant (0.3 per cent).In April, 463 (93.9 per cent) of 493 WGS samples had tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 209 cases (45.1 per cent) tested positive for Delta, 191 cases (41.2 per cent) for Alpha, and 53 cases (11.4 per cent) for B.1.In March, of the 748 samples, 717 (95.9 per cent) tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 680 (94.8 per cent) had tested positive for Alpha, four (0.5 per cent) for Delta and two (0.3 per cent) for Beta. One case each of B.1, B.1.36, and B.1.525, besides 27 cases of other mutations were also found among the samples.In February, all the 24 WGS samples tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 17 cases (70.8 per cent) had tested positive for Alpha and seven cases (29.2 per cent) for other mutations.In January, 24 of the total 48 samples processed for WGS had tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, seven cases (29.2 per cent) were of B.1, four cases (16.7 per cent) of B.1.36, two cases each of Alpha and B.1.258.14, and once each of B, A, B.1.36.19, B.1.36.8, B.1.459, B.1.465, B.1.596, B.1.1, and B.1.216.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-alpha-covids-delta-variant-spreading-its-tentacles-in-punjab-300788
24-08-2021||Manav Mander||Amid turmoil in Afghanistan, dry fruit rates surge||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 22With the Taliban seizing control of Afghanistan and imports being halted, the prices of dry fruit are on their way up. A bulk of the commodity comes from the country.The prices have increased by 15-20 per cent both in the wholesale and retail markets. These are expected go up further ahead of the festival season as the demand grows.Buying dry fruit for Raksha Bandhan proved to be a costly affair for people this time. Traders are worried as the festival season is round the corner. In fact, some dry fruit that are not imported from Afghanistan are also witnessing a surge in prices.Vikram Chugh, a Ludhiana trader, said the prices of dry fruit from Afghanistan had started seeing an upward trend. These have risen between Rs 100 and Rs 250 a kg for different varieties of dry fruit.“In the retail market, almonds are now selling at Rs 900, against Rs 700 earlier; fig at Rs 750 against Rs 600 earlier; pistachio at Rs 1,850 per kg against Rs 1,600 earlier; and raisins, which were available for Rs 600 per kg, were now selling at Rs 800 per kg,” he said.Veerpal Kaur, another trader, said the prices might increase further if things did not improve during the winter season when these were in short supply.Some traders are taking advantage of the situation and have started stocking up the commodity. “The price of American almonds has gone up from Rs 700 to Rs 1,000 in the past one month and this variety is not even imported from Afghanistan,” she added.Apart from households, sweetshops are one of the major consumers. Narinderpal Singh, president, Halwai Association of Punjab, said the prices of sweets would also increase if the raw material got costlier.“All dry fruit have seen an upward trend and almond is the worst affected. It is now selling at Rs 1,000 a kg. Things were already tough for us. With the increase in dry fruit prices, our business will further take a hit,” he said.Up by 15-20%||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amid-turmoil-in-afghanistan-dry-fruit-rates-surge-300715
