25-08-2021||---||Actor Yograj Singh joins campaign against industrial park near Sutlej, Mattewara Forest||Ludhiana, August 24Eminent actor Yograj Singh has joined the campaign, being run by a public action committee (PAC), to save the Mattewara Forest and the Sutlej. He took part in a plantation drive organised by the PAC in the area today, which aimed to spread awareness about the movement against the decision of the Punjab Government to set up a modern industrial park near the Sutlej and Mattewara Forest.Yograj Singh said he strongly opposed the decision and to prevent a disaster, the government must roll it back and save the rare flora and fauna of the area.Earlier, environment lovers gathered at the Mattewara bus stand and marched towards the forest. They planted saplings of various kinds and raised slogans to spread their message.Environment activist and president of Ramgarhia Educational Council, Ranjodh Singh, said the world today needed to be protected from natural calamities and all nature lovers must come forward in support of the campaign to save the reserves.Col (retd) CM Lakhanpal, a member of the PAC, emphasised that water and air pollution and rapid urbanisation would kill the natural reserves and its flora and fauna. “The pollutants will destroy the Sutlej waters and have devastating effects on the marine life. No industrial park should be set up at this eco-sensitive site”, he said.Another member, Shaminder Singh Longowal, appealed to the people to join the cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/actor-yograj-singh-joins-campaign-against-industrial-park-near-sutlej-mattewara-forest-301776
25-08-2021||Our Correspondent
||Social bodies join hands to revive Punjab's cultural heritage||Mandi Ahmedgarh, August 24 Office-bearers and activists of various social and educational organisations vowed to launch a coordinated movement for the revival and preservation of state’s cultural heritage and to adopt these values in their lifestyle. An oath was taken in response to a call made by Malerkotla Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill, during the concluding session of a Teej function held at Guru Har Krishan College for Women at Phallewal village near here. College chairman Labh Singh Ahluwalia and director Gurpreet Singh presided over the inaugural and concluding sessions and Amrit Kaur was the chief guest. Sukhdev Singh Walia, Gurmat Pal Singh, Dr AA Khan and Bikramjit Kaur gave away prizes to outstanding performers. Appreciating the role played by teachers in preparing students for participation in cultural events and thus imbibing the traditional spirit in them, the Deputy Commissioner claimed this would make students innovative and dynamic, besides inculcating values in them. Paranjal was declared Miss Teej and Anupreet Kaur was declared Nightingale. Tammana emerged as Miss freshers while Labbie Kaur and Daljit Kaur secured the next two positions. Gidha, bhangra, choreography, skits and folk songs presented by students were appreciated by all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/social-bodies-join-hands-to-revive-punjabs-cultural-heritage-301777
25-08-2021||Legal Correspondent
||DLSA reunites missing Phillaur village girl with family||Ludhiana, August 24 The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), under the supervision of its chairman-cum-Sessions Judge Munish Singal, has reunited a missing girl with her family. The information regarding the girl was received by DLSA panel lawyer Vijay Sharma through Manu Walia of Mundian Kalan, Ludhiana. Walia had stated that a girl was found near Samrala Chowk and was unable to tell her whereabouts.  As per instructions of DLSA secretary-cum-CJM PS Kaleka, the lawyer took up the matter with Division No 7 police station as well as with the police officials at the court complex police post.  After taking the girl into confidence, the panel lawyer got to know that she was a resident of Atta village, Phillaur Tehsil, falling under the Goraya Police Station. Accordingly, the panel lawyer took up the matter with the Goraya Police Station SHO, who helped in reaching out to her parents. Thereafter, the girl was handed over to her parents in presence of cops at the local office of the DLSA on the court complex. Her family thanked the DLSA authorities and police for the efforts. Kaleka said it was the result of the orientation and sensitisation programmes launched for panel lawyers from time to time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dlsa-reunites-missing-phillaur-village-girl-with-family-301778
25-08-2021||---||20K saplings planted in one hour in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 24In a major initiative aimed at enhancing the green cover in the district and checking environmental pollution, the administration has planted 4,58,000 saplings in Ludhiana since July 1 under the Mission Fateh campaign, the ADC (Development) said.On Tuesday, the administration celebrated Van Mahotsava by kicking off a unique plantation drive by planting around 20,000 saplings in one hour at 25 locations. Leading the drive by planting saplings at the Circuit House, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Amit Kumar Panchal said since July 1, around 4.58 lakh saplings had already been planted on panchayati land, around village ponds, on roadsides, at educational institutes, healthcare centres and other areas in Ludhiana.He said it was a path-breaking step aimed at enhancing the green cover in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20k-saplings-planted-in-one-hour-in-ludhiana-301779
25-08-2021||The IQAC and Post Graduate Department of Chemistry of Government Science College||e-lecture series held in Government Science College, Jagraon||BBA exam results declaredStudents of BBA Semester VI of Bajaj College have excelled in the examinations, results of which were declared recently. Principal Shikha Dhall said Amolika Tangri scored 88.17%, followed by Harsimran Chadha 87.33% while Palak Arora and Harneet Kaur secured the third position with 86%.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/e-lecture-series-held-in-government-science-college-jagraon-301780
25-08-2021||---||Shop owners, councillor hold protest at Mochpura Bazaar||Ludhiana, August 24 Shopkeepers at Mochpura Bazaar and former councillor Gurpreet Singh Khurana staged a protest over a matter related to a religious place here on Tuesday. The protesters alleged that a shutter had been installed last night, blocking the way leading to a gurdwara in the area.  Khurana said, “Some persons installed a shutter on the main way leading to the Gurdwara Sahib at night. Thus, we sat on dharna to mark our protest today. We are demanding the opening of the way.”  MLA Surinder Dawar also visited the protest site and talked to the police regarding the matter. The protest continued for around two hours, due to which commuters suffered. The protestors ended the dharna after getting assurance from the cops that the matter would be probed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shop-owners-councillor-hold-protest-at-mochpura-bazaar-301781
25-08-2021||---||Dog bite cases on rise, Ludhiana MC yet to launch anti-rabies drive||Ludhiana, August 24Despite an average 600 dog bite cases reported every month at the Civil Hospital here, the Municipal Corporation is yet to launch the anti-rabies drive in the city.Civid body’s senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla, however, said the tenders for the project to make the city rabies-free would be floated in the next two-three months.Sterilisation of stray dogsAccording to an official of the MC’s veterinary branch, 51,000 stray dogs have been sterilised in the city till date. In a 2009 survey, 20,000 stray dogs had been identified. A sterlisation project was said to be launched in 2010, but it was never completed. The civic body then launched a new project in February 2015 and it is being carried out in different phases. However, the project was stalled multiple times in the past six years.The process is underway to get the required approval for tenders, said Dr Dhalla.Dog bite cases are reported from different parts of the city every day and two months ago, a girl had reportedly died of rabies.Dr Dhalla said Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had given a go ahead to the project and a resolution for the same was approved by the Finance & Contract Committee last month.Under the project, all the dogs, including the pet ones, in the city will be administered the anti-rabies vaccine free of cost, said Dr Dhalla.“The MC will be able to make the city rabies-free zone within the next 18-24 months after launching the project. Ludhiana will be the first rabies-free city in the country. The required vaccine will be purchased by the civic body in various phases,” he said.“We will take help of the Animal Husbandry Department, NGOs and animal lovers for the project. Under the project, vaccines, syringes and examination gloves will be provided to all civil veterinary hospitals, mainly at Haibowal Dairy Complex, Barewal, and Polyclinic at Gill Road,” Dr Dhalla added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dog-bite-cases-on-rise-ludhiana-mc-yet-to-launch-anti-rabies-drive-301782
25-08-2021||Ludhiana||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University creates awareness on parasitic infections in livestock||Parasites of dairy animals cause economic losses to the tune of hundreds of crores every year. Directorate of Extension Education, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, organised a workshop to create awareness on control and mitigation strategies for parasitic diseases in collaboration with the Department of Veterinary Parasitology. Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, stressed upon the need to sensitise various stakeholders involved in the dairy sector to to the importance of subdued parasitic infections that lead to enormous economic losses. The Vice-Chancellor emphasised on the importance of scientific knowledge regarding diagnosis, control and specific treatment of the parasitic diseases. He said farmers should adopt diversified integrated animal husbandry practices to increase profits from the dairy sector. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/guru-angad-dev-veterinary-and-animal-sciences-university-creates-awareness-on-parasitic-infections-in-livestock-301783
25-08-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||CBSE compartment exams start today||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 24Though the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) did not conduct offline board exams for Class X and XII this year and results were declared on the basis of performance chart of the students, there were a few who could not score even passing marks in many subjects. The board has decided to conduct their compartment tests, which start tomorrow.Talking to The Tribune, Harmit Kaur Waraich, principal of Nankana Sahib Public School, said only five-six schools were made centres for holding compartment exams, which will conclude on September 13.“We are going to adhere to all Covid norms and not more than 12 students will sit in one class. Approximately, there are 50 students each for Class X and XII compartment exams at our centre,” she said.Meanwhile, as the third wave of Covid is predicted to strike in September-October, many private schools in the city are showing a lenient approach towards attendance. A student of Sacred Heart School said till Class IX, studies were being conducted online and for higher classes, it was mandatory to bring consent forms in case students wished to attend school.Nidhi Chopra, a parent, said “My daughter is in Class XII but that does not mean she is safe. If the schools can be closed for younger classes, they should continue to take online classes of higher classes too. They must not call the students to school because they are not vaccinated and secondly, if they catch the infection, their health would be affected and it might affect their performance in the final exams. We are not going to send our wards to school till they are safe”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cbse-compartment-exams-start-today-301784
25-08-2021||Manav Mander||Dengue spreading tentacles in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 24Cases of Covid have started declining but now dengue has started spreading its tentacles. As many as 12 new cases of dengue were reported in Ludhiana hospitals on Tuesday. Of these, four belong to Ludhiana, seven from other districts and one from other state. Interestingly, there were only two confirmed cases of dengue in the previous year.Areas where dengue cases reportedDengue cases have been reported from Kailash Chowk, Bhamia Road, Chandar Nagar, Janta Nagar, Model Town, Basti Jodhewal, Rani Jhansi Road, Ferozepur Road, Ashapuri and Civil Lines.PrecautionsNow, the total number of confirmed cases of dengue has reached 47, of which 23 belong to Ludhiana district and the remaining are from other districts or states.“Till now, 392 samples of suspected patients have been collected. Of these, 47 have tested positive and 23 belong to Ludhiana district. Other districts from where people have tested positive include Muktsar, Hoshiarpur, Moga, Jalandhar, Mansa, SBS Nagar, Faridkot and Kapurthala and states from where people have tested positive are from Himachal Pradesh and J&K,” said District Epidemologist Ramesh.One confirmed patient of Chikungunya has also been reported from Ludhiana’s Dr Ambedkar Nagar.Dr Ramesh said dengue was a viral infection transmitted by the bite of an infected female Aedes mosquito. There are four distinct serotypes of dengue virus. Symptoms appear in three to 14 days (average four to seven days) after the infective bite. Dengue fever is a flu-like illness that affects infants, young children and adults.“The symptoms of dengue are high fever followed by severe headache, severe eye pain, joint, muscle or bone pain, rash, mild bleeding from the nose or gums, small spots caused by bleeding into the skin and low white cell count,” said Dr Ramesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dengue-spreading-tentacles-in-ludhiana-district-301785
25-08-2021||---||Zero +ve cases after 15 months in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 24 After 15 months, no person in the district has tested positive for Covid today. It was last on May 27, 2020, that no Covid positive case was reported in the district. It was on May 9 this year that the highest number of 1,729 cases was reported in the district. Today no patient was on ventilator support and no Covid patient (both from district and out of district) was admitted to hospital. Today 35 persons were sent for home isolation. A total of 85,326 patients have recovered so far and the recovery rate has reached 97.56 per cent. No death was reported in the district today. Till date, a total of 22,21,285 samples have been taken, of which 21,22,176 samples were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,457, while 11,652 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,096 from Ludhiana and 1,048 from other districts. Samples of 8,695 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/zero-ve-cases-after-15-months-in-ludhiana-301786
25-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Real estate market starts picking up in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 24The real estate market has started picking up in Ludhiana, which is the largest district in the state in terms of area and population, if the revenue collection is any indication.The district has achieved 24 per cent revenue collection, a key indicator of market trend, in the first quarter of this fiscal, the administration has confirmed.The development assumes significance as the real estate market had suffered a major setback due to the second Covid wave, which had caused maximum loss to Ludhiana in terms of deaths and infections.The official figures compiled by the district administration, which are available with The Tribune, revealed that Rs 93,53,50,241 stamp duty was collected from the registration of 18,176 documents in the district from April 1 to June 30.Sharing details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune here on Tuesday that the district had fixed Rs 400 crore as the target of stamp duty collection for this financial year, which is 5.54 per cent more than the previous fiscal’s target of Rs 379 crore.In 2020-21, the district could achieve 85 per cent target with the collection of Rs 320,42,70,163 from the registration of 67,536 documents from April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021.The last fiscal’s collection was Rs 3,71,69,405, which accounted for 1.15 per cent, less than Rs 324,14,39,568 revenue earned from the registration of 74,251 documents in 2019-20.Divulging the revenue court management system in the district, the DC disclosed that all 35 revenue courts are presently operational in the district, on the portal of which 4,013 cases have so far been uploaded. Referring to the national generic document registration system (NGDRS), the Deputy Commissioner has demanded an increase in the availability of online appointment slots in Super-A category in the sub-registrar offices across the district for ensuring better service to the public.Raising the demand before Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan during the latter’s visit to Ludhiana recently, the DC proposed to increase the tatkal (urgent) appointments in Ludhiana (East) from present 15 to 25, with which the total appointments, including the present 150 normal ones, will go up from present 165 to 175 appointments.In Ludhiana (Central), the normal appointments were proposed to be raised from 110 to 125 and tatkal from present 7 to 10, with which the total appointments will go up from present 117 to 135 appointments.The proposal for Ludhiana (West) demanded an increase of normal appointments from present 115 to 150 and tatkal from 7 to 25, with which the total appointments will go up from present 122 to 175.The Chief Secretary, while taking stock of the NGDRS in the district, assured to consider the demands raised by the DC as per rules and in the larger interest of the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/real-estate-market-starts-picking-up-in-ludhiana-district-301787
25-08-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana: Phullanwal-Chhabra Colony road in dilapidated condition||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 24Commuters are a harried lot due to the dilapidated condition of a road connecting Phullanwal, Moti Bagh Colony and Chhabra Colony areas in Ludhiana.Residents have demanded from the government to get it repaired as accidents are common on the badly broken stretch.Rainwater remains accumulated on the stretch these days in the absence of a proper drainage system. The road also leads to schools in the area but the authorities concerned are yet to make any efforts to get the road repaired.A former mass media officer of the Health Department, Punjab, Satish Sachdeva, said: “My scooter got slipped when I passed over a pothole filled with rainwater today. The road that has badly broken also leads to a primary health centre, government and private schools and Chhabra Colony. Thousands of people pass through the stretch but no action has been taken to repair the road by the authorities concerned.”The residents said two-wheelers generally lose balance due to the dilapidated condition of the road. “There is no proper drainage system. Hence, waterlogging on the road is common during rainy days. Big potholes are being ignored for a long time. Now, the situation is too bad. We want our elected representatives and the authorities concerned should take timely steps for the repair of the road so that we can heave a sigh of relief.”Meanwhile, the residents also demanded recarpeting of the Phullanwal-Daad road as it is also in a bad condition. Sarpanch of the Moti Bagh area Ranjit Singh said the condition of both roads, Phullanwal to Chhabra Colony Road and Phullanwal to Daad village road, are in a poor state. He said these were link roads that need to be recarpeted.“I have discussed the matter with the MLA concerned who has assured that required steps will be taken to recarpet the roads at the earliest”, he said. A PWD SDO said he would check the records regarding the status of these roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-phullanwal-chhabra-colony-road-in-dilapidated-condition-301788
25-08-2021||---||Ludhiana police conduct surprise checking at railway station||Ludhiana, August 24The Ludhiana police today carried out a surprise checking at the city railway station. A dog squad also accompanied police personnel.ADCP Pragya Jain, along with SHOs and ACPs of the Police Zone 1, visited the railway station. A few suspected passengers were also frisked and their ID proofs were also checked.The SHO, Kotwali police station, SI Harjit Singh said purpose of the surprise checking was to ensure that no anti-social elements should be present at the railway station, adding that police personnel in civvies also used to visit the station frequently to keep a tab over miscreants. Earlier in a day, Commissioner Naunihal Singh checked police nakas in the Dugri area. It is learnt that he had told all officers to ensure that every police station should install nakas in their jurisdiction and the force should remain ready for any urgency. He also reportedly conducted a meeting with senior police officials and checked the condition of their weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-police-conduct-surprise-checking-at-railway-station-301789
25-08-2021||Ludhiana||Alleging graft in Ludhiana MC, contractors boycott road construction works in Ludhiana||Alleging ‘corruption’ in the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC), contractors associated with the Ludhiana Hotmix Plant Welfare Association announced to boycott road construction works (bitumen based) in the city.The association members conducted a meeting today and announced to boycott works regarding road projects. They also demanded a vigilance inquiry into the “prevailing corruption” in the civic body and sought action against some B&R branch officials. The contractors are also unhappy since they have been directed to place financial bids for at least 6 per cent lesser amount of the estimate prepared by the MC.Association president Vinod Jain alleged, “To get our pending payments, we were earlier forced to pay a 3 per cent commission to the officials concerned. Moreover, the government has fixed an estimated amount for tenders but the guidelines are being ignored. There is no transparency in the tendering process as the works are allocated to a few contractors being supported by MC officials.” Jain said, “We demand that the Vigilance Bureau conducts an inquiry into the working of the Ludhiana MC.”Ahead of the Assembly elections, the civic body had to start road re-carpeting works in various areas. The contractors claimed that works worth Rs 200 crore would get affected due to the boycott.Meanwhile, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu claimed that the contractors were levelling false allegations. “These contractors want to blackmail and loot the MC. But, they will not be allowed to do so. I will expose these contractors with evidence soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/alleging-graft-in-ludhiana-mc-contractors-boycott-road-construction-works-in-ludhiana-301790
25-08-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for sodomising minor boy||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-sodomising-minor-boy-301792
25-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||Ludhiana: Doctor gets 20-yr jail for patient’s rape||Ludhiana, August 24The Court of Additional Sessions Judge KK Jain convicted Dr Tapinder Singh, a resident of Leel village, Sudhar, on the charge of raping a 14-year old girl, who was her patient. He was sentenced to imprisonment for 20 years.Delivering the verdict, the court held the prosecution had proved the charges against the accused. The court turned down the plea of leniency raised by the accused with the observation that keeping in view his indulgence in such a henious crime, he did not deserve leniency. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 15.05 lakh on the accused. Of this amount, Rs 15 lakh will be paid to the victim’s family as compensation.A case against the accused was registered at the Sudhar police station on July 30, 2018, following the statement of the victim. The girl had told the police that she was a Class IX student, and she had been sick for a couple of days, because of which her parents took her to the New Raj clinic at Pakowal, being run by the accused. During treatment, she was administered medicines. On July 29, 2018, she went to the clinic at 6.30 pm again. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused raped her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-doctor-gets-20-yr-jail-for-patients-rape-301577
