30-08-2021||---||Ludhiana farmers block NH for two hours  to protest police action in Karnal||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, August 29In response to a call given by the ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’ (SKM) to block highways for two hours (12 noon to 2 pm) in protest against lathicharge by the police on protesting farmers in Karnal, activists of the Bharti Kisan Union – Ekta Ugrahan (BKU) today squatted on Ferozepur Road (NH-95) near MBD Mall.With the highway under siege by the farmers, commuters and travellers of public and private vehicles had a harrowing time. Several people, including women and children, who were carrying their luggage, were seen walking past the point where farmers were squatting on the road, to change passenger vehicles on the other side of the road to reach their destinations.The protesting farmers condemned the BJP government in Haryana, and an IAS official in particular for the indiscriminate lathicharge and manhandling of farmers in Karnal.They said such repressive measures to deal with peaceful protests by farmers in Haryana, Delhi or anywhere else would backfire and the farmers would continue their agitation till their demand for revocation of three farm laws was accepted.BKU leaders Sudgar Singh Ghudani, Charan Singh Noorpura, Nirmal Singh, Sukhpreet Majri, Teerath Singh, Harjeet Kaur, Ranbir Kaur, Pawandeep, Inderjit and others came down heavily upon the Haryana bureaucrat for his orders to deal with the protesting farmers mercilessly while demanding that such officials should be dismissed for their misconduct.They made it clear to the Centre and other state governments that the farmers would relentlessly continue their agitation till acceptance of their demand and if any government or officials believe that use of force could deter them, they were mistaken.“We shall rebound with more zeal if pushed to the wall,” Ghudani said.Outfits stage protestMandi Ahmedgarh/ Payal/ Raikot: To protest against the lathicharge on farmers at Karnal in Haryana on Saturday, office-bearers and activists of constituent outfits of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha blocked traffic on highways and link roads of the region from 12 noon to 2 pm on Sunday.The police remained on toes, diverting traffic to alternative routes at Payal, Bassian, Lehra, Kila Raipur and Bhogiwal, where office-bearers and activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU)- Ekta Ugrahan, BKU-Dakaunda, All India Kisan Sabha and Zamhoori Kisan Union had organised dharnas to express their anger against the Haryana Government.They lamented that the Haryana Police had brutally lathicharged peacefully demonstrating farmers, just to appease Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, thus exhibiting enmity against poor farmers of the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-farmers-block-nh-for-two-hours-to-protest-police-action-in-karnal-304067
30-08-2021||---||Ludhiana: 16-year-old boy ends his life in Meharban village||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 29A 16-year-old boy committed suicide on Saturday evening at his house at Jagirpur village in Meharban. The reason of taking the extreme step is not known yet.The deceased was identified as Sanju. As per information, on Saturday afternoon, the boy went upstairs to play games on a mobile phone. When he did not come down for hours, his mother went to check and was shocked to see the hanging body of her son.Afterwards, the woman raised an alarm and called other family members. The boy was also rushed to a hospital but doctors declared him brought dead.The deceased’s family told the police that the victim was addicted to mobile phone games and he used to spend hours on cell phone. He used to get angry when his family members ask him to stop playing games on phone. ACP (East) Davinder Chaudhary visited the victim’s house and started a probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-16-year-old-boy-ends-his-life-in-meharban-village-304068
30-08-2021||---||Miscreants open fire at three in Kohara, one injured||Ludhiana, August 29Five persons opened fire at three commuters, who were travelling in a BMW car, due to old enmity in the Kohara area. The assailants also attacked them with sharp weapons in which one person suffered injury.The Koom Kalan police have registered a case against the five accused on the charges of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act on Saturday night.The complainant, Sarabpreet Singh, of Uppal village said on August 27, he along with his friends, went to a tavern at Kubbe village near the Doraha bypass to celebrate his friend Sukha’s birthday. Later, the accused, who were already present there, started arguments with them.“When we left the spot, they chased us and fired shots. Fortunately, we didn’t suffer any bullet injury. Later, they attacked us with sharp weapons in which I suffered an injury,” Sarabpreet alleged.Investigating officer ASI Harmeet Singh said on the complaint of Sarabpreet, the assailants were identified as Taranpreet Singh, a resident of Ghumait village, Deep of Katani Khurd, Disha of Lato Joga village, Ravi of Barwala village and Jatt, a resident of Lato Dana village. The accused were yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/miscreants-open-fire-at-three-in-kohara-one-injured-304069
30-08-2021||---||Neighbour held for raping minor in Machhiwara||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 29A 12-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour at Shanti Nagar in Machhiwara. After committing the crime, the accused had also kept the girl under illegal confinement.The accused, identified as Munna Sahni, was arrested by the police.The complainant told the police that on August 27 she was going to handover books to her cousin, staying near her house. On the way the accused stopped her and forcibly took her to his house.“ The accused took me to his room and locked from inside. He put a tape on my mouth to prevent me from raising the alarm. After committing the crime the accused locked me in the room and threatened me of dire consequences if I revealed the matter to family members,” the victim alleged. The victim alleged that after about three hours of illegal confinement, she managed to escape from the room and reached her house.Later in the evening, her mother returned from work and rushed her to the Civil Hospital in Machhiwara from where she was referred to Samrala for treatment.Investigating officer Parveen Sharma said a case under relevant sections of the IPC had been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/neighbour-held-for-raping-minor-in-machhiwara-304070
30-08-2021||---||No fresh case, death in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 29For the second day today no positive case was reported in Ludhiana district. Any death due to the disease was also not reported today. At present, no patient is undergoing treatment for Covid at hospitals in the district. It is the third time in this year that no case has been reported in the district.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent and 85,342 patients have recovered so far in the district.Today, there were 22 active patients in the district. Till date, a total of 22,65,962 samples have been taken, of which 21,66,844 were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,461 while 11,657 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives includes 2,097 persons from Ludhiana and 1,049 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patients, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 8,644 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols to not only save themselves but also keeping everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-fresh-case-death-in-ludhiana-district-304071
30-08-2021||Ludhiana||8 new dengue cases reported in Ludhiana in four days||Eight new cases of dengue have been reported in the past four days. Now, the total confirmed cases from Ludhiana district have reached 31. A total of 57 cases have been reported so far in Ludhiana of which 31 are from Ludhiana, 21 from other districts and five from other states.Of the 31 cases reported from Ludhiana, 28 belong to urban areas, one is from Sanhewal, one from Sidhwan Bet and one from Jagraon. Last year, only two confirmed cases were reported.District Epidemiologist Ramesh said people should not let water get stagnant in and around their houses and should observe every Friday as ‘Dry day’ when they should empty their coolers, flower pots. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-new-dengue-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-in-four-days-304072
30-08-2021||What steps should the government take to de-pollute buddha Nullah?||Stop discharge of untreated household, factory waste into drain||The Buddha Nullah has been invariably littered and polluted, less by residents but more by industries and dairies. The expensive project of cleaning the drain should have been led by the best scientists of the country, lest it drastically affects the ecosystem and health of many. Ideally, Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP), Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) and other projects related to water purification and treatment should have been completed before undertaking the release of 200 cusecs of fresh water into the drain. The problem of untreated household water and waste coming from dairy units are not trivial.Dr Sunil ChopraResidents’ responsibilityMany efforts have been made to clean the Buddha Nullah but all in vain. The first step should be plugging the channels which are polluting it, mainly the dying factories. Those who are releasing affluent must be punished. The drain can be divided into stretches to be allocated to an organisation or big industrial houses to get it cleaned. Fences must be erected on both sides of the Nullah. Also, every resident of Ludhiana city should pledge not to throw any waste into it.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiCheck factory wasteA number of projects have been announced earlier for cleaning the Buddha Nullah, but nothing concrete has ever happened. Even environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal undertook its de-pollution sometime back, but the condition remained dismal. Now, a sum of Rs 840 crore is being spent on a new project. But the question is, for how long would this beautification last? Till the time there is no check on the waste entering the drain from factories, all efforts to clean it are futile. Therefore, strict measures should be taken to control pollution by one and all, otherwise there is no point in spending large amounts of time and money on its de-pollution again and again.Bir Devinder Singh BediFine those who litter itThe government and other private organisations have performed a commendable job for the revival of the Buddha Nullah. Now, the duty lies on the shoulders of city residents. We should realise the importance of the work done by the authorities. Boards must be placed around the nullah, indicating fine for each and every offense, such as throwing litter, discharging factory affluents or acid-laced water, washing clothes and bathing in the nullah. Fencing must be done properly and heavy fine must be imposed on those who try to break it.Ritu PriyaChallan pollutersThe Buddha Nullah is the most dangerous and toxic water body of the entire state. Sadly, it was once a clear stream. The government should be serious about curbing pollution in the drain and stop people from throwing garbage and other waste material in the nullah. Moreover, challans should be issued because we cannot stop offenders only by raising awareness. The people will get serious only when there is strict action against violators.Manavjot SinghIndustry must be cautiousThe government must take serious measures to control pollution in the Buddha Nullah. While passing through Ludhiana, it goes on collecting industrial effluents and domestic waste before draining all of it into the Sutlej river. The industry in the vicinity of the drain should take precautions and not discharge effluents and others waste into the nullah. Fine must be levied on industrial houses which are found guilty of discharging waste into the nullah.Manpriya KaurTake PAU scientists’ helpThe Buddha Nullah needs urgent attention as high concentration of pollutants in it is affecting the health of people living around it. A number of times, special groups have visited the site to recommend remedial measures but there has been virtually no success. Currently, an approach of diluting the nullah water with addition of fresh water is being tried. It will only dilute the concentration of pollutants. The stagnant water can be better purified with the help of microbes. The MC may use services of the PAU in identifying the microbes needed to get the nallah water de-polluted.Gautam DevOfficials must be proactiveThe Buddha Nullah Rejuvenation Project, that has an impact on the health and lives of millions, should be led by an eminent scientist. The official machinery must be proactive and ensure its completion in a stipulated time frame. Release and flow of water into the Buddha Nullah should be kept to the minimum to maintain the flow and oxidation process for degradation of biological waste as an interim measure. Full flow of 200 cusecs of water will be more beneficial after the completion of STPs and CETPs. As responsible citizens, we should reduce the use of detergents and other chemicals. Throwing of garbage in the nullah should be strictly banned and illegal encroachments on both sides of the nullah should be removed.RS SEMBHIJoint efforts neededIn the past few years, various steps have been taken to clean the Buddha Nullah. Many grants have been received from the World Bank to clean it and teams from the Centre have visited and tried their best but the problem persists. We can get de-pollute the nullah if dying factories stop releasing untreated water into it. A fence must be erected on both sides and heavy fine should be imposed on those throwing waste in the drain. Designated officials should visit the nullah periodically to inspect the progress of work. Help from some social organisation can be taken and residents must come forward to assist the local government in taking care of the nullah.Farzana KhanAct against defaultersVarious efforts of the authorities to clean the Buddha Nullah are going in vain. Although 200 cusecs water was discharged into it, yet there is much left to be done. Discharging fresh water is not the only solution, maintenance too matters. People must not throw garbage in the water. If communities are not concerned, then the authorities must take uncompromising actions to prevent pollution in the drain and impose heavy penalties on the defaulters.KAMALDEEP KAURDispose of waste properlyThe Buddha Nullah gets its major pollutants from factories and households. The government needs to regulate a weekly/ monthly check at factories for right disposal of waste. It is found that the nullah contains high amounts of toxic gasses/ substances which pollute the other bodies and crops in the vicinity of the drain. Also, in rainy season, residents living close to the nullah face issues of poor drainage and waterlogging. The foul smell too poses a lot of problems.Simarjot KaurStop pollution at sourceThe Municipal Corporation of Ludhiana has officially launched the Buddha Nullah cleanliness project. However, I feel the best way to make it free of pollution is to prevent pollution at the source. Litter can flow from yards and streets to nearby drains and streams when it rains. Chemicals and other pollutants negatively affect the nullah. The best way to clean polluted water is not to clean it but stop polluting it. If you can use as few plastic items as possible, you are helping the environment.Anu JoshiEnsure regular cleaningEarlier, the Buddha Nullah was the lifeline of Ludhiana. But over the years it changed into a garbage, waste material and pollutant collector. Recently, the state government spent a huge amount to make it free of all pollutants. But along with these efforts, the government must make people aware about the matter, stop flow of untreated water into the nullah, ensure regular cleaning by MC staff, plant trees on its banks, do bacteria treatment and construct a walking track around it. These steps can make a huge difference in making Buddha Nullah free of pollution.Dr Sukhdev SharmaAddress dyeing units issueA permanent solution is needed to the Buddha Nullah pollution issue. The authorities concerned should sit together and make a plan regarding it, especially on tackling dying industries and their effluents going into the drain. Only joint efforts and determination can solve this problem.JBS NandaTreat sewage before dumpingIn order to de-pollute the Buddha Nullah, we must ensure that sewage is being treated before being dumped into it. Banning the disposal of garbage into the drain, periodic clean-up drive by authorities concerned, and stringent action against those not complying with rules and regulations are some steps that can be taken. Plantation should be done on both sides of the nullah for its beautification.Medha BatraOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe past week saw a spurt in the crime rate. Carjackings, vehicle thefts, burglaries and snatchings remained the order of the day. The new city police chief has been channeling the local police force. What else needs to be done to check the free run of criminals ahead of the festival season? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stop-discharge-of-untreated-household-factory-waste-into-drain-304073
30-08-2021||---||PHSC chief inspects Sahnewal health centre||Our CorrespondentSahnewal, August 29Ashwani Sekhri, chairman of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC), conducted a surprise inspection at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Sahnewal, today.Accompanied by Congress leader Satwinder Kaur Bitti, Sekhri went to each ward and emergency section and interacted with the patients undergoing treatment there. Later, he was apprised by the health officials about the shortage of doctors and lack of blood bank and ultrasound machines at the centre.The chairman assured them of augmenting the health infrastructure and said the Health Department would soon set up a blood bank and install an ultrasound machine here.He said the Punjab Government was trying to provide all health facilities, especially to the poor and the neglected section, at the doorsteps. The health facilities provided by the government had passed the litmus test of the pandemic.Sekhri said the Health Department had already ramped up the required health infrastructure to deal with a possible third wave. Availability of oxygen and ICU beds for children and adults, recruitment of doctors and paramedics and other vitals were being ensured in each district of Punjab, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/phsc-chief-inspects-sahnewal-health-centre-304074
30-08-2021||Our Correspondent||National Sports Day celebrated in Mandi Ahmedgarh||Mandi Ahmedgarh, August 29National Sports Day, the birthday of Major Dhyan Chand, was celebrated with great enthusiasm in the region today.A function was held at Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy Stadium in Jarkhar village, which was attended by a large number of sports lovers and office-bearers of various clubs of the region.Besides paying tributes to Major Dhyan Chand, the enthusiasts remembered renowned Kabaddi player late Kuldeep Manak Jodhan, whose six-feet-high statue was unveiled on the occasion.Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, convener of the function, said the organisation had decided to dedicate this year’s function to Jodhan, who passed away in December last year.Former MLA Tarsem Jodhan, Captain Sandeep Sandhu, OSD to the Punjab CM, Toni Kalakh, chairman of Kalakh Kabaddi Club, and Block Samiti Member Nirmal Singh Chahal were also present.Another event was held at Lal Bahadur Shastri Ground by the Ahmedgarh Sports and Welfare Association, led by its president advocate Arvind Singh Maavi and general secretary Buta Narad.The enthusiasts recalled the unparalleled contributions of Major Dhyan Chand to hockey. Maavi and Narad listed his achievements and said a true tribute to the great player would be that focus should be laid on hockey at school level so that Indian Hockey gets its lost glory back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/national-sports-day-celebrated-in-mandi-ahmedgarh-304075
30-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana girls go down fighting against Patiala||Ludhiana girls fought valiantly against Patiala before losing their second league match in group A by three wickets in the Punjab State Women Inter-District (U-19) Cricket Tournament, being played at Aryabhatta Group of Institute ground, Barnala.Batting first, Ludhiana lost first three wickets cheaply with the score board reading three for 17 after 8.3 overs. Manya Sharma and Seema Purohit came to the rescue of their side as the duo added invaluable 48 runs for the fourth wicket before the former losing her wicket after contributing 23 runs.Ludhiana were cruising well (82 for 5) after 31.1 overs but the later order players failed to keep up the momentum and their innings culminated at 111 runs in 41.2 overs. Seema Purohit chipped in with 26 runs while Kirti Gupta and Aishmine Kaur made 15 and 10 runs, respectively.For Patiala, Mannat Kashyap scalped three victims for 12 runs and Tess secured three wickets for 25 runs whereas Parul Sharma, Shruti Yadav and Sneh Lata took one wicket each.Patiala began its chase on a rousing note with Shruti Yadav and Vanshika Mahajan posting 61 runs for the opening wicket. Then they lost three wickets in quick succession (72 for 4) after 24.6 overs.As Patiala continued losing wickets, skipper Mannat Kashyap stood her ground firmly and saw her team overhaul rivals’ score in 41.4 overs after losing seven wickets. Shruti Yadav made 27 runs, Vanshika contributed 21 runs and Mannat remained unbeaten on 27. For Ludhiana, Aishmine Kaur grabbed two wickets for 23 runs, Parineeta Saroha got two for 22, Samridhi Maurya claimed one wicket for 15 runs and Moli Gosal chipped in with one for 22. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-girls-go-down-fighting-against-patiala-304076
30-08-2021||Ludhiana||GADVASU, Karnataka university sign pact on research, training||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) has inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the University of Trans-Disciplinary Health Sciences and Technology (TDU), Karnataka, to collaborate on research and training of scientist, veterinarians on ethno veterinary practice area. In a virtual meeting, the MoU was signed by Dr JPS Gill, Director of Research, GADVASU, and Atul Kumar Gupta, Registrar, TDU in the presence of Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, and officers of both the institutesInderjeet Singh congratulated both the universities and said now was the time to reinvent herbal treatments and validate them in the present context on animals. GADVASU has already been working on ayurvedic/herbal medicine for livestock treatment. A collaborative research centre for veterinary ayurveda was established on campus in December 2016 by Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences, Ministry of AYUS, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-karnataka-university-sign-pact-on-research-training-304077
30-08-2021||Ludhiana||6 mobiles seized from jail inmates||A surprise raid conducted by staff of the Central Jail here led to the seizure of banned items from jail inmates.Jail officials seized 39 sachets of chewable tobacco, six mobile phones, two bundles of beedis and one cool lip from eight inmates, identified as Vishal Singh, Gaurav Kumar, Harish Kumar, Shakti Kumar, Manoj Kumar, Dalip Singh, Mohit Raj and Chamal Lal. Assistant jail superintendent Praduman Kumar said the above items were seized during a raid on August 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-mobiles-seized-from-jail-inmates-304078
