31-08-2021||Nitin Jain||916 villages turning smart at cost of Rs 198 crore in Ludhiana  district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 30Villages in Ludhiana district are turning smart at a cost of Rs 197.68 crore approved under the state government’s Smart Village Campaign (SVC), aimed at developing rural areas on a par with towns in the state, the administration has said.While over 2,000 works across 916 villages in seven tehsils under Ludhiana district have already been completed at a cost of Rs 142.34 crore, the remaining 870 works, at an estimated cost of Rs 52.23 crore, are in progress, officials have revealed.The progress of the SVC was reviewed by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan here recently. She asked the district administration to ensure completion of the ongoing works within the stipulated time frame.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune, here on Monday, that all 1,181 works under the first phase of the SVC in 13 blocks of the district, at a cost of Rs 51 crore, had already been completed while 860 of the total 2,171 works under the second phase of the government scheme had been completed at a cost of Rs 91.34 crore.With one work having been dropped due to certain reasons, a sum of Rs 3.11 crore from the total estimated cost of Rs 54.11 crore for undertaking a total of 1,182 works has been spared in the first phase of the SVC.Under the second phase, a total of Rs 143.57 crore had been estimated to be spent on 2,171 works, of which Rs 91.34 crore, which accounts for 63.62 per cent, has already been spent on completing 860 works while the remaining corpus of Rs 52.23 crore was being spent on undertaking the remaining 870 works.The SVC was approved by the Punjab Cabinet in January 2019 to boost infrastructure and basic amenities in rural areas across the state.The campaign was aimed at enhancing the quality of life and living standards of people residing in villages, besides improving conditions in the rural areas by converging and supplementing ongoing government schemes for building infrastructure and providing essential amenities.Under the SVC, each village was moved upwards by achieving various goals in different fields such as infrastructure, health, education and environment-protection projects.The works being undertaken under the campaign have been divided into two categories — essential and desirable.Under the SVC, the Deputy Commissioner gets proposals from block development and panchayat officer as well as various sectoral departments for the overall development of the villages in the district.While individual works up to Rs 25 lakh were considered and approved by the committee, headed by the DC, the works costing over Rs 25 lakh were approved by the state-level committee, headed by the Joint Development Commissioner.“The convergence was the key feature of the scheme and funds from different sources such as RDF, 14th Finance Commission, MGNREGA, SBM, and NRDWP were utilised under the scheme. Also, if there was any other scheme under which the proposed work can be undertaken, the funds of that scheme were also utilised,” disclosed Sharma.In case any work identified under the scheme can be done from the MGNREGA, it was mandatorily converged with it.Figures at a glanceBlocks 13Works 3353Completed  2,041In progress 870 Expenditure Rs142.34-crOFFICIALSPEAKWith regard to benchmarking of villages, all villages would be graded/ranked on the basis of a survey, guidelines for which would be notified by the Rural Development & Panchayat Department. Each district will benchmark villages after the survey to assess existing facilities. —Varinder Kumar Sharma, DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/916-villages-turning-smart-at-cost-of-rs-198-crore-in-ludhiana-district-304447
31-08-2021||---||2 test +ve, no death in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, August 30Two positive cases were reported in Ludhiana district while no death was reported today. At present, no patient is undergoing treatment for Covid at any hospital in the district and 19 persons were sent for home isolation.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent and 85,345 patients have recovered so far in the district.Today, there were 21 active patients in the district. Till date, a total of 22,72,530 samples have been taken, of which 21,73,410 samples were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,463, while 11,657 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,097 persons from Ludhiana and 1,049 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patient, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 6,568 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Monday and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-test-ve-no-death-in-ludhiana-district-304448
31-08-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||LED lights row: Firm refutes Ludhiana Mayor’s claims||Ludhiana, August 30Tata Projects Limited (TPL) that has installed over 1.02 lakh street lights in the city as a part of LED street lighting project under the ‘Smart City Mission’ (including maintenance activity) has refuted the claims of City Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu about missing street lights and deficient maintenance.The company has claimed that though the Municipal Corporation was making huge savings on its electricity bills, payment due to the company was not being paid on time as per terms and conditions of the PPP contract.The firm said in an official statement here today that since installation of the LED lights in October 2020, monthly maintenance for Zone A and Zone C had not been paid. In addition, the maintenance for Zone B and D had also not been paid for the past six months. “It has unfortunately resulted in more than Rs Nine crore payment being overdue to the company,” it was claimed.According to Rajendra Inani, BU head, Smart Cities, TPL, said in fact, the Ludhiana smart LED project had achieved Rs 1.65 crore monthly savings for the city and its residents. LED street lights had resulted in 64 per cent reduction on earlier monthly electricity bills of around Rs 2.5 crore borne by the MC during usage of conventional street lights. In addition, once more zones would be fully handed over for the project execution, the monthly electricity savings would also increase.“With the contract tenure fixed at seven years, total savings on electricity charges can be estimated at around Rs143.34 crore and savings on energy costs since August 2021 has already reached Rs 13.89 crore. It is from this electricity savings already being enjoyed by the MC that the TPL has to be paid. While the civic body continues to enjoy electricity savings, it is not paying its contractual obligations to the company,” he added.Maintaining that allegations levelled against the TPL were politically motivated, the firm official said whenever a payment was due, unfair (political) accusations were levelled and disbursement continuously delayed citing one or other pretexts or House meetings. The House had passed a resolution last month to undertake physical counting of LED points while alleging irregularities but now that a verification had been done, the payment has still not been released, he claimed.The TPL asserted that the MC had no locus standi in issuing threats of penalty or termination because the company had already served a notice to the civic body with regard to delayed payment, interest, penalties and arbitration since continuing with the status-quo was not an option and solution, especially disbursement of pending payment ought to be ensured at the earliest to run the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/led-lights-row-firm-refutes-ludhiana-mayors-claims-304449
31-08-2021||Our Correspondent||9 two-wheelers stolen from Ludhiana city||Ludhiana, August 30As many as nine two wheelers — six motorcycles and three scooters — were reportedly stolen from various parts of the city. Though the two-wheelers were stolen on different dates but FIRs regarding all the thefts were lodged with the police on Sunday.According to the police, a Hero Splendor motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 10DW 0980) was stolen from the New Shivpuri locality on Sunday, a Hero Splendor motorcycle (PB 91A 6574) was reported to have been stolen from Bharat Nagar Chowk on August 26, another Hero Splendor motorcycle (PB 10CQ03532) was stolen from 33-Ft Road in Sunder Nagar on August 23 and a Hero Splendor motorcycle (PB 10HB 3128) was stolen from Jagirpur Road on August 28. While a CD Deluxe motorcycle (PB 10DGU 1495) and a Bajaj Discover motorcycle (PB54 C 3059) were reportedly stolen from outside Lal Path Lab on August 26 and Samrala Chowk on August 19, respectively.Three residents also lost their two-wheelers to thieves. Two Honda Activa scooters (PB 91A 5325 and PB 10EN 7781) were stolen on Saturday from outside a shop on Sua Road, near Guru Nanak Engineering College, and from outside a house in Chander Nagar, Haibowal, respectively. One Hero Maestro scooter was stolen on August 26 from the rear side of Ansal Plaza Mall on Ferozepur Road.The police have registered cases under sections 379 IPC regarding all these thefts of two-wheelers and investigation was in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/9-two-wheelers-stolen-from-ludhiana-city-304450
31-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||43 women arrested for heroin smuggling in Ludhiana range in over four years||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 30The drug smuggling trade, which used to attract mostly men, has now caught the attention of women folk too. As per the data collected from the Special Task Force (STF), Ludhiana range, women smugglers have entered this notorious trade from the past few years.Heroin smuggling lures women smugglers the most, followed by opium, poppy husk, smack, charas and other narcotic substances.From March 2017 onwards the STF, Ludhiana range, has registered 37 cases of drug smuggling and arrested 43 women smugglers during four and a half years.Major drug recoveriesFrom these women drug smugglers, the STF recovered 37.38 kg of heroin, 11.5 kg of opium, 460 kg of poppy husk, 160 gm of smack, 10 gm of charas and Rs24.52 lakh drug money.The STF Ludhiana in-charge, Inspector Harbans Singh, told The Tribune that most women smugglers during their interrogation confessed that they entered into this notorious trade to get rich in a short span of time.“Women wanted to earn easy money and got entangled into this illegal profession without predicting the consequences. Many women peddlers have regretted after the STF caught them with drugs,” Inspector added. “Most women caught by the STF are involved in heroin smuggling. Reason could be high profit,” said Inspector.“Some women enter this trade just to assist their husbands or friends, but they cannot leave it,” Inspector added.Shortage of women copsA senior police official requesting anonymity said, “Women are entering smuggling as they hardly come under suspicion at routine police nakas and benefit from this. You will never see any women cops at any police naka. Male cops cannot frisk women.”“Women mostly hide drug in their undergarments. A male cop cannot frisk such suspected women. So, they always go scot-free,” he added. He suggested laying of nakas manned by policewomen to frisk women involved in illegal profession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/43-women-arrested-for-heroin-smuggling-in-ludhiana-range-in-over-four-years-304451
31-08-2021||---||All eyes on National Achievement Survey||Ludhiana, August 30The National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) will conduct the National Achievement Survey 2021 (NAS) to assess learning achievement of children in government and private schools on November 12.The performance of students from Classes III, V, VIII and X will be assessed on the basis of which states and districts will be given ranks. Presently, all attention of teachers is on preparation for the NAS so that students perform well to achieve good ranks for their districts/states.To further motivate teachers to put-in their best efforts, the department has decided to give extra 25 marks to those DEOs, Deputy DEOs, Diet Principal, Block Primary Education Officers, Principals, head masters, BNOs, centre head teacher, head teacher and teachers in the 2021-22 annual confidential reports, whose students perform well in the survet.A formal letter in this regard has been issued by the Director, SCERT, Punjab.Meanwhile, there remains confusion among teachers over completion of syllabus as their entire focus is on preparation for the NAS. Tehel Singh from Government School Teachers’ Union said, “Teachers and students are preparing for the NAS. At the same time, teachers are worried that syllabus cannot be completed on time and students may face difficulties due to this.”Dr Devinder Chinna, media coordinator and Principal, Government School, Shahkot, said, “Now, exams will be based on the NAS. Keeping this in mind, we are preparing accordingly. Students are being prepared for a competitive world.”“Student are sent questionnaire of all subjects on regular basis. This is an interesting learning concept for students. Teachers are also sent quizzes so that they can frame correct questions and students can give their best performance. We are hopeful that Punjab will do well in the upcoming NAS,” Dr Chinna added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/all-eyes-on-national-achievement-survey-304452
31-08-2021||Out Correspondent||PYDB chief seeks more sports infra for Sahnewal||Sahnewal, August 30The Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) chairman, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, met Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh and sought more sports infrastructure and facilities for Sahnewal, besides seeking participation of the youth in the socio-economic growth of the state by channelising their energy.Bindra apprised the Chief Minister (CM) about the need for more sports facilities and infrastructure for Sahnewal as the youth of the area showed enthusiasm for sports.“Lack of stadium in Sahnewal too is a hindrance in the way of popularising sports culture in the town as well as the surrounding areas,” Bindra added.“The youth development board has distributed hundreds of sports kits among young boys and girls in 50 villages. The youth are gradually diverting from the deadly drug business and taking part in games,” said Bindra.He also urged the Chief Minister to honour to those youth clubs, which were working tirelessly in the rural areas. “Youth clubs have exhibited their capability in carrying out intensive awareness campaign during the second Covid wave regarding appropriate behaviour, importance of vaccine and testing among the rural folks,” Bindra added.He also thanked the Chief Minister for giving emphasis to youth while formulating special welfare policies in Punjab. Bindra shared that the CM had assured him to give priority in solving issues related to the youth. The CM also assured more sports infrastructure and facilities for Sahnewal in the coming days, said Bindra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pydb-chief-seeks-more-sports-infra-for-sahnewal-304453
31-08-2021||Sports Correspondent||Trisha stamps her supremacy in roller skating championship||Ludhiana, August 30Trisha Sareen stole limelight by winning two gold medals in the 24th District Speed Roller Skating Championship, held at the Leisure Valley Skating Rink, Sarabha Nagar, here today.Around 60 participants (boys and girls in the age group of 5 to 17 years) competed in this meet. Trisha Sareen, a student of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, stamped her supremacy by wrapping up top honours in quad rink race I and III in the girls 5-7 years category.Mamta Ashu, councillor, Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, gave away prizes to position holders. JS Dhaliwal, general secretary, Ludhiana District Roller Skating Association, along with other members of the body and parents of the players, were present at the prize distribution function.ResultsQuads rink race III (girls 5-7 years): Trisha Sareen 1st and Adwita Priyadarshi 2nd.Quads rink race IV (girls 7-9 years): Sehajpreet Kaur 1st, Bismanpreet Kaur 2nd and Kohana 3rd.Quads rink race I (girls 9-11 years): Jiwanjot Kaur 1st, Aryana Singh 2nd and Jasmine Kaur 3rd.Quad rink race 500+ D (girls 11-14 years): Khushdeep Kaur 1st and Avneet Kaur 2nd.Quads rink race II (boys 5-7 years): Sahib Fateh Singh 1st, Agamjot Singh 2nd and Ranveer Mehta 3rd.Quads rink race I (boys 7-9 years): Raninder Singh 1st, Parnav Chauhan 2nd and Armandeep Singh 3rd.Quads rink race 500+D (boys 11-14 years): Vardaan Goraya 1st, Amitojveer Singh 2nd and Nishan Singh 3rd.Inline race II (boys 5-7 years): Vaibhav Sharma 1st and Devyansh Maini 2nd.Inline race I (boys 7-9 years): Gaurish Aneja 1st, Paramveer Singh 2nd and Pragat Malhotra 3rd.Inline race 500+D (boys 9-11 years): Samarbir Singh 1st, Sarthak Aggarwal 2nd and Karanbir Singh 3rd.Inline race 500+D (boys 11-14 years): Vansh Rawat 1st, Keshvam Thapar 2nd and Bipinpreet Singh 3rd.Inline race 500 & 1,000+D (boys 14-17 years): Prabhroop Singh 1st and Rhytham Thakur 2nd.Inline race I (girls 5-7 years): Ryka Malhotra 1st, Tisha Garg 2nd and Amitoj Kaur 3rd.Inline race I (girls 7-9 years): Araine Kohli 1st and Arsheen Sachdeva 2nd.Inline race 500+D (girls 9-11 years): Shaan Kaur Grewal 1st, Ridhima 2nd and Saanvi Bajaj 3rd.Inline 1,000m race (girls 11-14 years): Vishavjeet Kaur Grewal 1st and Gurmannat Kaur 2nd.Inline 1,000m race (girls 14-17 years): Japleen Kaur 1st and Aanshi Bajaj 2nd.Inline 10,000m race (girls above 17 years): Janvi Sharma 1st, Jaap Kaur 2nd and Kavya Sood 3rd.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trisha-stamps-her-supremacy-in-roller-skating-championship-304454
31-08-2021||Sports correspondent||Efforts on to promote Gatka in all Punjab districts: Assn chief||Ludhiana, August 30The National Gatka Association president, Harjit Singh Grewal, on Monday said, “The Gatka Association Punjab is working for the promotion of the game in all districts of the state. The association is also organising Gatka referee and coaching camps at several places.”Presiding over a meeting of the District Gatka Association at Gill village in Ludhiana district, Grewal, who was accompanied by senior vice-president Sarbjeet Singh, Majha zone head Gurpreet Singh Raja, International Sikh Martial Art Council’s Ludhiana coordinator Gurpreet Singh Batahari, said, “Under the aegis of the World Gatka Federation, refresher courses are being held to impart necessary training to coaches and referees according to a new rule book prepared by the National Gatka Association of India.”Addressing coaches and players of various Gatka akharas, Grewal said, “Over the last 15 years, the National Gatka Association has achieved a lot by promoting the game in the country. Gatka has already been included in the Khelo India Games. In future, the game would be inducted in the Olympics.” Efforts would be made for more achievements in the coming months for bright future of Gatka players, Grewal added.Prominent among those present at the meeting, include Jaspreet Singh, Gursewak Singh, Pawandeep Singh Mankoo, Gurwinder Singh Ladi, Bhagwan Singh, Sukhpreet Singh, Amandeep Singh Balara, Fateh Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Pardeep Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Parmjeet Singh Pammi, Jarnail Singh and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/efforts-on-to-promote-gatka-in-all-punjab-districts-assn-chief-304455
31-08-2021||Ludhiana||Exhibition match marks hockey legend Dhyan Chand’s birth anniversary||An exhibition hockey match between Jarkhar Hockey Academy and Ghawadi School marked the birth anniversary of the hockey wizard, Major Dhyan Chand, celebrated as the National Sports Day. The day was celebrated with fervour at Mata Sahib Kaur Sports Stadium of Jarkhar village, near here, yesterday.The match remained unresolved as the two sides were tied 3-3 at the end of stipulated period. Prior to this, flowers were laid at the life size statue of former Indian hockey team captain and the three Olympic gold medal winner, Dhyan Chand.Capt Sandeep Singh, political advisor to the Punjab Chief Minister was the chief guest on this occasion. He was welcomed by Narinder Pal Singh Sidhu, Jagroop Singh Jarkhar and Harkamal Singh, chairman, chief organiser and president, respectively, of Jarkhar Hockey Academy. The chief guest exhorted budding hockey players to emulate Major Dhyan Chand and bring fame to parents, state and the country.He also assured organisers of all possible assistance for the promotion of hockey in this part of the region. Sidhu and Jarkhar thanked the chief guest and other dignitaries present on the occasion and promised to revive the lost glory of hockey in the state.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/exhibition-match-marks-hockey-legend-dhyan-chands-birth-anniversary-304456
31-08-2021||Ludhiana||Anticonvulsant, antiepileptic drugs cannot be stopped abruptly: Expert||There are many such cases in which due to some neurological disorders, children start getting fits and are put on anticonvulsant drug by physician concerned for a period of two to three years depending on the condition of patients.It has been observed that many parents due to ignorance or some other reasons, stop giving medicine to their child thinking that he/she has become normal and does not need medication at all.Dr Jatinder Singh Goraya, Professor of paediatrics and in-charge, paediatric neurology unit, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) said, “These drugs need to be taken regularly for the prescribed period and should not be stopped abruptly. During this time the patient should visit his/her doctor for regular follow up.”“Recently, a 10-year-old ‘Arjuna’ (name changed) was brought to the hospital because of bad fits. It was found that his parents had suddenly stopped giving him his regular medication, which was the cause behind repeated attack of fits,” Dr Goraya added.“Such medications maintain a certain level of chemical effect in brain, which should not be stopped abruptly. The dosage is reduced gradually under doctor’s guidance rather than stopping treatment suddenly,” said Dr Goraya. “Parents or attendant of child should never use their own judgment in discontinuing treatment,” Dr Goraya added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anticonvulsant-antiepileptic-drugs-cannot-be-stopped-abruptly-expert-304457
31-08-2021||---||Janmashtami celebrated with religious fervour in Ludhiana city||Ludhiana, August 30Janmashtami, which marks the birth of Lord Krishna, was celebrated with religious fervour in the city. Temples were tastefully decorated to mark the occasion. Although the world is amidst pandemic, it failed to dampen spirit of devotees, who thronged temples to pay obeisance to Lord Krishna.A devotee at a local temple said she was keeping fast for Janmashtami. The festival was incomplete without visiting temple, she added.“My stay at the temple was not long. I quickly paid obeisance and said my prayers. It gives me inner peace when I visit temple on this day,” said Shweta.Few devotees also decorated Lord Krishna idols at home. Some city residents prepared ‘phool bangla’ while others cradled the idol of Lord Krishna in ‘jhula’. Idols of Lord Krishna were adorned with newclothes, jewellery and other accessories by devotees.It was a busy day for ‘halwais’ as they dished out milk-based delicacies for the occasion. Milk and butter are favourites of Lord Krishna.Bakery shops were also not left behind. Special cakes were prepared to mark the occasion. Homemakers also prepared ‘parsaad’ and desserts, including ‘makhana kheer’, ‘rice kheer’, ‘rabri’ etc.Reena, a city resident, said she preferred to celebrate Janmashtami at home. “Morning time was reserved for ‘pooja’. I prepared a lavish lunch and bhog for the day. Preparing ‘kheer’ and ‘panjiri’ on Janmashtami is a ritual at our home.” Protocol missingDespite the district administration and Health Department appealing to people to take precautions while visiting temples on the occasion of Janamashtami, many were seen giving the protocol a miss. No social distancing norm was followed by devotees. Many people were seen without face mask in most temples in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/janmashtami-celebrated-with-religious-fervour-in-ludhiana-city-304458
31-08-2021||Ludhiana||Scooterist dies, pillion rider hurt in mishap||In a hit-and-run accident that occurred on Ludhiana-Delhi Road (NH-44) near Textla TV factory, one person riding a Honda Activa scooter (bearing registration no. PB 10GT 9958) was killed and an unidentified person, who was riding pillion, was critically injured when s speeding vehicle hit them from the rear side.Vidya Nand (35), a resident of Railway Colony, Sherpur Kalan, died on the spot as per a complaint lodged with the police by his wife Pooja Jha while the pillion rider has been admitted to the Civil Hospital for treatment. The police have registered a case under Sections 279, 304-A, 337 and 427 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scooterist-dies-pillion-rider-hurt-in-mishap-304459
31-08-2021||Ludhiana||2 youths snatch mobile phone from resident||In another incident, two motorcycle-borne youths snatched a mobile phone from a person and escaped from the spot.The duo snatched the cell phone from Sumit Kumar of Bank Colony on Sunday. The victim told the police that he, along with his friends Saurabh and Monu, was taking their pictures near banks of the Sutlej at Jamalpur Leily village when snatchers targeted them and fled the spot after snatching his mobile phone. A case has beenregistered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-youths-snatch-mobile-phone-from-resident-304460
31-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Faith overpowers fear of pandemic||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Payal/ Raikot, August 30Faith overpowered fear on the occasion of Janmashtami celebrations. Management committees of various temples decorated premises with flower bedecked cradles and and coloured lamps.Though volunteers and caretakers remained on toes while trying to maintain social distancing and ensure that devotees sanitised their hands before and after paying obeisance at temples, only a fraction of visitors followed the Covid guidelines.The Janmashtami celebrations began with ‘parbhat pheris’ organised by different religious organisations at Raikot and Mandi Ahmedgarh. Shri Ram Mandir Sankirtan Mandli, Shree Radha Krishan Sewa Samiti Parbhat Feri Mandal and Shree Radha Rani Sankirtan Mandli Ahmedgarh made arrangements for parbhat feris.Hymns and recital of mantras induced feeling of spirituality and sanctity among people belonging to all sects and communities. Young boys and girls dressed up as Lord Krishna, Radha and Gopis visited temples.Unlike previous years when professional artistes sang devotional songs, managements of various temples had to be satisfied with playing recorded hymns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/faith-overpowers-fear-of-pandemic-304482
31-08-2021||Ludhiana||Two booked  in rape case||Pensioners booked for blocking NHLudhiana: The police have booked unspecified number of pensioners under Sections 283 of the IPC and Section 8-B of the National Highway Act for staging a protest and blocking GT Road (NH-44), Jalandhar and Ludhiana sides, near Jalandhar Bypass on Sunday. They were demanding restoration of an old pension scheme for government employees. OCGirl, woman went missingLudhiana: A 14-year-old girl was reported missing since August 26 from the house of her maternal aunt in Mundian Khurd. The father of the girl reported to the police that she had gone to work at around 4 pm but did not return since then. The police have registered a case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC and investigation was on. In another incident, a middle-aged woman, Sukhwinder Kaur (45), had gone missing since August 25. According to Kamalajit Kaur, a resident of Karnail Singh Nagar and daughter of the missing woman, her mother went to a gurdwara to pay obeisance and did not return since then. The police have registered a case under Section 346 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-booked-in-rape-case-304484
31-08-2021||Khanna (Ludhiana)||Peddler nabbed with 1-kg heroin||The Khanna police arrested a drug peddler, identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Aman, a resident of Aali Nangal village, in Gurdaspur.The accused is already facing seven criminal cases under the NDPS Act, the Arms Act, the Prisons Act, and had come out on parole from the Central Jail, Patiala, on May 12. Khanna SSP Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the police had set up a checkpoint near the King Highway Dhaba, on GT Road at Libra.The police stopped a car coming from Khanna and its occupant was identified as Amandeep Singh. On searching the vehicle, 1-kg heroin, hidden under the driver’s seat, was seized. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/peddler-nabbed-with-1-kg-heroin-304250
31-08-2021||Manav Mander||OPDs reopen, TB wards see huge rush||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 30Due to the impact of Covid-19 restrictions, case notifications for tuberculosis had gone down by nearly 40 per cent during the second wave of Covid. Now that Covid cases have subsided, patients have started coming to hospitals, resulting in jam-packed TB OPDs.Ludhiana district alone has reported 1,300-1,400 newly diagnosed cases last month at the Civil Hospital. A few cases of Covid-positive being diagnosed with TB and vice-versa have also come to light.“TB patients received a setback during the Covid waves. Due to travel restrictions, people could not come for treatment. During the second wave, a few changes were made in the procedure of treatment so that medicines of patients are not discontinued. But the real sufferers were the new cases who never reached the OPD due to restrictions,” said Dr Ashish Chawla, Ludhiana District TB Officer.On normal days, the TB OPD receives an average of 100 patients but during the second wave, the number dropped to 40 and now that restrictions have been lifted, the OPD receives nearly 150 patients a day, which include both new and follow-up cases.“After the second wave subsided, we received nearly 1,400 newly diagnosed cases of TB in a month. In addition to this, five-six such cases were diagnosed where patients were undergoing treatment for Covid and when their TB test was done, they were found positive. They were unaware of their TB status. The government has made it mandatory to test all TB patients for Covid and vice-versa,” said Dr Chawla. “TB and Covid have overlapping symptoms and that is the reason the tests were made compulsory,” he said.The patients mostly belong to urban and semi-urban areas and also include the migratory population. Urban population is more vulnerable to the disease because of more population. People working in tight compartments with no proper ventilation and unhygienic conditions are also vulnerable, he added.Ensure proper ventilation: DoctorThe TB patients mostly belong to urban and semi-urban areas and also include the migratory population. Urban population is more vulnerable to the disease because of more population. People working in tight compartments with no proper ventilation and unhygienic conditions are also vulnerable, said Dr Ashish Chawla, Ludhiana District TB Officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/opds-reopen-tb-wards-see-huge-rush-304260
