01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 80 fatalities, 1,233 fresh cases||Haryana on Tuesday reported 80 Covid-related deaths, which took the toll to 8,383, while 1,233 fresh cases pushed the tally to 7,57,868 in the state, according to a health department bulletin.The latest deaths include 15 from Hisar, eight from Jind, and six each from Jhajjar and Gurgaon districts, it said.Hisar district reported 114 fresh cases, Sirsa 124 cases and Faridabad 105 cases, among the new cases in the state, the bulletin said.The number of active cases is 16,280 and so far, 7,33,205 people have recovered from the infection. The recovery rate is 96.75 per cent, it said.The cumulative positivity rate is 8.36 percent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-80-fatalities-1-233-fresh-cases-261798
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli faces farmer protest, shown black flags||Ruling JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli on Tuesday faced a protest by a group of farmers in Fatehabad and was shown black flags, following which he accused them of launching a “murderous attempt” on him and leaving his personal assistant injured.Babli also alleged that some protesters resorted to unruly behaviour, used abusive language and smashed the windscreen of his SUV, while the agitators accused him of hurling abusive words and sought an apology.The incident happened when the legislator was on his way to attend an event on administering the anti-Covid vaccines to the physically challenged at the civil hospital in Tohana.Babli, the MLA from Tohana constituency in Fatehabad district, stopped in a market in Tohana to make some purchases.Some farmers, protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, who had gathered there blocked his vehicle and started raising slogans and showing black flags to him.Several farmer groups in the state have been opposing public functions of BJP-JJP leaders in the state.Babli later told reporters that such protest cannot be by farmers and claimed that some elements, who he alleged indulged in unruly behaviour, smashed his SUV’s windscreen, leaving his personal assistant injured.“In the garb of farmers, some unruly elements tried to make a murderous attempt on me,” he told reporters in Tohana.Referring to Tuesday’s and similar incidents of protests against BJP-JJP leaders in the recent past, Babli said he will urge his party leader and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and CM Manohar Lal Khattar that “we need to strengthen law and order in Haryana”.“If such unruly elements get emboldened, they can start taking lives. We have seen how militancy destroyed Punjab, now Haryana is going in the same direction. We need to stop this,” Babli said.Detailing the sequence of events, Babli alleged that even before protesters gathered in a large number, some men in a green-coloured jeep hit his SUV thrice with their vehicle while others blocked the way when he tried to leave.“They raised slogans and used abusive language. They cannot be farmers. I am also a son of farmer. Holding protest is democratic right of farmers or anyone else, but indulging in acts of goondaism and trying to take anyone’s life is not right. By doing such acts, they are trying to defame farmers,” he said.As the protesters held up Babli’s vehicle, police force reached the spot in strength and tried to bring the situation under control.               A farmer leader alleged the MLA came out of his vehicle and started using abusive language after which the protesters became furious.“Holding protest is our democratic right which we were doing in a peaceful manner. However, Babli came out of his vehicle and used abusive language,” he said, demanding the legislator tender an apology.However, the legislator said it was the other side which used abusive and threatening language. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-mla-devender-singh-babli-faces-farmer-protest-shown-black-flags-261778
01-06-2021||New Delhi||Police suspend arms licenses of Sushil Kumar, Navneet Kalra as they face probe||The Delhi Police has suspended the arms licenses of wrestler Sushil Kumar and businessman Navneet Kalra as they face criminal cases, officials said on Tuesday.Their licenses were suspended on Monday, they said, adding the police have moved to cancel them.  Joint Commissioner of Police (Licensing) O P Mishra said, "We have suspended the arms licenses of Kumar and Kalra with immediate effect. The process of cancellation of their licenses has been initiated. They were served notices to explain why their licenses should not be cancelled."  "We have done it on the basis of reports of the concerned investigating agencies and local police in the criminal cases recently registered against them," Mishra said. Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, along with his associates, was arrested in connection with the murder of a wrester at the Chhatrasal Stadium here. Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends—Sonu and Amit Kumar—on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later.Police said a total of nine people, including Kumar, has been arrested so far in connection with the incident.  Also, the Delhi Police arrested Kalra for alleged black marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators.Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Kalra in the national capital.A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to Kalra.The businessman was nabbed from Gurugram on May 16. He had been on the run since the police raided his restaurants and seized the medical devices. The police claimed that the concentrators were imported from China and were being sold at an exorbitant price of Rs 50,000 to 70,000 a piece as against its cost of Rs 16,000 to Rs 22,000. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-suspend-arms-licenses-of-sushil-kumar-navneet-kalra-as-they-face-probe-261734
01-06-2021||Ambala||Ambala: Oxygen demand dips at hospitals, nod sought for industry usage||As the demand of oxygen at hospitals has fallen over the last few days, the scientific glassware manufacturers of Ambala have sought permission from the government to allow the use of industrial grade oxygen in industries.Consumption down to 6 tonnes a dayAs per information procured from the Health Department, during the peak of the second wave, the daily consumption of oxygen in the district for Covid patients was 14 tonnes, and following a continuous decrease in fresh cases, the oxygen demand reduced to 6 tonnes a day on Sunday.The Ambala Scientific Instrument Manufacturer’s Association says that hundreds of people are engaged with glassware manufacturing in Ambala and oxygen is an important component for glass blowing, but due to Covid there is a ban on the use of oxygen for industrial use. This has hit the manufacturers hard and they have started losing pending orders, including domestic and export orders.As per information procured from the Health Department, during the peak of the second wave, the daily consumption of oxygen in the district for Covid patients was 14 tonnes, and following a continuous decrease in fresh cases, the oxygen demand reduced to 6 tonnes a day on Sunday.Rajesh Sharma, a glassware manufacturer, said, “The glassware manufacturers in Ambala prepare products for laboratories, pharma industry, research institutes, educational institutes, government departments and for medical purposes. The daily requirement of industrial-grade oxygen for the Ambala industry is around 7 tonnes. Due to the non-availability of oxygen, the units are lying closed and orders are also pending. The customers have started cancelling the orders and seeking their advance back.”“There are nearly 2,000 people associated with the glassware industry and it has a turnover of a 25 crore per month. If an export order is cancelled, it gets very hard to convince the customer again as they start giving orders to China. The government should pay some attention towards the industry and allow the manufacturers to use the industrial-grade oxygen again”, he added.Sanjay Gupta, president, Ambala Scientific Instrument Manufacturer’s Association, said, “During the peak of the second wave of Covid, all oxygen gas cylinders were deposited by glass blowing industry of Ambala with the district administration. Now, since the Covid cases have decreased and the consumption of oxygen has also dropped in hospitals we have requested Home Minister Anil Vij that now, the industry should be permitted to use the industrial-grade oxygen so that some industry activity can be started again. We have assured that in case there is any need in the future, we will fully cooperate with the administration. We are hopeful that our demand will be considered and accepted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-oxygen-demand-dips-at-hospitals-nod-sought-for-industry-usage-261384
01-06-2021||Faridabad||Kidnapped boy rescued,  three held||The crime branch of the local police has arrested three persons, including a woman, in connection with the kidnapping of a 12-year-old boy from his house for a ransom of Rs 50,000 on May 30.“The accused identified as Bobby, Manoj and his mother Kesha Devi were nabbed by a police team which raided a place in Noida this morning and managed to rescue the boy safely,” said a police spokesperson.The boy, hailing from UP, was residing with his uncle and aunt in Sarai Khawaja. He was abducted by Bobby and Manoj, who also reside in the same locality, on Sunday after they came to know that his guardian had the capacity to pay a ransom of Rs 50,000.However Rajvir Singh, kin of the victim, lodged a complaint with the police, claiming that his nephew had been abducted by unidentified persons and have sought Rs 50,000 for his safe return. “A crime branch team carried out a raid on the basis of inputs and mobile phone surveillance. It managed to rescue the boy from a spot near Sector-76 Metro station in Noida this morning,” said a police official. While the woman was nabbed from the spot, the two male accused were arrested from a nearby jhuggi cluster in the same area, it is added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kidnapped-boy-rescued-three-held-261386
01-06-2021||Faridabad||Webinar on Hindi journalism||Career counsellingKarnal: A virtual session of career counselling for Class X was organised at Pratap Public School, Sector 6, Karnal, by Principal Dr Puja Walia Mann and a group of faculty members - Ravinder Singh, Sandeep Thakur, Anil Rana and Shipra Gupta. More than 200 students joined the session through Google Meet. Students participated inquisitively and shared their doubts and queries about opting for streams after Class X. The session helped the at home to deliberate upon better career options in future.World No Tobacco Day at CUHMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised a virtual programme on "World No Tobacco Day" with Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad administering a pledge to teaching and non-teaching employees not to consume tobacco, to motivate others and spread awareness in this regard. "The number of casualties due to diseases caused by the consumption of tobacco and its products is increasing across the world every year so our collective efforts can realise the dream of a tobacco-free society," he added. Prof Dinesh Gupta, dean students welfare, and Dr Anand Sharma, deputy dean (students welfare) also expressed their views on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-hindi-journalism-261387
01-06-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak traders to open shops day-wise as per govt order||With fixing three days in a week each for even and odd-numbered shops to avoid any technical issue, associations of several markets in the city have devised their own formula to open the shops day-wise in place of date. Incidentally, both the traders’ move to open the shops day-wise and the government’s order for date-wise, are the same leaving no possibility of any row between them this week.The traders said they had made this adjustment with mutual consent after two-odd dates i.e. May 31 and June 1 came together giving a chance to odd-numbered shops to remain open for two consecutive dates as per the state government’ orders which allow opening of odd-number shops on odd date and even-numbered shops on even date.According to the order, Monday (odd-date) was the day for the odd-numbered shops but the district administration had to issue fresh orders late on Sunday night fixing Monday for even-numbered shops to run the system properly as odd-numbered shops were opened on Saturday while all markets were closed on Sunday. The orders came after the traders approached the administration and demanded the same.“The government orders for opening of shops as per date on the odd-even basis do not provide equal days for both numbered shops hence a majority of the market associations have made a system with mutual understanding. Now, even numbered shops will remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday while Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday have been fixed for odd-numbered shops. Sunday will be an off-day for both,” said Gulshan Ishpuniyani,president, the Shouri Cloth Market Association.Bittu Sachdeva, President, Quilla Road Traders’ Association, said they had no other option except to open odd-even numbered shops day wise as the date system was creating a technical issue every weekend due to Sunday when all markets remain shut. “As our system also matches with the government’s orders hence we have not violated it,” he added.Hemant Bakshi, president, the Rohtak Traders Association, said the government either allows the shops to remain open in the entire week or replaces the date-wise system with day so as to provide all shops equal days to remain open. “We will soon submit a memorandum to the Chief Minister in this respect,” Bakshi added. “Despite odd-date, we allowed even-numbered shops to open today while resolving the issue raised by the traders. Since the traders’ decision is in tandem with the government’s order hence there is no issue about opening of the shops this week,” said Mahendra Pal, ADC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-traders-to-open-shops-day-wise-as-per-govt-order-261388
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Spread awareness against smoking: Haryana CM||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today appealed to the people of the state on the occasion of World Tobacco Day to take a pledge to stop consuming drugs and motivate others for the same. In a message issued here today, the Chief Minister said that “the increasing trend of smoking is pushing the people and society towards darkness and the only way to get out of this is by spreading awareness”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spread-awareness-against-smoking-haryana-cm-261389
01-06-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||2 nabbed for hunting birds in Gurugram, fined||The wildlife team nabbed two bird hunters from the DLF Phase-3 area. The Wildlife Department imposed a fine of Rs 6,000 on the hunters and released them after giving a warning.The department seized the carcass of owls and pigeons and buried them at a safe place. Wildlife Department Inspector Rajesh Chahal said on Sunday evening, he was informed by Bhaichara group president Bhola Gujjar that two youth had hunted owls and pigeons in the F block of DLF Phase-3. As soon as the information was received, a special team was sent to the spot to investigate the matter. The team caught both the youths who were from Jharkhand. The youths during interrogation confessed hunting of birds and said they had done so to eat these. “In the Wildlife Act there is a provision for registering a case in such an offense and imposing a fine. The youths agreed to pay the fine. In such a situation, they were fined Rs 6,000 and were released after a strict warning”,said the inspector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-nabbed-for-hunting-birds-in-gurugram-fined-261391
01-06-2021||Hisar||Committee to probe girl research scholar’s suicide at Guru Jambheshwar University||The Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) has said that the Hisar police have set up a four-member special investigation team (SIT), headed by DSP Bharti Dabas, to probe the matter of the alleged suicide by a PhD girl student at the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology on May 17.The HSCW had taken note of the incident and sought action taken report from the Hisar SP on May 18. The Hisar police replied to the commission to apprise it of the probe panel, stated the HSCW chairperson Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal today.She said the commission had also written to the Vice-Chancellor of the GJUST to express its concern over the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/committee-to-probe-girl-research-scholars-suicide-at-guru-jambheshwar-university-261392
01-06-2021||Karnal||Karnal youth killed, 3 booked||The family a 23-year-old man, who was allegedly killed on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, protested outside Ram Nagar police station by placing his body there. They sought the arrest of the accused. The deceased was identified as Gulshan of Ram Nagar. The accused are Ladi, Major Singh of the city and another person. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-youth-killed-3-booked-261393
01-06-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Boy dies in storm, old MCG office damaged in Gurugram||The yesterday’s thunderstorm claimed the life of 12-year-old boy Abhishek, as the boy succumbed to his injuries late on Monday evening. The victim’s family has filed a complaint against their landlord who allegedly ignored their pleas for the repair of the wall which fell on the boy during the storm.Meanwhile, the torm played a havoc in Gurugram last night. Many buildings, including old MCG office were damaged. Hundreds of trees and electric poles were uprooted across the city and wires snapped at many places. This led to power outages for several hours in various urban and rural areas.During the thunderstorm, trunk of an old tree got uprooted and collided with the building of the old MCG office and its roof collapsed. This building is more than 50 years old.“It was a disaster in waiting. During the rainy season when the roof starts dripping, computers and records have to be shifted to other places,” said an official. On Monday, municipal employees continued to remove the debris.Also there were also reports of trees falling on the vehicles that were stationed under the trees during the storm. But no casualties have been reported anywhere. A tree fell on a car in Sector 4, which severely damaged the car. In the storm, electric poles were uprooted in different areas of the district. Pataudi was worst effected in the thunderstorm where many trees and electric poles fell on Mahchana road, Kulana road and Palhawas road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boy-dies-in-storm-old-mcg-office-damaged-in-gurugram-261395
01-06-2021||The state government has allocated fixed places and booths under the shed to vendors selling fruits and vegetables in the New Subzi Mandi. Despite that they have been encroaching upon pavements and roads making it difficult for the common man to move around in the city. The street vendors have taken permanent possession of all roads and pavements of Purani Subzi Mandi||Vendors encroaching upon roads||Overflowing sewage cause for concern in G’gramIt is a matter of grave concern that residents of certain sectors, including 10A 23A and of 46, are inconvenienced due to the overflowing sewage. The sewage emanates foul smell in the area and makes it difficult for the residents to breathe. The residents had made complaints to the Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, which has proved futile. The administration must take note and take action at the earliest. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramAll roads lying dug up in NarwanaThe drainage, sewerage and water supply systems are decades old and due to the increase in population and expansion of the city, the existing systems are outdated and insufficient. About three years ago, under the AMRUT scheme, it was decided to revamp the entire system in one go. The contractors dug up all roads of the city and then, as usual, the work went on at a snail's pace and was simply abandoned at many places, leaving the residents in the lurch. The government should force the contractors to finish the work before the monsoon sets in. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vendors-encroaching-upon-roads-261399
01-06-2021||Karnal||Karnal hospital to cater to 6 districts||Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) will now cater to the patients of mucormycosis (black fungus) from Ambala and Panchkula too, taking the tally to six districts.It is already has a dedicated ward for Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Yamunanagar districts.“We have also increased the number of beds to 75,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, KCGMC director. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-hospital-to-cater-to-6-districts-261404
01-06-2021||Hisar||Hisar court rejects bail of 3 accused||A Hisar court has ordered the three accused in a case of the black marketing of remdesivir injections to surrender before the court, while directing the police to ensure their arrest if they fail to comply with the orders.The accused have been identified as Arun Khurana, Parth Khurana and Mukesh Malik.The Urban Estate police station had registered a case in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-court-rejects-bail-of-3-accused-261408
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana saw 62% Covid fatalities in April & May||The state had registered 62% Covid deaths in April and May this year, with 5,148 patients of the total 8,303 (till Monday) succumbing to the virus in these two months. On March 31, the toll was 3,155.Also, the cases in Haryana have hit a seven-week low with 17,361 people getting infected last week. However, with 709 deaths in seven days, mortalities still remain a major cause for concern.While the first wave saw the NCR districts reporting a major share of the total deaths, it was smaller districts like Hisar, Fatehabad and Kaithal logging higher fatalities during the second wave. Even the mortality rate in non-NCR districts is much higher than the one recorded in Gurugram and Faridabad.While the state’s cumulative fatality rate stood at 1.09%, Kaithal (2.46%), Fatehabad (2.28%), Charkhi Dadri (2.21%) and Jind (2.15%) are much higher than the mortality rate in Gurugram (0.45%) and Faridabad (0.72%).Dr Viresh Bhushan, Civil Surgeon, Fatehabad, said this was due to delay on the part of people to go for Covid testing and hospitalisation despite symptoms. “Of 406 deaths in the district, 283 were reported in the second wave. Of these, 141 people died within two days of hospitalisation, 75 in three to five days, 47 in six to 10 days and only 20 stayed in hospitals for more than 10 days,” Dr Bhushan said, adding that doctors didn’t get enough time to save the patients.Meanwhile, with 17,361 cases in the past seven days, the new infections are at a seven-week low. The last time the state witnessed lesser infections was during between March 29 and April 4, when 10,414 cases were registered.In the weeks that followed, the state recorded 18,748, 40,090, 67,348, 90,569, 1,01,009, 78,530 and 43,601 fresh cases, respectively, before they dropped to 17,361 in the week that ended on Sunday.Of total 7,66,389 cases, nearly 4.5 lakh have been recorded in April and May. With this, the seven-day daily positivity rate in Haryana, which was once nearing 30% at the peak of the second wave, has now come down to 3.24%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state, however, is still at 8.41%.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said despite a dip in infections, the state government had not reduced testing and that was the reason behind the sharp decline in the daily positivity rate. “We are still testing at least 50,000 persons a day. Moreover, during a village-level health check-up drive initiated from May 15, over 1 lakh samples were tested with a cumulative positivity rate of 3.07%.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-saw-62-covid-fatalities-in-april-may-261426
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Over 900 non-paramedical staff on verge of losing jobs||At a time when the pandemic is playing havoc with people’s lives across the state, over 900 supporting staff the Health Department are on the verge of losing their jobs.In fact, an order of the Director General Health Services (DGHS) to the Civil Surgeons on May 28 seems to have paved the way for dispensing with the services of non-paramedical staff, including ward servants, dhobis, supervisors and liftmen.Health Dept’s U-turnInterestingly, the Health Department took a U-turn on the issue as on May 13, the DGHS clearly instructed the Civil Surgeons to ensure that the services of the already employed persons were not dispensed with. However, the DGHS withdrew the May 13 order on May 28, citing “administrative reasons”.“The new service providers engaged under the outsourcing policy have dispensed with the services of the employees engaged previously. In no case, the services of earlier employees will be dispensed with unless on complaints,” the May 13 order of the DGHS had said.Recently, the Health Department empanelled new service providers (contractors) for the supply of these employees. Usually after the change of contractors, the already employed staff are allowed to continue in service.Expressing anguish at the state government’s U-turn, which could have adverse impact on the livelihoods of over 900 outsourced employees, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), alleged that this clearly pointed out towards the politician-bureaucratic-contractor nexus.Lamba said the May 28 DGHS order was all the more surprising as the SKS, in a representation to the DGHS, had forewarned the authorities that certain contractors were relieving the existing employees against established rules and regulations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-900-non-paramedical-staff-on-verge-of-losing-jobs-261442
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||30 kids orphaned by Covid in Haryana||A 29-day-old girl in Rohtak lost her parents to Covid in May. The yet-to-be-named girl and her brother, who studies in Class II, are being taken care of by their grandmother.Hooda: Govt failed to create health infra In Sirsa, an LKG student and her two sisters — one in Class VIII and the other in Class V — lost their parents to the virus within a gap of seven days in April. Their uncle and aunt are looking after them.Two are dropoutsThese are among 30 children orphaned by Covid. Besides, 1,479 children lost one of their parents, according to the Women and Child Department of Haryana.Financial aidUnder the Mukhya Mantri Bal Sewa Yojana, children who lost both their parents/caretakers will get a monthly aid of Rs2,500 till the age of 18 years. Besides, they will receive Rs12,000 annually for other expenses.There are also cases of single-parent succumbing to Covid. A Class VIII dropout in Sirsa lost his mother on May 6. His father had died of heart attack in 2019. He lives with his 20-year-old sister.Of the 30 children — 17 boys and 13 girls — who lost both their parents, 23 are siblings. Sixteen of them are living with their grandparents, while the rest are staying with other relatives.One of the children studies in LKG, another in Class II, three each in Class V, VI and VII, four in Class VIII, two in Class IX, four in Class X, one in Class XI, and four in Class XII.One of them is a newborn and two are school dropouts.There is also a 16-year-old mentally challenged and visually impaired boy, who the state government has adopted. He lost his step-parents to Covid in May. He is living at Child Care Institution (CCI) in Gurugram.The annual income of relatives, who are taking care of these children, is less than Rs 5 lakh.“The children orphaned by Covid are our priority. The child welfare committees will soon assess their needs. After directions from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), we uploaded details of the children on the Bal Swaraj portal,” said Hema Sharma, Director General, Women and Child Development Department.Under the Mukhya Mantri Bal Sewa Yojana, announced on May 29 by the state government, children who lost both their parents/caretakers will get a monthly aid of Rs 2,500 till the age of 18 years. Besides, they will get Rs 12,000 annually for other expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-kids-orphaned-by-covid-in-haryana-261460
01-06-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||AAP's south Haryana convener dies of virus||RS Rathee (56), south Haryana convener of the Aam Admi Party (AAP), succumbed to Covid late Sunday night.A local councillor, Rathee was known to be vocal about residents’ issues in the House meetings of the local Municipal Corporation and ran many social projects. He was chairman of the Gurugram Citizen Council.Rathee was a popular local leader who unearthed many scams and led many protests on public issues.He was in Medanta for over 25 days. His condition was improving, but two days ago, he was put on a ventilator after his health deteriorated and he died at 11.45 last night.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and many organisations have condoled his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aaps-south-haryana-convener-dies-of-virus-261466
01-06-2021||Hisar||Fear psychosis keeps Haryana villagers off isolation centres||Isolation centres in villages are not being put to use as only two Covid patients have been admitted to the Jhajjar facility so far. All other centres across the state reported zero admission, a report by the Health Department shows.Villagers say fear psychosis, social stigma attached with Covid and hefty cost of treatment in private hospitals are factors restraining villagers, especially elderly persons, from getting themselves tested and undergoing treatment.Villagers prefer to stay at home if they have fever instead of getting themselves tested.A villager from Hisar’s Umra village said nearly 20 persons died in a month after they had reported high fever. “My aunt died of Covid-like symptoms. When she fell ill, the family did not go for testing. The last rites were performed by following all rituals and held a condolence meeting for 13 days. Later, my cousin brother got infected. He is struggling for life in hospital,” he said.The Health Department’s report also shows that 10 persons died within seven days in Hasangarh village in the second week of May.None of these deaths were tagged as Covid, as tests were not conducted.Hasangarh sarpanch Sandeep Kumar said only one elderly woman died of Covid in the village, while casting doubt over testing. “There are villagers suffering from fever, but there are no cases of Covid in the village,” he claimed.A villager from Satrod village said when his mother fell ill, he wanted to take her to civil hospital in Hisar for testing and treatment, but she refused.A health official said the department had been unable to reach out to villagers and win over their confidence. “Rapid antigen tests, which have low accuracy levels, are conducted in villages. Moreover, isolation centres in villagers lack facilities,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fear-psychosis-keeps-haryana-villagers-off-isolation-centres-261470
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Hooda: Govt failed to create health infra||Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has hit out at the state government for, what he described as, “having failed to ramp up health infrastructure”.“The BJP government did not create new health infrastructure in the past seven years. Medical colleges built during my tenure saved the lives of thousands of people during the Covid pandemic,” he said at a virtual press conference today.Recently, the Congress leader had written to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. “I haven’t received the reply. The truth is the CM doesn’t have an answer to my letter. The government has failed. The Chief Minister must admit his failure,” said Hooda.He reiterated his demand for Rs 5 lakh compensation for the families of Covid victims.The former Chief Minister also condemned the BJP government for the “slow pace” of vaccination. “Only 20,000 persons are vaccinated every day. Vaccination is the only weapon against Covid. Hisar and Nuh are lagging behind,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-govt-failed-to-create-health-infra-261473
01-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM’s remark on ‘vaccine rationing’ draws criticism||The Congress has reacted sharply to the reported remarks of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar about the “rationing of vaccines” in the state.“Deliberate delay in administering vaccines is being termed as a strategy. The CM says the government has vaccines, but these will be administered in small numbers over several days. This is the reason why people of Haryana are not able to get the vaccines,” Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted.Khattar on Monday accused his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal of playing politics over the vaccines, saying the Capital was exhausting its supply too soon, while his own state was stretching it over a longer period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cms-remark-on-vaccine-rationing-draws-criticism-261477
01-06-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak sessions court sets aside Magistrate’s plaint against DC||The Rohtak Sessions Court has set aside a Judicial Magistrate’s orders seeking the explanation of the Deputy Commissioner (DC) and lodging a criminal complaint against him in a matter pertaining to the non-provision of timely medical aid to a two-year-old rape victim.Asserting that no offence under Sections 188 and 217 was made out against the DC, the District and Sessions Judge, AS Narang, said the Magistrate’s orders were not legal and justified.Advocate Peeyush Gakhar, the counsel for Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar, said the Sessions Court had allowed their revision petition and set aside the Magistrate’s orders seeking the explanation of the DC as well as the criminal complaint filed against him.In an FIR lodged on September 9, 2020, a woman resident had alleged that her two-year-old daughter had been raped on September 8, 2020.The complainant stated that she and her husband took their daughter to the Rohtak PGIMS, but the doctor on duty asked them to take her to the local Civil Hospital. The hapless couple took the badly hurt girl to the Civil Hospital, but the doctor on duty there also refused to treat her, maintaining that they should go to the police first.Medical aid was provided to the girl after several hours following the lodging of a police complaint and the intervention of the police.Noticing that the PGIMS and Civil Hospital, Rohtak, had failed to provide timely medical treatment to the girl, Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Bharat directed the Deputy Commissioner to hold an inquiry in the matter, take departmental as well as legal action and submit the report to the court regarding action taken, if any, within a month.When no report was submitted for nearly two months, the Magistrate issued a show-cause notice to the DC, seeking explanation for disobedience of his orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-sessions-court-sets-aside-magistrates-plaint-against-dc-261488
01-06-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Mahapanchayat seeks fair probe in Nuh murder case||In view of the alleged lynching of gym trainer Asif Khan on May 16, a mahapanchayat was organised in Nuh’s Indri village, demanding a fair probe into the murder case.Those who attended the mahapanchayat claimed that “innocent men” had been arrested in connection with the Asif’s murder.In all, nine accused have been arrested.Locals accused the police of nabbing “innocent men” with an intention to close the case quickly, and appease the minority community and their leaders.They threatened protests if the accused were harassed in police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahapanchayat-seeks-fair-probe-in-nuh-murder-case-261491
01-06-2021||Karnal||In Karnal, 3 arrested for kidnapping financier||The police have arrested three persons for allegedly kidnapping a local financier and demanding Rs 25 lakh from him. Six accused are yet to be arrested.Parveen Garg, a financier, filed a police complaint alleging that late on May 23, Manoj alias Vicky, a resident of Khatriyan mohalla, along with 8-9 persons, entered his house and threatened his wife if she did not send her husband to Manoj’s house.On May 24, Parveen went to Manoj’s house where 8-10 persons were already present. They demanded Rs 25 lakh from him.He alleged that they kidnapped him and did not allow him to go home till the amount was given to them. So he assured to arrange Rs 10 lakh for them.After that, they allegedly held him hostage, put him in a car and kept going around the city to get the amount arranged. When he could not arrange the money, he was freed.Parveen alleged the accused threatened that if he did not pay, he and his family members would be killed.Sandeep Kumar, SHO City, said they have registered a case under Section 323, 365, 387, 451 and 506 of the IPC. A team led by Sub-inspector Ankit Kumar arrested Manoj, Ajit and Ashok of Kaithal district. Manoj was taken on one-day police remand. The others have been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-3-arrested-for-kidnapping-financier-261495
01-06-2021||Panipat||Man stabbed to death||A 28-year-old man was stabbed to death in Tehsil camp area on Sunday. The police have registered a case against four youths.The deceased has been identified as Umesh. He was an autorickshaw driver.Sumit Kakkar, a friend of the deceased, in his statement to the police said he along with Umesh, Kanhyya alias Kannu, Ashu Kumar and Thakur Sehgal were at Ashu’s home. Meanwhile, Deepak of Vikas Nagar along with Satnam Singh, Vijay Singh and one more youth entered the house. Deepak attacked Umesh with a knife, he alleged. He was taken to the general hospital, where doctors declared him dead.The police have booked Deepak, Satnam, Vijay and another youth under Sections 302, 449 and 34 of IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-stabbed-to-death-261499
01-06-2021||Sonepat||Youth shot, 2 booked||500 liquor cases seizedChandigarh: The police on Monday seized a consignment of 500 cases of IMFL from a container truck in Fatehabad. Two persons were arrested in this connection. A police spokesperson said cops were present at a 'naka' on the national highway near the bus stand at Kharakheri village when it received a tip-off about a truck carrying a big consignment of illicit liquor worth lakhs of rupees. TNS‘Farmer stir unjustified’State BJP president OP Dhankar on Monday termed the farmers’ protest against three farm laws as “unjustified” saying that they were protesting for the “sake of protest” even after the Centre's assurances about the redressal of their genuine concerns. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-shot-2-booked-261518
01-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||No beds, only mattresses at Covid centre in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, May 31Depicting a sorry state of healthcare in rural areas, a Covid isolation centre at Dhanonda village has no beds. The authorities have only laid some mattresses in a room of a government school.The centre was set up nearly 10 days ago, but not a single patient has come so far. Village sarpanch Rupender Singh blamed non-availability of beds and lack of medical facilities. He said, “The panchayat does not have funds. We had appealed to the villagers to provide beds for the centre, but no one came forward. Health officials visit the centre daily.”An official posted at Public Health Centre, Dhanonda, said they had provided medicines, pulse oximeters, etc., at the Centre, but it was the duty of the panchayat to arrange the beds.Desh Bandhu, Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Kanina, said, “Beds will be made available if needed. Isolation centres have been set up in all 53 villages falling under the Kanina block.”Dr Dharmender, Senior Medical Officer, Kanina, could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-beds-only-mattresses-at-covid-centre-in-haryana-261289
