02-06-2021||---||Former INLD MLA Puran Chand Dabra dies of Covid||Hisar, June 2A former INLD MLA, Puran Chand Dabra, died of Covid-19 infection in a private hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday. Dabra (75) belonged to Dabra village of Hisar district. He had represented erstwhile Ghirai assembly segment in Hisar district from 2000 to 2005.He had joined the Jananayak Janata Party (JJP) after the split in the INLD and was designated as national general secretary of the JJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-inld-mla-puran-chand-dabra-dies-of-covid-262375
02-06-2021||bika Sharma||Tenders invited for widening of Pinjore-Nalagarh road||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 1The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on May 28 invited tenders for the widening of the 31-km Pinjore-Nalagarh stretch of the National Highway No.105 to four lanes. Only 17.37 km of the highway lies in Himachal while the remaining is in Haryana. The bids will be opened on July 13.The tender value has been pegged at Rs 731.67 crore and once allotted, the project is to be completed within 910 days. The process to acquire land is underway and compensation for structures acquired is also being disbursed, said NHAI Regional Officer GS Sangha.“Around 400 of 649 acquired structures have been evaluated till now and the process to evaluate the remaining ones is underway. A compensation of Rs 26.71 crore has been paid for the structures acquired at 13 villages of Saraj Majra Lanana, Kishanpura, Manpura, Belikhol, Dhana, Khera Chak, Juddy Khurd, Tahi Wala, Khera Nihla, Rakh Ram Singh, Dadi Bhola, Nalka and Kirpalpur on May 25. These structures will be dismantled for the road project. Besides, Rs 172 crore has been disbursed for the land acquired,” said Mahinder Pal, SDM, Nalagarh.As per the project design, 22 bridges and five flyovers will be constructed on the highway. Approved by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in 2014, the project has faced several stumbling blocks, including the high rate of compensation.The four-lane highway will be 39 metres wide and 2,190 trees will be axed for the purpose. Initially, a 45-metre wide highway was to be constructed but the width was reduced to 39 metres last year to bring down the cost of land acquisition.The project, which has been hanging fire for years, will be finally initiated now, as major impediments have been cleared. “Thousands of vehicles, including multi-axle trucks, carrying industrial goods, use this highway on a daily basis. Frequent accidents cause loss of human lives and the road widening will put an end to this,” said Sanjay Khurana, president, Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Industries Association.The high cost of land acquisition was a major stumbling block in the project. The NHAI had refused to fund the project, as the cost of land was much higher than the cost of the structures to be razed to widen the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tenders-invited-for-widening-of-pinjore-nalagarh-road-262166
02-06-2021||Panipat||Panipat MC’s sanitary officer caught taking Rs 13.7 lakh bribe||A special team of the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB), Rohtak unit, caught the chief sanitary inspector (CSI) of the Panipat Municipal Corporation (MC) red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 13.70 lakh for clearing the bills of Rs 1.37 crore of a private firm.The team caught the accused, Sudhir Kumar, near the fire brigade office on the NH-44 late on Monday night and produced in a court on Tuesday.In his complaint to the SVB, Chankit Dalal, administrative officer, IND Sanitation and Solution Company, said the tender for road sanitisation in Panipat, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Sonepat and Panchkula had been awarded to them. Sudhir reportedly spoke to Krishan Kumar, company director, on his cellphone and demanded 10 per cent commission as bribe in lieu of passing the outstanding bills of Rs 1.37 crore and further extending the tender, he said.“I also produced a pen drive with the recording of the phone conversation between the firm director and the CSI to the SVB,” he added.Following the complaint, a case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered in the SVB police station in Karnal and a team headed by DSP Nar Singh has been constituted. Krishan Kumar, Panipat ITI principal, and Archana, ITI helper, have been appointed as the duty magistrate and shadow witness, respectively.Mayor Avneet Kaur said: “The incident should not have happened as we are strongly against corruption in the MC and are working under the zero-tolerance policy.” Earlier too, I had raised corruption issues several times, she added. Sudhir was working in the MC for the past 20 years and he even got an extension after his retirement from the same position. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-mcs-sanitary-officer-caught-taking-rs-13-7-lakh-bribe-262134
02-06-2021||---||Expedite trial of industrial plots allotment case against Bhupinder Hooda: Special court||Chandigarh, June 1The court of Special Judge under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Panchkula, today remarked that the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) industrial plot allotment case against former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 21 others “needs to be taken up speedily and expeditiously”.As per the ED’s allegations in the case, the industrial plots were illegally allotted in Panchkula at lesser rates than circle rates and market rates by altering the criteria to favour people closer to Hooda.Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg reasoned that given the directives issued by the Supreme Court in ‘Public Interest Foundation & Ors Vs Union of India’, and ‘Ashwani Kumar Upadhaya Vs Union of India’, dated September 10, 2020, “the proceedings of all criminal cases and complaints against the former and sitting MPs/MLAs are required to be taken up on urgent basis and an endeavour is to be made by the trial courts to decide the matter speedily and expeditiously”.He added that the said directions of the apex court were circulated by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on February 17 this year “for strict compliance by the trial courts in the states of Punjab and Haryana and UT Chandigarh”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/expedite-trial-of-industrial-plots-allotment-case-against-bhupinder-hooda-special-court-262131
02-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Feud over cricket: Ex-cop, kin held for ‘thrashing’ two migrant children in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 1The Gurugram police have arrested three persons, including a retired sub-inspector, for allegedly handcuffing and thrashing two migrant children.The victims had a feud with the former cop’s family over playing cricket. In a video that went viral, a boy was handcuffed and tied to an electric pole then thrashed badly by the ex-cop and his family members. The video was shot and uploaded on social media by a neighbour.Inspector Dinesh Yadav, SHO, Sadar Police StationProbe under wayWe have arrested the three accused and are questioning them. We are trying to recover the handcuffs that were used in the crime. According to the complaint filed by Suraj, a native of Rai Bareli in Uttar Pradesh and currently living in Sector 39 of Gurugram, it was on Sunday evening when and his brother Vishwajit were playing cricket near a gurdwara. At that time, the former cop, Naveen, was also playing there and he was abusing us, Suraj told the police.“On objecting, Naveen slapped me and a clash started. Naveen was injured in the clash. When we were returning home, Naveen’s father and elder brother stopped us and they tied Vishwajit to an electric pole and handcuffed him. They then thrashed us brutally. They took me inside their home where they thrashed me with sticks and it was only when people gathered there and the police was called, they freed us. The entire episode was also captured in the CCTV footage,” Suraj alleged.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered under Sections 147 (riot), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC at the Sadar police station.“We have arrested the three accused identified as Prem Babu, his two sons Naveen and Vipin and are questioning them. We are trying to recover the handcuffs that were reportedly used in the crime,” said Inspector Dinesh Yadav, SHO, Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/feud-over-cricket-ex-cop-kin-held-for-thrashing-two-migrant-children-in-gurugram-262130
02-06-2021||---||30 head of cattle burnt alive in Kurukshetra village||Kurukshetra, June 1At least 30 head of cattle were burnt alive inside their sheds after a fire broke out at Garhi Roran village of Pehowa block here last evening.As per information, the livestock belonged to two villagers. A short circuit due to heavy storm is suspected to be the reason behind the fire.Sunil Kumar, a resident of the village, said the government should compensate the affected families as they had suffered huge losses due to the fire and death of cattle.A fire officer said they received a call around 11:30 pm. Fire tenders from Pehowa, Thanesar, Ladwa and Sahahbad were immediately sent to the spot. It took nearly three hours to douse the flames.Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh also reached the village and assured all possible help to the affected families.On the other hand, hundreds of trees and electricity poles were uprooted, leading to power outage and road blockades in various areas of Kurukshetra and Ambala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-head-of-cattle-burnt-alive-in-kurukshetra-village-262124
02-06-2021||---||Excise Department cancels licences of two Jhajjar liquor vendors||Chandigarh, June 1The Excise Department has cancelled licences of two liquor vendors in Jhajjar, forfeited their security amount and suspended the authorisation of an L-1 licence after it was found that they were selling spurious alcohol. Holograms found on the bottles were found to be fake.In another case, the department has recovered liquor from Fatehabad and sent samples of holograms of 500 cartons to the Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL), Hyderabad, for testing.In both cases, the name of ADS Spirits Private Limited, a distillery based in Jhajjar district, has cropped up. The excise authorities say the police are probing its role.Notably, the department had suspended the licence of the Jhajjar distillery in January 18 after it was found evading excise duty by using fake holograms on its bottles. The suspension, however, was revoked on March 9.In his orders passed on Monday, Ashutosh Rajan, Collector (Excise)-cum-Joint Excise and Commissioner, cancelled the licences of main liquor vends (IMFL and country liquor) of L-1 owner Rakesh.On May 14, the Chief Minister’s flying squad along with the excise staff from Jhajjar and Rohtak had found liquor vends open during the Covid-induced lockdown.The team took 271 quarts, 42 pints and 26 nips of Moonwalk vodka into custody, as the brand, produced by ADS Spirits Private Limited, was not approved by the state government for the 2020-21 fiscal.The holograms of Royal Green whisky, another brand of ADS Spirits, were seized and sent to the SPMCIL for testing. The lab report stated that all labels were fake.A notice was served on the liquor vends, but none appeared before the authorities. An assistant excise officer from Jhajjar, who appeared before the Collector (Excise), said liquor was supplied by L-1 owner Rakesh and no passes or permits were issued for the purpose.Meanwhile, the police on Monday recovered 500 cartons of IMFL from a canter from Fatehabad.VK Shastri, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Hisar, said that the samples of holograms of the seized bottles had been sent to the Hyderabad lab for testing.Executives of ADS Spirits could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts.Fake holograms||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/excise-department-cancels-licences-of-two-jhajjar-liquor-vendors-262123
02-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||HCS Paper Leak: Punjab and Haryana High Court refuses to stay disciplinary proceedings against Registrar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a department cannot be expected to wait endlessly for the trial in a criminal case to conclude.The ruling came as a Division Bench refused to stay disciplinary proceedings in the HCS paper leak case against Balwinder Kumar Sharma, Additional District Judge posted as Registrar (Recruitment).The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash observed that charges were framed against the petitioner based on the fact that a question paper of HCS (Judicial Branch)-2017 was leaked by him following his intimacy with one Sunita.She, in turn, gave it to other co-accused, leading to parting of Rs 1.5 crore by the complainant-candidate. These allegations had led to the framing of charges for cheating, criminal breach of trust and other offences under Sections 409, 420, 120-B and 201 of the IPC and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The Bench observed that the petitioner, being a judicial officer holding the rank of an Additional District Judge and posted as Registrar (Recruitment), was required to have the highest standards of propriety and moral conduct. The petitioner’s call details showed 726 calls and 34 messages made between him and accused Sunita, who incidentally was a topper in the HCS (Judicial) preliminary examination. “This, prima facie, reflects towards a conduct not behoving the post that the petitioner was holding.”The Bench added a charge in the “Articles of Charge” showed that the disciplinary authority also charged the employee for immoral conduct and, thereby, violating the Government Employees (Conduct) Rules, 1966, as he had allegedly developed intimate relations with Sunita.He was also charged with failing to maintain absolute integrity as expected from a judicial officer. These charges, by no stretch of imagination, could be gone into or punished by the Criminal Court.Referring to a judgment in the case of “Capt M Paul Anthony”, the Bench added the departmental proceedings could be proceeded with for arriving at the conclusion on an early date, where there was delay in the disposal of a criminal case.The Bench added: “The burden of proof, and the manner in which allegations are to be proved, are different for criminal trial and disciplinary proceedings. The petitioner has been drawing salary, being an employee under suspension. It is neither desirable, nor advisable, for any court of law, in view of the nature and gravity of allegations, to force an employer to continue paying an employee which the establishmentdoes not deem fit to continue as its part by stalling the conclusion of departmental proceedings.” The Bench also refused to order expediting the criminal trial rather than the continuation of the departmental proceedings. ‘Highest standards of propriety needed’The Bench observed that the petitioner, being a judicial officer holding the rank of an Additional District Judge and posted as Registrar (Recruitment), was required to have the highest standards of propriety and moral conduct... “This, prima facie, reflects towards a conduct not behoving the post that the petitioner was holding.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hcs-paper-leak-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-refuses-to-stay-disciplinary-proceedings-against-registrar-262121
02-06-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Wild growth goes unchecked in Ambala||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Wild growth goes unchecked in AmbalaWild growth in vacant plots in Sector-9, Ambala City, has failed to draw the attention of the authorities. These plots have become hideouts for reptiles, stray animals and breeding place for mosquitoes. With the monsoon nearing, small spells of rain have been causing inconvenience to residents. People are also facing hardships owing to the choked sewerage system. The authorities have failed to address the concerns of the residents. Where are stakeholders of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan who have been publicising the programme? Is it just a show-off? I hope the authorities will take cognizance of the issue and take action. Gian P Kansal, Sector-9, Ambala CityNeed for underground power cablesWith reference to ‘Cars damaged, 13-hr outage in Panchkula’ (Chandigarh Tribune, May 31), it was worrisome to learn that high-velocity winds with heavy rain on Saturday evening resulted not only in unprecedented outage of power supply (lasting for 13 to 18 hours) in various sectors of the city, but the district also suffered loss worth lakhs as electricity poles, transformers and power cables were damaged. While nothing much can be done about the nature’s impending fury in all such cases, it’s high time that the city’s electricity department seriously consider underground cable system. Moreover, it must be ensured that senior officials of the electricity department invariably respond to the ‘emergency’ calls of the adversely affected residents instead of leaving the hapless callers in lurch as usually happens in such a precarious situation. Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaDept not paying heedEver since gusty winds and rain lashed Panchkula city on Saturday evening, power supply has become highly erratic and the department concerned has been playing “hide and seek”. The electricity complaint centre (1800 180 1550) is also not of much help. It is the need of the hour to lay cables underground to prevent power outages. The authorities must make a comprehensive plan in coordination with all stakeholders. Vinayak G, PanchkulaPower cuts add to woesResidents of Gurugram district, especially of 46A DLF phase 2 Vipul Garden and 48 22 Palm Vihar, are facing the problem of frequent power cuts. Due to long cuts, power back up is used, which costs Rs 17 per unit in place Rs 8 per unit. The DHBVN must take action at the earliest. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wild-growth-goes-unchecked-in-ambala-262117
02-06-2021||Karnal||Virtual World Milk Day||HAU to promote researchHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), Hisar, will now jointly promote educational and research activities in collaboration with Michigan State University of America. This decision was taken at an online meeting between the management officials of both the universities. The meeting was presided over by the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Professor BR Kamboj. He said scientists of both the universities would now jointly collaborate in research and academic work. Also, both the universities will promote joint degree and diploma courses.Webinar on stress managementRohtak: A webinar on 'Stress management during pandemic' was organised by Model School, Rohtak. Students of Classes VIII to XII, their family members, teachers and non-teaching personnel participated in the webinar. School principal, Dr Aruna Taneja, said Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar, who is also the chairman of the Model School Education Society, presided over the webinar. Dr Promila Batra 'Prabha', a former professor of psychology at Maharshi Dayanand University, was the keynote speaker. Professor Promila said while students were under the stress of examinations, the elders were apprehensive of getting sick and not surviving. "Such fears can be overcome by changing our attitude and reaction towards a given situation and seeing things in a bigger perspective," she observed.Quiz completion organisedYamunanagar: The department of history of Mukand Lal National College, Radaur, organised an online quiz competition on the theme of 'National Heroes of Our Freedom Movement' in which 187 students participated. Besides Haryana, the participants belonged to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh. Pooja from Parwanoo of Himachal Pradesh stood first. Jasmeet from DAV College, Faridabad, bagged the second prize and Rashmi from Saraswati Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Palwal, was declared third. The event was conducted by Dr Richa Sikri, assistant professor of history. Dr Deepak Kaushik, principal of the college said the participants found the event engrossing, enlightening and was a knowledge booster.National education policy discussedYamunanagar: Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, organised a webinar on National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 - Making India skill capital of the world. Dr Sandeep Grover, professor of JC Bose University, YMCA, Faridabad, was the key speaker of the webinar. Dr Grover explained the key points of NEP 2020 related to school education, higher education and professional education. He said the highlights of this policy was to make students skilled, analytical and ethical so that they could get employment and also make them good citizens. Anil Kumar Budhiraja, principal of the polytechnic, said more than 250 participants, including faculty from about 45 institutions and students, participated in the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-world-milk-day-262115
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Board cancels Class XII examination||The Haryana Government has decided to cancel the Class XII exams conducted by the state board, Education Minister Kanwar Pal said on Tuesday.The decision came shortly after the Central Government announced cancelling of CBSE Class XII board exams amid the Covid pandemic. “We have also decided to cancel Class XII board exams in the state which were to be conducted by the Haryana Board of School Education,” Pal said over phone. “We are going with the decision taken by the Centre and have decided to cancel the board exams,” he said.The state board will take steps to compile the results of Class XII students and modalities for this will be worked out soon, he added. The decision to cancel the CBSE exams was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The Centre has decided to cancel the Class XII CBSE Board Exams. After extensive consultations, we have taken a decision that is student-friendly, one that safeguards the health as well as future of our youth,” the Prime Minister tweeted after the meeting. Earlier on April 15, the Haryana Government had cancelled the Class X board exams which were to be conducted by the state board. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-cancels-class-xii-examination-262110
02-06-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Tender for consultant to enhance connectivity in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, June 1The Faridabad Metro Development Authority (FMDA) has released its first tender for inviting quotation for consultancy on the preparation of a feasibility study-cum-primary design for the city’s connectivity enhancement project.The cost of the tender is around Rs 1.10 crore.FMDA To maintain roads, sewerageRevealing that the preparation of the feasibility report had initially been approved in the first meeting of the FMDA held under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister on April 10 this year, a senior FMDA official said the project was aimed at providing uninterrupted connectivity between the eastern and western parts of the city, which was missing so far. Divided by the National Highway-19 and the main railway line connecting Delhi and southern and western parts of the country, the city has been separated into two parts, resulting in traffic bottlenecks due to no direct access.Claiming that this was the FMDA first project, which came into being in 2018, CEO Sudhir Rajpal said the tender for the selection of a consultant on the connectivity project had been released and the work on it is expected to roll within a month’s time. Revealing that the project proposes to provide four parallel routes of 120-km length to facilitate direct connectivity between the eastern and western parts of the city, having a total population of over 20 lakh, he said it could be seen as a part of the overall Comprehensive Mobility Plan worth Rs 28,548 crore prepared by Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) and aimed to be in place by 2041.“The consultant will provide the alignment and design of the proposed four new routes under the plan identified as Surajkund-NHPC- Greater Faridabad; Ankhir- Badkhal-Greater Faridabad; Faridabad-Gurugram road-Greater Faridabad; and Pali-Sohna road-Tigaon-Greater Faridabad,” says Garima Mittal, Additional CEO, FMDA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tender-for-consultant-to-enhance-connectivity-in-faridabad-262107
02-06-2021||---||Two complaints of fraud registered in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, June 1Two job scams have surfaced in Kurukshetra and this time the fraudsters have allegedly duped people on the pretext of providing them jobs in the Railways.In the first case, the complainant was offered a job of a Station Master or Sub-Inspector for his daughter and the accused sought Rs 2.50 lakh. The accused have been identified as Boby, Rampal, Sunil, Karan, Arjun, and Gautam.In his complaint to the police, Ravinder Kumar, a resident of Kurukshetra, stated that the accused offered to arrange a job for his daughter Komal in the Railways and sought Rs 2.50 lakh for the job, last year. Initially, they took around Rs 84,000 in advance on various pretexts and said they would take the balance after providing the joining letter. In January this year, the accused informed the complainant that the joining letter was ready and asked them to collect the same from their office in Zirakpur Punjab. The accused provided them two joining letters, and took the remaining amount. But when the complainant got the letters verified, they came to know that both the joining letters were fake. The complainant said when he confronted the accused, they threatened him of dire consequences. A case has been registered under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC.In another case, Malkit Singh, Gurpinder Singh and Ravi Kumar of Kurukshetra have accused Boby, Rampal, Rampal’s sister and brother-in-law, Sunil, Arjun and Gautam for duping them of Rs 1.40 lakh on the pretext of providing railway jobs. Names of Boby, Rampal, Sunil, Arjun and Gautam are common in both cases.Malkit said the accused offered them railway jobs on contract basis.They sought Rs 50,000 each for the job. In October last year, the complainants had given Rs 40,000 each to the accused, and later they had given more money for medical and other tests. The accused provided them fake joining letters. The accused failed to provide jobs, and also refused to return their money.A case has been registered at the Jhansa police station under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, and 120B of the IPC. SHO Rajeev Kumar said, “Two separate cases have been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-complaints-of-fraud-registered-in-kurukshetra-262104
02-06-2021||---||Minister inspects development work at Ambala sports stadium||Ambala, June 1Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh today visited Rajiv Gandhi Sports Stadium in Ambala City and enquired about the under-construction swimming pool and other development work at the stadium. A swimming pool is being constructed at a cost of Rs 4.50 crore at the stadium.The minister directed officials to expedite the work and also ensure that good quality material is used in the construction work.Meanwhile, Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel on this occasion requested the minister that the under-construction swimming pool should be converted into an all-weather swimming pool and also get a warmup pool constructed at the stadium.Sandeep Singh asked the officials of the Sports Department to get a proposal ready for the all-weather swimming pool and warmup pool, and send it tothe Director of the Sports Department.He also directed the officials to prepare estimates for a synthetic basketball court, synthetic 400-metre athletic track, and beautification of badminton hall and the main building of the stadium.The minister said the government was making efforts to provide all facilities to players in the state.On being asked about Sushil Kumar’s involvement in a murder case, Sandeep said “The matter is under investigation and if it is true then it is condemnable. Sushil is a big player and an Olympian who won back-to-back medals. I will appeal to all the players to focus on their games only and stay away from such things.”Earlier he visited Ambala City Civil Hospital and lauded Harmai Astha Foundation, a charity organisation, for its initiative of providing lunch facility to attendants of patients and the needy at Rs 5 at the hospital. He also announced to give Rs 2 lakh to the foundation for their canteen.Govt to provide all facilities to players||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-inspects-development-work-at-ambala-sports-stadium-262101
02-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Hoardings put up to highlight canal water shortage in Mahendragarh||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, June 1A social organisation, Shri Sundaram Trust, has adopted a novel way of highlighting scarcity of irrigation water in the Satnali area by putting up hoardings on the banks of various canals passing through it.The hoardings bear interesting slogans to attract the attention of people and the district authorities.SK Yadav, Superintending Engineer (Irrigation)Plan to rehabilitate being chalked outEfforts are being made to resolve the issue by chalking out a plan for rehabilitation of the canals. We are finding it difficult to get labourers under the MGNREGA scheme. The process to get it done through contractors will be initiated soon.“I am part of Haryana but have not received water for a long while the administration claims to provide the water at the tail-end: Satnali Canal”, and “Where is our share of water going. Madhogarh canal has not been getting water for the past six months,” are some of the slogans.Actually, Satnali area is facing scarcity of irrigation water forcing the farmers to depend on groundwater for agriculture.Dharambir, a farmer from Satnali, said the canals were dug up a long time ago but the water was supplied sometimes so the farmers got tubewell installed to meet the agriculture requirement while Sunil of Sohdi village said there was no use of canal without adequate supply of water.Sandeep Malda, chairman, Shri Sundaram Trust, said he had to install the hoardings on not getting any positive response from the authorities about the redressal of irrigation water issue.“The Satnali region has seven canals but none of these has been having water since a long time while the authorities make a false claim of ensuring water to tail-end villages,” said Malda, adding that he would keep raising the issue until it is resolved.SK Yadav, Superintending Engineer (Irrigation), admitted that there was scarcity of canal water in the Satnali region stating that the water could not be supplied last month due to technical reasons otherwise the region had a schedule of eight days of supply in 32 days.“Sincere efforts are being made to resolve the issue by chalking out a plan for rehabilitation of the canals. We are finding it difficult to get labourers under the MGNREGA scheme hence the process to get it done through contractors will be initiated soon,” said he, adding that the next supply of canal water in the Satnali area was scheduled on June 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hoardings-put-up-to-highlight-canal-water-shortage-in-mahendragarh-262096
02-06-2021||Karnal||Association demands opening of hotels in Karnal||Facing financial breakdown owing to the Covid-induced lockdown, hoteliers and restaurant owners have urged the government to allow them to open their establishments.They demanded that the government should not take fixed charges on electricity and property tax from hotels and restaurants during the period of the lockdown.The Hotel and Restaurant Associations of Haryana (HRAH) has sent a memorandum to CM Manohar Lal Khattar demanding the opening of the hospitality industry from June 7. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/association-demands-opening-of-hotels-in-karnal-262094
02-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Former Haryana minister infected with black fungus||Senior BJP leader and former state Health Minister Kamla Verma has been infected with mucormycosis (black fungus). She is under treatment at a private hospital of Jagadhri town of Yamunanagar district.The BJP leader’s son Rajan Verma said she had tested positive for Covid on May 5, but recovered from the disease. However, she had now been infected with black fungus.Kamla was elected as an MLA from Yamunanagar in 1977 and was made the Health Minister. Besides, she remained state Cabinet minister twice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-minister-infected-with-black-fungus-262093
02-06-2021||Karnal||Save lives, not vaccine: Randeep Singh Surjewala to Haryana CM||Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday criticised Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his remark on rationing of vaccines, and urged him to save lives, not doses.“The CM should not play with the lives of people and instead focus on saving lives,” he told the media here today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/save-lives-not-vaccine-randeep-singh-surjewala-to-haryana-cm-262092
02-06-2021||---||Judicial officer in Haryana's Sirsa dies of Covid||Hisar, June 1Additional District and Sessions Judge at Sirsa, Basruddin, died due to post-Covid illness at a private hospital here today.Sources said he had got infected recently and was on path to recovery. However, due to severe infection and complications, he could not be saved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/judicial-officer-in-haryanas-sirsa-dies-of-covid-262090
02-06-2021||Karnal||Karnal: Indian Medical Association seeks action against Baba Ramdev||The Indian Medical Association, (IMA), Karnal chapter, today demanded strict action against yoga guru Ramdev over his comments on allopathy.The association said they would hold a protest tomorrow by wearing black badges and also submit a memorandum to the district health authorities.Dr Kamal Bhushan Jain, president of the IMA, Karnal, said Ramdev’s comments on allopathy were irresponsible and the government should take action against him.Dr Kamal said Ramdev had insulted doctors and paramedical staff. “He should have praised the efforts of the doctors and paramedical staff, who have been working tirelessly and risking their lives amid the pandemic outbreak,” Dr Kamal added. — TNSDemands apology from yoga guru||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-indian-medical-association-seeks-action-against-baba-ramdev-262089
02-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar hospitals ‘refuse’  to accept body for research||The Covid has taken a toll on body donations for research.In a recent incident, a local family was in for a shock when hospitals reportedly refused to receive the body of a non-Covid elderly woman citing the pandemic situation. The family could only donate her eyes to Madhav Eye Bank, Karnal.Kamla (70) of Jaipur village of Yamunanagar district died due to age-related issues on May 30.The family had pledged to donate their bodies. They had signed voluntary body donation forms consenting their will of social service.“My mother was Covid negative. She died due to age-related issues on May 30. I contacted almost all medical colleges of the region requesting them about the donation of my mother’s body as per her will. However, they refused to receive the body citing the Covid situation,” said Kamla’s husband Jagdish Insa.The authorities of Madhav Eye Bank, Karnal, however, accepted their request for eye donation. “We are disappointed as we could not fulfill the wish of our mother. She wanted that her organs give a new lease of life to needy persons,” added Jagdish. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-hospitals-refuse-to-accept-body-for-research-262085
02-06-2021||---||PGIMS Rohtak to have 3 oxygen plants||Rohtak, June 1The Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) will have three oxygen generation plants, including a bottling plant, within 45 days. Prof OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor, Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), has confirmed this.Prof OP Kalra, VC, UHSOxygen beds to increaseThere is an apprehension of the third wave of Covid. So, the number of oxygen beds is being increased. The PGIMS will soon have a 100-bed ICU, 400 oxygen beds and 100 beds for children.The construction has started and it is likely to be completed by July 15. A 100-bed ICU is also under construction.“There is an apprehension of the third wave of Covid. So, the number of oxygen beds is being increased,” Prof Kalra said, adding the PGIMS would soon have a 100-bed intensive care unit (ICU), 400 oxygen beds and 100 beds for children.The Vice-Chancellor also said a post-Covid care ward would be established in the Lala Shyam Lal block, and a post-Covid care out-patient department (OPD) “Umang” was also being considered.On the treatment of black fungus, Prof Kalra said 166 patients had been treated at the PGIMS.“Two wards have been earmarked for mucormycosis patients, while another ward has been reserved for them in case of emergency,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-rohtak-to-have-3-oxygen-plants-262082
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to administer 3.5 cr Covid vaccine doses||The state government aims to administer Covid vaccine to 1.76 crore persons, including 1.05 crore falling in the 18 to 44 age group. The remaining 71 lakh doses will be administered to persons above 45 years.Of the 3.5 crore doses to be administered, 57.11 lakh have been administered — 16 per cent of the target.A government spokesman said the state government had released Rs 316 crore for vaccines, which were being administered free of cost.He claimed Haryana was among the few states which was administering vaccines free of cost.The state government has already administered vaccine to 82 per cent of its healthcare workers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-administer-3-5-cr-covid-vaccine-doses-262080
02-06-2021||---||In Palwal, 88 violators nabbed last month||Palwal, June 1Nearly 13,000 challans were issued and 88 persons arrested for violating the lockdown norms in May in the district.The police registered a total of 61 cases and imposed a fine of Rs 52.57 lakh for the violation of mask rule.A spokesperson for the Police Department said in order to strictly implement the lockdown guidelines, the cops registered cases under the National Disaster Management Act and Section 144 of the IPC against the lockdown violators. He said while around 10,515 challans were issued for facemask violation, the police recovered a penalty of Rs 52,57,500 from the offenders.Besides this, he said as many as 280 vehicles were impounded with a total of 2,370 traffic challans during this period.Claiming that the cops displayed grit and dedication on their field duty, he said 55 of them got infected with Covid in the past two months. Of these, 49 cops have recovered and joined their duty.Regarding vaccination, the spokesperson said as many as 1,565 cops had got their first jab, while 1,140 had received both the doses so far.13,000 challans for violating lockdown norms280 vehicles were impoundedRs52.57 lakh fine for violating face mask rule||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-palwal-88-violators-nabbed-last-month-262063
02-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||JJP MLA heckled by farmers in Haryana's Tohana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 1Ruling JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli was today allegedly heckled by a group of protesting farmers even as he confronted them for obstructing his movement at Tohana in Fatehabad district.Though the local police managed to defuse the situation by escorting Babli away, the MLA alleged that the farmers attacked his vehicle and tried to assault him. He alleged that his personal assistant sustained injuries.Refuting the charge, the farmers claimed the police resorted to lathicharge following which their two leaders were injured.Surender Singh, SHO, Tohana, said they were in the process of registering an FIR in the matter.The incident took place when the MLA visited the Civil Hospital for inaugurating an X-ray machine. A group of farmers gathered outside the hospital to protest against him. They showed him black flags and raised anti-government slogans.The situation took an ugly turn when one of the protesters allegedly damaged the MLA’s car. In a viral video, an infuriated MLA was purportedly seen using abusive language against the protesters.Babli alleged the protesters were anti-social elements in the grab of farmers. Gurnam Singh Charuni of the BKU (Charuni) said even as they had given a call to boycott the ruling MLAs, the latter were attending public events.Demanding an apology, Charuni alleged the MLA used abusive language against the farmers. “We will gather at Tohana on Wednesday to protest the incident,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-mla-heckled-by-farmers-in-haryanas-tohana-261835
02-06-2021||---||74% drop in Covid patients at Mahendragarh in 20 days||Mahendragarh, June 1The district has witnessed around 74 per cent decline in the number of Covid patients admitted to government and private hospitals in the past 20 days, while a drop of over 83 per cent in total positive cases has also been recorded in the past week, providing some relief to the health authorities.Ajay Kumar, Mahendragarh Deputy Commissioner Active cases: 582The number of Covid cases is coming down. In all, 89 persons tested positive on May 26, but the number was 15 on Tuesday. On May 11, active cases were 5,113. On Thursday, the number has come down to 582.Ajay Kumar, Deputy Commissioner (DC), said 317 Covid patients were undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district on May 13, but the number had now got reduced to merely 82, while 500 patients were still in home isolation and the teams were daily monitoring their health.“The number of Covid cases is persistently coming down in the district. A total of 89 persons tested positive on May 26, but the number is 15 today. Similarly, 5,113 were the total active cases in the district on May 11, while 582 persons are now battling against the infection,” said the DC, adding that the district recorded 134 Covid deaths and the recovery of a total 20,778 patients so far.Kumar said 545 of the total 627 beds were vacant at present. Merely 12 out of 59 ICU beds, 47 out of 322 oxygen beds, eight of 213 non-oxygen beds and nine of the 33 ventilator beds were occupied in the district, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/74-drop-in-covid-patients-at-mahendragarh-in-20-days-262038
02-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana state board cancels Class 12 exams||The Haryana government has decided to cancel the Class 12 exams conducted by the state board, Education Minister Kanwar Pal said on Tuesday.The decision came shortly after the Central government announced cancelling the CBSE Class 12 board exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“We have also decided to cancel the Class 12 board exams in the state which were to be conducted by the Haryana Board of School Education,” Pal told PTI over phone.“We are going with the decision taken by the Centre and have decided to cancel the board exams,” he said.The state Board will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students and modalities for this will be worked out soon, he added.The decision to cancel the CBSE exams was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Government of India has decided to cancel the Class XII CBSE Board Exams. After extensive consultations, we have taken a decision that is student-friendly, one that safeguards the health as well as future of our youth,” the prime minister tweeted after the meeting.Anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end, and students should not be forced to appear for exams in such a stressful situation, a government statement quoted the prime minister as saying.Earlier on April 15, the Haryana government had cancelled the Class 10 board exams which were to be conducted by the state board. It had then decided to postpone the exams of Class 12.The state board exams were earlier scheduled to start in April and continue till mid-May before these were cancelled for Class 10 and postponed for Class 12.Haryana saw a sharp increase in coronavirus cases over the past few weeks. However, infections have been on the decline in the last few days.To contain the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in Haryana, the state government had initially imposed a lockdown on May 3 for a week till May 10, which was later extended four times and is currently enforced till June 7. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-state-board-cancels-class-12-exams-261795
