03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 71 fresh deaths, 980 cases||Haryana on Thursday reported 71 Covid-19 related fatalities, taking the cumulative death toll to 8,532, while 980 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 7,60,019.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest deaths included eight from Gurugram, seven from Hisar, six each from Bhiwani and Sirsa and five each from Jhajjar and Rohtak districts.Of the fresh cases, Sirsa reported 108 and Karnal 76.The active cases in the state as of now are 12,688, the bulletin said, adding so far 7,38,799 have recovered from the infection. The recovery rate is 97.21 per cent.The cumulative positivity rate in the state is 8.31 per cent, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-71-fresh-deaths-980-cases-262935
03-06-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||High drama as landowners want Hemkunt Foundation’s Covid centre removed in Gurugram||High drama was witnessed at the Sector 61-based makeshift Covid centre of Hemkunt Foundation here as it was allegedly ransacked by the men of landowners.The land reportedly belongs to a local JJP leader who had given it for two months to the foundation for setting up a temporary centre.The tent house operator alleged that the NGO uses the land as a warehouse and allegedly contributes ration in the camps of protesting farmers.Issuing a video statement on Twitter, the organisation alleged that “goons” destroyed their Covid camp which was there to help people in this pandemic.Harteerath Singh, community development director, issued an appeal saying that in the wake of this incident, they required 20,000 square feet land at or near the City Centre of Gurugram to set up a Covid centre.The tent facility provider has meanwhile accused the NGO of trying to make it into a warehouse while there are no patients since last 10 days.“We gave this land to the foundation for a makeshift Covid centre for just two months. There was no patient in it since many days owing to dip in number of cases and the land owner asked them to vacate the land.“Some of the volunteers of the foundation told him that they are distributing ration kit in farmers protest and we can’t let the land as warehouse. We informed the foundation four days ago but they have not vacated yet,” said Jagat Singh, the tent house operator. The foundation alleges that because they exceeded two months period promised by them for keeping the Covid centre, the landowner allegedly sent some people to remove the camp while they gave them Rs 3.5 lakh for maintenance.When the drama prevailed, police team reached the spot and SDM Badshahpur Satish Yadav also visited the site.“We are talking with foundation members and land owner and have asked them to give some time to vacate the land as the foundation is doing social work,” said Satish Yadav, SDM, Badshahpur.Meanwhile, police said that no complaint has been received yet.Hemkunt Foundation had been providing free oxygen to Covid patients in Gurugram and had set up this oxygen equipped centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-drama-as-landowners-want-hemkunt-foundations-covid-centre-removed-in-gurugram-262909
03-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||Centre wants farmers to shift movement’s base to Haryana from Delhi borders: Tikait||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 3The Bhartiya Kisan Union leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni have come up with diverse views on the decision of a group of youth activists who gheraoed the house of the Tohana’s JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli in Tohana yesterday.The two prominent leaders who were on a visit to Jind district today in separate schedules, differed on the point whether ‘these activists’ should be termed as rebels or not.Gurnam Singh Charuni maintained that those who stormed out of the meeting of the SKM despite a collective decision in Tohana yesterday have turned rebels. “They were a handful of people. We took a decision after consultation with the farmers and the local committee of the SKM to gherao the police stations in Haryana. But later took decision to gherao the house of the MLA. This is a conspiracy to spoil the agitation,” he stated adding that even activists, with whom JJP MLA Babli had a verbal spat, agreed with the collective decision to give ultimatum to the government to register the case against the MLA till June 7.Later, while talking to the media at Khatkar toll plaza in Jind district, when asked about the arrest of some farmer activists in Tohana who were staging protest outside the Tohana’s JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli, Tikait had a different view than Charuni. Tikait said those who were arrested by the police from outside Babli’s residence cannot be termed as ‘rebels’. “They are also our people and part of the agitation. They went to MLA’s residence even though the meeting of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha had taken a decision to gherao the police stations on June 7 across Haryana. But we will correct them and make them realize that such steps are uncalled for,” he said.Tikait said Haryana police were registering criminal cases in different parts of Haryana so to provoke the farmers. “We understand the designs of the government which want the Haryana farmers get provoked. Even if the Haryana government register thousands of criminal cases against farmers, but let me make it clear that the agitation will continue on the Delhi borders,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-wants-farmers-to-shift-movements-base-to-haryana-from-delhi-borders-tikait-262904
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Airtel deploys additional 20 MHz spectrum in Haryana to boost network capacity||After deploying additional 25 MHz spectrum in Punjab, now Airtel has upgraded its mobile network in Haryana by rolling out an additional 20 MHz spectrum in the 2300 MHz band along with advance network software tools to bolster high speed data capacity in its network. The additional spectrum will strengthen network for its customers across Haryana. It will enable improved network availability and data speeds in urban and rural areas.The deployment also allows Airtel to offer wider coverage along highways and rail routes as well as increase footprint in villages as more people access high speed data services, according to a press statement issued by the company.   With the addition of this fresh spectrum acquired during the latest spectrum auctions, Airtel has the largest spectrum bank of 71.2 MHz in Haryana.Manu Sood, Hub CEO – Upper North, Bharti Airtel said, “With the highest spectrum holding at 71.2 MHz in Haryana, we are well positioned to meet the surging demand for high-speed data. We remain obsessed with delivering a world-class service experience to our customers and continue to invest aggressively in new spectrum and network upgrades at a time when our customers need it the most.” It has also deployed advanced network technologies and tools such as pre-5G Massive MIMO, 4G Advanced and Carrier Aggregation to step-up high-speed network capacity and coverage.       The telecom service provider has over 53.80 lakh customers in Haryana and its network covers 97.57% population of the state. Airtel’s spectrum holdings in Haryana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/airtel%C2%A0deploys-additional-20%C2%A0mhz-spectrum-in-haryana%C2%A0to-boost-network-capacity-262875
03-06-2021||---||Another Punjab farmer dies at Tikri border||Jhajjar, January 25Another Punjab farmer has died at the Tikri border.The farmer has been identified as Shant Singh (40) of Punjab’s Barnala district.His body has been brought to the Trauma Centre in Bahadurgarh town.Farmers have been protesting against Centre’s three farm laws on the Delhi borders for over six months now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-punjab-farmer-dies-at-tikri-border-262838
03-06-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||Kerala retains top rank in Niti Aayog’s SDG India Index; Himachal, TN share second spot||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 3The government’s top think tank NITI Aayog on Thursday launched the third edition of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) India Index and Dashboard 2020-21, as Himachal Pradesh found a place among the first five performing states, with Haryana becoming one of the top gainer states.Noting that the country’s overall SDG score has improved by 6 points— from 60 in 2019 to 66 in 2020–21, the Index, which was released by NITI Aayog’s Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar in the presence Member (Health) VK Paul, CEO Amitabh Kant and Adviser (SDG) Sanyukta Samaddar, has placed Kerala at the top of the chart with 75 points on a score of 100.According to the Index Bihar was found to be the worst performing state with a score of 52, while Jharkhand came second from the bottom with 56 points. The other three bottom five states include Assam (57), Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Rajasthan and UP with 60 points, and Chhattisgarh, Nagaland and Odisha with 61 points.“This positive stride towards achieving the targets is largely driven by exemplary country-wide performance in Goal 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation) and Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), where the composite Goal scores are 83 and 92, respectively,” the SDG Index report said, while adding that Mizoram, Haryana, and Uttarakhand are the top gainers in 2020–21 in terms of improvement in score from 2019, with an increase of 12, 10 and 8 points, respectively.According to the Index, Himachal Pradesh along with Tamil Nadu bagged 74 points to secure the second position, while Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Karnataka and Uttrakhand bagged the joint third position with 72 points. The fourth and fifth positions were bagged by Sikkim (71) and Maharashtra (70), respectively.As the Index was prepared on the basis of 16 identified goals, including a host of social, environmental and economic parameters, different states did well on different counts.Tamil Nadu and Delhi have been adjudged best in dealing with issues relating to poverty. Similarly, Kerala and Chandigarh did well to ensure zero hunger indices.On the good health front, Gujarat and Delhi have been adjudged the best, while on quality education, Kerala and Chandigarh were on the top of the chart. Chattisgarh and Andman & Nicobar Island did well in ensuring gender equality.On clean water and sanitation, Goa and Lakhadweep did well. In terms of producing and consuming clean energy, the performance of 21 states and Union Territories (UTs), including Haryana, Punjab, J&K and Ladakh, proved to be good.On the economic growth count, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh topped the chart, as Gujarat and Delhi topped the list in terms of having good infrastructure. Similarly, in terms of life below water Odisha found to be the best, while in case of life on the land Arunachal Pradesh and Chandigarh got the top ranking. In terms of peace and justice, Uttrakhand and Pudducherry were found to be the best.Among the Uts, Chandigarh with 79 points topped the chart, followed by Delhi, Pudducharry and Lakshadweep (68), Andaman & Nicobar (67), J&K and Ladakh (66) and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu (62).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kerala-retains-top-rank-in-niti-aayogs-sdg-india-index-himachal-tn-share-second-spot-262800
03-06-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim's CT scan indicates lesion in pancreas, advised PET scan||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 3The CT scan (abdomen) of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim has indicated a suspected mass lesion in the pancreas. He has been advised to undergo PET scan to ascertain whether the lesion is benign or malignant (cancerous).Sources confirmed to The Tribune that a suspected mass lesion had been detected in the CT scan report of the jailed dera chief and he had been advised PET scan examination to rule out the possibility of cancer.Contacted for her comments, the PGIMS Medical Superintendent, Dr Pushpa Dahiya, conceded that the dera head was required to undergo PET scan, for which he had to be referred to some higher centre.“His CT scan (abdomen) report indicates some suspected abnormality, for which further investigation through PET scan is required. We do not have the PET scan facility at Rohtak PGIMS as yet. Hence, he has to get it done at AIIMS or any other higher medical institute which has this facility,” she said.The dera chief was taken from Sunaria prison in Rohtak district to the local PGIMS on Thursday morning after he complained of abdominal pain. He was sent back to the prison after he underwent CT-Angiography, CT scan (abdomen) and Fibroscan for liver.The dera chief is undergoing imprisonment after being convicted and sentenced for the rape of two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.He has been suffering from hypertension and diabetes and was taken to the PGIMS last month as well after he complained of dizziness and restlessness. He was examined by a board of doctors and was discharged as no major health issues were detected in his medical examination then.Last time, he was advised to undergo Covid test, holter test and CT scan, but he had refused to get these tests done. However, this time, he agreed to get diagnostic procedures conducted, following which underwent the aforesaid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahims-ct-scan-indicates-lesion-in-pancreas-advised-pet-scan-262793
03-06-2021||Hisar||Former MLA  Puran Chand Dabra dies of Covid||Former INLD legislator Puran Chand Dabra died of Covid at a private hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday. He was 75. The former legislator was a native of Hisar's Dabra village. He represented the erstwhile Ghirai Assembly segment in the district from 2000 to 2005. He joined the JJP and was designated as its national general secretary. TNSChandigarhPower bill deadline extendedIn view of the Covid-induced lockdown, Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has extended the deadline to pay electricity bills from June 7 to June 14. The bills, whose due date was between May 3 and June 7, can now pay their dues without any additional charges till June 14. TNSAid sought for dead govt staffThe Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS) on Wednesday demanded a compensation of Rs50 lakh and a government job for each family of state employees, who have died of Covid. Nearly 250 employees, including 23 leaders, from 16 departments have succumbed to virus. Among them are 115 teachers, 50 power workers, 27 policemen and 22 health official. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-mla-puran-chand-dabra-dies-of-covid-262668
03-06-2021||Faridabad||Nodal centre for virtual labs||Anti-Tobacco Day observedAmbala: To spread awareness on the harmful effects of tobacco, Anti-Tobacco Day was observed at MMIS, Sadopur in Ambala district. Students of Classes IX to XII participated in self framed slogan writing and presentation of their slogans on Anti- Tobacco Day. A special assembly was also conducted where students was told about the ill-effects of tobacco, which can cause mouth cancer, tooth loss, white patches and gum disease. The harmful effects that the usage brought to the smoker, his family and community were explained to the students. Principal Dr Nisha Sharma urged the students to keep themselves at bay from tobacco usage and be an asset to society.UIET providing jobs during pandemicKurukshetra: Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, said the University Institute of Engineering & Technology (UIET), Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, had proven that it was the leading institute in terms of placement of students in the region. UIET director Prof CC Tripathi said once again during the pandemic, the UIET, KUK, had lived up to its promise of quality education and helped in providing the Industry with required man power and professionals. Dr Nikhil Marriwala, training and placement officer of UIET, said the institute worked on the results of the online assessment and arranged for classes on learning modules on soft skills, competitive tests and academic review. There have been 23 placements in TCS, 32 in Infosys, two each in Yamaha Motors and Hexaware, four in CodeQuotient, and final results are awaited for three joining at the IOCL, 20 placements in Wipro.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nodal-centre-for-virtual-labs-262666
03-06-2021||Public waste bins end up overflowing||Waste bins a health hazard in Panchkula sector||Residents of Sector 20, PanchkulaElectricity poles pose danger to passersbyThe accompanying photograph taken on the main dividing road between Sector 7 and 8 (in front of its entry gate No 4) on NH-73 in Panchkula speaks volumes about the lackadaisical and indifferent attitude of the city's power authorities. Notably, there are many more such precariously positioned electricity poles on this key road, which connects it with the Shimla-Delhi highway on either side. The authorities should get up from their slumber and act at the earliest?Vinayak G, PanchkulaVillagers flock to quacks for Covid treatmentVillagers have a misconception that if they go to a hospital for Covid testing, they will test positive and if admitted, then death was certain. So, they solely depend upon quacks who give them all sorts of treatments from paracetamol tablets to glucose. In certain villages, several people died, but nobody blamed the quacks. More medical facilities should be provided in rural areas..Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waste-bins-a-health-hazard-in-panchkula-sector-262664
03-06-2021||Ravinder Saini
||Pothole woes for Rohtak commuters||Tribune News Service Rohtak, June 2  Potholes on several roads in the city have not only taken a toll on the vehicles but also become a major cause of accidents.  In the latest mishap that took place today, a tractor-trailer overturned near Sunaria Chowk due to a pothole on the road. The tractor driver fell on the road and suffered injuries. He was later taken to the hospital. Residents of a nearby area said two-three accidents in a week had become a routine at the site as the potholes were lying unfilled for the past several months.  “We have covered the potholes thrice on our own in a year to check the mishaps. Pictures of the potholes were also uploaded on social media to attract the attention of the district authorities but all in vain,” claimed Parveen, a resident.  A main road passing outside the Gymkhana Club in HUDA, Sector 4, is also in a shambles. “The road is in a pathetic condition for the past around two years and I have approached the officials concerned several times to get it repaired but the issue still remains unsolved,” said Jai Bhagwan, Municipal Councillor from Ward 11.  Jitender Bhardwaj, a resident of Suncity, said driving on the road had become a risky affair. “I too met with an accident some days ago when my motorbike slipped while trying to avoid a deep pothole. The authorities should either construct a new road or carry out patch work immediately to prevent road accidents, he added. Hemant Bakhshi, a congress leader who is persistently raising the issue of potholed roads, said a stretch of the Delhi road from Tilyar Lake to IMT Chowk had been in a bad shape for the past one year while several potholes had developed on the Jind-Gohana link bypass, Jhajjar road, ITI road and Bhiwani road inconveniencing the commuters.  “We have clicked pictures of all such roads and these will soon be sent to the government for necessary action,” Bakhshi added. Ashok Kumar, Superintending Engineer (PWD), while rubbishing the allegations of non-committal attitude said maintenance of all roads was done at  regular intervals. “We take prompt action on the complaints lodged by the locals and potholes are filled immediately. Today’s accident near Sunaria Chowk is not in my knowledge,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pothole-woes-for-rohtak-commuters-262571
03-06-2021||Parveen Arora
||70 illegal entry-exit points on Karnal National Highway||Tribune News Service Karnal, June 2 Illegal entry and exit points continue to exist on the National Highway-44, posing a serious threat to commuters.  As per a survey conducted jointly by a team of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and a district-level committee on road safety, around 70 illegal entry and exit points have been identified, which have been made by residents to run dhabas, restaurants and fuel station. This 70-km stretch extends from the Karnal-Panipat border to Karnal-Kurukshetra border in the district limits. The issue was highlighted at the district-level road safety committee meeting held recently, following which the NHAI has started the process of closing  these. “Around 70 illegal entry and exit points have been identified by the team members. We have started closing these and so far, nearly 15 have been closed,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, Section Engineer of the NHAI, Ambala, adding that the remaining will be closed by mid June. Sandeep Lather, a member of the district road safety committee, said they conducted surveys regularly on the stretch between Karnal-Panipat border and Karnal-Kurukshetra border. “We have raised the issue at the meeting of the road safety committee chaired by the DC and will continue to do so in future,” he said. One of the members of the committee said some people got illegal entry and exit points opened on the NH-44 to run their business, but their act was a serious threat to commuters. They should stop such activities for the safety of commuters. He said several people had already lost their lives due to these illegal access points. “The NHAI has been directed to close all illegal points on NH-44 to minimise the possibility of accidents,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/70-illegal-entry-exit-points-on-karnal-national-highway-262573
03-06-2021||---||Women’s assn to rescue of railway porters||Ambala, June 2The Northern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (NRWWO), Ambala division, has come to the aid of railway porters, who have been struggling for livelihood due to lesser footfall, fewer trains and Covid scare.As many as 70 ‘rail sahayaks’ at Ambala Cantonment Railway Station have been provided ration.Each porter has been given 10-kg flour, 5-kg rice, 1-kg edible oil, 1-kg sugar, 250-gram tea, 2-kg pulses and one packet of salt. The Tribune had also highlighted the plight of railway porters in its columns on May 31.Harvinder Kaur, president of the organision and wife of Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh, said, “Amid the current Covid crisis, porters are facing hardships in making both ends meet. All members and office-bearers of the organised decided to own the responsibility to assist the needy.”Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan said all employees and officers of the division came forward to contribute to the organisation for this noble cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/womens-assn-to-rescue-of-railway-porters-262574
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Now, rectify power meter readings online||Power consumers can now get the errors in the meter readings rectified online from the comfort of their homes.  For this, the facility of “trust reading” is being provided by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam (UHBVN) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam (DHBVN), an official spokesman said. In case the readings are wrong, consumers can get the bill rectified by uploading the correct meter reading on the department’s website. He said the facility was available for domestic, non-domestic and LT industrial categories (load up to maximum 20 KW) consumers. For this, consumers will be able to use the facility by visiting the nigam’s website, www.uhbvn.org.in or www.dhbvn.org.in.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-rectify-power-meter-readings-online-262575
03-06-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma
||604 occupants to  get rights of shops, houses||Tribune News Service Yamunanagar, June 2 As many as 604 persons from Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, who have shops or houses on lease or rent from urban bodies for 20 years, are all set to get ownership rights over the properties. They will be given a discount of 20 to 50 per cent in the collector rates to get the properties registered in their names. The decision of the state government has brought a major relief to the occupants of the urban bodies’ properties (majority being shops).  Mayor Madan Chauhan said the period of the completion of 20 years would be considered from December 31, 2020; therefore, their lease should be before January 1, 2000. “A person who has been in possession of such property for 50 years will be given 50 per cent rebate (no discount above 50 per cent) on the collector rate at the time of registration. Similarly, a person who has been in possession for 40 years will get 40 per cent rebate,” said the Mayor.  The traders and shopkeepers have expressed gratitude to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for implementing this policy. “We had been struggling for long to get the ownership rights over our shops. The government has fulfilled our long-pending demand,” said Prem Sagar Sharma, president of the Meera Bai Bazar Association, Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/604-occupants-to-get-rights-of-shops-houses-262576
03-06-2021||Karnal||Karnal: Cultural corridor deadline extended to June 30||Karnal Smart City Limited has set June 30 deadline for the completion of a 4-km cultural corridor between the NDRI and Geeta Dwar. Earlier, the deadline was March 31, but the work could not be completed owing to the Covid-induced lockdown. “I reviewed the project and extended the deadline to June 30 from March 31,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, CEO (Karnal Smart City)-cum-Deputy Commissioner.He said on the four-km stretch (2 km on both sides of the road), 6-ft wide footpath had been constructed, while work on a cycle track with 6-ft width was underway. Green railing on both sides of the road would be added attraction for residents, Yadav added. “Music system will be installed on 50 electric poles for morning and evening walkers. Spiritual music will be played during these times,” said Yadav. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-cultural-corridor-deadline-extended-to-june-30-262577
03-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||35 illegal shops demolished in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 2 The enforcement team led by District Town Planner RS Bath demolished 35 illegally built shops in Khandsa today. Show-cause notices and orders for the restoration had already been issued to shop builders, but no satisfactory reply was received. The shops have reportedly been built by RTI activist OP Kataria and a case was also registered against him for the violation of Urban Development Act on May21 at the Sector 37 police station.  The enforcement team along with 200 policemen and four bulldozers started the operation at 10 am and the all illegal shops were razed by 4 pm. According to ATP Ashish Sharma notices were also issued by the MC regarding the said construction. The owner of the building pleaded to stop the demolition, but he was told that he had no approved building plans. “A complaint was also received at the CM Widow regarding this. The special thing is that the show-cause notices and orders for the restoration were issued on violation of the rules of the Haryana Urban Development Act, but still the construction was not stopped and finally, the demolition action was taken”, added ATP Sharma. After several attempts, Kataria could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/35-illegal-shops-demolished-in-gurugram-262578
03-06-2021||Karnal||Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College to start clinical trial of antibody cocktail||The state has selected the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), a dedicated Covid facility for Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Yamunanagar districts, to conduct the clinical trials of monoclonal antibody cocktail to treat patients with mild to moderate infection.  “We have received a communication from the Director, Medical Education, regarding the selection of the KCGMC for the human trial of monoclonal antibody cocktail on Covid patients with mild to moderate infection. We have made all arrangements for it. A dedicated place has been identified for the therapy on human volunteers. We will start the trial as soon as the ICMR issues the guidelines in this regard,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC. The therapy came into limelight after it was administered to US ex-president Donald Trump. Now, it is being administered in several corporate hospitals in India. “Following the results, the state has allowed its clinical trial on Covid patients,” he said, adding that the therapy was a cocktail of two monoclonal antibodies. Dr Dureja claimed that it would reduce the chances of hospitalisation. “The antibody cocktail is priced at around Rs 60,000 per dose and a single dose is given.” “We are preparing a list of patients willing to get the therapy.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kalpana-chawla-government-medical-college-to-start-clinical-trial-of-antibody-cocktail-262579
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana School Education Board Class XII results on internal assessment: Gujjar||Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar has put an end to all speculation regarding the Class XII exams of the Haryana School Education Board and said the state would follow the directions of the Centre in this regard. He said the state would conduct internal assessment, based on which the results would be declared soon. The result of Class X exams would also be declared by June 15. He said the situation was not conducive to hold the exams, but if a child wants to appear, it can be conducted when the normalcy returns. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-school-education-board-class-xii-results-on-internal-assessment-gujjar-262580
03-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Two of 5 ventilators sent by Haryana CM yet to be installed||Tribune News ServiceRewari, June 2Two ventilators provided by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar are yet to be installed at the Civil Hospital in Kosli town here reportedly due to the non-availability of an anaesthesia specialist. The ventilators have been lying at the Rewari General Hospital for the past over three weeks.Taking a serious note, DC Yashendra Singh has directed the Civil Surgeon to install the ventilators at the Kosli hospital and to train the medical staff in operating these to ensure their use as needed.Sources said the CM had provided five ventilators to Rewari district — two of which were for the Kosli hospital, but these were lying at the Rewari General Hospital. The issue came to the fore during an online meeting of district administrative officials held on Tuesday over the prevailing conditions in view of Covid.“It indicates the negligence of the district health authorities that two ventilators have not yet been installed at the Kosli hospital despite repeated reminders. Operating the ventilator is part of doctor’s working, hence the excuse about the non-availability of trained staff won’t work. We are ready to provide every sort of help needed for it,” the DC said.Sources said there were 18 ventilators in Rewari, but merely two anaesthesia specialists available, while neither any physician nor any nurse is trained in operating it.Dr Krishan Kumar, Civil Surgeon, said the ventilators were provided before his transfer to Rewari. “All ventilators were being used at the General Hospital. Now, two of these and as many Bipap machines have been sent to the Kosli hospital.”Kosli Civil HospitalSMO Dr Chitranjan said the ventilators would be installed as soon as received, but no trained staff was available at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-of-5-ventilators-sent-by-haryana-cm-yet-to-be-installed-262582
03-06-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Upload Faridabad medical college hiring details, govt told||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, June 2The Information Commission, Haryana, has directed the state’s Medical Education and Research Department to upload the information regarding the recruitment of doctors in the newly established Atal Behari Vajpayee Government Medical College and Hospital (ABVGMC) at Chhainsa village in Faridabad within a month and provide the information sought under the RTI Act by a local resident.The direction from Chief Information Commissioner (CIC) Yashpal Singhal comes in wake of the second appeal filed by Ajay Kumar Bahl, an RTI activist here, last month.Bahl, in his application on May 4, had sought details of the recruitment of 120 posts of doctor, initiated in December 2020, for this medical college and hospital. Though information was sought on 13 points, all were related to the appointment of the doctors and related staff here.“The Commission recommends the public authority, ACS, Medical Education and Research, Haryana, to consider uploading permissible information pertaining to the selection (appointment) made recently the ABVGMC on the website of the public authority within a month of the receipt of the order,’’ says the direction passed by the CIC on May 28. It has also directed the SPIO of the department to furnish the permissible information within time under Section 7(1) of the Act. “The second appeal was filed after the authorities concerned failed to provide the information within the time-frame,” said Bahl.Earlier known as Goldfields Medical College, it was taken over by the state in 2018. It had been lying closed since 2015 when the private management abandoned it due to financial bankruptcy.He claimed that if the college and hospital, having 200 beds, was started in time after doctors’ recruitment, it could have saved many lives amid the pandemic, which reached its peak recently.Though the college operation was handed over to the Army last month, it is claimed that it was too late and did not prove to be of much help, as it admitted only patients referred by the Civil Hospital.Info sought by Faridabad RTI activist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/upload-faridabad-medical-college-hiring-details-govt-told-262583
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Transmission loss of power discom reduces by 2.87%||The aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) have come down by 2.87 per cent this year. Its AT&C losses have come down from 16.5 per cent last year to 13.63 per cent this year. An official spokesperson said one of the major reasons for AT&C loss was power theft. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/transmission-loss-of-power-discom-reduces-by-2-87-262584
03-06-2021||Rohtak||Eminent writer Prof DR Chaudhry passes  away||Eminent writer and academician Prof DR Chaudhry, who was also a former chairman of the Haryana Public Service Commission and member of the Haryana Administrative Reforms Commission, passed away here on Wednesday. He was 86 and is survived by his wife, daughter and two sons. Professor Chaudhry was the editor and publisher of Haryana’s fortnightly newspaper ‘Peeng’. He was also a social activist and had formed Haryana Insaf Society, a non-governmental organisation. Professor Chaudhry’s books ‘Haryana at Crossroads: Problems and Prospects’ and ‘Khap Panchayat and Modern Age’ have been highly acclaimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eminent-writer-prof-dr-chaudhry-passes-away-262585
03-06-2021||Mahendragarh||Poultry farm owner killed||A poultry farm owner, identified as Naurang Lal (60), was found murdered at Bhadhaf village last evening.  A case has been registered against unidentified persons on the complaint of the victim’s son Sher Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poultry-farm-owner-killed-262586
03-06-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 861-cr revenue earned from deed registrations||The state has collected a total revenue of Rs 861.09 crore from deed registration during the first two months of the current fiscal year (April 1 to May 31). A total stamp duty of Rs 803.12 crore and registration fee of Rs 57.97 crore were collected in these two months. Financial Commissioner and Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, Sanjeev Kaushal said Gurugram topped the state with the stamp duty collection amounting to Rs 349.48 crore and registration fee of Rs 17.31 crore from 8,789 deeds.  Similarly, Faridabad with a total of 3,886 deed registrations resulted in stamp duty collection of Rs 74.58 crore and fee of Rs 5.24 crore. A total of 4,746 deed registrations in Karnal resulted in a stamp duty collection of Rs 48.01 crore and fee of Rs 3.95 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-861-cr-revenue-earned-from-deed-registrations-262587
03-06-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri
||‘Ignored’, protesting farmers step up stir against Haryana govt||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 2 With the Centre “ignoring” the protest against the three farm laws and keeping mum on the offer to resume talks, farmers have decided to step up the stir against the ruling BJP-JJP alliance. Three protests took place during the last fortnight. While farmers and cops clashed following CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s function in Hisar, the protesters showed black flags and gheraoed wrestler-turned- BJP leader Babita Phogat in Charkhi Dadri. In Tohana, JJP MLA Devender Babli faced the ire of farmers. Though Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said strict action would be initiated against violators, the farmers have decided to “close in” on leaders of the ruling party anyway. “We have been showing black flags and staging protests wherever BJP-JJP leaders are visiting. It has been over six months since the stir began, but the government seems unconcerned. The protests against these leaders seemed to have abated because they were not organising functions due to Covid,” says BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, adding the protests would follow the leaders wherever they go.  Stating that everything for them had been a struggle so far, Charuni said they were still fighting against the three laws. They had to protest for getting the cases registered against farmers in the Hisar clash and the ones registered at MLA Babli’s behest dropped, he added.  The BKU (Charuni) sees a design in the “increased visits” by leaders.  “The leaders have changed the strategy of avoiding programmes and are coming out in public to create mischief through anti-social elements and malign us. Let the Home Minister take whatever action he wants,” Charuni added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ignored-protesting-farmers-step-up-stir-against-haryana-govt-262588
03-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Illness, gender no ground to grant bail: Gurugram court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2In a significant order liable to change the way relief is sought on the basis of gender or health, a Gurugram court has ruled that illness or womanhood of an accused was in itself no ground to grant bail. Other factors were also required to be taken into consideration.“If an accused is sick or a woman, it would not, ipso facto, give one right to get bail as other relevant factors are also to be considered to ensure that real justice is done,” Additional District and Sessions Judge Phalit Sharma ruled, while taking up a matter pertaining to the Companies Act.‘Other factors vital for real justice’Taking up a matter pertaining to the Companies Act, Additional District and Sessions Judge in a Gurugram court, Phalit Sharma, ruled that if an accused was sick or a woman, it would not, ipso facto, give one right to get bail as other relevant factors were also to be considered to ensure that real justice was done.The Judge was hearing a bail petition filed against the State of Haryana by Priyanka Modi in an alleged Rs 4,000-crore fraud matter. Among other things, her counsel submitted that the applicant-accused had a six-year-old child to look after as a majority of her family members, including husband and father, were in custody.The Judge asserted the court could not discard the plea of childcare and that the applicant-accused was a woman. But, at the same time, this kind of plea alone would not entitle her to get regular bail.Judge Sharma added that an applicant did not deserve discretionary relief of bail from the court, when he/she committed offences not only having adverse effect on an individual, but also society at large. It included serious fraud cases where innocent people were made victims due to fraudulent transactions, acts of luring or propaganda to let them believe they could become kings in a day. It also included frauds played with banks to get loans based on the concealment of facts and on the basis of fabricated documents.Whether the person was a man or a woman, sick or healthy, was inconsequential. Such persons, irrespective of sex or health conditions, did not deserve relief, until and unless special circumstances existed for the court to decide otherwise. An exception was child given protection under the law because of age.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illness-gender-no-ground-to-grant-bail-gurugram-court-262589
03-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||Farmers to gherao police stations in Haryana on June 7||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 2Farmers have announced to gherao all police stations in the state for two hours on June 7 to press for their demand for the registration of a criminal case against JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli.They held a meeting at Tohana in Fatehabad district after the police booked some farmers in connection with yesterday’s incident when the JJP MLA was allegedly heckled by protesters during his visit to the Tohana Civil Hospital.BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “We have taken three decisions if the police failed to book the MLA. All police stations will be gheraoed from 11 am to 1 pm on June 7. On June 10 and 11, farmers will carry out a procession carrying the effigy of the MLA in an open jeep in all villages of Tohana subdivision. Later, the effigy will be consigned to flames. If the police fail to take note of our demands even then, we will urge khap panchayats to boycott the MLA.”In reaction to the FIR against farmers, the protesters, led by Charuni, staged a demonstration at Madan Lal Dhingra park near the SDM office.A delegation of administrative officials also held discussion with the farmers, who reiterated their demand for registering a criminal case against the MLA for assaulting one of the farmers and allegedly using abusive language against them.Vij warns of stern actionLabourers to join agitation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-gherao-police-stations-in-haryana-on-june-7-262590
03-06-2021||Yamunanagar||‘Humiliated’ in panchayat, Yamunanagar Dalit man ends life||A 60-year-old Dalit man reportedly died by suicide after he was allegedly humiliated in a panchayat meeting held in the district’s Barauli Majra village on May 25.The deceased was identified as Ram Chander. On his wife’s complaint, sarpanch’s father Arinder Singh has been booked under Section 306 of the IPC and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act. The case was registered at the Chhachhrauli police station on May 31.The complainant, Shiksha Devi, who is the former sarpanch of Barauli Majra village, alleged the accused hit her husband with shoes during the meeting and made casteist remarks.The FIR mentioned “election rivalry” as the reason behind Chander’s extreme step.There was, however, no mention of the reason for convening the meeting, but sources said the panchayat assembled to discuss a matter concerning Chander’s son and a girl of the village. The two were reportedly in a relationship.“Ever since the last sarpanch elections, Arinder Singh nursed a grudge against my husband. He hit my husband with shoes and made casteist remarks. Humiliated, he consumed poison on May 31,” alleged the complainant.A handwritten suicide note reportedly written by Chander was recovered from his house. He reportedly wrote that the sarpanch’s father took out his shoe to hit him.The accused, however, told the media he neither hit Chander with shoes nor made casteist remarks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/humiliated-in-panchayat-yamunanagar-dalit-man-ends-life-262591
03-06-2021||Gurugram||Collection agent robbed in Gurugram||Three unidentified bike-borne masked men allegedly looted a cash collection agent of Rs 4.5 lakh after throwing chilli powder into his eyes this afternoon.The agent was going to a bank after collecting payments from stores. The police were checking the CCTV footage of nearby areas and an FIR was registered at the Sector 53 police station in this regard.The incident happened around 3.30 pm on Wednesday at gate number 4 of Ardee City in Sector 52 when the robbers chased Jeetu Kumar, the agent with a private company. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/collection-agent-robbed-in-gurugram-262592
03-06-2021||---||Haryana hockey  player Manpreet Kaur eyeing India debut during Tokyo Olympics||Chandigarh, June 2Manpreet Kaur, who has been training at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Bengaluru as a part of the women's senior core probable group, is eyeing to make her debut for India at the upcoming Tokyo Olympics.“Debut for the senior national team at a dream event like the Olympics… it is like a fairytale. I mean, it will be a different feeling altogether, but I want to keep my feet on the ground and continue working hard,” said Manpreet, who hails from Shahbad.The Haryana girl said though the selection was not in her hands, she wanted to make every day of her training count.“Team selection is not in my hand, but I would say this phase is really exciting. We all are pumped up and just working hard, making each and every day count in the training.”Having represented the junior team, the 22-year-old defender earned her maiden call-up for the senior group in January last year.“It’s been a great experience so far with the senior team. Things are very different to what I experienced when I was with the junior team. From training to diet to fitness, everything is on a different level here, and you need to adapt to it as quickly as possible,” she said.Manpreet was a part of India’s recent tour to Argentina. It was her maiden international outing with the senior national team.Manpreet is a product of famous Shahabad Hockey Academy, which has produced the likes of Indian women's team skipper Rani Rampal and experienced forwards Navjot Kaur and Navneet Kaur.“She (Rani) is my biggest inspiration, and it's a special feeling to spend time with her at the camp. She guides young players like me in the right direction, and she is the biggest motivator in the team,” said Manpreet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-hockey-player-manpreet-kaur-eyeing-india-debut-during-tokyo-olympics-262411
03-06-2021||---||Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan’s house trespassed; woman, son held||Chandigarh, June 2A woman and her 24-year-old son have been arrested by the local police for allegedly trespassing into Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan’s house in Sector 7 and deterring a policeman on guard duty from discharging his duty. The same woman was earlier arrested in April for allegedly trespassing into Vardhan’s house and deterring a policeman from discharging his duty.According to the police, Constable Sumer Singh of the Haryana Armed Police, who was on guard duty at the house, alleged that Preeti Jhakhar and her son Atharva Chaudhary forcibly entered House No. 20 in Sector 7 on June 1 and deterred him from performing his duty.The constable further alleged that the suspects snatched his watch.The police were informed following which both suspects were arrested.A case under Sections 379 A (snatching), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of duty), 452 and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of a common intention) of the IPC was registered against the two at the Sector 26 police station. They have been remanded in judicial custody.Preeti was earlier arrested on April 26 under Sections 448 and 353 of the IPC. She was later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-secretary-vijai-vardhans-house-trespassed-woman-son-held-262422
