04-06-2021||New Delhi||Gadkari directs to expedite works in Ambala in Haryana||Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari has directed authorities concerned to expedite the pending projects concerning the ministry in Ambala.This was during his meeting with Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti and Social Justice Rattan Lal Kataria.Kataria met Gadkari regarding infrastructure projects pertaining to Ambala Lok Sabha constituency which is represented by him. The project that figured during the discussions include Ambala-Chandigarh Express Highway greenfield project, Shamli-Ambala greenfield project, Saha-Shahabad, Yamunanagar-Karera Khurd overbridge, Ambala-Shastri Nagar vehicular overpass (VOP), Zirakpur-Panchkula bypass, bridge linking Panchkula Sector 20 and Sector 12, Surajpur bypass and Baddi-Pinjore projects.Kataria informed reporters after the meeting that he also thanked Gadkari for giving approval of the Ambala ring road project.“With this road, Ambala Cantt and Ambala City will get rid of heavy traffic coming from Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh,” Kataria said.Kataria suggested to Gadkari that as Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad were densely populated and witnessed traffic congestion, Ambala at a distance of 200 km from Delhi could be developed as a transport hub for these five states.He buttressed his point, saying Ambala was at a reasonable distance from Delhi.Also, upgradation and modernisation of the national highway connecting Chandigarh and Delhi and sufficient flyovers along it, the travel time between Delhi and Ambala on the stretch was a breeze, he said.“Gadkari ji has assured of full cooperation,” Kataria said.Kataria also thanked Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar for approval of Ambala ring road project and invited him for its ‘bhoomi poojan’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gadkari-directs-to-expedite-works-in-ambala-in-haryana-263369
04-06-2021||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh||Haryana effects major bureaucratic shake-up; transfers 42 IAS officers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4Haryana government issued transfer and posting orders of 42 IAS officers with DCs being replaced in several districts on Friday.   ACS Alok Nigam has been given the additional charge of Mines and Geology Department while Principal Secretary D. Suresh has been given the additional charge of Housing for All Department. Commissioner Gurugram Division Rajeev Ranjan has been given the charge of Secretary, Monitoring and Coordination Department in addition to his present duties.  Nitin Kumar Yadav has been posted as Commissioner and Secretary Employment Department, Director General, Supplies and Disposals.   Pankaj Agarwal has been given the charge of Commissioner and Secretary, Administrative Reforms Department; Labour Commissioner; Secretary, Labour Department; Secretary, Personnel, Training, Vigilance and Parliamentary Affairs Departments; Director Training (Ex-Officio); Inquiry Officer, Vigilance and Member Secretary, Haryana Governance Reforms Authority.  Pankaj Yadav is the new Commissioner Ambala Division, Mohammed Shayin has been posted as Managing Director, Haryana Power Generation Corporation Ltd and Director General and Secretary, Mines and Geology Department, and Jagdeep Singh will be new Director General and Secretary, Social Justice and Empowerment Department.   Anshaj Singh has been given the additional charge of Director Elementary Education and Special Secretary, School Education Department while Rajiv Rattan is new Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration.  Sharandeep Kaur Brar has been posted as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Panchkula and District Municipal Commissioner, Panchkula.  Amarjit Singh Mann is the new DC Charkhi Dadri, Sujan Singh has been posted as Director AYUSH and Mani Ram Sharma has got the responsibility of Special Secretary, Home Department and Commissioner, Gurudwara Elections in addition to his present duties.  Girish Arora is the new DC Yamunanagar while Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has been posted as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, and Chief Administrator, Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board.  Ashok Kumar Sharma is the new MD Haryana State Warehousing Corporation Ltd, Rajesh Jogpal has been posted as Administrator HSVP, Hisar, and Additional Director, Urban Estate, Hisar, and Jitender Kumar is the new MD Haryana State Cooperative Federation of Sugar Mills (Sugarfed). Shyam Lal Poonia has been posted as DC Jhajjar and Mukul Kumar is transferred as Deputy Commissioner, Kurukshetra.  Vinay Pratap Singh is the new DC Panchkula and will also hold the post of Chief Administrator, Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Panchkula. Mahavir Kaushik has been posted as DC Fatehabad, Narhari Singh Banger is the new Administrator HSVP, Rohtak and Pradeep Kumar has been posted as Administrator, HSVP (HQ), Panchkula. Dhirendra Khadgata is the new Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Ambala, and District Municipal Commissioner, Ambala. Ajay Singh Tomer has been posted as Special Secretary Finance Department while Dharmender Singh is the new Administrator HSVP, Panchkula. Sushil Sarwan is the new DC Panipat, Shakti Singh has got the charge of DC Nuh and Pradeep Dahiya has been posted as DC Kaithal. Parth Gupta has been posted as Director Citizen Resources Information Department while Mandeep Kaur has got the charge of Additional Labour Commissioner and Additional Director, ESI.  Anish Yadav is the new DC Sirsa, Manoj Kumar has been posted as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Karnal, and Vikram is new the DC of Ambala. Lalit Kumar is the new DC Sonepat while Virender Lather awaiting orders of posting has been posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Charkhi Dadri.  Sahil Gupta has been posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jind, while Swapnil Ravindra Patil is the new Additional Deputy Commissioner, Hisar. Vishram Kumar Meena has been posted as ADC Gurugram and Dr Vaishali Sharma has got the charge of Additional Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Ballabhgarh (Faridabad).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-effects-major-bureaucratic-shake-up-transfers-42-ias-officers-263341
04-06-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma
||Potholes dot Jagadhri sectors, residents upset||Tribune News Service Yamunanagar, June 3 Residents of Sector 17 and 18 of Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran of Jagadhri city are irked by the worsening condition of roads. Several roads of these sectors are dotted with potholes causing inconvenience to the residents of these sectors and nearby areas.They have asked the Municipal Corporation to repair the roads immediately. A main road of Sector 17 passing outside the Judicial Officers’ Colony and Officers’ Colony is in a shambles. Due to the poor condition of the road, it is dusty all around. The backyard of the Mini Secretariat and judicial complex buildings of are also connected with the road. “Residences of judicial officers, MC Commissioner, Jagadhri SDM, General Manager of roadways and other officers fall on the Sector17 main road. It is a matter of great shame that the condition of this road is so bad,” said Satpal Kaushik, a resident of Sector 17. Potholes of several other roads in this sector, including road leading to the community health centre from Chhoti Line side, are lying unfilled for the past several months. “Apart from the residents of Sector 17, people of several colonies use this road to go to CHC, SD educational institutes and other areas of Jagadhri. The pathetic condition of the  road puts commuters’ lives at risk,” said Pawan Kumar, aresident of Sector 17. Many roads in Sector 18 are also in a bad shape. A major stretch of the road connecting the office of the District Town Planner to the main Jagadhri road is completely damaged. Big potholes on this road pose danger to the commuters. “The condition of several roads of Sector 18 is not good, so the department concerned should immediately repair the roads,” said Balwinder Singh of Sector 18. Satpal Kaushik further said, “We will soon give a memorandum to the MC Commissioner demanding construction and repair of roads here.” On the other hand, Anand Swaroop, Superintending Engineer(SE) of the Municipal Corporation, said the repair and construction work of the roads of Sector 17 and 18 would be started next week. “Rs 1 crore has been allotted for these sectors, said Anand Swaroop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholes-dot-jagadhri-sectors-residents-upset-263134
04-06-2021||Ravinder Saini
||Exodus of labourers halts development works in Rohtak||Tribune News Service Rohtak, June 3 The exodus of labourers due to the Covid pandemic has taken a toll on development projects in the city. The construction work of a flyover at Sheela Bypass Chowk and Steel bridge over the JLN Canal on the Sonepat Road remains halted for the past around two months.  Foundation stones of the projects were laid by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in 2019 and both projects will cost Rs 68 crore. The Sheela Bypass flyover will ease traffic congestion while the Steel bridge on the canal will widen the road. Over 60 per cent work of the projects has been completed while no work in the past two months may hinder the contractor in completing the project on time. “Over 150 labourers were working on the sites before the lockdown. They went to their native places in April and since then the work has been stalled. Not only Rohtak, but also every district of the state is facing a similar situation,” Udayvir Jhanjharia, Executive Engineer, PWD. Ram Kumar, contractor, said migrant labourers had started coming back, so the work would resume soon. Remaining labourers were also likely to come back by the end of this month. “We are quite hopeful to get the project completed on time (December 2021),” he added. Sanjeev Kumar, a leader of construction workers, said migrant labourers were still afraid of coming back due to the pandemic. They would not return till the situation normalised. They kept taking updates over the phone and would make plans to return accordingly, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/exodus-of-labourers-halts-development-works-in-rohtak-263135
04-06-2021||Parveen Arora
||Environmental clearance awaited for extension of Western Bypass||Tribune News Service Karnal, June 3 The project on the extension of Western Bypass from the Kaithal road flyover to Ghoghripur village, to connect Kaithal road with Hansi road, is in a limbo for the past several months as the environmental clearance is still awaited for this ambtious project. The extension is being done as part of the second phase of the project. The first phase had been constructed from Kaithal road flyover to National Highway-44 near Uchana village along the Western Yamuna canal. In the first phase, the Western Bypass was opened to commuters around two years ago and the Chief Minister had announced extension of it to Madhuban in three phases.  The Western Bypass is part of the outer ring road, which was planned to reduce traffic congestion in the city. A similar eastern bypass project, part of ring road, is also in the pipeline from the Bastara toll plaza to Oasis, connecting augmentation canal, Meerut road, Kunjpura road, and Indri road. The project will be constructed by the National Highways Authority of India, drawing of which has been approved by the government. The proposed stretch, the work of which will start in the second phase, is around 5.5km, the estimated cost of which is around Rs 33.61 crore. The administrative approval was granted by the government on July 2019. As per sources, for the second phase, around 458 well-grown trees and around 4,000 plants, green cover in around 5.3 hectare, would be axed, for which the (PWD B&R) had to deposit around Rs 3 crore to the Ministry of Environment and Forest.  As per the plan, after the construction in the second phase, heavy traffic would not enter the city. “We will deposit around Rs 3 crore soon after the clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forest. The proposal is expected to be taken up in the next meeting this month. We are hopeful that the proposal will be given the nod. Soon after the nod, tenders will be floated,” said Yogesh Mehra, Superintending Engineer  (SE), PWD (B&R). “If all goes well from the Forest Department, then we will float tenders by end of June and allot the work by the end of July. We are expecting the work will commence from August or September and will be completed in around two years,” the SE said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/environmental-clearance-awaited-for-extension-of-western-bypass-263136
04-06-2021||---||World Cycle Day celebrated||Chandigarh, June 3 Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar extended his greetings to the people of Haryana on the occasion of World Cycle Day. He said cycling should be adopted in daily routine as it ensures better health and positive lifestyle. In a message issued here today, he said due to the Covid pandemic, a large number of people had made cycling part of their lifestyle to enhance their immunity and help them in their fight against the pandemic. He also called upon people to plant saplings during the coming monsoon so that all could get fresh air and contribute in protecting the environment. He said that all needed to do their bit for the future generations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-cycle-day-celebrated-263137
04-06-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Panipat: Hali park revival project fails to meet deadline||Tribune News ServicePanipat, June 3The revival project of the historical Hali park and lake spread in around 28 acres has failed to meet its deadline. The work was to be completed in March 2020 but it has been delayed by 14 months.Notably, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the revival of Hali park during his visit to Panipat in December 2014 during the previous regime of the BJP government. Following the announcement, the Municipal Corporation (MC) prepared a plan for the revival of the lake and redevelop the park. The Urban Local Bodies Department had also approved the project and released Rs 23.69 crore to the MC for the purpose in December 2016. Then the MC had allotted the tender to a private construction company in 2018, which had to complete the work up to March 2020 but it has not been completed so far.As per the details, the MC had to develop an open-air theatre, jogging track, swings for children, open gym, memorial, café, advanced sound system, yoga park and other advanced facilities in the park to attract people. The CCTV cameras would also be installed under the project. Besides, the Hali lake, spread in 9 acres, has also been developed under the project, which is being filled with canal water and the pipeline has also been laid already. Soon boating will be started here for the residents.As per sources, the civil work has not been completed so far while forestation and plantation are yet to start. Senior Deputy Mayor, MC, Dushyant Bhatt said the revival work of the Hali lake and park had been delayed due to the Covid pandemic. Now, the matter would be taken up with the MC officials to expedite the work, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-hali-park-revival-project-fails-to-meet-deadline-263138
04-06-2021||---||Pandemic-hit industry demands package, moratorium on EMIs||Chandigarh, June 3 With all manufacturing sectors remaining 25 to 50 per cent down in April and 50 to 100 per cent down in May due to lockdowns, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in Haryana are foreseeing a sharp V-shaped recovery from June to October. However, citing major challenges in revival like poor liquidity and acute financial crunch, the industrialists want the government to announce relief measures like moratorium on loan repayment announced last year without any further delay. Rajive Chawla, Chairman of the Integrated Association of MSMEs of India, said that the government was already more than two months late in announcing relief measures. “Moratorium like last year could have been announced in April itself. This would have reduced aggravation of business illness,” said Chawla. Quoting market sources, Chawla said that the sales of top automobile brands has dipped in April and again gone down sharply in May affecting the entire ancillary industry. “Maruti Suzuki India sold 1,35,879 units in April, but came down to just 32,903 units in May with a dip of 76 per cent; Hyundai Motor India suffered a dip of 49 per cent from 49,002 units to 25,001 units; Tata Motors 29 per cent from 25,095 to 15,181; Mahindra and Mahindra 56 per cent from 18,285 to 8,004 units; and Honda Cars India suffered a dip of 77 per cent in the sales from 9,072 units in April to 2,032 units in May,” said Chawla. Not the industry alone, even retail, most services, construction, furniture, building materials, consumer goods, capital goods, hospitality, sports, entertainment and exhibitions went down 80-100 per cent in business, he added. Besides, the manpower has been affected due to deaths and illness during the second wave of the pandemic. “The MSMEs demand moratorium on EMIs and repayment of loans for six months like announced last year, fresh emergency loans for regular accounts as on March 31, 2021, restructuring scheme with amendments like automatic six-month moratorium,”said Chawla. Rakesh Chhabra, president of Rai Industries Association in Sonepat district, said: “The service sector and hospitality sector were the first to suffer. The manufacturing sector was allowed to work in most of the states. But due to the fear of lockdown, many migrant workers went to their villages. Most of the automotive companies were also closed for two weeks as oxygen was required for the medical purpose.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pandemic-hit-industry-demands-package-moratorium-on-emis-263139
04-06-2021||---||Karnal doctors seek action against Baba Ramdev||Karnal, June 3 Members of the IMA’s Karnal chapter protested against yoga guru Ramdev over his remarks on allopathy and doctors, at the Mini-Secretariat here on Thursday. They handed over a memorandum to SP Ganga Ram Punia, demanding registration of an FIR against him. IMA office-bearers, including president Dr Kamal Jain, general secretary Dr Kumar Vibhaw, finance secretary Dr Sachin Parthi, joint secretaries Dr Mahesh Mehra and Dr Lakshika Chauhan, along with senior doctors of the city reached the Mini-Secretariat with placards. Dr Jain said Ramdev had insulted allopathy, which was not acceptable and an FIR should be registered against him for his remarks. Dr Vibhaw said that at the time of pandemic, every person was contributing.  “We respect all kinds of treatments, but Ramdev should know his limit and respect allopathy, which is contributing to the recovery of not only Covid patients, but also those with other ailments,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-doctors-seek-action-against-baba-ramdev-263140
04-06-2021||---||Panel to check bills of Panipat private hospitals||Panipat, June 3Concerned over the complaints of overcharging by private hospitals, the district administration has decided to check the bills of all Covid patients, who got treated here.Deputy Commissioner Dharmender Singh has constituted a five-member special committee, which will be headed by the executive magistrate and will have four doctors as members.The DC said Krishan Kumar, ITI principal, will be the executive magistrate in the committee and the other four members include Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Navin Suneja, Dr Sunil Sanduja, Dr Amit Muhal and SMO Dr Shyam Lal.He said scores of people were treated in private hospitals and also got their tests done from private labs. The state government has fixed the charges of the treatment and tests for the Covid patients. However, after complaints about overcharging by private hospitals, the government has decided to check their bills.The DC said, “If any private hospital or diagnostic lab is found overcharging, a show-cause notice will be issued to the defaulter and action will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-to-check-bills-of-panipat-private-hospitals-263141
04-06-2021||---||Negligible cases, 30 isolation centres in Kanina block shut||Mahendragarh, June 3More than 30 Covid isolation centres in villages of the district have been closed, as the number of active cases in these villages is negligible. A majority of these villages is in the Kanina block.Sources say isolation centres were set up in all 53 villages of the Kanina block for persons who had no facility at home. Most of them lacked facilities. A case in point was the isolation centre in Dhanonda village, where only mattresses were kept on the floor for patients.The decision to close isolation centres was taken a couple of days after The Tribune had reported about the sorry state of affairs of the Dhanonda centre.Tarun Panwaria, nodal officer (isolation centre), said: “Kanina officials were asked to open isolation centres only in hotspot villages, but the facilities were opened in all villages of the block. Since a majority of the villages don’t have a single case, officials have been asked to close the centres.”Now, only 10 centres would be kept open in villages where cases were high, he added.Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar said some isolation centres had been closed temporarily so that health teams deployed there could visit other villages, which were still battling high cases of Covid.“Centres can be set up in a day, if needed. However, the positivity rate has come down considerably in the district. Only 19 persons tested positive on Thursday, while 114 patients recovered,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/negligible-cases-30-isolation-centres-in-kanina-block-shut-263142
04-06-2021||---||Ramp up infra for third wave, Haryana CM Khattar tells health officials||Chandigarh, June 3In view of the expected “third wave” of Covid, likely to affect children, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the officials concerned to ramp up the health arrangements at the CHC level and also increase the number of children’s wards well in advance.“Though a downtrend in the number of daily active cases has been seen now, still Covid-appropriate behaviour should be followed religiously,” said the CM while presiding over a meeting of Deputy Commissioners held here today.He said the number of oxygen beds should also be increased along with keeping the multi-disciplinary teams conducting health check-ups in villages on alert for better coordination. If needed, the second round of health check-ups should also be conducted.The CM said an ambulance should be stationed round the clock at every CHC so that people visiting these should get timely treatment and, if required, any critical patient should be immediately referred to the nearest district office.He said a plan should be made to make people aware about following a healthy lifestyle so that they fall less sick, saving their hospital visits too.Khattar said “Parivar Pehchan Patra” was the state government’s ambitious scheme and under it, a target to uplift the families having the lowest income had been set. This work would be done in a phased manner after verifying the family income of every such family.The CM, while giving directions to the DCs regarding peaceful protest, said in a democratic society, everyone had to follow certain rules and regulations and in order to run the societal system smoothly, one has to keep aside the thinking of doing things as per their wishes.He said the result of the Class X examination would be out soon, while the result of the Class XII examination would be released after fixing the criteria.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ramp-up-infra-for-third-wave-haryana-cm-khattar-tells-health-officials-263143
04-06-2021||Sanjay Yadav
||Gurugram: Land not vacated, owner’s men ‘ransack’ makeshift Covid camp of Hemkunt Foundation||Gurugram, June 3 High drama prevailed at Sector 61-based makeshift Covid centre of Hemkunt Foundation, an NGO, as it was allegedly ransacked by henchmen of the landowner. The land reportedly belongs to a local JJP leader, who had given it to the NGO for two months to set up a temporary centre. The tent house operator alleged that the NGO used the land as a warehouse and allegedly contributed ration to the camps of protesting farmers.  Issuing a video statement on Twitter, the NGO alleged that some ‘goons’ destroyed their Covid camp, which was set up to help people amid the pandemic. Harteerath Singh, community development director, issued an appeal, saying that in wake of this incident, they required 20,000 sq ft land at or near the City Centre to set up a new Covid centre.  The tent facility provider, who looked after the land, has accused the NGO of trying to set up a warehouse for storing ration instead as there were no patients for the past 10 days.  “We gave the land to the NGO for setting up a makeshift Covid centre for just two months. Owing to a dip in cases, there was no patient for the past few days and the landowner asked the NGO to vacate the place. Some NGO volunteers told the landowner that they are distributing ration kits to the protesting farmers. It’s been four days, the NGO still hasn’t vacated the land,” said Jagat Singh, the tent house operator.  The NGO, however, alleged that because they exceeded the two-month period promised by them for keeping the Covid centre, the landowner sent some men to remove the camp while they gave them Rs 3.5 lakh for maintenance.  Later, a police team reached the spot and Badshahpur SDM Satish Yadav also visited the site.  “We are talking to the NGO members and the landowner. We have asked the owner to give the NGO some time to vacate the land as it is doing social work,” the SDM said. Meanwhile, the police said no complaint had been received so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-land-not-vacated-owners-men-ransack-makeshift-covid-camp-of-hemkunt-foundation-263144
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||980 cases, 71 deaths in Haryana||The state reported 980 new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 7.6 lakh. Besides, 71 more persons succumbed to the virus.Eight persons died in Gurugram, seven in Sonepat, six each in Sirsa and Bhiwani, five each in Rohtak and Jhajjar, four each in Kurukshetra, Fatehababd and Jind, three each in Sonepat, Karnal and Yamunanagar and Kaithal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/980-cases-71-deaths-in-haryana-263145
04-06-2021||---||All hospitals to follow WHO norms: Anil Vij||Chandigarh, June 3Health Minister Anil Vij has said that the health facilities in the hospitals of the state will be as per the World Health Organisation (WHO) standards. Besides, the number of beds, doctors and other staff in each district would be on the basis of the population in accordance with the WHO standards.In this regard, a meeting was held today with senior officials of the Medical Education and Research and Health Department. The Health Minister said the PSA oxygen plants would be installed in hospitals and medical colleges having 30 or more beds so that there was no shortage of oxygen when required.All beds in these hospitals would be equipped with oxygen and ventilators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-hospitals-to-follow-who-norms-anil-vij-263146
04-06-2021||Hisar||Protest at Tohana MLA's residence: 2 farmers in judicial custody, 25 released||A day after farmer activists were detained for having protested at the residence of Tohana MLA Devender Singh Babli, the police today released 25 of them, including woman. Two of the activists — Vikash Sisar and Ravi Azad — were sent to jail after a local court remanded them to judicial custody.The police sources said the 27 activists were booked under the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.Meanwhile, farmers burnt the effigy of the state government at the mini-secretariat in Fatehabad today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protest-at-tohana-mlas-residence-2-farmers-in-judicial-custody-25-released-263147
04-06-2021||Rohtak||Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim advised PET scan||The CT scan of abdomen of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh has indicated a suspected mass lesion in the pancreas. He has been advised PET scan to ascertain whether the lesion is benign or malignant. The PGIMS medical superintendent, Dr Pushpa Dahiya, said as there was no PET scan facility at Rohtak PGIMS, the test could be get done at AIIMS or any other medical institute with the facility.  The dera chief was taken from the Sunaria prison in Rohtak district to the local PGIMS on Thursday morning after he complained of abdominal pain. He was sent back to the prison after he underwent CT-angiography, CT scan (abdomen) and fibroscan for liver. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-advised-pet-scan-263148
04-06-2021||Panipat||28-year-old man dies by suicide||A 28-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the fan in his room in Batra colony here on Thursday. Meanwhile, a video went viral on social media in which he was seen hanging himself.  The deceased has been identified as Zafar of West Bengal  who was working in a private factory here.  Inspector Kamaldeep, SHO, Old Industrial Area, said inquest proceedings had been initiated under Section 174. CrPC. on his brother’s statement. The body was handed over to the victim’s kin after the autopsy, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-year-old-man-dies-by-suicide-263149
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Now, HoDs liable for timely filing of replies in HC||The Haryana Government has made heads of department (HoDs) personally accountable for the filing of replies in the ongoing court cases in Punjab and Haryana High Court.An order of the state Chief Secretary today took strong exception to the late filing of replies by various departments in court cases. The Chief Secretary’s order came after the High Court expressed its displeasure over late filing of statements and replies by certain departments.“It must be ensured that written statements/ replies are filed in all writ petitions three working days prior to the date fixed for hearing and in contempt petitions, seven working days prior to the date fixed for hearing,” the order said.The order said the HoD while personally monitoring the court case wouldensure that every notice/summon/court order received from the court was promptly disposed of.Besides, the department must approach the Office of the Advocate General within one week from the date of the receipt of the court notice to get the written statement/reply/affidavit vetted.Similarly, in case of difficulty in filing replies within the stipulated time, an application for extension of time for compliance must be filed in court well in time. “In case of failure to do this, the HoD concerned will be personally liable for non-compliance of the court orders. Costs, if any, imposed by the court, will be recovered from him,” the order warned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-hods-liable-for-timely-filing-of-replies-in-hc-263150
04-06-2021||Gurugram||Firing outside Gurugram liquor trader’s house||Panic gripped Mohammadpur village in the district’s Farrukhnagar area as car-borne men fired numerous rounds outside the house of a liquor trader last night.  On the complaint by the liquor trader’s brother, a case has been registered against unidentified persons under Sections 307, 506 and 34, IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Farrukhnagar police station.  Around 8 pm on Wednesday, armed men opened fired at the house of liquor trader Rajesh Yadav, also the ex-sarpanch of Mohammadpur village. On hearing the gunshots, his brother Krishan Kumar came out and fired back. “The accused fled, but not before threatening to kill my brother,” said Krishan.  The police said they were probing the case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firing-outside-gurugram-liquor-traders-house-263152
04-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Plan to educate jail inmates evokes lukewarm response||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 3Only one Junior Basic Training (JBT) teacher has expressed interest in imparting education to jail inmates of the district, while none in Jhajjar is willing to take up the temporary assignment.There are over 1,800 JBT teachers in the two districts.The Director General (Prisons) had recently requested the Department of Elementary Education to deploy JBT teachers at district jails (except in Hisar, Rewari and Palwal) on a temporary duty.Subsequently, the department had, on May 21, asked District Elementary Education Officers (DEEOs) to send applications of teachers interested in teaching jail inmates.The response, however, has been lukewarm. This is so because of several reasons, say sources. “Covid and hesitation in teaching criminals are the main reasons behind the teachers’ unwillingness to work in jails,” said Tarun Suhag, general secretary, Rajkiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh.Jagjit Singh, IG (Prisons), said: “The idea is to educate jail inmates, especially those who are either illiterate or less educated, so as to bring a positive change in their mentality. Inmates can make optimum use of their time by learning something new.”He further said, “District jails have educational centres such as IGNOU for inmates. Teachers can supervise these centres in a better manner.”Sunita Panwar, DEEO, Rohtak, said the process of applying for the assignment was still in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plan-to-educate-jail-inmates-evokes-lukewarm-response-263153
04-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Twin bail conditions in PMLA cases can be ignored, rules HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that twin conditions for bail to a person accused of an offence under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act were liable to be ignored.The conditions were that the public prosecutor was required to be given an opportunity to oppose the pleas before the grant of bail to a person accused of an offence punishable for more than three years under Part A of the schedule attached to the PMLA.In case of such opposition, the court could order release only after recording satisfaction regarding reasonable grounds to believe the person was not guilty of the offence he was accused of and was not likely to commit any offence while on bail.The Supreme Court, after holding that the conditions were violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, declared Section 45(1) of the PMLA unconstitutional to that extent. But the Enforcement Directorate contended before the High Court Bench of Justice Deepak Sibal that the PMLA was sought to be amended from April 2018.The words “punishable for a term of imprisonment of more than three years under Part A of the Schedule” were substituted with “under this Act” and the defect on the basis of which the SC declared Section 45(1) unconstitutional was cured. Consequently, the twin conditions stood revived.Hearing bail pleas by two accused in a case under the provisions of the PMLA, Justice Sibal asserted the declaration by the SC would render the twin conditions to be void in toto. “Such conditions have to be disregarded of any legal force from its inception; they cease to be law; the same are rendered inoperative and that they are to be regarded as if they had never been enacted”.Justice Sibal added the twin conditions now sought to be pressed into service by the directorate could not be considered as revived or resurrected only on prospective substitution of words, especially without any amendment regarding the twin conditions specifically declared unconstitutional.Referring to the reasoning given in judgments by different HCs, Justice Sibal asserted the operation of none had been stayed by the SC. “This court has no hesitation to hold that as on date, the twin conditions for grant of bail are liable to be ignored and that the present petitions are required to be considered under Section 438 CrPC,” Justice Sibal asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/twin-bail-conditions-in-pmla-cases-can-be-ignored-rules-hc-263154
04-06-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||2 officials sacked for providing wrong info in Haryana Assembly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3The Industries and Commerce Department has dismissed a senior manager and an assistant of the Bureau of Industrial Promotion and Policy (BIPP) for providing wrong information to a question asked during the winter session of the Haryana Assembly in 2020.Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said, “It is for the first time such a strict action has been taken.The sanctity of House has to be maintained.”Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary from Mullana had asked an un-starred question on projects of tool room or technology centres.In reply, the department had submitted that two projects of tool room or technology centre were set up at the Industrial Model Township (IMT) in Rohtak and Saha (Ambala).Chaudhary, in his complaint dated January 19, submitted that the areas earmarked for the tool roomin the Industrial GrowthCentre, Saha, forming partof his constituency, was “lying vacant and no construction/training activities have been started so far”.He added wrong information misguided the House and “the wrong reply amounts to a breach of privilege”.The department acknowledged its error and tendered an unconditional apology for the inadvertent errors in its reply dated February 24 to the Assembly. It also requested to take a lenient view.On March 16, the Speaker called a meeting with Industries Department officials, and asked for fixing the responsibility and taking action against erring officials.Subsequently, the department found that the reply to the un-starred question was put by assistant Sandeep Kumar and it was reviewed by senior manager Bablesh Kumar Sharma. Both were employed in the BIPP.The explanation of the erring officials was called on April 8. They submitted their replies the next day.In the May 31 action-taken report (ATR) submitted by Vijayendra Kumar, Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce, to the Speaker, it was mentioned that the replies were found unsatisfactory.“Considering the gravity of the mistake committed by them and lack of devotion to the duty, the Industries and Commerce Department has dispensed with their services and two officials have been terminated with effect from May 11…,” stated the report.“It is a big development. The credit goes to the Speaker. The executive should take the House seriously and sincerely,” said Congress MLA Chaudhary.WERE FROM INDUSTRIES DEPT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-officials-sacked-for-providing-wrong-info-in-haryana-assembly-263155
04-06-2021||Gurugram||Positivity rate drops to 1.63% in Gurugram||The Covid positivity rate in Gurugram district has come down to 1.63 per cent from 34.9 per cent within 32 days. Similarly, the recovery rate has also increased to 98.79 per cent, a district administration official has said.A district administration spokesperson said that in order to break the chain of Covid infection, the state government initially decided to impose a weekend lockdown in nine districts, including Gurugram. On April 30, the government had imposed a weekend lockdown for two days.“The positivity rate of Gurugram was 34.9 per cent on that day and there were 4,435 active cases in 24 hours. The doubling rate was 23.35 days and the growth rate of infection was 3.60 per cent. At that time, the recovery rate of the district was 69.76 per cent. To reduce the rate of this infection, an action plan was prepared as per the guidelines of the state government,” he said on Wednesday.“The recovery rate of the district’s Covid patients is increasing rapidly. At present, the recovery rate of the district has been 98.79 per cent, which is commendable,” DC Yash Garg said. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/positivity-rate-drops-to-1-63-in-gurugram-263158
04-06-2021||Hisar||Guru Jambheshwar University gets international ranking||Webinar organisedYamunanagar: The Panchnad Research Institute (study centre), Yamunanagar, organised a webinar on “Responsibilities of Citizen in the time of Covid-19”. Prominent scholar and retired principal of DAV College, Chandigarh, Prof Krishan Singh Arya presented his views regarding changing scenarios during the pandemic. He said they could win over Covid with their inner will and using various safety measures. Advocate Ghanshyam Dass Arora; professor Brij Kishor Kuthiala, national director of Panchnad Research Institute and chairman of Haryana Higher Education Council; Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon of Yamunanagar; Dr MC Sharma, treasurer of DAV College managing committee, New Delhi; Dr Uday Bhan Singh; Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang; Dr PK Vajpayee, principal Maharaja Agrasain College, Jagadhri; Vibha Gupta; Dr Dharapal and Dr Hemant Mishra also gave their suggestions regarding Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guru-jambheshwar-university-gets-international-ranking-263162
04-06-2021||Many traders selling sand and other building materials in Kaithal town occupy road berms to conduct their business. This inconveniences road users and leads to accidents at times. The situation gets aggravated during the rainy season and winter when the visibility becomes poor and vehicle drivers fail to take notice of huge heaps of building material lying on the road sides on government land. All this had been going on for decades but no effective action has ever been taken against violators.||Building material lying near roads poses danger||Satish Seth, KaithalSave trees from being axed in Panchkula parkEarlier, residents have reported illegal axing of trees at the HSVP Park in Panchkula. We request the authorities to look into this matter and ensure that no more trees are axed and no illegal activities, encroachment and wood burning is carried out in this park. We also request that the trees be counted and numbered. The fencing should be done with barbed wires around the boundary to stop trespassing. We request the department to conduct a survey the mango orchard, adjacent to Suncity Parikrama, Kundi, Sector-20, Panchkula, as several trees are already being axed.Residents of PanchkulaPrices of medical treatment, tests must be fixedMedical treatment and medicines should be cheap, easily available and affordable for every citizen of the country, but it is a pity that they are very expensive. There is also a huge difference in the rates of all types of tests at government hospital labs, private labs and private hospital labs. When I got my checkup done at the multispecialty hospital, they got my CBC and blood sugar test done in the lab located inside the hospital, for which they charged Rs 400. Again, when I got the same test done in a private lab located on Kunjpura Road, they charged me only Rs120. I request the Central and state governments to fix rates for medical treatment, facilities and medicines. Their rate list should be pasted at the outside counter.Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/building-material-lying-near-roads-poses-danger-263163
04-06-2021||New Delhi||29 LMT grain in unscientific storage, all in Punjab, Haryana||With wheat procurement touching an all-time high, the Centre today said the issue regarding unscientific storage of the grain, mainly in Punjab and Haryana, would be resolved by July-end.‘100% scientific storage by July-end’“In two months (July-end) it will be 100 per cent scientific storage across the country, including Punjab and Haryana,” FCI CMD Atish Chandra said. Of the total wheat, 411.12 LMT, purchased till June 2, Punjab has contributed 132.27 LMT (32.17 per cent), which is an all-time high, Haryana 84.93 LMT (20.65 per cent), and Madhya Pradesh 128.08 LMT (31.15 per cent). Chandra said close to 97 per cent of this grain was under scientific storage.Being key producers, Punjab and Haryana “face a temporary issue of unscientific storage for a few days. “Around 3.5 per cent of the grain is under temporary storage, all in Punjab and Haryana,” he said.“Punjab and Haryana see a great volume of offloading in a short span of time, unlike other grain-producing states. This is temporary storage, and in the first instance, the grain is moved to a place where it is safe. It is a small quantity compared to the amount of grain storage. “The issue is going to be resolved before July-end to make it 100 per cent scientific storage across the country, including in Punjab and Haryana,” Chandra said. Grains under unscientific storage include around 19.6 LMT in Punjab and 9.4 LMT in Haryana, around 29 LMT (3.5 per cent) of the 880 LMT in all, according to the FCI CMD.Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the previous record for wheat procurement was 389.92 lakh tonnes last year. “We have revised the target to 432.5 lakh tonnes,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/29-lmt-grain-in-unscientific-storage-all-in-punjab-haryana-263087
04-06-2021||Hisar||Differences on ‘rebel’ tag for Tohana farmer protesters||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni have come up with diverse views over the decision of a group of activists to gherao JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli’s house at Tohana yesterday.Barnala man dies at Tikri protest siteJhajjar: A protester, identified as Sant Singh (40) of a Barnala village in Punjab, died at the Tikri border on Thursday. The exact cause of his death will only be known after a post-mortem examination. Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said Sant Singh was brought dead to the trauma centre at Bahadurgarh. TNSThe two leaders, who visited Jind today, differed on whether those “activists” should be termed as “rebels”.Charuni said those who stormed out of the SKM meeting despite a collective decision at Tohana yesterday were rebels. “After consultations with farmers and the SKM local committee, we decided to gherao police stations across Haryana. But a handful of persons decided to gherao the MLA’s house. This is a conspiracy to sabotage the agitation,” he said.Tikait, however, maintained those arrested from outside Babli’s residence could not be termed “rebels”. He said this while talking to mediapersons at Khatkar toll plaza in Jind.“They are also our people and part of the agitation. They went to the MLA’s residence although the SKM had decided to gherao the police stations across Haryana on June 7. We will make them realise such steps are uncalled for,” he said, alleging the Haryana Police were provoking farmers by registering criminal cases against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/differences-on-rebel-tag-for-tohana-farmer-protesters-263038
04-06-2021||Moga||Were tortured by Delhi and Haryana police, farmers tell Punjab House committee||A Punjab Vidhan Sabha Committee recently constituted to look into the alleged atrocities committed on farmers of Punjab by the Delhi and Haryana police forces during the ongoing agitation against the Union Government’s three farm laws held its maiden meeting in Moga on Thursday. It met the farmers who were either injured or allegedly tortured by the security forces.The committee headed by Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid along with members Kulbir Singh Zira (Congress), Saravjit Kaur Manuke (AAP) and Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra (SAD) recorded the statements of at least 15 farmers who suffered injuries and allegedly faced police brutality during the farm protests.One of the committee members, Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, was not present in the meeting. He was said to be in Delhi to meet the three-member panel of the Congress high command. Vaid said Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh had constituted the committee comprising MLAs from all parties to table a detailed report about atrocities on the farmers during the ongoing protests. No BJP legislator has been included in the committee.Amritpal Singh and Jagdeep Singh, both farmers of Tatarewala village, said they, along with 10 other youths of their village, went to Delhi on January 23 to participate in the Republic Day protest against the Union Government, but were detained by the Delhi Police on January 26. After a hue and cry was made by the state government, the Delhi Police announced they were arrested in connection with the violence. Gurpreet Singh, Daljinder Singh, Jagdish Singh, Navdeep Singh, Balvir Singh, Bhag Singh, Harjinder Singh, Ranjit Singh, Ramandeep Singh and Jaswant Singh, all residents of the same village, claimed they were arrested and tortured by the Delhi Police.Another farmer, Sukhpreet Singh, a resident of Badduwal village, told the committee that he was taken into custody by the Delhi Police from the Kundli border. He was taken to the Kalyanpuri police station and tortured for days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/were-tortured-by-delhi-and-haryana-police-farmers-tell-punjab-house-committee-262994
