05-06-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Ambedkar statue vandalised in Gurugram’s Hayatpur village||Tension gripped Hayatpur village after some miscreants allegedly vandalised a statue of Dr BR Ambedkar in the area on Saturday, police said.A member of the village panchayat spotted the statue at Ambedkar Bhawan in Hayatpur village without a hand and a head, and told the sarpanch, Narendra Singh, police said. The village head called a panchayat over the incident and informed the police.  Meanwhile, the Bhim Sena also joined the protest.Police said they had filed an FIR under sections 295A (malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings) and 427 (causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Atrocities (Prevention) Act.“We’re trying to identify and track down the people behind the vandalism. Meanwhile, a new statue will be installed soon at the same palace,” said Inspector Sunil Kumar, Station House Office of Sector 10 A police station, where the FIR was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambedkar-statue-vandalised-in-gurugrams-hayatpur-village-263908
05-06-2021||---||Farmers to court arrest in Tohana today: SKM||Panipat, June 4The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday decided to court arrest at the City police station in Tohana on Saturday against the arrest of farmers following a spat with Tohana MLA Devender Babli.Thousands of farmers led by leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni would move to Tohana to court arrest on Saturday, the SKM claimed.This was decided in the general body meeting of the SKM leaders at the Kisan Andolan office in Kundli on Friday.The farmer leaders discussed the incidents that have occurred recently, especially in Hisar and Tohana, in detail and also contemplated on how to intensify the protest peacefully.To protest peacefullyIf BJP or JJP leaders attend personal functions, farmers will not oppose them. But if they attend a public rally, farmers will oppose them peacefully. —Gurnam Singh Charuni , BKU leaderSKM leaders Yudhvir Singh, Charuni, Abhimanyu Kohar and other leaders — at a press conference after the general body meeting — said the discussion focused on the recent incidents that have taken place in Haryana.The SKM feels that the farmers in Hisar and Jind were provoked intentionally to shift the agitation from the Delhi borders on the directions of the Centre, alleged Yudhvir.He also claimed that the local MLA from Tohana abused the farmers and, subsequently, the police arrested some of them.Tikait has been sitting on dharna at the Mayyar toll plaza since yesterday against the arrest of farmers in Tohana.It has also been decided to constitute a women’s committee at all morchas to resolve women’s problems during their stay at the protest sites.The farmers’ protest and awakening programme would be launched in Uttar Pradesh after the Covid pandemic and monsoon, said Yudhvir.Farmers will observe Baba Banda Bahadur Day on June 9 at all protest sites and will pay tribute to six farmers, who had died on June 6, 2017, in Mandsaur (Madhya Pradesh) during firing, at all protest sites on the Delhi borders on June 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-court-arrest-in-tohana-today-skm-263446
05-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Haryana Public Health Department employee regularised 2 years after death||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4For Bhoop Singh, justice came a bit too late. More than two years after his death, the Punjab and Haryana HC has directed the regularisation of his services from January 1996 after observing that the Haryana’s stand flew in the face of the labour court award on his re-instatement with the continuity of service.Justice Arun Monga also directed payment of Rs 50,000 to Bhoop Singh’s widow after holding that the petitioner was compelled into needless litigation. Financial benefits following the regularisation of the petitioner’s services were directed to be calculated and disbursed to his legal representatives within 60 days.The HC also directed that annual interest of 7 per cent must be calculated from the due date of accrual till actual payment.To get benefits Since January 31, 1996The respondents’s stand of flies in the face of the labour court award, vide which the petitioner was held entitled to re-instatement with continuity of service… He is held entitled to benefit of regularisation since Jan 31, 1996, on that ground alone. —Justice Arun Monga, HCWorking as a gardener and guard in the Public Health Department, Bhoop Singh had moved the HC in September 2017. He died in October 2018. The delay in deciding the matter may sound exceptional considering the petitioner’s death during the pendency, but is not extraordinary.The National Judicial Data Grid figures show that the HC has more than 6.82 lakh pending cases.Bhoop Singh’s matter was taken up for hearing at least 16 times since it was filed. It was placed before Justice Monga for the first time in February. Taking it up for the final decision, the Judge observed that the respondent’s stand was that the petitioner was not fulfilling the necessary conditions or qualifications mentioned in the regularisation policy dated March 7, 1996.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-public-health-department-employee-regularised-2-years-after-death-263448
05-06-2021||---||Covid recovery rate improves in Karnal||Karnal, June 4The improvement in Covid recovery rate has brought much-needed relief to the health authorities in the district and to the public. But some villages, where Covid cases are being detected in large numbers, are still a worry for the department.As per the data collected by The Tribune, the recovery rate has improved and reached 96.38 per cent from 86 per cent 20 days ago. The authorities claimed the lockdown had helped in breaking the transmission chain in a big way. In April, the positivity rate was 14.4 per cent, but it came down to 3.52 per cent on June 3, said the data.The data further stated that 821 positive cases were reported in rural areas recently. Nigdhu, Baragaon, Uncha Samana, Gudha, Sambhli, Jundla, Barota, Ganger, Choura, Rahr and Jaisinghpura are some villages where the number of cases is high.“The recovery rate is increasing and the positivity rate is decreasing. These are good signs. We are hopeful the number of positive and active cases will be zero in the coming days,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. “Our focus is on sensitive villages where the number of cases is high. We are screening every person in these villages to break the chain,” he said.“Health ASHA and anganwari workers are making efforts to make people aware of the protocols to be followed,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-recovery-rate-improves-in-karnal-263449
05-06-2021||Gurugram||Another fake call centre busted 
in Gurugram; owner among 3 held||The Gurugram police have busted another fake call centre and arrested three persons, including the owner. The centre was being run from a commercial tower in Sector 65 on the Golf Course road here.The police have seized three laptops and as many cellphones from the accused — owner Devang Avashthi and his associates Harsh Bhavshar and Abhishek — all natives of Ahmedabad in Gujarat, but residing in Gurugram.According to the police, the accused were duping US nationals using their social security numbers (SSN) obtained through pop-ups and offering payday loan (small loan). They used to charge $200 to $500 from a person and take money only through gift cards and then redeem them.The cyber crime police got a tip-off that the fake call centre was being run on the first floor of Suncity Success Tower, Golf Course Road, Sector 65. — OCNo valid licenceWhen the raid was conducted, 16 men and 3 women employees were busy working on computers and laptops. They did not possess any valid OSP licences of the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement related to their work.Trio from gujaratThe police have seized three laptops and three cellphones from the accused — owner Devang Avashthi and his two associates Harsh Bhavshar and Abhishek — all natives of Ahmedabad in Gujarat but residing in Gurugram.Modus operandiKaran Goel, ACP, DLF said the accused were duping US nationals using their social security numbers obtained through pop-ups and offering payday loan. They used to charge $200 to $500 only through gift cards and then redeem them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-owner-among-3-held-263450
05-06-2021||---||Man held for murdering labourer||Faridabad, June 4The police have arrested a man in connection with the murder of a fellow labourer, recently.According to the police, the accused identified as Ranjeet Singh, alias Shetty, working as a daily wager (labourer) at Chhainsa village in the district, had hit his fellow worker identified as Lakhwinder with a stick on June 1, resulting in the death of the latter on June 2.It is said the incident took place after a quarrel over sharing of wheat between the two, the accused picked up a stick and hit the victim hard on the head resulting in death later.The police registered a case of murder and managed to nab the accused today after getting a tip off. The accused was produced in court and has been remanded in one-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-murdering-labourer-263451
05-06-2021||---||Two die, one injured in accident||Kurukshetra, June 4Two men were killed and one was injured after the car they were travelling in rammed a stationary Canter near Dhantori village on the Ambala-Delhi National Highway on Friday.The deceased have been identified as Amit and Jitender, while the injured has been identified as Sonu of Panipat.They were rushed to the Community Health Centre, Shahabad, where Amit and Jitender were declared brought dead. Sonu was referred to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh.Amit’s brother Sombir, in his complaint to the police, said his brother along with his two friends was returning from Ambala when their car met with an accident around 6.15 am. Sombir further stated that a Canter with a flat tyre was parked wrongly on the national highway, resulting in the deaths of Amit and Jitender.A case has been registered against the Canter driver under Sections 279, 283, 337 and 304-A of the IPC at the Shahabad police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-die-one-injured-in-accident-263452
05-06-2021||---||Bouncer kills wife, son in Panipat; ends life||Panipat, June 4A bouncer reportedly committed suicide by jumping before a running train after murdering his wife and one-year-old son in Sewah village of the district on Thursday.The police on Friday handed over the bodies to the victims’ kin after a postmortem examination.The police have registered a case against the bouncer and his three family members under Sections 302, 304B, and 34 of the IPC and begun a probe into the matter.The deceased have been identified as Ramesh Kadyan, alias Massy of Sewah village, his wife Anurita (27) and 13-month-old son Kavish. He was a bouncer with a property dealer in Delhi.As per information, Ramesh allegedly murdered his wife Anurita and his son Kavish by strangulating them. He then informed the police and his father-in-law about the incident. After that he ran towards the railway track and reportedly committed suicide by jumping before Paschim Express train.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan, ASP Pooja Vashisth along with the team reached the spot to probe the matter.On the other side, Ranbir Singh, father of deceased Anurita in his complaint to Sector 29 Industrial area police said he had married his daughter Anurita with Ramesh of Sewah in 2018 and had given 100 gram gold, one kg silver, electronic goods, a car and other items at the time of marriage. But Ramesh, father-in-law, mother-in-law and brother-in-law began torturing his daughter, he alleged.His son-in-law Ramesh had called him on his mobile phone on Thursday and said he had murdered Anurita and Kavish and cut the phone, he said.When he reached there he found the dead bodies of his daughter and grandson lying on the bed in the room, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bouncer-kills-wife-son-in-panipat-ends-life-263453
05-06-2021||---||To prevent child trafficking, follow due adoption process: Panel||Rohtak, June 4While a number of Good Samaritans and voluntary social organisations are making sincere efforts to help Covid patients and their families, some unscrupulous elements are trying to use the situation to their advantage.Notably, offers for adoption of Covid orphans are being circulated through online messages on various social media platforms.However, sources in the government agencies concerned said such offers were illegal and might be a ploy of anti-social elements engaged in child trafficking. “Residents desirous of adopting a child should not respond to such illegal offers/messages and follow the due procedure for adoption,” said Beena Kaushik, a member of the District Child Welfare Committee (DCWC), Rohtak.She said such offers could lead to the trafficking of small children and residents should not fall prey to such rackets.DCWC chairperson Asha Ahuja warned that the residents who adopt children in an illegal manner would have to face legal repercussions.She said if any resident knows about or comes across a child whose parents have died due to Covid, they should inform committee members, local police or administration. Information may also be given to the DCWC chairperson as well as members Beena Kaushik and Rachna Paliwal.“The DCWC will take care of the child and ensure provision of his/her stay, education and other requirements,” the chairperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-prevent-child-trafficking-follow-due-adoption-process-panel-263454
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||No mustard oil at ration shops in June||With HAFED unable to provide mustard oil in June, the ration depots won’t be able to distribute it to beneficiaries. So, the state has decided to deposit subsidy of Rs 250 per 2 litre into the bank accounts of AAY and BPL families.A government spokesperson said due to comparatively higher price of mustard in the market, farmers had sold their crop at Rs 6,500 to Rs 7000 per quintal. Thus, mustard oil was not available with HAFED.This decision of directly depositing subsidy will benefit 11.41 lakh AAY and BPL families. This process will continue till mustard is available with HAFED.Meanwhile, the beneficiaries have also been informed about the unavailability of salt due to the lockdown thus it won’t be distributed too. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-mustard-oil-at-ration-shops-in-june-263455
05-06-2021||---||No fissures in Samyukt Kisan Morcha, claims Rakesh Tikait||Hisar, June 4Demanding release of two farm activists arrested by the Fatehabad police yesterday, Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait led a dharna at the Mayyar toll plaza, leading to blockage of the Delhi-Hisar highway.The two activists — Vikas Sisar and Ravi Azad — were among 28 persons who were arrested by the police when they had gone to gherao the residence of Tohana MLA Devender Singh Babli on Wednesday.Tikait, who stayed overnight at the toll plaza, held meetings in some villages of Hisar district today. After the blockade at the toll plaza, the Hansi police diverted the traffic on the highway via alternative routes. Farmers are allowing ambulances to cross the toll plaza.Interacting with mediapersons, Tikait clarified that there were no differences among the leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on any issue. “Sometimes, statements may vary depending on the circumstances. The SKM is united and its statements are authentic and collectively agreed upon by all the leaders,” he said.The BKU leader maintained that the Haryana police were registering the criminal cases in Hisar, Jind, Fatehabd districts to create pressure on the people as the region were supporting the farmers’ movement.“There is no need to get scared due to the arrests. We understand the strategy of the government which wants to tire out the people and then unleash a crackdown to crush the agitation. There is no need to get demoralised due to the arrests,” he said, adding that the ongoing agitation was a struggle for freedom of farmers. He alleged that the government was trying to sabotage the movement.“We have tightened the noose around the ruling party. The panchayat body polls results in UP have created a scare among the ruling party which is mulling reshuffle in its UP leadership,” said Tikait, adding the Opposition had failed to take on the government over wrong decisions and policies.One more nabbedThe Fatehabad police on Friday arrested a farm leader from Fatehapuri village in the Tohana sub-division in connection with attack on the car of MLA Devender Singh Babli. Sources say the police carried out raids at Kanheri, Amani villages, besides Hindalwala in the morning. However, other activists could not be traced. After the police action, farmers protested outside Tohana police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-fissures-in-samyukt-kisan-morcha-claims-rakesh-tikait-263456
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||INLD to burn copies of agricultural laws||Former Leader of Opposition and secretary general of the INLD Abhay Singh Chautala said Jai Prakash Narayan had launched ‘jan andolan’ on June 5, 1974, marking the day as ‘Sampoorna Kranti Divas’, but the BJP government chose this day last year to bring three “black” agriculture laws.He said the INLD had decided to observe ‘Sampoorna Kranti Diwas’ tomorrow and hold protest by burning copies of “black” agricultural laws at the district level in the entire state.He said the INLD stood by farmers and every worker of the party was dedicated to the movement.Chautala said he was the only MLA in the country who had resigned from his post on the call of farmers and was firmly supporting the farmers in the movement.He said 50-bed hospitals each had been opened at Tikri and Singhu borders by his party for the farmers sitting on the dharnas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-to-burn-copies-of-agricultural-laws-263458
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sacked health staff protest across Haryana||Members of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS) today protested in front of the offices of the Civil Surgeons across Haryana in protest against the retrenchment of over 700 contractual health workers.Hundreds of non-paramedical retrenched employees also protested in front of the office of the Director General Health Service (DGHS).Later, an SKS delegation held a meeting with the DGHS, who assured that action would be taken against contractors, who retrenched the staff. The DGHS also said they would be reinstated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sacked-health-staff-protest-across-haryana-263459
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||High Court refuses protection to runaway couple as girl is minor||The HC has refused to grant protection to a runaway couple after the Bench was told the “bride” was a minor and an FIR alleging abduction had already been registered against then “groom”.After hearing the counsel for the parties and considering the fact that the girl’s father had already set the criminal law in motion by registering an FIR alleging abduction of his minor daughter, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted apparently the petition had been filed just to create a defence by man to evade his criminal liability. “Thus, I find no merit in the present petition at this stage,” Justice Sangwan asserted, while dismissing the petition.The Bench was told earlier during the proceedings that the man was about 20, whereas the girl was just over 16. Their counsel submitted that the petitioners had performed marriage and had given a representation to the Nuh SP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-refuses-protection-to-runaway-couple-as-girl-is-minor-263460
05-06-2021||---||Yamunanagar rape victim pregnant; uncle booked||Yamunanagar, June 4A 12-year-old girl got pregnant after she was allegedly sexually abused by a 48-year-old man in a village of Radaur subdivision of the district.The victim is studying in Class VI at a government school of the Radaur area and her parents are labourers.On the complaint of the victim’s father, a case was registered against the girl’s uncle under Section 376 (3) of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act at the Radaur police station on Thursday.The complainant said he along with his family members lived at a dera (a house in agriculture fields) of a farmer in a village of Radaur subdivision.He said the accused had also been living at the dera for six-seven years. He further said their daughter complained of abdominal pain on June 3.“We took our daughter at the Radaur Community Health Centre. After conducting a test, the doctor told us that their daughter is 19-week pregnant,” the complainant added.He said their daughter told them that she was sexually abused by her uncle in January 2021 when she was alone at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-rape-victim-pregnant-uncle-booked-263461
05-06-2021||Nitish Sharma
||Dist-specific target for crop diversification in Haryana||Tribune News Service Ambala, June 4 To wean farmers off the paddy cultivation and promote crop diversification, the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has fixed district-specific targets for varied crops under the “Mera Pani Meri Virasat” scheme. The department plans to cover 2 lakh acres with crops such as cotton, maize, arhar, moong, vegetables and oilseeds for this kharif season. It has added new crops such as moth, urd, soyabean, guar, til, groundnut, castor, kharif onion, and kharif fodder crops. This year, the state government has dropped bajra from the list. The target is to sow maize in 11,991 acres, cotton in 1,10,850 acres, pulses in 1,260 acres, oil seeds in 2,000 acres, fodder in 43,900 acres, and vegetables in 30,000 acres across the state. The target of each crop is different for every district because of different agro-climatic conditions. Farmers will be given an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre if they opt for crop diversification.  Only those farmers, who had cultivated paddy last year and want to opt for other crops, and those who want to continue with crop diversification for the second year on the trot will be eligible for the financial aid, which will be given in two instalments. The incentive will also be given to those farmers, who had cultivated paddy last year and will keep their fields fallow this season. Girish Nagpal, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Ambala, said: “The groundwater has been depleting at an alarming rate. So it becomes mandatory to shift from traditional crops such as paddy and wheat to maize, pulses and oilseeds.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dist-specific-target-for-crop-diversification-in-haryana-263462
05-06-2021||Gurugram||Firing outside Gurugram liquor trader’s office||A day after firing at a local liquor trader’s house, miscreants on Friday targeted his office here.The police are yet to identify the accused involved in the firing incident outside former sarpanch and liquor trader’s house in the Farukhnagar area on Thursday. The incident, which has left the family terrified, was caught in a CCTV camera.  On Friday, two bike-borne armed men reached outside the office of liquor trader Rajesh Yadav near the Farrukhnagar stand. They fired at the office three times but employees, who were inside, managed to save themselves and when they raised alarm, the accused fled.BIZ RIVALRY SUSPECTEDBusiness rivalry seems to be the reason for the two attacks. Our teams are on the job and conducting raids to nab the accused. —Beer Singh, Pataudi ACPAfter getting information, a police team led by ACP Beer Singh reached the spot and recovered empty bullet shells.In his complaint to the police, an employee, Jai Narain of Madhya Pradesh, said they were inside the office when around 11 am, the accused came and started firing. One of them was wearing a helmet while the other had wrapped a cloth on his face.The police registered another FIR on Friday.  The police cover has been provided to the family. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firing-outside-gurugram-liquor-traders-office-263463
05-06-2021||Ambala||SC commission issues notice to Chief Secy||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-commission-issues-notice-to-chief-secy-263466
05-06-2021||---||Nitin Gadkari wants Ambala road works expedited||New Delhi, June 4Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari has directed the authorities concerned to expedite the pending projects concerning the ministry in Ambala.This was conveyed during his meeting with Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti and Social Justice Rattan Lal Kataria.Kataria met Gadkari regarding infrastructure projects pertaining to Ambala Lok Sabha constituency which is represented by him (Kataria).The projects that figured during the discussions include Ambala-Chandigarh Express Highway Greenfield Projects Shamli-Ambala Greenfield Project, Saha-Shahabad, Yamunanagar-Karera Khurd overbridge, Ambala Shastri Nagar vehicular overpass (VOP), Zirakpur-Panchkula bypass, bridge linking Panchkula Sector 20 and Sector 12, Surajpur bypass and Baddi-Pinjore projects.Kataria told mediapersons after the meeting that he also thanked Gadkari for giving approval to the Ambala Ring Road Project."With this road, Ambala Cantt and Ambala City will get rid of heavy traffic coming from Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh," Kataria said.Kataria suggested to Gadkari that as Delhi, Gurugram and Faridabad are densely populated and witness traffic congestion, Ambala -- at a distance of 200 km from Delhi -- could be developed as a transport hub for these five states.Kataria also thanked Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar for approving the Ambala Ring Road Project and invited him for its ‘Bhoomi poojan’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nitin-gadkari-wants-ambala-road-works-expedited-263468
05-06-2021||---||60-year-old Tarn Taran farmer dies at Singhu border||Sonepat, june 4A 60-year-old farmer, hailing from Tarn Taran district of Punjab, was found dead in his tent near HP petrol pump on the Singhu border on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Jangeer Singh of Beeram tehsil, Patti, Tarn Taran district.A Delhi Police team reached the spot and sent the body for the post-mortem examination. It is suspected that he died after suffering a heart attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-year-old-tarn-taran-farmer-dies-at-singhu-border-263471
05-06-2021||Karnal||Karnal's Mount Litera Zee School organises webinar on third wave of Covid||Workshop on ‘Art of happy living’Karnal:Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, Karnal, started its "Summer bonanza" for students with the purpose of engaging them in fun-filled and enriching activities during the summer break to help them remain positive, mentally fit and healthy. A workshop on 'Art of happy living' was also conducted by Rakshita Kharbanda, Assistant Professor, DAV PG. College, Karnal. In her interaction with children, the speaker discussed the need to bear a positive attitude in life and how happiness could be gathered from small routine things. The workshop was attended by the director principal, faculty and students of Classes VII to X.MDU online exams from June 16Rohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) will conduct online examinations of various programmes--Ph.D course work, MPhil (first and second semester), MA/MSc/MCom (Ist semester), etc., and all such examinations, which were earlier scheduled to be held online from May 1, from June 16. MDU controller of examinations (CoE) Dr BS Sindhu said the online examinations of left out eligible students of all courses for which the offline examinations were held in March 2021, will also be conducted from June 16 through the online mode. The CoE said the online theory examinations of all programmes would be of 3-hour duration as per the respective scheme of the examinations. The students will be required to attempt any five questions and all questions will be carrying equal marks. The students will have to follow the standard operating procedures of Covid prescribed by the university, details of which are available on the MDU website.GJUST to waive fee on reserved seatsHisar: Seats reserved by the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar in the UGC-approved courses for dependents of those who lost their lives due to the Covid pandemic will continue for the session 2021-.22 also. Along with this, the fees will also be waived from half to full of the students taking admission in these seats this year. GJUST is aware of the ill-effects of the pandemic and will carry out its social responsibilities. In the session 2020-21, the university had reserved one additional seat in the UGC courses for the dependents. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of the university said due to Covid, many families lost their family members and were suffering mentally and economically. The university decided to waive half or full fees of those students on the basis of their economic conditions.Plantation campaign at varsityFaridabad :To promote regular plantation activities among students, staff and society, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, on the occasion of World Environment Day, launched a campaign 'ek paudha -ek sankalp'. This year, the theme for World Environment Day 2021 is 'Ecosystem restoration'. The campaign was inaugurated by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. Registrar Dr SK Garg, chairperson of various departments and officials also participated in the plantation activities by planting sapling and took the resolution of taking care of plant till it grows into a tree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnals-mount-litera-zee-school-organises-webinar-on-third-wave-of-covid-263472
05-06-2021||Atree laden with mangoes in my backyard was destroyed by a troop of monkeys. They plucked||Monkey menace continues in Faridabad||Stray cattle roam freely in P’kula sectorsThese stray cattle roam around freely near the Sector 7-8 and 17-18 roundabout in Panchkula. They can be seen in large number during the evening but the authorities concerned seem to be looking the other way. Why are their owners not suitably penalised for the violation of civic laws? —Vinayak G, PanchkulaResidents suffer due to security lapses There are no boundary walls constructed by Ansal Group in Ansal Town, Sector 20, Jagadhri, since its inception. There are about seven open entries in this township through which any unsocial element can enter freely. Three thefts of a/c copper wires worth lakhs of rupees have been reported recently in three newly constructed houses and also three new bicycles were stolen. There are about 200 families residing in this township, police verification of about 100 tenants have not been done. Residents have been complaining time and again but all in vain. —NK Dhiman, JagadhriWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monkey-menace-continues-in-faridabad-263474
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||12 DCs among 42 IAS officers shifted in Haryana||The Haryana Government on Friday issued transfer orders of 42 IAS officers, among them 12 Deputy Commissioners.Those posted as DCs are Amarjit Singh Mann (Charkhi Dadri), Girish Arora (Yamunanagar), Shyam Lal Poonia (Jhajjar), Mukul Kumar (Kurukshetra), Vinay Pratap Singh (Panchkula), Mahavir Kaushik (Fatehabad), Sushil Sarwan (Panipat), Shakti Singh (Nuh), Pradeep Dahiya (Kaithal), Anish Yadav (Sirsa), Vikram (Ambala) and Lalit Kumar (Sonepat).Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has been posted as Gurugram Municipal Commissioner, Dhirendra Khadgata Ambala Municipal Commissioner and Sharandeep Kaur Brar Panchkula Municipal Commissioner. ACS Alok Nigam has been given the additional charge of the Mines and Geology while Principal Secretary D Suresh will also look after the Housing for All Department. Gurugram Divisional Commissioner Rajeev Ranjan has been given the additional charge of the Monitoring and Coordination Department.Nitin Kumar Yadav has been posted Commissioner and Secretary, Employment Department; Mohammed Shayin MD, Haryana Power Generation Corporation Ltd; Jagdeep Singh, DG and Secretary, Social Justice and Empowerment Department; Rajiv Rattan Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration; Sujan Singh Director (Ayush) and Mani Ram Sharma Special Secretary (Home) and Commissioner, Gurdwara polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-dcs-among-42-ias-officers-shifted-in-haryana-263670
