07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 39 more deaths, 640 new cases||Haryana reported 39 coronavirus-related deaths on Monday, bringing the toll to 8,751, while 640 fresh infections pushed the state's infection count to 7,62,931, according to a bulletin.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the fresh fatalities include four each from Gurugram and Hisar and three each from Bhiwani and Rewari districts.Jind reported 78 new cases of Covid-19 while 59 and 55 fresh infections were from Yamunanagar and Sirsa, respectively.The number of active cases stands at 8,024, while the recovery count reached in the state 7,46,156. Haryana has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.80 per cent and a cumulative positivity rate of 8.20 per cent, the bulletin said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-39-more-deaths-640-new-cases-264934
07-06-2021||Gurugram||Haryana reduces cost of RT-PCR test to Rs 450||The Haryana government on Monday reduced the rate for the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test at private laboratories from 499 to Rs 450 while the charge for home collection has been capped to Rs 650 from Rs 699, an official said.An order in this regard was issued by Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, department of health and family welfare, Haryana.Deputy Commissioner Gurugram, Yash Garg has also issued an order to all the private hospitals and private laboratories of the district, warning that violation of these orders will be taken under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code."In case of suspicion of corona infection, the most reliable test among all tests is considered as RT-PCR test. Now the government has revised its maximum rates, no hospital or lab operator can charge more than that," Civil Surgeon Gurugram, Virender Yadav said.Referring to other types of tests of Covid-19, Yadav said that there are 4 other tests related to this pandemic, whose rates are also determined by the government. The rates of CBNAAT (Rs 2,400), TrueNat (1,250), Rapid Antigen test (Rs 350) and an IgG Elisa-based test (Rs 250). — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reduces-cost-of-rt-pcr-test-to-rs-450-264900
07-06-2021||Hisar||Gherao of police stations across Haryana cancelled||The gherao of police stations across Haryana was cancelled on Monday after a city court granted two farmer leaders bail but a dharna was held at the Tohana police station to protest the arrest of a farmer-activist in connection with an attempt to murder case, said farmer leader Joginder Nain.Farmer-activist Makkan Singh is in police custody in connection with an attempt to murder case based on the complaint of Tohana MLA Devender Singh Babli's personal assistant Radhe Shyam.Farmer leaders Vikas Sisar and Ravi Azad were released from jail after the Tohana court granted them bail on Sunday night. They joined farmers at the Tohana police station.A large number of farmers led by farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and United Kisan Morcha leader Yogendra have been staging a dharna in front of Tohana Sadar police station in Fatehabad district of Haryana since Saturday night demanding the release of arrested farmers. They have also called for a statewide gherao of police stations in Haryana with this demand.However, the farmer unions said the protest will continue in Tohana since there is still a demand to release another farmer Makhan Singh.Farmer unions gave a statewide call to gherao police stations in Haryana from June 7 against the arrests of farmers.Sources said farmers are waiting for an affidavit from MLA Devender Singh Babli, mentioning withdrawal of his complaint to the senior police officers soon. The matter is likely to be resolved by this evening after which the dharna is expected to end.“I was heading to a government event when some people attacked me. I believe those who attacked me cannot be farmers. I made few undignified remarks in heat of the moment and apologised for it. Legal course of action to take place against those involved in violence,” the JJP MLA told ANI.On Sunday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait had demanded the filing of an FIR against Babli for allegedly using abusive language against the farmers publically and threatening them. However, Babli later expressed regret for using ‘inappropriate’ words against the farmers.Babli posted a video clip on social media saying that he forgives those who did wrong to him on June 1. (WITH ANI)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gherao-of-police-stations-across-haryana-cancelled-264815
07-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||6,000 children quit Rohtak private schools amid Covid crisis||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 6Over 6,000 students of private schools in the district have sought the “School Leaving Certificate” (SLC) in the last two months.A majority of them are likely to shift to government schools as the Covid-induced lockdown has hit their parents’ earnings hard. Rohtak has more than 400 private schools affiliated to the CBSE and the Haryana board. “The Covid situation has hampered my work, hence I cannot afford the hefty school fee of my son. Besides the tuition fee, the school is also demanding admission and annual charges. So, I have decided to shift him to a government school where the fee is nominal and books are also provided free of cost,” said Naresh, a taxi driver.Amit, a shopkeeper, said there was no need to pay exorbitant fees to private schools when offline classes would remain off this year too due to the possibility of a third wave of Covid. “My friend and I have applied for the SLCs of our children in order to shift them to a government school,” he added.A private school owner said he had so far issued over 50 SLCs and the count was only likely to go up in the coming days. Anshul Pathania, Secretary, Rohtak CBSE School Association, said the number of applications for SLC had doubled this year as compared to the first wave of Covid.“Till now, more than 2,500 children have sought the SLC from private schools affiliated to the CBSE and a majority of them are likely to join government schools. Some have left the schools without any information. There are also a considerable number of children who have not yet deposited the fee but are attending online classes,” he added.Ravinder Nandal, President, Haryana Private School Sangh, said over 3,500 children of private schools affiliated to the Haryana board had got the SLC issued. A majority of them belonged to the lower middle class.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-000-children-quit-rohtak-private-schools-amid-covid-crisis-264762
07-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||Tension brewing, farmers pitch tents at Tohana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 6Even as SKM activists Vikash Sisar and Ravi Azad were granted bail by a Tohana court, farmers led by BKU’s Rakesh Tikait on Sunday raised tents in the Tohana police station complex and launched an indefinite dharna after four-hour-long talks with the district administration on withdrawal of criminal cases against Sisar, Azad and others failed.GHERAO OF POLICE STATIONS TODAYAn SKM leader said the district officials, including the DC and SP, failed to give an assurance on withdrawal of cases against the farmers. Joginder Singh Ugrahan, who reached Tohana today, said farmers from Haryana and Punjab had begun to descend on Tohana. “This dharna is being converted into a morcha. We will go back only after our demands are met,” he declared. Legislator Devender Singh Babli of the JJP had on Saturday night tendered an apology to the farmers, indicating that his PA and driver would withdraw the police complaint against the farmers. However, the matter could not be resolved owing to another FIR registered on June 3 in connection with the gherao of the MLA’s residence on the night of June 2 in which the police itself is the complainant.Senior district officials said they would take legal opinion on the matter before proceeding any further.Tikait and Haryana BKU chief GS Charuni have had differences on whether the farm unions should back Sisar and Azad. The had gone to Babli’s house, defying the SKM leaders’ decision on the issue. While Charuni sees them as “rebels”, Tikait continues to back them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tension-brewing-farmers-pitch-tents-at-tohana-264694
07-06-2021||Ravinder Saini
||X-ray machine, beds lying unused at PHC in Jhajjar||Tribune News Service Jhajjar, June 6 An x-ray machine, many beds and other medical equipment for the operation theatre and laboratory have been lying unused at the Public Health Centre (PHC) in Matanhail village for the past over three years. These were provided by Jhajjar Power Limited (a CLP group of company) in 2017, after constructing a double-storey building under the corporation social responsibility (CSR) for a 50-bedded hospital.Now,  the PHC is being run from there. “The foundation stone of this air-conditioned building meant for the hospital was laid by then MP Deepender Hooda and then Education Minister Geeta Bhukkal in 2014 during the Congress regime while the construction work was completed when the BJP was in power in the state. The CLP group had incurred all construction expenditure and also provided 50-beds, x-ray and ultrasound machines, equipment for the laboratory and operation theatre to run the hospital,” said Narendra Suhag, former sarpanch of the village.  Bhukkal said it was unfortunate that the government had failed to use this well-equipped building in a situation when educational institutes and dharamshalas were being turned into Covid-care centres to combat the pandemic in the absence of healthcare infrastructure.  “The building was constructed for a 50-bedded general hospital but the BJP government shifted the village PHC into it, instead of making the hospital functional. I recently raised the issue before the district-level coordination committee but all in vain. The government should approve it as a hospital,” said Congress MLA from Jhajjar, adding that the equipment will get outdated if not used soon. Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said a proposal to convert the PHC into a 50-bedded hospital was already pending with the government.  “There is no shortage of staff as per the requirement of a PHC. More doctors and other paramedical staffers will be deputed there as soon as the PHC is converted into a hospital. The operation theatre is being used to conduct tubectomy,” claimed Dr Dahiya, adding that x-ray machine is not in operation due to the non-availability of a  radiographer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/x-ray-machine-beds-lying-unused-at-phc-in-jhajjar-264459
07-06-2021||---||Reopen schools after jab, Haryana teachers body to govt||Chandigarh, June 6 The Haryana Vidyalaya Adhyapak Sangh (HVAS) today demanded Covid vaccination for all students, teaching and non-teaching staff so that schools could be reopened. CN Bharati, president of HVAS, said the decision was taken at an online meeting of the state executive today. The meeting urged the state government to reopen schools by following all Covid protocols as online education had “proved to be a failure” in the state. “Despite government claims, over 90 per cent of students do not have the necessary infrastructure for online education. Even the government’s promise of providing free laptops and tablets to poor students is yet to be fulfilled,” he asserted. He demanded the refund of examination fee of Classes X and XII as the state government had cancelled these examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reopen-schools-after-jab-haryana-teachers-body-to-govt-264460
07-06-2021||Kurukshetra||Pehowa man kills father, sent to jail||The Kurukshetra police have arrested a man for killing his father over some domestic dispute in Pehowa on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Jagmal Singh (50), a resident of Pehowa. The accused has been identified as Rinku. He was produced before a court today which sent him to jail. In her complaint to the police, Praveen Rani stated that her husband Jagmal became mentally disturbed after the death of their elder son Kulwant around eight months ago. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pehowa-man-kills-father-sent-to-jail-264462
07-06-2021||Parveen Arora
||New norms for tubewell connection irk farmers||Tribune News Service Karnal, June 6 The power corporation’s new condition of issuing tubewell connections has not gone down well with farmers. As per the new norms, no connection will be released for land which falls under the command area of a canal. It is an area over which canal water flows. Besides, it has become mandatory for farmers to get a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Irrigation Department. If NOC is not obtained, the fee for the new connection would be refunded to farmers.  “In 2019, the power corporation had made it mandatory for farmers to purchase submersible motors from a particular vendor. After farmers protested, the decision was taken back. Now, the discom has come up with new norms for issuing tubewell connections. This is unjustified,” said Arvind Jaglan, a farmer. Bahadur Singh Mehla, BKU (Charuni) leader, said: “The condition of obtaining an NOC from the Irrigation Department and cancelling applications show the lethargic approach of the authorities.” “Farmers deposited the security amount for power lines four to five years ago. They were hoping to get the connection soon, but the new guideline has shattered their hope,” he added.  Sources say of the 85,000 applicants who had applied for the tubewell connections, only 10,000 got it. In Karnal, 2,059 farmers had applied for the connection. Of them, around 1,900 had deposited the fee. but, their wait continues.   A senior official of the power corporation said, “The guideline regarding the command area of canal is being reviewed following the opposition from farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-norms-for-tubewell-connection-irk-farmers-264465
07-06-2021||Rewari||Congress seeks free vaccination for all||Vivek Bansal, in charge of the state Congress, alleged the BJP government at the Centre as well as in the state have failed to handle the situation during the Covid pandemic but now, they were holding the Opposition responsible for that. It would have been better if the government would have accepted its mistakes instead of playing the blame game.Bansal was interacting with mediapersons after unveiling the statue of late Shanti Devi, mother of former minister Capt Ajay Singh Yadav and grandmother of Congress MLA Chiranjeev Rao, in Sharanvaas village here on Sunday.Bansal said it was not possible to control Covid without vaccinating every resident. Hence, the government should vaccinate everyone for free. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-seeks-free-vaccination-for-all-264467
07-06-2021||---||Farmers’ convoy of 2K vehicles led by Gurnam Singh Charuni reaches Singhu||Ambala, June 6Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) activists led by Gurnam Singh Charuni today left for the Singhu border from the Shambhu border here to join protesting farmers.Carrying BKU and black flags, a long cavalcade of vehicles was seen on the Ambala-Delhi National Highway. Farmers raised anti-government slogans and said the agitation would continue until the three laws were withdrawn.Farmers reached Singhu in the evening.Meanwhile, traffic on the national highway moved at a snail’s pace, causing inconvenience to commuters. Along with farmers from Ambala, a large number of peasants from Punjab joined the convoy.Charuni, who reached Ambala from Tohana, said: “There are 2,000 to 2,500 vehicles in the cavalcade. It is just a trailer from one district. Look out for June 10, when even a larger cavalcade will leave from Panipat.”On Saturday, farmers burnt the copies of farm laws in front of the residences of BJP leaders.“The BJP’s popularity has dipped over the past six months. The defeat in West Bengal is a proof of that. The party is in for another drubbing in the Uttar Pradesh elections,” said Charuni.He added, “On November 25 last year, the Delhi Chalo movement was launched from Ambala. Farmers had reached Delhi after breaking barricades and facing water cannons. Today, thousands of farmers assembled here to start another journey towards Delhi. The enthusiasm shown by farmers has infused new energy in the movement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-convoy-of-2k-vehicles-led-by-gurnam-singh-charuni-reaches-singhu-264470
07-06-2021||---||Malta offers to provide 60 mn Sputnik V doses||Chandigarh, June 6Pharma Regulatory Services Limited, headquartered in Malta, has given an Expression of Interest to Haryana Medical Services Corporation (HMSCL) to provide up to 60 million doses of Sputnik-V vaccine manufactured by Gamaleya Institute and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).Sputnik V is one of the three vaccines currently approved by DCGI for use in India.As per the offer made by the firm, the per dose cost of the vaccine will nearly be Rs 1,120. The firm has further given a timeline of 30 days to supply the first batch of 5,00,000 followed by 1 million doses every 20 days till the supply is completed against a letter of credit issued in their name.Haryana had floated a global tender for vaccines through HMSCL on May 26 which closed on June 4.Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora said that though the offer has come after the due date of the tender is over, it is being carefully examined to see if it meets the criteria of the tender document and to ensure optimal vaccine availability for the state.Health Minister Anil Vij has shared that the state has received a proposal for supply of 30 million dose-1 and 30 million dose-2 from Pharma Regulatory Services Limited, Malta.Vij tweeted today that the state government was considering this proposal and would present it in the Cabinet meeting for final approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/malta-offers-to-provide-60-mn-sputnik-v-doses-264472
07-06-2021||---||Farmers' agitation: Stalemate persists in Tohana, another protest today||Sonepat, June 6The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has appealed to Haryana residents to protest at their local police stations on Monday across the state.It has given a call to gherao all police stations across the state on June 7 from noon to 4 pm in protest against the arrest of two farmer activists in connection with the agitation against Tohana MLA Devender Babli.In a joint statement issued today, SKM leaders appealed to the farmers of Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Hisar to assemble in large numbers at the Tohana police station.Farmers of other districts should protest at their respective local police stations, the leaders said.The stand-off between farmers and the government continued for the second day at Tohana, though Babli had apologised last night.The protesters led by farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni pitched tents inside the police station complex. They said they would not budge until the two activists — Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar — were released and cases withdrawn.Meanwhile, farmers observed “Sankalp Diwas” today to pay tribute to six farmers, who were reportedly killed by the police at Mandsaur in MP in 2017 during an agitation for remunerative prices for their produce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-stalemate-persists-in-tohana-another-protest-today-264474
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cases falling, but must be alert, says Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij||Home, Urban Local Bodies and Health Minister Anil Vij has said that there has been a gradual decline in Covid cases in the second wave. But the people should remain cautious.He said one should strictly adhere to the Covid-related guidelines to contain the spread of the virus. For this, the people of the state should ensure wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and wash hands at regular intervals.He said that in view of the pandemic, the state has made arrangements in hospitals due to which there is no shortage of oxygen, ventilators and beds in the hospitals of the state.He added the people should be patient and work to break the chain of infection by adhering to the guidelines. Meanwhile, one shouldn’t pay heed to rumours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-falling-but-must-be-alert-says-haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-264477
07-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Another fake call centre busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 6The police today busted yet another fake call centre in the city and arrested three of its owners. It was being run from a building in Sector 23 here.The accused allegedly duped US nationals by using their social security numbers (SSN) obtained through pop-ups. They allegedly threatened the victims with fake arrest warrants and made them pay 200 to 500 dollars, the police have said.On a tip-off, Inspector Azad Singh and his team raided the call centre. Two mobile phones and as many laptops were seized.On being asked to furnish valid OSP licences issued by the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement related to their work, the owners failed to produce any.The accused — identified as Jarar Ahmed of Mumbai, Prathesh Patel of Bhopal and Nisharg of Ahmedabad — have been booked under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 120-B of the IPC, and Sections 43, 66-D and 75 of the Information Technology Act.They were produced in a local court, which sent them to five days’ police remand.The accused reportedly told the police they had duped several foreigners and the call centre was operational for three months.The accused cheated US nationals by threatening to cancel their social security numbers, the police have said. If foreigners refused to pay up, the accused threatened them with fake arrest warrants for drug possession, drug trafficking and money laundering.They took money only through gift cards and then redeemed them.Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Karan Goel said, “The accused bought data of US nationals from various websites. They threatened to block their SSN and sent them fake arrest warrants to make them pay up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-264479
07-06-2021||Yamunanagar||57K Yamunanagar villagers have high-risk diseases: Survey||As many as 57,116 persons were found suffering from high-risk diseases, including diabetes, hypertension and other co-morbidities, during a survey conducted under the Haryana Villagers’ General Health Check-up Scheme in all 661 villages of the district.Besides, 5,036 persons were found having influenza-like illness and 212 had difficulty in breathing. However, only 103 Covid cases were found.“A door-to-door survey was held and the health data of 9,58,493 people in 1,86,921 houses was collected to contain Covid spread,” said Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/57k-yamunanagar-villagers-have-high-risk-diseases-survey-264481
07-06-2021||---||Lockdown extended in Haryana till June 14||Chandigarh, June 6The Haryana Government on Sunday extended the lockdown for another week till June 14 while announcing major relaxations, including opening of restaurants, bars, clubs, religious places and extended shopping hours. Besides, gatherings with up to 50 persons have also been allowed.An order of Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said the timings for shopping complexes had been extended from 9 am to 3 pm to from 9 am to 6 pm. The timings for the shopping malls would be 10 am to 8 pm.Similarly, restaurants, bars and clubs will be allowed to open from 10 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. However, Covid-appropriate behaviour, including social distancing and regular sanitisation, needs to be ensured.Under the new orders, the cap of 11 persons had been extended to 21 for wedding functions and funerals, which can now be conducted outside houses and courts with strictly no procession.Other functions with a maximum cap of 50 persons with the prior permission of the DC concerned have also been allowed. Religious places can also open but with a maximum of 21 persons at one time. Corporate offices can open with a capacity of 50 per cent. Moreover, home delivery by restaurants and food joints will be allowed till 10 pm.MORE RELAXATIONS FROM TODAY||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-extended-in-haryana-till-june-14-264483
07-06-2021||Nitish Sharma 
||Ambala fatalities up twofold in May||Tribune News Service Ambala, June 6  The Ambala district has recorded a sharp rise in the number of deaths in May and April this year compared to the toll during the corresponding period last year.  The district had recorded 1,292 deaths, including 594 in April and 698 in May, during the two months last year. The toll increased to 2,753 this year, with April recording 1,083 deaths and May 1,670, almost twofold increase.  However, as per the Health Department, a total of 319 Covid deaths, including 80 in April and 239 in May, have been reported this year, while the toll was one each in both the months last year. The remaining fatalities have been reported due to natural and other causes at the time of reporting. A senior health official said the actual figures of the Covid deaths could be higher as several people, especially those in rural areas, may have never been diagnosed and died at their homes. “In rural areas, cremations are performed without knowing the cause of death. People are still hiding their symptoms and are avoiding testing.” Refuting the claims about hiding the numbers of Covid deaths, Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Balwinder Kaur said: “Every single death, be it Covid or due to other reasons, has been reported. People in rural areas are still hiding their symptoms despite rising cases following which the Haryana Villagers General Health Scheme was launched, under which 262 persons were found positive during a door-to-door survey. It has helped us in bringing down the number of Covid patients and deaths.” Meanwhile, Additional Senior Medical Officer Ambala Dr Sukhpreet said: “The district has witnessed nearly 70 per cent of total Covid deaths during the second wave this year. The possibility of people not going to any health facility for testing, especially in rural areas, and then dying of Covid can’t be ruled out. If a person has never got himself diagnosed then how can we tell if he/she was Covid positive or negative?”  Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said: “The district has witnessed 239 deaths in May only, which is almost50 per cent of the toll this year. The entire focus has been on controlling the Covid cases so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-fatalities-up-twofold-in-may-264484
07-06-2021||---||75% Covid victims in Faridabad had co-morbidities||Faridabad, June 6Co-morbidities have resulted in the death of 75.6 per cent of the total patients who have died due to Covid in the district. With a tally of 711 deaths to date, the district is placed at the third spot in the state.Revealing that co-morbid conditions like obesity, hypertension, heart disease and diabetes mellitus, pulmonary koch (pulmonary TB), COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and renal failure have been responsible for deterioration in the condition of patients leading to death ultimately, a senior official of the Health Department said that of the total 711 deaths in the district, 538 have been found to be victims of co-morbidity. Only 173 patients, who have died due to Covid, had no co-morbidity, it is claimed.It is believed that patients with underlying health conditions or co-morbidities have an increasingly rapid and severe progression often leading to death after being infected.“In medical terms, co-morbidity is the presence of one or more additional conditions often co-occurring (that is, concomitant or concurrent) with a primary condition,” said a doctor who added that it describes the effect of all other conditions an individual patient might have other than the primary condition of interest, and could be physiological or psychological.In the context of mental health, co-morbidity often refers to disorders that are often coexistent with each other such as depression and anxiety disorders, he elaborates.Meanwhile, the district entered the 30th day today when the number of new cases had been less than the number of recovered ones. Claiming that continuous testing, tracking and treatment combined with awareness drive had led to speedy improvement, DC Yashpal Yadav said that increased vaccination has also helped in providing a safeguard against the infection. The mortality rate has slipped to 0.7 per cent, he said.With a total of over 8.64 lakh persons tested so far, which is around 50 per cent of the city’s population, the test per lakh has reached 47,985, it is added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-covid-victims-in-faridabad-had-co-morbidities-264485
07-06-2021||---||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim ‘tests’ +ve||Gurugram, June 6Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh has reportedly tested positive for Covid.Lodged in Sunaria jail, Ram Rahim was brought to Medanta in the morning today for some tests. According to sources, he tested Covid positive and was shifted to the Covid ward.The hospital, however, has not issued any confirmation or denial of the same. Even the local police have denied any knowledge of this high-profile prisoner being brought or admitted here.Sunaria Jail Superintendent Sunil Sangwan confirmed his admission to the hospital.The hospital sources also claimed Ram Rahim has not been very cooperative and allegedly refused giving samples for test. He is insisting on meeting Honeypreet and his family and to have them by his side.According to Sangwan, on Thursday, Singh had undergone some tests at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, after he complained of abdominal pain.He again complained of pain in the morning today and all tests related to Singh’s condition could not be completed at PGIMS, Rohtak. When another top government hospital was approached in this regard, he said the tests were currently not being done due to the Covid situation. The authorities then sought permission and rushed him to Medanta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-tests-ve-264486
07-06-2021||Rohtak||Fill vacant posts, Rohtak PGIMS director urged||The Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a network of organisations engaged in health awareness and advocacy, has written to Director, PGIMS, demanding the filling of all vacant posts in the anaesthesia department stating that the role of doctors was crucial at a time when Covid was wreaking havoc.  Over 100 posts for teachers and senior residents are sanctioned in the anesthesia department, but many are lying vacant. This is not only badly affecting the department’s routine work but also making it difficult to handle emergency situations.  PGIMS Director Dr Rohtas K Yadav couldn’t be contacted. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fill-vacant-posts-rohtak-pgims-director-urged-264487
07-06-2021||Kurukshetra||Contests on World Environment Day||Students get e-certificatesAmbala: As per CBSE guidelines, Environment Day was celebrated with great zeal at Bhartiya Public School, Ambala Cantonment. The theme for this year was "Ecosystem restoration" with the slogan of "Reimagine, recreate, restore." Online activities like crown decoration, speech competition, poster making and slogan writing were orgnaised. Participants were felicitated with e-certificates by principal Munish Jain. He applauded the relentless efforts of participants and advised students to nurture the nature and save environment so that they could have a better future.Quiz to raise awarenessPanipat: The Eco and Science Club of Dyal Singh Public School, Panipat, celebrated "World Environment Day" with great fervour. Students were asked to plant sapling in a pot, give a special name to the plant and watch it grow. A quiz was conducted to raise awareness about the importance of "Clean and green environment". Poster making contest on the topic "Save environment" was organised for Classes I to XII under three categories wherein students showed a lot of enthusiasm.Series of online lecture launchedMahendragarh: Central University of Haryana (CUH) launched an online international series on the Covid pandemic. Sudhendu Jyoti Sinha, Adviser to NITI Aayog while addressing the participants expressed his views regarding the action plan implemented at the ground level to deal with the Covid epidemic. He, through a presentation focused on India's fight against the pandemic, told how various challenges were faced! Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said the pandemic was a challenge for the whole world. The solution was possible only through mutual cooperation and trust in governance and administration.NCC cadets plant saplingsYamunanagar: NCC cadets of Guru Nanak Khalsa College planted saplings at many places on the occasion of 'World Environment Day'. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said under the supervision of Colonel Ajay Pal Kaushish, Commanding Officer of 14th Haryana NCC Battalion and Administrative Officer Col APS Sandhu and SM Zakir Hussain, this campaign dedicated to the environment was carried out. Major Kang also said 207 NCC cadets of the college participated in the plantation drive.Azadi Amrit Mahotsav SeriesHisar: The Speakathon Club under the mentorship of training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar organised the fourth edition of 'Aazadi Amrit Mahotsav Series' in form of "Online elocution contest" to commemorate the 75th year of India's Independence. This week's freedom fighter was Vinayak Damodar Savarkar popularly known as Swantrayveer Savarkar whose birth anniversary falls on May 28. About 30 students of GJUST, as well as other affiliated colleges participated in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/contests-on-world-environment-day-264491
07-06-2021||Kaithal||Careless attitude of firm staff while laying gas pipeline in Kaithal||Gate poses danger to passersbyAmbala: The said photo has been clicked at the site of gate No.6 of the HSVP, Sector 9. The supporting spikes on the said gate came down during a storm, which occurred two days ago, posing serious threat. Any further storm can cause physical harm to anybody. No official of the HSVP or the Municipal Corporation has visited the site to take stock of the situation. Gian P Kansal Ambala CitySlap hefty fine on dairy owners who let cattle loose on roadsHisar: The Hisar Nagar Nigam has been sincere in its efforts of making the city free of stray animals. So far, the nagar nigam has conducted four drives to capture these. Unfortunately, the efforts have been impeded by cow dairy owners who let their cattle roam around freely in localities and roads of the town. When these are captured by the nigam staff, the owners get them freed after paying easy fine. The provision of hefty fine must be made, then only the problem can be mitigated to a large extent.. Baljeet Singh Deep, Hisar‘Superfluous’ charges in power bill questionedPanchkula: The domestic power bills currently issued by the UHBVN comprise of several charges (a) fuel surcharge adjustment, (b) meter service charges, (c) electricity duty and (d) municipal tax, apart from the usual slab-based electricity consumption charges. However, one fails to see any rationale behind imposition of all such 'superfluous' charges. Are residents not currently paying the property tax to the municipal authorities? So where is the case for additionally charging the municipal tax in respect of the power consumption here? Incidentally, the Chandigarh Administration has already done away with levying of fuel surcharge adjustment. Let Panchkula administration come to the rescue of its hapless residents who are being made to pay such flimsy charges under their nose. Kumar Gupt, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/careless-attitude-of-firm-staff-while-laying-gas-pipeline-in-kaithal-264493
07-06-2021||Ambala||Haryana Diary: Spreading ecological awareness||A tribute to deceased farmerJhajjar: Residents of Guda village here have installed a statue of a co-villager and farmer, Karamvir Singh, who died of cardiac arrest during the ongoing protest at the Dhansa border here on February 7. Ram Chander Yadav, district president, All-India Kisan Sabha, said Karamvir had actively been participating in the farmers’ protest since December 2020. His statue will keep reminding everyone about his supreme sacrifice. The statue was unveiled by Vinod Gulia, president of Gulia Khap.Students raise funds for noble causeYamunanagar: Three students Ritigya Agarwal (14), Kayraa Garg (14) and Sharanya Goel (13) of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri have undertaken a noble cause by selling their artwork and giving away the funds raised to Covid patients. They sold their paintings online and fetched Rs 1,15,000. The students donated the said amount towards the Haryana Corona Relief Fund through Yamunanagar MLA Ghanshyam Dass Arora and Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar.Samaritans come forward to save livesRohtak: A group of Good Samaritans from Rohtak have come forward to save precious lives by donating blood at regular intervals as well as during emergency situations. The members of the blood donors’ group named “Hum aur Aap Social Welfare Society” also donated blood for thalassemic children and platelets for critical patients on a regular basis. Society convener Gulshan Nijhawan said they had 1,978 registered emergency donors, including 485 women, who are ready to donate blood round the clock in case of urgent requirement and could be reached through their helpline number 8760160160. As many as 7,927 units of blood have been collected at 82 camps organised by the group so far.Contributed by: Nitish Sharma, Ravinder Saini, Shiv Kumar Sharma, and Sunit Dhawan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-spreading-ecological-awareness-264495
07-06-2021||---||Haryana extends Covid curbs till June 14; malls, religious places to open with conditions||Chandigarh, June 6The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown for another week till June 14 while announcing major relaxations, including opening of restaurants, bars, clubs, religious places and extended shopping hours.Besides gatherings up to 50 persons have also been allowed.READ ALSOCovishield ‘more effective’ than CovaxinWith 1.14 lakh new Covid cases, India sees lowest daily rise in 2 monthsAn order of the Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said the shopping hours for shopping complexes had been extended from 9 am to 3 pm to from 9 am to 6 pm. The timings for the shopping malls would be 10 am to 8 pm.Similarly, the restaurants, bars and club houses would be allowed to open from 10 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity. However, the Covid appropriate behaviour, including social distancing and regular sanitation, would have to be observed.HighlightsUnder new lockdown orders, the cap of 11 persons had been extended to 21 persons for the marriage functions and funerals. The marriages/funerals have also been allowed to be conducted outside homes and courts with strictly no movement of baraat procession.The other functions with a maximum cap of 50 with prior permission of the DC concerned had also been allowed.The religious places can also open but with a maximum of 21 persons at one time.The corporate offices can open with a capacity of 50 per cent. The home delivery by restaurants and food joints will be allowed till 10 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-extends-covid-curbs-till-june-14-malls-religious-places-to-open-with-conditions-264405
07-06-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram, US nationals duped after being threatened with 'arrest warrants'||Gurugram, June 6Gurugram police have busted yet another fake call centre being run from a building in Sector 23 and nabbed its three owners. The accused were allegedly duping foreigners through pop-ups in name of social security number (SSN). They were allegedly threatening the victims with fake arrest warrants in order to make them pay up.The operator of the 'call centre' was also using a unique trick to scare and pressure the victims after sending them fake arrest warrants. Two mobiles and two laptops have been seized by police. An FIR has been registered at cybercrime police station. Police have taken the accused on five-day remand after producing them in a city court today.According to the police, the accused were duping US nationals by using their social security numbers (SSN) obtained through pop-ups. The accused duped them of USD 200 to 500 by threatening them with penalisation for using drugs, opening fake bank accounts and taking fake loans. They even sent fake arrest warrants for “drug possession, drug trafficking and money laundering” when anybody denied paying money. They took money only through gift cards and then redeemed those.The cybercrime police got a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run in Sector 23. On the direction of ACP Karan Goel, inspector Azad Singh with his team raided the fake call centre where men and women employees were busy on computers and laptops. Most of them were making calls in English. When asked they could not show any valid OSP licence of Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.Police arrested fake call centre owners identified as Jarar Ahmed, a native of Mumbai; Prathesh Patel, native of Bhopal; and Nisharg of Vejalpur, Ahmedabad. The arrested accused revealed that they had duped many foreigners and the call centre was operational for the last three months.An FIR has been registered against the accused under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC, Sections 43, 66D, 75 of IT act at cybercrime police station.“The accused used to buy data of American people from various websites, after that they used to send messages to them by uploading the data on their server. They would call them and demand USD 200 to 500 by misusing their identity and threatening them with blocking their SSN and sending them fake arrests warrant to make money. We have taken the three accused on remand and are questioning them,” said Karan Goel, ACP, DLF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-us-nationals-duped-after-being-threatened-with-arrest-warrants-264402
07-06-2021||Gurugram/Chandigarh||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim tests positive for Covid-19; taken to private hospital in Gurugram||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is lodged in Sunaria jail in Haryana’s Rohtak district, was on Sunday taken to Medanta Hospital on Sunday morning where he has tested positive for Covid-19.He has been shifted to Covid Ward.Earlier on Thursday, he had undergone some tests at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak after he complained of abdominal pain.The 53-year-old sect head of the Sirsa-headquartered Dera was taken to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram for further tests on Sunday.Sunaria Jail Superintendent Sunil Sangwan told PTI over the phone that all tests related to Singh’s condition could not be completed at PGIMS, Rohtak.When another top government hospital was approached in this regard, they said the tests were currently not being done due to the Covid-19 situation.Later, it was suggested to the prison authorities that these tests could be done at Medanta Hospital. The permission for the same was granted, he said.Singh was taken to the hospital under heavy police escort.Among other tests, Singh had undergone an abdominal CT scan at PGIMS, Rohtak on Thursday, officials had said.In May, he was admitted to the government hospital after he complained of dizziness and blood pressure fluctuation. He was discharged after an overnight stay at the hospital.Singh is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two of his women disciples. He was convicted in August 2017 by a special CBI court in Panchkula. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-tests-positive-for-covid-19-taken-to-private-hospital-in-gurugram-264361
