09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: 10-year-old raped at Rewari village||A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped inside a village school in Haryana’s Rewari district by a group of boys, who also filmed the act on their mobile phones, police said on Wednesday.Barring one, all accused are minor, police said.They said some of the accused filmed the act and circulated the video locally, which reached the victim’s father, who lodged a complaint.Police said the school was closed due to summer holidays and children, including the girl, were playing there when the incident took place on May 24.Seven minor boys and an 18-year-old were involved in the incident, Rewari’s Deputy Superintendent of Police Hansraj told reporters.An official at the women police station said while some of the accused have been booked on the rape charge, others are accused of making a video on their mobile phones.The minor boys accused in the incident are aged 10 to 15, she said.“The girl did not narrate the incident at home but when the video reached her father, he lodged a complaint on Tuesday and we immediately registered an FIR,” the DSP said.He said the minors involved in the act have been sent to an observation home while the 18-year-old accused has been arrested.“The child was playing in the school compound close to her home. The accused took her inside and committed the crime,” the DSP said, adding further investigation was under way. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-10-year-old-raped-at-rewari-village-265956
09-06-2021||Sonepat||SIT to inquire alleged custodial death in Panipat police station||Superintendent of Police on Wednesday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) led by an Additional Superintendent of Police to inquire about the alleged custodial death of a 50-year-old man in Quila police station during interrogation on Tuesday. Besides, a judicial probe has also been initiated into the matter.The police have registered a case against an Assistant Sub-Inspector and two more persons allegedly for murdering the man and arrested all the three accused.As per the available information, Ayub Khan, a distant relative of a person accused of abducting a 22-year-old girl, died after he was allegedly tortured by a police officer and the girl’s family members on the roof of the Quila police station.As per the detail available, a case was registered against Irshad (25) of Ashok Vihar colony for allegedly abducting a 23-year old girl of the same vicinity on May 27. The Quila police have registered a case against Irshad and others under sections 363 and 366 of IPC.On Tuesday, ASI Dharamvir, who was investigating the case, brought the Ayub Khan, a distant relative of the accused Irshad to inquire about the suspect.The family members of Ayub Khan alleged that they took him on the roof of the police station where ASI Dharamvir along with Sumit and Sunil, both relatives of the girl, tortured him badly where he died in the evening.The police officials immediately rushed him to the general hospital where doctors declared brought dead. As the family members received information about the death of Ayub Khan, they gathered in the general hospital and protested against the police.The family members also alleged that the ASI had demanded Rs 40,000 for settled the issue.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said a case has been registered against the three including ASI Dharamvir, Sunil, and Sumit under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (act done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The accused have been produced in the court on Wednesday and the court has sent the accused ASI on two days of police custody and sent the two accused to judicial custody, he added.Besides, an SIT headed by ASP Pooja Vashishth has been constituted to inquire the matter and said no accused would be spared, he added.Besides, the postmortem of the deceased has been conducted under the supervision of Judicial Magistrate Ist Class (JMIC) and also made videography of the deceased’s autopsy today. The dead body has been handed over to the victim’s kin after postmortem examination, said Satish Kumar Vats, DSP Headquarter.The viscera and heart of the deceased were preserved which would be sent to the forensic laboratory to clear the cause of death, the DSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sit-to-inquire-alleged-custodial-death-in-panipat-police-station-265927
09-06-2021||Gurugram||Kamal Nath admitted to Gurugram's Medanta||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath was admitted to Gurugram's Medanta Hospital on Wednesday.Kamal Nath, 74, was admitted to the hospital after he complained of fever and shortness of breath. His condition is stable, sources at the hospital said.The sources at the hospital said after a rapid antigen test came back negative, doctors will conduct an RT-PCR test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kamal-nath-admitted-to-gurugrams-medanta-265914
09-06-2021||Faridabad||Demolition of Faridabad colony in Aravalli forest area suspended: MC||Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) on Wednesday suspended the launch of a major demolition drive on 150 acres of forestland encroached upon at Khori-Lakkadpur village in the Aravallis due to the non-availability of police personnel. Prashant Atkan, Joint Commissioner, MCF and one of the Duty Magistrates said that the department was awaiting the deployment of around 2,000 police personnel required for going ahead with the demolition. “Reminders to the police department will be given and we will take up the demolition as soon the police force is made available,” he said.  The Municipal Corporation Faridabad is to reclaim around 120 acres of Forest land, presently under illegal occupation of around 10,000 houses, mostly labourers and migrant workers, in wake of an order passed by the Supreme Court on Monday. The land is close to the Delhi border in the Surajkund area. The authorities expect to clear it in three phases, but before the six-week period allowed by the Supreme Court.The Corporation on Tuesday said it would start demolition on Wednesday morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demolition-of-faridabad-colony-in-aravalli-forest-area-suspended-mc-265874
09-06-2021||Jind (Haryana)||2 killed, 17 injured as bus rams into tree in Haryana's Narwana||Two labourers from Bihar were killed and 17 others injured after their bus skidded off the road and crashed into the trees in Haryana's Narwana town on Wednesday, police said.The bus with over 70 farm labourers from Bihar's Supaul district lost control and turned turtle after its driver fell asleep near Balerkha village in Narwana on the Jind-Patiala highway, Station House Officer (SHO) Raj Kumar said. Around 10 labourers, including the deceased, were sitting on the roof of the bus. The injured were being treated at a nearby hospital, the SHO said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-killed-17-injured-as-bus-rams-into-tree-in-haryanas-narwana-265873
09-06-2021||---||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s big push for development of Panchkula||Chandigarh, June 8Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced the setting up of the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (PMDA) on the lines of the bodies established in Gurugram and Faridabad.He said it would help in executing an integrated development plan. He said Panchkula was a part of the tricity, but lagged behind Mohali.Addressing the media in the presence of Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, the Chief Minister said Panchkula would be developed as a hub of medical, education and tourism facilities and industrial investment.He said to promote Panchkula as a destination for real estate, external development charges (EDC) and infrastructure development charges (IDC) were slashed by almost one-third in Panchkula, bringing these on a par with those in Mohali and Zirakpur.He said there were two sites for big hospitals, one in Sector 32 and the other in Sector 5-C, which would be auctioned soon. He said a food and drug testing lab was being opened in Sector 3 at a cost of Rs22 crore.“At Thapli in Morni, a panchkarma centre is being set up under the Ayush Department. A nursing college is also being planned for the city while the National Institute of Fashion Technology is coming up in Sector 23,” he said.He said efforts were being made to develop Barwala as an industrial township and the IT Park in Panchkula would be operated in collaboration with the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI).He said Morni would be developed as a tourist destination. He said paragliding activities would start at Morni on June 20. Besides, 10 trekking routes had been identified. “We are exploring the possibility of home stay or farmhouse stay facilities for trekkers,” he said.He talked about setting up Nakshatra Vatika, Sugandh Vatika and Rashi Van on 20 acres along the Morni road from Panchkula.Focusing on Pinjore, he said a film city was being planned on 60 acres. “It will comprise indoor studios,” he said.He said the government had decided to shift the Sector 23 dumping ground to Jhuriwala by December 31. He said the work to connect Panchkula with the Chandigarh airport was in progress. He said an air taxi service might start from Pinjore.WHAT’S IN THE OFFING||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattars-big-push-for-development-of-panchkula-265744
09-06-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Setting up Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority just a gimmick: Opposition||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 8Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s announcement regarding setting up the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (PMDA) evoked a mixed response from residents.Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, Ex-Mayor‘IT IS A BID TO DIVERT ATTENTION FROM ISSUES’The PMDA is nothing but a way to divert the attention of people from issues in city. It will create confusion.While leaders of the ruling party claimed that it would help in boosting the development, the Opposition claimed that it was nothing but a gimmick to divert the attention of residents from various issues in the city.BB Singal, senior BJP leader and a member of the Haryana State Pharmacy Council, said the announcement made by the Chief Minister was a historic step and a long-pending demand of the city.He said with the PMDA, almost all departments, including the MC, HUDA, HSIIDC, UHBVN and horticulture, would come under an umbrella and the decision making would be easier.SK Nayar, PRESIDENT, CITIZENS’ WELFARE ASSN, P’KULAWILL HELP COMPLETE DEVELOPMENT WORKSSetting up of the PMDA will help in completing development works in the district on time. It is a good decision; the previous governments had ignored Panchkula.Singal said with the setting up of the PMDA, the rates of the CLU (change of land use) would be reduced to one third — on a par with the rates in Mohali and Zirakpur. He said the EDC funds that earlier went to the state government would now be received by the PMDA and used towards the development projects in the city.However, former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia said the PMDA was nothing but a way to divert the attention of people from issues in the city. She said the Deputy Commissioner, Mayor and other officials of various departments, who are members of the PMDA, were already present to take decisions regarding the development of the city. She said setting up of the PMDA would just create confusion.Welcoming the move, SK Nayar, president, Citizens’ Welfare Association, Panchkula, said setting up of the PMDA would help in completing the development works of the district timely. He said it was a good decision and the previous governments had ignored Panchkula.Subhash Papneja, president, Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 16, said the government made several announcements, but everything remained on papers. He said a government medical college, Sanskrit college, Ayurvedic college and Sainik school were some of the announcements made by the government, but nothing has been done so far. He said the pace of development was very slow and hoped that setting up of the PMDA would boost the development works in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/setting-up-panchkula-metropolitan-development-authority-just-a-gimmick-opposition-265745
09-06-2021||The attached photograph was captured on the main dividing road of Sector 8 and 9 in Panchkula. While this damaged electricity pole (probably hit by some speeding vehicle)||Damaged pole a lurking danger||Vinayak G, PanchkulaExtension of Sec 20 overbridge need of the hourThe newly constituted Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority should prioritise extension of Sector 20 overbridge on both sides, with one bay to directly link Sector 20 with the industrial area and the other to connect the main road from Chandigarh (Housing Board Chowk via Sectors 7-18 to 12-12A) to Sectors 20-21 dividing road at the terminal end of the vital bypass emanating from Kharar via Banur and crossing the Zirakpur-Ambala highway.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaGarbage disposal facility not available in Eco-cityThere is no garbage disposal facility provided at the Eco-city, Sector 12, Panchkula Extension 2, near the Alipur Industrial Area. These should be installed as residents of the area are inconvenienced. The authorities should take note of it and solve the problem at the earliest. Aarti K Sud, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion oughtto be seen by many, and not just you? The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/damaged-pole-a-lurking-danger-265707
09-06-2021||Karnal||Session on online teaching||Online workshop organisedKarnal: Pratap Public School Jarnailly Colony, Karnal, organised an online workshop. The session was conducted by Dr Sudipti Arora, research scientist and assistant director at Dr B Lal Institute of Biotechnology, Jaipur. Dr Arora explained the environmental problems and gave practical and useful solutions to the students, and explained 10Rs -- refuse, reduce, reuse, recycle, recreate, repot, rethink, remember, repair and restore -- to adopt for a sustainable lifestyle, talking about zero waste and sustainability. She mentioned the joy of sustainability was unique and one could feel extreme happiness by practicing sustainability in their lifestyle.Virtual GATE classes beginHisar: The training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has started an online graduate aptitude test for engineering i.e. GATE classes from Tuesday onwards for BTech ECE, CSE and EE IIIrd and IVth year students of the university. An online inauguration event was organised by the cell and GATE training programme teachers, coordinators and volunteers. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar motivated and encouraged the students to study at this online GATE classes. Pratap Singh Malik, director, training and placement cell, said the GATE classes will be conducted online, which would be completed in four phases. In each phase, three subjects will be covered by the faculty in which a doubt session will also be conducted. More than 120 students have registered for the GATE training. He also emphasised on the importance of taking and clearing the GATE exam.Extension lecture at GNG CollegeYamunanagar: An online extension lecture on 'Change in content and form from victorian age to modern age in English literature: A bird's eye view', was organised by the English Literary Society of Guru Nanak Girls College. Dr Ritu Kumar, head of the English department of MLN College, Yamunanagar, was the speaker on the occasion. The director of the college, Dr Varinder Gandhi said such programmes were beneficial for the intellectual growth of students.ABVP submits memorandumRewari: A delegation of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) led by Saurabh Yadav submitted a memorandum to the Indira Gandhi University authorities demanding increase in seats of B.pharmacy course, rollback of the decision for reducing the seats in the LLB course, setting up of a playground and a special chance to those who could not take their final exams due to different reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/session-on-online-teaching-265702
09-06-2021||Faridabad||Will lose place we called home for 20 years, say Aravalli migrants||Bihar native Mohammed Salim (61) came all the way from Gaya in search of work way back in 1995 and made this city his home.From starting out as a labourer in a stone quarry to gradually building his three-room house in Khori basti, Salim is a disturbed man since the SC judgment on demolishing houses in the Aravalli forest land came in yesterday. He stands to lose his home of 21 years and the future, he says, appears bleak.25-yr-old colony faces demolitionThe Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, will launch a major demolition drive at Khori basti in the Aravalli forest area from today. The colony houses more than 50,000 migrant workers“I learnt of the SC order through a message on my phone. Since then, the entire family is in panic mode. We are a family of 20. My sons and their families live with us and all of us have chipped in with funds to build this house that the JCB machine will reduce to a rubble in a few minutes. We will lose the place we call home as well as the earnings that went into building it up,” he rues.Faridabad colony in Aravalli forest area to be razed todayHe is one of the 50,000 people, who are impacted by the order. Kedar Yadav, a plumber by vocation, says he hasn’t slept since last night. “We are poor people who cannot afford to lose whatever we have built over time. Why not punish the land mafia which sold the land? Also, if this has to be done, some alternative arrangement to compensate us for the loss should be made,’’ he says, adding that the poor are always a soft target when it comes to taking action against the guilty.They claim that nobody stopped them from settling down in the area in the 1990s when they came as migrant labourers and were hired by influential persons for mining.Lallan Kerketta (42), an auto driver hailing from Jharkhand, has been living in a small house built on 70 sq yards. “Though there has been talk for some years about the illegality of the (Khori basti) colony, a majority of the families had been expecting regularisation as the colony is more than 20 years old,” he says, adding he does not know where he’ll take his five minor children when his house will be razed.“I have spent Rs 10 lakh and it will go down the drain if the house is demolished, besides making us homeless during the pandemic,” he says.“No notice has been served by anyone though we have been living here for the past over 20 years,” says Sarina Sarkar, a 36-year-old housewife under whose name the petition was filed by the residents to prevent the local administration from carrying out the demolition. The colony deserved regularisation rather than demolition as that will render more than 50,000 persons homeless, she says.Describing the move as unjustified, Jitender Bhadana, an environmental activist here, alleges that hundreds of acres of forest land has been encroached upon in the name of farmhouses, banquets halls and residential purposes, with no action against the culprits.Nirmal Gorana, an activist of the Bandhua Mukti Morcha who has been supporting the cause of migrant workers, suggests shifting the evicted residents to flats built by the MCF and HSVP for the poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-lose-place-we-called-home-for-20-years-say-aravalli-migrants-265570
09-06-2021||---||Farmers to cap paddy transplant wages||Karnal, June 8With the mass exodus of migrant workers, who went back to their native states after the Covid-induced lockdown, the paddy sowing season that officially begins from June 15 is facing an unprecedented crisis.The sowing depends heavily on domestic farm labourers, who are demanding higher wages, forcing local farmers to put a cap on the paddy transplant wages.Labourers unhappyLabourers are not happy with the decision. A farm labourer said there should not be such tough restrictions on them as they were free to demand their wages according to the efforts they put in their work.Farmers of Budhanpur Viran village near Nissing, around 17 km from the district headquarters, fixed the wages of paddy transplantation for local labourers after holding a meeting on Tuesday. “We have the fixed paddy transplantation wages and no farmer will pay more than Rs 2,700 per acre to labour. Those paying above the fixed wages will be fined Rs 21,000,” said Amrit Dhillon, a farmer.He said local labourers had raised their wages for paddy transplantation last year after the mass exodus of migrants due to the Covid-induced lockdown.“We had paid the local labourers Rs 2,700-3,000 last year against Rs 2,200-2,400 charged by the migrants, but this year they have been demanding Rs 3,500 per acre for the transplantation,” said Gurumukh Singh, another farmer. He said the input cost of the farmers was increasing day by day. The diesel rate is nearing Rs 90 and the cost of seed, fertilisers and other input items have also increased manifold. “No farmer will pay more than Rs 2,700 per acre. If anyone pays more than what is decided, he will be fined,” said an elderly farmer, adding that if local labourers tried to oppose it, the entire village would support each other. “The local labourers rely on farmers for their livelihood. We have also asked them to complete the transplantation first in our village and then they are free to work elsewhere,” he added.On the other hand, the local labourers are not happy with the decision. A farm labourer, on the condition of anonymity, said there should not be such hard restrictions on the labourers as they were free to demand their wages according to their efforts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-cap-paddy-transplant-wages-265649
09-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Gurugram trader offered lift, robbed of Rs 2 lakh, phone||Gurugram, June 8 A local trader headed to Rajasthan was duped of over Rs 2 lakh after he was offered lift in an SUV.  A complaint was filed by Harun Qureshi of Heera Nagar, Gurugram, who runs a milk dairy and deals in the sale and purchase of buffaloes. He said on Monday around 7 am, when he was headed to Rajasthan for buying a buffalo, five masked men in a white Creta offered him lift near Rajiv Chowk and he sat in the SUV.  “They just drove the vehicle for 200 m and attacked me. One of them smothered my throat with a towel and snatched Rs 2.58 lakh cash and me mobile phone. Soon they took a U-turn from the Kherki Daula toll plaza and pushed me out from the moving car after blindfolding me. Later, I somehow managed to inform the police,” Qureshi said in his complaint.  An FIR has been registered against unidentified accused under Sections 392 and 34 of the IPC at the Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-trader-offered-lift-robbed-of-rs-2-lakh-phone-265651
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Applications invited for  ‘National Teacher Award’||The state government has invited online applications for the ‘National Teacher Award-2021’ from teachers working in government schools. For this, the portal has been opened till June 20.Portal openedThe portal http://nationalawardstoteachers.education.gov.in has been opened, where all guidelines, criteria and time-limit pertaining to this award has been shared.An official spokesperson said this year, online applications had been invited by the Ministry of Education, Government of India. The portal http://nationalawardstoteachers.education.gov.in had been opened, where all guidelines, criteria and time-limit pertaining to this award had been shared.The names of maximum three outstanding teachers from each district could be recommended by the District Level Committee as per the prescribed parameters. A maximum of three awards had been set for Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/applications-invited-for-national-teacher-award-265654
09-06-2021||---||AAP to contest panchayat election in Haryana on party symbol||Ambala, June 8 The Aam Aadmi Party’s north zone Haryana president, Dr BK Kaushik, said the party would contest the local bodies and panchayat elections on the party symbol in the state for which it had started searching candidates. He was here to hold a district-level meeting of the AAP leaders.  Kaushik said, “The AAP will introduce its candidates in panchayat and local body elections and allot the party symbol to its candidates. For panchayat elections, the party has constituted search committees at the assembly constituency and district level. Honest candidates are being searched and the lists are being prepared. Soon search committees for local body elections will also be constituted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-to-contest-panchayat-election-in-haryana-on-party-symbol-265655
09-06-2021||---||Woman jumps into canal with two kids; daughter dies, search on for son||Karnal, June 8A 35-year-old woman from Panauri village along with her three-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter allegedly jumped into a canal near Uchana village.She was rescued by a passerby, but her daughter Bhawna died. The police with the help of divers were still searching her son Ivan when the report was last filed.SHO, Sadar, Baljeet Singh said the woman told the police that she jumped into the canal alone after leaving her children on the bank. She blamed her husband for forcing her to take the step. Further investigations are on.Daughter dies, search on for son||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-jumps-into-canal-with-two-kids-daughter-dies-search-on-for-son-265656
09-06-2021||---||Congress flays Haryana govt over new norms for tubewell connection||Chandigarh, June 8  Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday condemned the BJP-JJP government for change in rules for tubewell connections.  Addressing a press conference, Surjewala cited the May 1 policy issued by power companies and said,” Now, if the farmer’s land comes under the canal command area, no tubewell connection will be allotted to him.”  He said it implied that no tubewell connections would be sanctioned in Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Kaithal, Jind, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh, Nuh and Gurugram.   “Does the Khattar-Dushyant Chautala duo is not aware that canal water is available in most of Haryana for only seven days in a month? In southern Haryana, the turn for irrigation water comes after 45 days and sometimes even after 60 days. So how will a farmer be able to cultivate his land?”he asked. He said the policy mentioned that tubewell connections of more than 30 BHP would not be sanctioned in the future.  “In the whole of southern Haryana, especially in Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh, Rewari, Nuh, and Gurugram, the groundwater level is so deep that most of the motors are of 40-50 BHP. This order means that now onwards, no farmer will be sanctioned tubewell connection in southern Haryana,” he said.  Hooda said it was being reported that connections would be given to only those farmers who got an NOC from the Irrigation Department. “In such a situation, the farmers, who had deposited the security many years ago, are left clueless and wondering what to do next,” he said. The Leader of the Opposition alleged that the government was recovering crores from farmers in the name of connections. Several farmers had deposited the security for the connection many years ago, but they had not got it to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-flays-haryana-govt-over-new-norms-for-tubewell-connection-265657
09-06-2021||---||Faridabad colony in Aravalli forest area to be razed today||Faridabad, June 8The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) is all set to launch a major demolition drive on 150 acres of forestland encroached upon at Khori-Lakkadpur village in the Aravallis from tomorrow.Will lose place we called home for 20 years, say Aravalli migrantsThe action comes in the wake of the Supreme Court order in which the authorities concerned have been directed to remove all settlements built on the forestland within six weeks.Prashant Atkan Joint Commissioner, MCF, said assisted by 2,000 policemen, the department would launch the drive at 6 am tomorrow. Ten 10 JCBs and two Poclain machines would be pressed into service.A support staff of 100, led by three Duty Magistrates (HCS officers), would be supervising the drive.He said while the total forestland was around 150 acres, 30 acres was cleared of encroachments during a drive in September last year. As many as 1,200 constructions were demolished.The official said there was 8,000 illegal houses in the area that faced demolition. The task was likely to be completed in three phases, but well within the time period fixed by the court.According to information, the total population of the 25-year-old colony is 60,000 with over 10,000 houses.Despite a ban on constructions on the land covered under Section 4 and 5 of the PLPA (Punjab Land Preservation Act), 1900, several unauthorised buildings have come up in the revenue area of Khori-Lakkadpur village over the past two decades.The colony was carved out by land mafia. Majority of the residents here are migrant workers and labourers.Earlier, the Supreme Court had passed the order while hearing a plea filed on behalf of residents of Khori Gaon Basti here seeking an immediate stay on the proposed demolition of 10,000 houses in the area. However, noting that the petitioners were bound by the directions of the apex court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court, a Bench directed the MCF to remove all encroachments on forestland not later than six weeks and report compliance.The administration has been asked to give necessary logistical support for the drive.Earlier, a petition filed on behalf of the residents here had alleged that the civic body was carrying out demolition unlawfully without following the procedure in accordance with law and was in violation of their right to housing.60,000 inhabitants||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-colony-in-aravalli-forest-area-to-be-razed-today-265658
09-06-2021||Parveen Arora||In April & May, mortality rate doubled over last yr in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 8In the second wave of Covid which has exposed the crumbling health infrastructure, the district witnessed a sharp rise in deaths in April and May as compared to the corresponding period last year.As per the data of the death and birth branch of the Health Department, the district registered 1,876 deaths this May and 1,173 in April. Last year, the number of fatalities was 896 (May) and 655 (April). In other words, the death rate doubled.These numbers are not of city residents alone, but also of those patients who were not from Karnal but were admitted here.The data also shows that 171 people, who did not belong to the district, died in May and 102 people in April, who had been included in overall deaths in the district.If only residents of the district are counted, 527 persons succumbed to the virus. Of them, 252 died in May and 85 in April.Sources say the rise in deaths could be because of co-morbidities among Covid patients. People might have not reported the reasons related to the death to the department and treated patients either at home or at non-Covid hospitals, they say.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “Every Covid death in the district has been reported. There is no chance of discrepancy in the number of fatalities. Patients from other districts and states came to Karnal for the treatment. Anyone succumbing to the virus was counted in the district’s tally, irrespective of his domicile.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-april-may-mortality-rate-doubled-over-last-yr-in-karnal-265659
09-06-2021||---||Probe blames Hisar's private hospital for 5 deaths due to oxygen crunch||Hisar, June 8The magisterial inquiry conducted into the death of five Covid patients at a private hospital in Hisar has stated that negligence on part of the hospital authorities had caused the fatalities due to the shortage of oxygen.Five patients had died when the oxygen supply exhausted for the patients who were on ventilator at the Soni Burns hospital in the town on April 26.The district administration had instituted a magisterial inquiry into the deaths after the family members of the patients had complained in this regard. The administration had also asked the District Medical Board for Negligence to conduct an inquiry into the incident.Sources said the magisterial inquiry stated that the hospital authorities had failed to ensure adequate availability of oxygen even though the patients were on ventilator and BiPAP in a critical condition. The inquiry report said the hospital ran out of oxygen at night and failed to arrange oxygen cylinders.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni said the magisterial inquiry had been completed and the report had been submitted to the Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) for further action.The HHRC had also taken cognisance of the incident and directed the DG, Haryana Health Services, DCs and SPs from Hisar and Gurugram to submit a report to the commission within two weeks mentioning the details about the cause of the deaths of the patients. The commission had written to the state authorities in the letter on April 27: “If the patients are dying due to shortage of oxygen … it’s a serious violation of human rights of the general public and the commission cannot shut its eyes over the matter as a silent spectator.”The hospital authorities, however, had maintained that they had alerted the district health officials about 40 minutes before they ran out of the oxygen supply.The district administration later removed the Soni Burns hospital from the panel of Covid hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-blames-hisars-private-hospital-for-5-deaths-due-to-oxygen-crunch-265660
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Treatment cost of Haryana employees, pensioners to be reimbursed||Health Minister Anil Vij said Covid had been added to the “limited cashless medical facility” being provided to the state government employees, pensioners/family pensioners and their dependents so that medical bills of its treatment could be reimbursed. These orders would be implemented with immediate effect. He said a letter in this regard had already been sent by the Additional Chief Secretary (Health) to all concerned. The minister said the state government had decided to include Covid disease in the list of six threatening medical conditions, already notified under the “limited cashless medical facility” for employees and pensioners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/treatment-cost-of-haryana-employees-pensioners-to-be-reimbursed-265661
09-06-2021||---||Honeypreet not allowed to be dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s attendant||Gurugram, June 8 A day after Honeypreet was allowed to be Dera Sacha Sauda chief Ram Rahim’s attendant, the Medanta Hospital here has cancelled her card after the Rohtak police objected to their meeting. Security has been stepped up at the hospital as the Gurugram police intelligence has warned of devotees gathering there and creating ruckus. In all, 12 Rohtak cops have been deployed on the ninth floor and 55 Gurugram police personnel are guarding the entire hospital.  Notably, the Rohtak police have objected to dera chief’s close aid and proclaimed daughter Honeypreet meeting him. Ram Rahim, who tested Covid-negative in the RT-PCR test, had been insisting on meeting Honeypreet since the first day and within hours of admission to the hospital, she was allowed access to the patient and given an attendant card that was valid till June 15.  “He is a prisoner who may do anything, be it harming himself or planning an escape. Letting him meet Honeypreet at this juncture can be dangerous. We have told the hospital authorities that if he meets anyone else than doctors and there is any issue then they will be held responsible,” said a senior police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/honeypreet-not-allowed-to-be-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahims-attendant-265662
09-06-2021||---||Tohana case: 3rd farm activist freed||Hisar, June 8 Farmer activist Makhan Singh, who was arrested in an attempt-to-murder case which was registered following a confrontation between farmers and Tohana MLA Devender Singh Babli, was released on bail by a Tohana court today.  Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU leader, honoured the farmer activist on his release.  The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) had announced to call off their dharna at the Tohana police station yesterday after two of the farmer leaders Vikash Sisar and Ravi Azad were granted bail. Makkan Singh was also granted bail yesterday, but he was released today.  Fatehabad DC Narhari Bangar said, “The SKM has agreed that farmers will not oppose public representatives during their personal or social functions. Farmers have assured that they will not create a law and order problem However, they can protest peacefully while exercising their democratic right.”  Jagtar Singh, district convener of the SKM, said farmers would protest peacefully against BJP-JJP leaders during political and official functions by showing black flags.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tohana-case-3rd-farm-activist-freed-265663
09-06-2021||---||Gurugram hospital, too, accused of negligence||Gurugram, June 8A month after eight critical Covid patients had died at the local Kirti hospital after it allegedly ran out of oxygen and the staff went missing, the authorities have found the hospital guilty of negligence.A medical board, which investigated a complaint by the kin of one of the deceased, found the hospital guilty of negligence in treatment and has forwarded the report to the DC for further action.Meanwhile, CMO Dr Virender Yadav refused to divulge the details, saying the report was with the DC.One of the board members said the hospital’s negligence had led to the death of the complainant’s relative and could also be taken as a reference to drive conclusion on similar deaths which occurred at the same time in the hospital under same circumstances.It was alleged relatives of the dead assaulted doctors and hospital staff, who hid for their safety, but relatives alleged that they had run away, leaving behind the patients. A video too had gone viral, showing the police coming and arranging emergency help as the hospital staff was missing.Doctors at Kirti Hospital, which has 50 beds for Covid patients, said the hospital had asked families of all patients to take them elsewhere as it struggled to find oxygen. By evening, the hospital shut its operations.Ex-Health Minister passes awayYamunanagar: BJP leader and ex-Health Minister Kamla Verma (93) died at a hospital in Jagadhri on Tuesday. She was under treatment for mucormycosis (black fungus). Dr Ish Kalra of the hospital said, “Her health suddenly deteriorated in the evening and she breathed her last at about 7.30 pm.” She was the first woman president of the state BJP. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-hospital-too-accused-of-negligence-265664
09-06-2021||---||Promised US visa, Ambala couple duped of Rs 58 lakh||Ambala, June 8A retired Army man has allegedly been duped of over Rs 58 lakh on the pretext of sending him and his wife to the US by his own relatives in Ambala.Gurcharan Singh of Barara said his elder son was settled in the US and he wanted him and his wife to shift there.“As my brother Paramjeet and his wife Jaswinder and his brother-in-law Lakhwinder, who are all settled in Spain, came to know that about this, they offered to help us out. They claimed that they have been doing immigration and visa-related work in Spain and sought Rs 50-55 lakh for the job. Since Paramjeet is my real brother, my son agreed to pay them for the job in various instalments in 2012. Initially, they took Rs 5 lakh and passports and continued to take money on different pretexts.”“Since they are my close relatives, we never doubted their intentions and kept giving them money. So far they have taken over Rs 58 lakh from us but didn’t send us to the US. They have also refused to return the amount,” Gurcharan said in his complaint.A case has been registered under Sections 406, 420, and 120B of the IPC at the Barara police station against Paramjeet and his wife Jaswinder; Lakhwinder and his wife Lakhbir Kaur; Sukhwinder Singh and his wife Gurwinder Kaur; and Surender Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/promised-us-visa-ambala-couple-duped-of-rs-58-lakh-265665
09-06-2021||Rohtak||Actor-model intervenes in eve-teasing matter, stabbed to death in Rohtak||Kamesh alias Raunak, a state-level boxer, model and actor of Rohtak, was stabbed to death by some local youths when he tried to intervene in a matter pertaining to eve-teasing of a minor girl here on Monday night.In a complaint lodged with the police, Rajesh Kumar of Paada Mohalla in Rohtak stated that his son Kamesh had gone to Tej Colony to meet his friends Vishal and Shiva.“When Kamesh did not return till late in the night, I went to Tej Colony to look for him. I saw that one Rahul alias Naali, his brother Sunny, Rohit and two other youths were beating up my son. Rahul stabbed Kamesh in the chest and abdomen,” alleged Rajesh.Kamesh was rushed to the local PGIMS, where he was declared dead by the doctors. Rajesh said Rahul had reportedly molested a minor girl of Tej Colony and his act was opposed by Kamesh and his friends.  The police have registered a case and launched a hunt to nab the youths behind the murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/actor-model-intervenes-in-eve-teasing-matter-stabbed-to-death-in-rohtak-265441
