11-06-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Arrest of Chinese spy who ran a hotel in Gurugram sparks verification drive in Gurugram||The arrest of an alleged Chinese spy by BSF in West Bengal and his disclosure of having run a hotel in Gurugram for over one and half years has brought Gurugram police under scanner.Having drawn flak for failure of its intelligence and norms to keep a check on all guest houses, hotels and foreigners, the police have now started a verification drive.“We have post lockdown now launched a verification drive at hotels and guest houses about people residing there or their owners. We are tracking those who have not got police verification. PG owners too have been asked to get all details of inmates and get them verified under tenant verification,” said a senior police official.The accused identified as Han Junwei (36) is an alleged Chinese spy who was nabbed from West Bengal by BSF.He had been running a hotel in Gurugram’s DLF phase-3 using fake Aadhar card. He was also residing in a posh area of Gurugram.During interrogation by BSF, he revealed that he had visited India four times before. He visited Hyderabad in 2010 and also Delhi and Gurugram thrice after 2019.He claimed to be running a hotel in Gurugram named ‘Star Spring’ in DLF phase-3 area. Some of the staffers in this hotel are from China while the rest are Indians.The hotel owner, Jaiveer Lohia, resident of Nathupur village, also confirmed that the accused had taken his hotel on lease in October 2019.As per the lease papers, the 10 years lease was finalized in Rs 15 lakh per month rent and Rs 5,68,000 as charged of stamp duty by Tehsil Wazirabad.The lease was finalised between M/s Hua Tong Behtar Vishwa Technology private limited, Hyderabad and Jaiveer Lohia in which Junwei Han and Pottelli Prashant Kumar were shown directors of the firm. He also reportedly revealed that a few days ago his business partner was caught by ATS Lucknow which also lodged a complaint against him.Due to the case registered against him, he did not get an Indian visa in China and he got (a) visa from Bangladesh and Nepal to come to India.Parul Lohia, one of hotel owners, said that he was regular in rent payment and posed as he was an Indian and never gave a reason to suspect him.“If there was anything fishy, we would have never given him our hotel,” said Lohia.The authorities also suspect that accused may have got his fake Aadhar from Gurugram only and investigation is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrest-of-chinese-spy-who-ran-a-hotel-in-gurugram-sparks-verification-drive-in-gurugram-266892
11-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Haryana: Three children drowned in Yamuna river||Three children drowned in the Yamuna river here, police said on Friday.The incident took place on Thursday near Dhika Tapri, located close to the Uttar Pradesh border.Villagers pulled out the children from the river shortly after they drowned, but by then they had died.The victims aged 14 to 17.They had gone there to take a bath, police said.The bodies were handed over to relatives after autopsy. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-three-children-drowned-in-yamuna-river-266885
11-06-2021||Hisar||Haryana board declares Class 10 results on internal evaluation||The Board of School Education, Haryana, Bhiwani, declared all the students of the second class year 2020-21 successfully cleared without conducting the written examinations due to the ongoing global pandemic.The Chairman of the BSEH Dr Jagbir Singh announced the results at the Board's head office in Bhiwani. Singh informed that the results complied, and the marks were allotted based on the internal assessment, and practical examinations.Singh added that in case, the students are not satisfied with the allotted marks, they could appear for the written examination in the next session."A total of 313345 students—including 172059 boys and 141286 girls—were enrolled for taking the examination in the matriculation while 11278 students were set to take the examination for clearing their compartment in the matriculation," said Singh., adding that all the students were declared pass.Singh said that there was no merit list of successful students, and that the admissions for the next session will be held on a first-come-first-serve basis.The Class 10 examination held in 2020 saw 64.59 per cent of students.The result of 2019, 2018, had been 57.39% and 51.15%.On April 15, the BSEH decided to cancel the Board examinations for class 10th on the lines of the CBSE.Jagbir Singh had stated that the Haryana government decided on this effect.The Board examinations were scheduled to start from April 20 but had to be cancelled due to the second wave of Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-declares-class-10-results-on-internal-evaluation-266844
11-06-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Heated exchange between Town Planner, former BJP MLA over demolition of 'illegal' Gurugram colony||A heated exchange occurred between former BJP MLA Umesh Agarwal and District Town Planner RS Bath while the latter was carrying out a demolition drive at a colony owned Agarwal near the Kherki Daula toll in Gurugram on Friday.Agarwal called the police and filed a complaint accusing Bath of allegedly defying a court-ordered stay and "illegally demolishing his upcoming colony".Agarwal said that the local court had stayed the demolition and the next hearing was scheduled on July 1. He has also claimed that the demolition violated the High Court order issued on April 28 which banned demolition in the state."The officer is known to behave like a dictator. He followed no protocol, violated court orders and when we reminded him of the same he declared he was the ultimate court, police and magistrate and we have to bow to his will. We shall not take this and have gone for FIR against him, " said Agarwal."We have done this legally. The court had not just stayed demolition but also construction. Agarwal was illegally carrying on with construction so we had to stop him," responded Bath.A demolition drive was conducted by Bhat in the colony being illegally developed near Kherki Daula toll plaza. The DTP staff said that an illegal colony was being developed in about 6 acres of land. An FIR had also been registered against former MLA Umesh Aggarwal and others at Kherki Daula police station in the past but despite that, work was on to set up the road network and electricity supply.As per the complaint, former MLA Agarwal said: "One case titled Deepak Chugh Verses DTP is pending before the civil court of Gurugram. Vide the order dated 24.02.2021 the court restrained the defendant from demolishing the said property. Today four JCBs headed by DTP R S Bath, ATP Ashish and others including police staff reached the unit at around 10:45 am and started damaging the property and small trees were also broken."Police said that they have received a complaint and action will be taken as per the law after verifying the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heated-exchange-between-town-planner-former-bjp-mla-over-demolition-of-illegal-gurugram-colony-266818
11-06-2021||Faridabad||Residents protest proposed demolition of Faridabad colony in Aravali Forest area||Protesting against the impending demolition drive, hundreds of residents of the Khori Village Basti staged a demonstration in the Surajkund area of Faridabad on Friday, seeking rehabilitation before the removal of their houses from the colony.The protest came to an end around 10.30 am. Claiming that six persons have been rounded up by the police, Sarina Sarkar, a resident, said that the police officials have asked the protestors to meet the DC to submit a memorandum stating their grievances.Meanwhile, Garima Mittal, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) said that a public announcement was being made asking the residents to vacate the colony as the demolition drive will be taken out soon in compliance with the Supreme Court order. Though no date of demolition has been announced publicly, it is revealed that it is expected anytime next week. The colony has around 10,000 houses with a population of about 50,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/residents-protest-proposed-demolition-of-faridabad-colony-in-aravali-forest-area-266814
11-06-2021||The picture is of nullah along the Kaithal-Ambala road choked and filled with silt and waste. The HSVP Sectors 20 and 21 touches this important road but shockingly the departments concerned have failed to clean and desilt the pucca nullahs along this road and elsewhere in the town. The monsoon is not far off and if the drains and nullahs are not desilted||Kaithal choked nullahs need desilting before rains||Satish Seth, KaithalCorrect ‘flaw' in database of SBIThe database of the State Bank of India (SBI) has a flaw. The pin 134117 shows Ambala and not Panchkula. So all accounts with pin code 134117 has Ambala city in their INB profile whereas it should be Panchkula. I apprised all bank authorities about this flaw but all in vain. It will be very helpful if this flaw is correctedRam Lal Goyal, PanchkulaWild growth poses problem for stage maintenanceThe stage constructed by the HSVP in Sector 8, Ambala City in its ground about 8-10 years ago, was meant for election rallies and lots of money was spent on its construction. Now, there is wild growth there which may hamper its basic structure. Moreover, miscreants and boozers can be seen sitting around. Stray animals hover around and it is also breeding place for mosquitoes. The department concerned should take cognizance of the issue and maintain it.Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-choked-nullahs-need-desilting-before-rains-266773
11-06-2021||Faridabad||Three-day training programme||KU VC releases logoKurukshetra: Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva released the logo of 'Women in science forum' (WIS), Kurukshetra University, and said less than 30 per cent of the world's researchers were women. "To reduce the gender gap, we must go beyond the hard numbers and identify the qualitative factors that deter women from pursuing careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics," Prof Sachdeva added. He further said by studying science, women would use scientific temper to solve various everyday problems in life. Registrar, KU, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, dean academic affairs, Prof Manjula Chaudhary and members of the WIS forum, KU (2021-22) were present on the occasion. The forum was established in 2019 to empower the women faculty of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). The logo for this forum has been innovated, designed and created by Prof. Neera Raghav, chairperson and professor, department of chemistry and Dr Suman Mahendia, associate professor, department of physics.Surbhi tops 4th semester examsHisar: Surbhi of Government College, Kheri Chopta, has bagged first position in the fourth semester of B.Com exams of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, by scoring 90.33 per cent marks (542/600). Sunita of the same class secured second position in the university by scoring 88.5 per cent marks (531/600). College principal Dr Ranvir Kaushal congratulated the students and also lauded the efforts of the commerce faculty. He said it was a remarkable achievement for the college situated in a remote rural area of Hisar district which proved the positive spirit of the slogan "Beti Bachao Beti Padhao" of the Government of Haryana. "My aim is to become a bank officer and more than that a good human being." said Surbhi. Surbhi also secured first position in her second and third semester examsPlantation drive at MDURohtak: The NSS unit of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) launched a plantation drive on the campus to enhance the greenery further. Prof Ranbir Gulia, programme coordinator (NSS), informed dean (students welfare) Prof Raj Kumar was present as special guest who motivated volunteers to sow more plants this season to keep the environment healthy. Joginder Singh Dahiya, Vinay Malik, Devender Jakhar, Hari Chand and Naresh Ahlawat were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-day-training-programme-266772
11-06-2021||---||Main accused in Tikri rape case confesses; sent to 3-day custody||Jhajjar, June 10  One of the main accused in the Tikri rape case has admitted to have raped a Bengali woman twice — first in a train and then at the farmers’ protest site, the police have said.  The accused, Anil Malik, was arrested from Bhiwani on Tuesday, a month after the case was registered on the complaint of the victim’s father. Malik also admitted to have made a video of the alleged crime.   Two other main accused — Anoop Chanaut and Ankush Sangwan — are still at large.  Malik, an ex-serviceman, ran an outfit Kisan Social Army. He had pitched a tent at the Tikri border in the name of his outfit. Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal told the media, “During interrogation, Malik revealed that he had raped the woman in a train while returning to Tikri from West Bengal in the second week of April. He again raped her at Tikri and made a video. He also disclosed that Chanaut, too, raped the woman, while Sangwan molested her at Tikri. Co-accused Jagdish Barar knew about this, but he remained mum.” The SP further said the video, which the accused used to blackmail the victim, had been recovered.  Malik was today produced before a local court, which remanded in three days’ police custody.  “The police are conducting searches to arrest Chanaut and Sangwan,” added the SP.  The 25-year-old woman from West Bengal came to Tikri on April 12. She died of Covid at a private hospital in Bahadurgarh on April 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/main-accused-in-tikri-rape-case-confesses-sent-to-3-day-custody-266453
11-06-2021||Pradeep Sharma
||Haryana builders defaulting on EDCs to face heat||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 10 With thousands of crores of rupees locked up as external development charges (EDCs) from defaulting colonisers, the Khattar government has finally decided to get tough with these builders across the state. To speed up the recovery of the outstanding amount, the Haryana Government has set up a five-member special task force (STF) under the Chief Town Planner. With realty projects delayed for years together, the recovery of the mandatory EDCs had been the weak point of the successive governments in Haryana, with the defaulting amount piling up years after year. Last year, the state government told the Haryana Assembly that a whopping Rs 14,457.54 crore EDCs was pending against the defaulting builders. Concerned at this huge outstanding amount, director, Town and Country Planning (DTCP), K Makrand Pandurang suggested tough measures to the STF.  These included the revocation of the bank guarantee of the defaulting builders, disposal of defaulters’ unsold property and suggesting legal action to recover the dues. Sources said the state government’s tough stance was the offshoot of the lukewarm response to the special scheme to recover the outstanding EDCs from builders announced in 2018.  Till last year, the scheme netted around Rs 652 crore from the defaulting colonisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-builders-defaulting-on-edcs-to-face-heat-266454
11-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Faridabad police gear up for Khori demolition||Gurugram, June 10 All set to execute the Supreme Court’s orders to demolish 10,000 illegal structures in Khori in Faridabad, the local police today started massive preparations in this regard. From seeking help of other district cops and even the Delhi Police on the need to seal the village hours before the demolition, policemen were out to ensure peace and avert any clash in the area. A mock drill in this regard was carried out in the village today where hundreds of cops gathered to rehearse their course of action for the demolition exercise.  Meanwhile, seeing so many cops led to panic among villagers, who thought that demolition was to happen today. Many even started packing their household things and fleeing, while others gathered to block cops.  The Supreme Court had on Monday directed Haryana and the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to remove all encroachments, consisting of around 10,000 residential constructions, in the Aravalli forest area near a village.  “We are taking all steps to ensure that official work is executed unhindered. Nobody will be allowed to disrupt law and order,” said Police Commissioner OP Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-police-gear-up-for-khori-demolition-266455
11-06-2021||ibune News Service
||Farmers from Panipat reach Singhu border||Panipat, June 10 Hundreds of farmers led by BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni left for the Singhu border from a toll plaza on the NH-44 here today. A long cavalcade of tractors-trolleys, cars, jeeps and motorcycles was seen traversing the highway. Traffic was disrupted in the city because of the cavalcade of farmers’ vehicles. Farmers reached the protest site in the evening. Before leaving for Singhu, Charuni said, “The three farm laws introduced last year are not for farmers, but for the corporate sector.” He also questioned the Centre for the increase in MSP of kharif crops. Charuni appealed to young farmers to maintain discipline during the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-from-panipat-reach-singhu-border-266456
11-06-2021||---||Rs 1,100 cr projects launched in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 10Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of several projects in 16 districts during a state-level programme held through video-conferencing from here.Farmers protest MoS’ kaithal visitKarnal: Scores of farmers on Thursday opposed the visit of MoS for Women and Child Welfare Kamlesh Dhanda when she reached the Kaithal Mini-Secretariat to inaugurate development projects symbolically. These had been dedicated by the CM from Chandigarh via videoconferencing. On the BKU (Charuni) call to oppose the minister’s visit, farmers, carrying black flags, shouted slogans against the minister and the state government. They tried to break the barricades, but were stopped by the police. TNSThese include the inauguration of various projects of more than Rs 200 crore and laying of foundation stone of other projects costing around Rs 900 crore.The foundation stone of the projects which were laid by the CM include remodeling of augmentation canal with WJC Main Branch in Karnal district, construction of MCH Block and Service Block in the Campus of Civil Hospital, Sector-6, Panchkula, widening and strengthening of Naraingarh Raipur Rani road in Panchkula, widening and strengthening of Kalanwali to Rori road Sirsa, and foundation stone of construction of ITI Building, Pegan village, Jind district.The list of inaugurated projects includes 33 KV sub-station Jatton Gate in Karnal, 50-bedded hospital in Kalayat, Kaithal district, sports complex building, Bhagat Phool Singh Mahila Vishwavidyalaya, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, and new building of government ITI Faridabad on the campus of existing BTC building Sector-18A, Faridabad, observation home and place of safety on the premises of Kasturba Sewa Sadan in Faridabad, two-lane RoB at L/C No. 4-A on Hisar- Sadalpur railway line in Hisar.Developmental projects costing more than Rs 500 crore were dedicated to the people of Karnal district.The inaugurated projects include 33 KV sub-station at Jatton Gate and two mini sewer cleaning jetting machine for maintaining sewerage. Besides this, the Chief Minister laid the foundation stone of re-modelling of augmentation canal with WJC Main Branch, 33 KV sub-station each at Chakda and Bansa.Several developmental projects costing more than Rs 160 crore were dedicated to the people of Panchkula district.While Sirsa got projects costing around Rs 100 crore, Fatehabad received development projects worth Rs 80 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-1-100-cr-projects-launched-in-haryana-266457
11-06-2021||---||3rd sero survey from June 15||Chandigarh, June 10 Health Minister Anil Vij will launch the third round of the sero survey on June 15 to determine the prevalence of SAR-CoV 2 antibodies among persons and to estimate the prevalence in the children aged 6 to 17 (a group excluded from the vaccination drive). “The state government is all set to carry out the third round of the Covid sero survey. All preparations have been made,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary (Health). “The study will collect data to know vaccine’s effect and efficacy, and help us in planning and strengthening paediatric services, including the establishment and upscaling of intensive care units. The study is to provide us information regarding susceptible populations and areas in the state. Accordingly, the government will channel and prioritise the vaccination drive,” he said. The first round of the sero survey was conducted in August 2020, wherein sero prevalence of Covid was found to be 8 per. The second round was conducted in October, wherein sero prevalence was found to be 14.8 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3rd-sero-survey-from-june-15-266458
11-06-2021||ibune News Service
||Potholes irk Rohtak residents||Rohtak, June 10  Residents led by Hemant Bakshi president, Rohtak Social Welfare Society, today submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar and raised the issue of potholes on main roads in the city. They demanded that the roads be repaired as soon as possible as these had led to many road mishaps. “All outer roads in the city have developed big potholes giving a harrowing time to commuters. Several road accidents have occurred due to the potholes in the past some days, but the authorities are turning a blind eye to it. Now, the people are left with no option but to hold demonstrations. So before doing so, we have urged the DC to resolve the issue, who has assured us of taking prompt action in this regard,” said Bakshi,. He maintained a tractor-trailer met with an accident near Sunaria Chowk last week due to a deep pothole. The driver suffered injuries in the accident while the tractor also got damaged. Such accidents had become a routine in the city and the authorities were yet to take action, he added. ‘The Tribune’ had also highlighted the issue in these columns on June 2 and exposed the poor condition of a main road passing outside the Gymkhana club in HUDA Sector 4, a stretch of Delhi road from Tilyar Lake and IMT Chowk and the Jind-Gohana link road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholes-irk-rohtak-residents-266459
11-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Jhajjar old bus stand site submerged in rainwater||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, June 10The old bus stand site in the town has been submerged in rainwater for the past several days forcing commuters to park their vehicles on the road, which often leads to traffic chaos. Moreover, It has also become a breeding ground for mosquitoes posing health threat to people residing in nearby localities.The bus stand was shifted to the Rohtak road around five years ago. Since then, the site has been lying vacant. The municipal authorities chalked out a plan to turn it into a vendor zone but it did not materialise. Later, the shopkeepers and customers started parking their vehicles over there.“The site has been waterlogged for the past two weeks but the authorities are yet to drain out the water. The situation is leading to traffic congestion as customers now park their vehicles on the road. This has also become a favourite place for anti-social elements,” said Rajeev, a shopkeeper.Ram Niwas, a fruit seller, said odour emanating from the stagnant water makes it difficult for vendors and shopkeepers and customers to move around in the area.“The accumulated water is leading to breeding of mosquitoes that poses serious threat to health of the people. We will call on the Subdivisional Magistrate if the water is not drained out soon,” said Ishwar Singh of Garhi Mohalla.Karamvir, another resident, demanded that a park be developed there to redress the issue permanently. Arun Nandal, Executive Officer, Jhajjar Municipal Council, said the site belonged to the Haryana Roadways so the council had nothing to do with it. “The plan to turn the site into a vendor zone has not yet got the approval from the higher authorities,” he added.Ravinder Pathak, General Manager, Jhajjar Depot (Roadways), said the Municipal Council authorities would be requested to drain out the accumulated water while a plan was also being chalked out to transfer the premises to any other government department so as to ensure its optimum use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-old-bus-stand-site-submerged-in-rainwater-266460
11-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Two arrested for car robbery in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 10 The police nabbed two vehicle robbers within hours of a car robbery in Bilaspur area. The criminals have a dozen cases registered against them.  The police have recovered the car and taken both accused on one-day police remand after producing them in a city court today. They have been identified as Yogesh alias Neetu, a resident of Badli village in Jhajjar district, and Najafgarh (Delhi) resident Satyawan. Yogesh was also involved in the kidnap and murder of a girl in Bahadurgarh. On Wednesday afternoon, the duo booked a cab from Delhi’s Dwarka for go to IMT, Manesar. With them, cab driver Lalit, a native of Uttam Nagar Delhi, headed towards Manesar. “At around 1.45 pm, we were at Bilaspur chowk. But they asked me to go to Heli Mandi instead. One of them snatched my mobile and the other threatened to kill me. They asked me to stop on the side and get out of the car. They pushed me out and drove away with my car and mobile phone. Later, I informed the police,” driver Lalit said in his complaint. A police team led by inspector Naveen Kumar, SHO of Bilaspur police station, flung into action and nabbed the duo from near Rathiwas village after two hours. Six cases of murder, robbery and kidnapping have already been registered against Yogesh at Jhajjar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-car-robbery-in-gurugram-266461
11-06-2021||Parveen Arora
||Karnal hospitals have no ICU for children||Tribune News Service Karnal, June 10 Ahead of the anticipated Covid-19 third wave, which is expected to hit children the most, the health infrastructure of the government-run hospitals seems to be insufficient in the  district as there is no paediatrics intensive care unit (PICU) here to treat the critical children. Be it Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, which is a dedicated Covid hospital for four districts, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Yamunanagar, or Civil Hospital, CHCs and PHCs, all are without the PICU facility. Only one newborn intensive care units (NICU) of 14 beds is at the KCGMC and one sick neonatal care unit with 16 beds at the Civil Hospital, but these are only for infants, while in the PICU children upto 14 years are treated, said the sources in the Health Department. The KCGMC has two paediatric wards with a capacity of 60 beds, while it has five faculty members to treat the children. The Civil Hospital has a paediatrics general ward with 12 beds and it has only three pediatricians and three medical officers to look after the children there, the sources said adding there is no paediatrics ventilator in the hospital. One of the officials said if the third wave affected the children as per speculation, then the health system could be paralysed as it was in the second wave. There is a need to strengthen the paediatrics health infrastructure in the district and the government must focus on it said another official. Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC, said they had been working to strengthen the paediatrics ward. They had sent for required equipment, including laryngoscope set with blades, steamers, X-ray view box and ICU beds and ventilators  to name a few,” he said, adding that they are hopeful that with these resources the paediatrics health infrastructure will be revamped. Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal, Medical Officer (PMO), said they had one nutritional rehabilitation centre (NRC) with eight beds for malnutritioned children. “We are going to set up two beds for the paediatric ICU in the NRC ward,” he added. Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said there was no shortage of manpower at the KCGMC and Civil Hospital as well as at two sub-divisional hospitals, including at Assandh and Nilokheri. “We are in the process of establishing exclusive paediatrics care units at the Civil Hospital and CHCs,” the Civil Surgeon further said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-hospitals-have-no-icu-for-children-266462
11-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Survey finds 2,500 kids malnourished in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 10 Around 2,500 children were reported as malnourished in Gurugram during a survey by the Women and Child Development Department.  The survey was conducted amongst one lakh children below the age of five years and 2,500 children were found malnourished as per the parameters of WHO. The children surveyed by anganwadi workers and supervisors along with a local NGO were underweight and had stunted growth. With visible signs of weakness and malnourishment, these children will not only be monitored by local anganwadi centres, but a detailed health checkup will also be conducted. They will be put on supplementary nutrition to bridge the gap.To find out malnourished children in the city, the Women and Child Development Department conducted a special survey in April under a special campaign. “Anthropometric measurement plays a crucial role in tackling malnourished children. With the height and weight measurement, our anganwadi workers found out that 2,500 kids were malnourished. ,” said Sunaina Khatri, district programme officer of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/survey-finds-2-500-kids-malnourished-in-gurugram-266463
11-06-2021||Ravinder Saini
||Rewari: 1,636 died in May, but official data says 129||Tribune News Service Rewari, June 10  The number of deaths reported in the district last month was three times the number reported in the corresponding period last year. As per the Health Department, 522 deaths were reported in May 2020, but it shot up to 1,636 this May — an increase of 1,114 deaths. However, according to the official data, 129 out of 1,636 deaths were due to Covid. In all, 962 (58.8 per cent) deaths were reported in rural areas and the rest (674) in urban areas. In April last year, 459 persons had died, while 552 deaths were reported in the same month this year. As per government records, 42 deaths out of 552 were due to Covid.  Sources say a considerable number of deaths was reported between the second week of April and the third week of May this year.  “When the second wave was at its peak, five persons had died at a private hospital in Rewari because of oxygen shortage. At that time, many people suffering from Covid-like symptoms avoided the test. Many of them died at home. These deaths were not recorded in the Covid’s tally. Moreover, several people died after having recovered from Covid,” say the sources. Civil Surgeon Dr Krishan Kumar said every Covid death had been reported and factors responsible for the increase in the deaths in May were a subject of research that would be carried out after the pandemic subsided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-1-636-died-in-may-but-official-data-says-129-266464
11-06-2021||---||Soil testing to start on 25 lakh acres: Haryana CM||Chandigarh, June 10 Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said his government would start soil testing on 25 lakh acres this fiscal. “Soil health cards should be issued to farmers after checking every acre of agricultural land so that farmers avoid unnecessary use of fertilisers and add nutrients to the land, as required,” he said while presiding over a review meeting of the soil health card scheme here yesterday. Khattar directed official to complete the work of soil testing on 75 lakh acres of land in the state in three years.  “In the soil health card, information related to nutrients present in the soil would be mentioned in detail. This will include information regarding land fertility, nitrogen, organic carbon, zinc and phosphorus,” he said. The Chief Minister added, “Under the scheme, students of college and senior secondary schools will collect samples and test them in the lab. By doing so, they will learn as well as earn.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soil-testing-to-start-on-25-lakh-acres-haryana-cm-266465
11-06-2021||Panipat||Panipat man stabs wife to death, held||A 50-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her husband in Raj Nagar here on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Santosh, wife of accused Vinod Kumar.  In his complaint to the police, Vikas Kumar, son of the deceased, said his father was a habitual drinker and he suspected his mother’s character due to which they quarrelled regularly.  Vikas, along with his sister Ruchi, was in market when they got information about their parents fighting at home. As they reached home, he saw his mother lying in a pool of blood in the bedroom.   The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC and the Arms Act against Vinod and arrested him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-man-stabs-wife-to-death-held-266466
11-06-2021||---||Two masked men snatch bag with Rs 3.5L in Taraori vegetable market||Karnal, June 10 Two masked miscreants robbed a commission agent (arhtiya) of the Taraori vegetable market of Rs 3.5 lakh on Thursday morning. The incident took place when the commission agent, Anil Kumar, was collecting daily payment from traders and vendors. In his police complaint, he alleged that two miscreants came on a bike and escaped after snatching his bag having cash. Kulbir Kaur, Taraori SHO, said they had registered a case and started the investigation. “We are checking out the CCTV footage to trace the miscreants,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-masked-men-snatch-bag-with-rs-3-5l-in-taraori-vegetable-market-266467
11-06-2021||Hisar||3 booked for assault on SC youth in Hisar||The police were deployed in Singhwa Khas village after tension developed among people belonging to a Scheduled Caste and another caste persons over the ownership of a well.  A scuffle broke out between two groups of youths belonging to different communities on June 7, after which the police registered cases under Sections of 323, 506 and 34 of the IPC and SC/ST Act against a couple and their son.  The complainant, Sudhir, alleged he was standing in front of Ravidas temple in the village when three persons assaulted and abused him.  Joginder Singh of the Ambedkari Hitkari Sangthan said a family belonging to a particular community wanted to take possession the land of the well. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-for-assault-on-sc-youth-in-hisar-266468
11-06-2021||---||Gurmeet Ram Rahim back in jail||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurmeet-ram-rahim-back-in-jail-266469
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kingpin among 4 held for cryptocurrency fraud||In an operation against cryptocurrency fraud, the Haryana Police have arrested four fraudsters, including the mastermind, for duping people in the name of online business involving bitcoin transactions. DGP Manoj Yadava today said to commit the fraud, the mastermind and his associates used the name of Binance, a multi-national cryptocurrency exchange based out of China, with an intention to cheat gullible persons on the pretext of offering them huge returns if they invest money online in bitcoin business. He said the issue came to light when one Pravesh Kumar of Sonepat’s Sector-23 filed a police complaint that he was cheated by Harinder Chahal of Madha village, Narnaud PS, Hansi. A case was registered at the cyber police station, Panchkula, under relevant IPC and IT Act Sections.  The police, with the help of cyber experts, started a probeand it was revealed that the mastermind, Harinder Chahal, was not alone in this fraud. There are several others who were entrusted with the task of luring gullible people to invest in bitcoin with a promise of huge returns.  The DGP said during the probe, it was found that a man named John McAfee questioned Binance publicly on Twitter with a possible allegation of a hack. Binance replied to McAfee the same day using their official Twitter handle denying any possibility of a hack and also revealed their ‘Bitcoin wallet address’for everyone to see and check. Taking advantage, the mastermind fraudulently created a Facebook account in the name of Vikas Kumar and copied the official wallet address of Binance.  On October 1, 2019, the bitcoin holding of the wallet in question stood at 1,871 bitcoins, amounting to approximately Rs 109.64 crore. He gave this blockchain address through Facebook and WhatsApp messenger to the complainant. Harinder, also known as Sonu Chahal, duped Pravesh of Rs 15.5 lakh by fraudulently showing bitcoins in his wallet which in reality belonged to the crypto-currency exchange Binance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kingpin-among-4-held-for-cryptocurrency-fraud-266470
11-06-2021||Bhiwani||Woman poisons  daughter, dies by suicide||A woman allegedly poisoned her five-year-old daughter to death and consumed it later in Rohnat village of Bhiwani district on Thursday. In the suicide note, the victim alleged that she was facing harassment from her husband and in-laws forcing her to take the extreme step.  The victim, identified as Rabina (28), was working as a nurse at a hospital in Dhansu village of Hisar district. She got married in 2015. The victim had also filmed two videos, saying that she was being mentally harassed for no fault of hers. She said her husband and in-laws were not at talking terms with her. She alleged that the silence of her husband and in-laws was getting unbearable due to which she was ending her life.    The police said the victim’s husband, Anish, found the duo in an unconscious state. They were rushed to a hospital where the doctors declared them brought dead. The police said they had registered a case against the husband and other in-laws on the complaint of Dharamvir Singh, father of the woman. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-poisons-daughter-dies-by-suicide-266471
11-06-2021||Karnal||Honeypreet’s ex-husband, father-in-law get threat call||MP Gupta, former father-in-law of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Ram Rahim’s close aide and proclaimed daughter Honeypreet, has filed a police complaint, alleging that he has received a life threat from an unknown person. Gupta alleged that he received a call from a mobile phone and the caller threatened to kill him and his son Vishwas Gupta, former husband of Honeypreet. “The person repeatedly called me, but I didn’t receive it and switched off the phone,” he added.  In his police complaint, Gupta suspected that the caller may be a member of the Dera Kurbani gang.  “I met SP Ganga Ram Punia and demanded action against the caller.” He said they had received a similar threat in 2017 and had filed a police complaint then too. The SP said they had received a complaint and the probe was under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/honeypreets-ex-husband-father-in-law-get-threat-call-266472
11-06-2021||Chandigarh/hisar||Deepender Hooda: NITI Aayog report exposes Haryana govt on education, joblessness||The NITI Aayog report has exposed the state government claims on education and unemployment, said Congress MP Deepender Hooda at a press conference here today. He said while the Congress-ruled Punjab was number 1 in education, Haryana emerged top in unemployment, where it is ranked number 3 and in crime, it is placed second.  He said once Haryana was ahead of Punjab in education, but now it was lagging.  On the second Covid wave, he said the residents suffered due to the crunch of medicines, oxygen and ventilators, but the government’s behaviour was arrogant and insensitive. “While the CM and Health Minister refused to accept any shortage, no all-party meeting or MPs meeting was called for discussion.” On the MSP hike for paddy by Rs 72, he said the PM had promised to double farmers’ income in 2015-16, but the MSP was increased from Rs 1,470 to 1,940, whereas it should have been Rs 2,940.  Describing the MSP hike a cruel joke, Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said the BJP government had back-stabbed the farmers on the fixing of the MSP for the Kharif Marketing Season 2021-22. At a press meet in Jind, he said the farmers had been keeping the country’s economy steady despite the pandemic had wreaked a havoc. He said while the inflation had touched 6.2% in the country, the average increase in the crop MSP was just 3.7%.                He demanded that the Centre must increase the MSP to assure 50% return above the input cost to farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deepender-hooda-niti-aayog-report-exposes-haryana-govt-on-education-joblessness-266473
11-06-2021||Saurabh Malik
||Statement of co-accused during probe admissible as evidence, rules HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 10 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the statement of a co-accused during interrogation was admissible as evidence. Investigation was meant to find out the truth regarding the commission of an offence and information provided by an accused during his interrogation by the investigating officer could not be discarded out rightly, the Bench ruled. The assertion by Justice HS Madaan came in a drugs case after the counsel for an accused seeking pre-arrest bail contended that the petitioner’s name cropped up in the statement of a co-accused, which was not admissible in evidence. Justice Madaan ruled the contention was without merit. Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act clearly provided that when several persons were being tried jointly for the same offence and a confession made by one person affecting him and some others was proved, the court may take it into consideration against the maker and the other persons. Justice Madaan added the Section dealt with value of confession made by one accused when several accused were being tried together. “When such confession affects the maker as well as other persons, the natural inference is that if such confession, if proved, can be relied upon in trial, it cannot be ignored during the investigation, which is a pre-trial stage.” Justice Madaan added. The matter was brought to Justice Madaan’s notice after the accused sought pre-arrest bail in a case registered atthe Sadar police station at Ratia in Fatehabad districton April 22 for offencesunder the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Justice Madaan added pre-arrest bail was a discretionary equitable relief not to be granted in routine, but in exceptional circumstances. It was to be granted to persons, who may be involved in false criminal cases on account of political or such like reasons, to save them from harassment and inconvenience. It was not to act as a shield for the criminals to provide protective cover to them from arrest and interrogation by the police. Turning down the plea, Justice Madaan added the petitioner’s custodial interrogation was required for complete and effective investigation to find out about transactions regarding the supply of contraband to various persons, alone or in company of other criminals. “This is necessary to bust the racket of drug peddling,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/statement-of-co-accused-during-probe-admissible-as-evidence-rules-hc-266474
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Permanent Lok Adalat gets five chairpersons||The Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HALSA) has appointed five chairpersons of the Permanent Lok Adalat (Public Utility Services). The appointments at Sonepat, Rewari/ Narnaul, Sirsa/Fatehabad, Karnal and Panipat/Jind were made after HALSA executive chairman Justice Rajan Gupta interacted with the candidates, both current and former Sessions Judges. An order issued by HALSA member secretary Parmod Goyal says Mukesh Bansal will be posted at Sonepat, Jag Bhushan Gupta at Rewari, Ashok Kumar Garg at Sirsa, Ajay Kumar Jain at Karnal and Bhupinder Nath at Panipat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/permanent-lok-adalat-gets-five-chairpersons-266475
11-06-2021||Parveen Arora||Steel price hike hits Karnal’s farm equipment industry||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 10A sharp rise in the prices of steel and other raw materials has badly affected the Karnal agricultural implements industry, which supplies equipment to over 100 countries and caters to around 60 per cent demand of India.As per industrialists, the prices of the basic grade of steel have almost doubled, affecting the production and business. The local steel is procured from Mandi Gobindgarh, Baddi and Muzaffarnagar.The industrialists say the local steel was available in the market at Rs 36,000 per tonne from July to October last year, while now it has reached to around Rs 50,000. Similarly, the main producers’ steel was available at Rs 40,000 per tonne, which has been increased to Rs 54,000 per tonne now. The wire rod of main companies has also witnessed a sudden rise in prices. It was earlier available at Rs 38,000 per tonne from July to October last year, and now it was being quoted at Rs 62,000, said Som Sachdeva, patron of Karnal Agricultural Implement Manufacturers’ Association (KAIMA).“Due to unprecedented rise in the prices of steel and wire rod, the industrialists are facing a setback in lifting the material, which is ultimately affecting the business as buyers are also hesitant to purchase the implements at higher rates,” he added.Meanwhile, the industrialists demanded the government to cap the rates of such raw materials, so that the industries related to farmers would not be affected. “There should be a regulator to check the prices of raw material, so that nobody can hike the rates in such a way that is beyond the limit of small industrialists and the public,” said Ravinder Dhall, president KAIMA.He said they had already faced losses due to the Covid-induced lockdown, but now the prices of steel and other raw material had affected their business badly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/steel-price-hike-hits-karnals-farm-equipment-industry-266476
11-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court yet to frame rules for virtual proceedings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court shifted to virtual mode following Covid outbreak more than a year ago, but it is yet to notify the rules regarding hearing of cases through videoconferencing.This is despite the fact that the guidelines for videoconferencing were issued by the HC prior to the outbreak of the pandemic in July 2018. The Supreme Court in October last year also made it clear that the “high courts that have not framed such rules shall do so, having regard to the circumstances prevailing in the state”.The apex court, in its order, observed that videoconferencing in every high court and within the jurisdiction of every high court would be conducted in accordance with the rules for the purpose framed by that high court. The rules would govern videoconferencing in the high court and in the district courts and would cover appellate proceedings as well as trials.“Till such rules are framed, the HCs may adopt the model videoconferencing rules provided by the e-Committee, Supreme Court , to all the Chief Justices of the HC,” it was added.The issue pertaining to the rules for taking up cases through videoconferencing cropped up before the HC during the hearing of a matrimonial dispute after the wife’s prayer for cross-examination of a witness through physical mode was dismissed by a lower court. Her counsel averred that the impugned order dated February 3 was unjustified as petitioner-wife never gave consent for examination of respondent-husband through videoconferencing.Justice Lisa Gill asserted: “Though guidelines for videoconferencing were issued, the rules have not yet been notified by this high court”. Justice Gill also noticed that the respondent was residing at Singapore and it was not possible for him to travel to India for his examination keeping in view the second surge in Covid cases.Justice Gill directed that the respondent-husband’s examination be carried out by the trial court while adhering to the guidelines in 2018 as well as the Model Videoconferencing Rules circulated by the Supreme Court.Video-conference room for Dist Court Muktsar: Justice Alka Sarin of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday virtually inaugurated a video-conference room at the District Court complex here. District and Sessions Judge Arunvir Vashishta said it would help litigants during the pandemic||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-yet-to-frame-rules-for-virtual-proceedings-266530
11-06-2021||---||Showers bring much-needed relief for Chandigarh residents||Chandigarh, June 10People got some relief from the hot conditions this evening as rain lashed several parts of the tricity.According to the Met Department, light rainfall is likely over isolated parts of northern Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab during the next 24 hours.Thereafter, rain is likely to increase in both states, including Chandigarh, from June 11 to 14. Light to moderate rain (1-3 cm) is expected at a few places on June 11, while light to moderate rain (1-4 cm) is likely at most places with isolated heavy rain (over 7 cm) on June 12 and 13.The rain spell is likely to be accompanied by thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (40-50 kmph), according to the Met forecast.Meanwhile, due to a change in the weather, the maximum temperature today dropped below the 40°C mark in the city after around five days. Yesterday, it was 41.9°C and dropped to 35.4°C today, four degrees below normal. The minimum temperature did not see any change and stood at 30.5°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/showers-bring-much-needed-relief-for-chandigarh-residents-266579
11-06-2021||---||Khattar lays stone of 200-bed child block at Civil Hospital in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 10Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today laid the foundation stone of a 200-bed Maternal and Child Health Block at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 through videoconferencing from Haryana Niwas, Chandigarh.The project, to be built at a cost of Rs93.97 crore, is likely to be completed in two years.Tallest tricity health facilityThe exclusive block will be 11-storeyed (three basements and eight floors) and it will be the tallest building of any medical institution in Panchkula as well as the tricity.The exclusive block will be 11-storeyed (three basements and eight floors) and the tallest building of any medical institution in Panchkula as well as the tricity.It will have an OT complex and a service block.In the 300-bed Civil Hospital, at present, 100 beds are dedicated to maternal and paediatrics care.“With the construction of this building, the capacity of the Civil Hospital will be increased to 500 beds,” an official press note said.Khattar also laid the stone of a malaria office at the Civil Hospital. It will be built at a cost of Rs7.03 crore.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gain Chand Gupta termed the occasion a matter of pride. He directed officials to ensure completion of these projects in a time-bound manner.Quality should not be compromised, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-lays-stone-of-200-bed-child-block-at-civil-hospital-in-panchkula-266580
11-06-2021||---||Punjab, Haryana fare poorly in vaccinating frontline staff||New Delhi, June 10Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan today held a videoconference with states to flag poor vaccine coverage of even priority groups. Punjab and Haryana have posted below average coverage for both health and frontline workers.The government data shows the national average for the first and second dose administration among health workers is 82 per cent and 56 per cent, respectively. Eighteen states and UTs, including Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Assam, have coverage below national average in the health worker segment.Walk-in jabs for 18+The Centre on Thursday said states could offer walk-in vaccination for 18-44 and 45-plus age categoryThey will have to publicise in advance as to which centres will have the walk-in facilityGST Council meeting tomorrow, tax relief on Covid items on agendaFor frontline workers, the national average for the first and second dose coverage is 85 per cent and 47 per cent, respectively. The second dose coverage is less than the national average in case of 19 states, including Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, Telangana and Karnataka. “The states have been told to step up the coverage,” Bhushan said.Meanwhile, India’s daily Covid-19 deaths jumped by whopping three times today after the Bihar Government revised cumulative fatalities following directions from the Patna High Court that had flagged irregularities in the mortality figures reported from Buxar.The revision by Bihar, following a 20-day audit that detected 3,951 additional deaths in the state, triggered the debate about the sanctity of mortality figures in the country.Top virologist Shahid Jameel said underreporting of deaths was a reality, though it might not be deliberate.As Bihar accounted for hitherto missed deaths at private hospitals, homes and due to post-Covid complications, India witnessed record 6,148 daily deaths today, as against 2,129 yesterday.Bihar reported 72.8 per cent rise in Covid fatalities (5,424 to 9,375) following the latest audit, with experts asking if other states would follow the suit to audit data. The government had recently junked a global media report that projected Indian deaths at several times the official data.94,052 fresh cases6,148 deaths in 24 hoursTOTAL DEATHS 3,59,676ACTIVE CASES 11,67,952||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-fare-poorly-in-vaccinating-frontline-staff-266613
11-06-2021||---||Dera chief Ram Rahim discharged from Medanta, taken back to Sunaria jail||Gurugram, June 6Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was on Thursday discharged from Medanta and then taken back to Sunaria jail.Rahim Singh tested negative in an RT-PCR test for Covid-19, highly-placed sources in the Chief Minister’s Office—a development that comes a day after he tested positive in a rapid antigen test.Singh's close aide Honeypreet reportedly visited him in Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Monday and registered herself as his attendant, the sources said.Meanwhile, police were deployed in large numbers outside the hospital after several of Ram Rahim’s followers tried to meet him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-ram-rahim-discharged-from-medanta-taken-back-to-sunaria-jail-266391
