13-06-2021||---||Ex-CM OP Chautala’s car meets with accident; none hurt||Gurugram, June 13Former Haryana Chief Minister OP Chautala's car met with an accident near SGT College, Chandu Budhera, on Sunday.He was headed to Medanta for regular check-up.Nobody was injured in the accident. Sources claimed a woman came suddenly in front of car and sudden brakes were applied to save her and the car rammed into another. Chautala went to Medanta in other car.Police reached the spot and started investigating the matter. Two cars were damaged badly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-cm-op-chautalas-car-meets-with-accident-none-hurt-267875
13-06-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Friends for 7 years; two women elope, marry each other in Gurugram||A 19-year-old woman married her girlfriend after eloping from her house.Both women hail from the Jhajjar district, were schoolmates and had been together since seven years.On June 10, a Pataudi-based man filed a complaint at a local police station saying that his daughter was missing and accused one of her schoolmates and her family of abduction.An FIR was registered at the Pataudi police station under section 346 (wrongfully confinement) of the IPC. Police traced the women to Sohna on Saturday.“We traced the girl to Sohna. They reached the court and recorded the statement that they loved each other and had got married as per Hindu traditions in a temple. The court allowed them to leave,” said ASI Ajit Singh, the investigating officer of the case.The women had reportedly studied together till class X and had expressed their desire to marry in front of a family who reportedly refused to accept the union fearing societal pressure.The duo then decided to go ahead and marry. The Pataudi-based family created a drama outside court trying to reason with their daughter but both women left.“We are going to an undisclosed address for our safety. We had many times tried to reason with our family but they did not understand so we had to elope,” one of the women told The Tribune.The family is scared of the wrath of various social and saffron groups. When contacted, the father of one woman did not respond. According to the police, one woman is a student while another was working with a private company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/friends-for-7-years-two-women-elope-marry-each-other-in-gurugram-267844
13-06-2021||Gurugram||Thunderstorm, rain likely in parts of Haryana: IMD||A thunderstorm with moderate intensity rain and gusty winds with a speed of 30-40 km/h would occur over Ambala, Yamunanagar, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Sonipat, Jind, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Mahendragarh, Rewari, Charkhi- Dadri, Gurgaon districts and adjoining areas on Sunday afternoon, according to an IMD bulletin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thunderstorm-rain-likely-in-parts-of-haryana-imd-267814
13-06-2021||Gurugram||Spectacled cobra rescued from Gurugram house||A day after a spectacled cobra was rescued from a mall, a snake of the same breed was rescued from a house in Garhi village on Saturday night. The snake was hidden under a cylinder and a girl who went inside the kitchen to drink water spotted it and subsequently told her mother.Wildlife rescuer Anil Gandas rescued the snake. The emergence of snakes has become a daily affair in Gurugram, especially in villages near Aravali. With the reduction in green cover and dumping of waste in the forest, these reptiles are now being forced to venture into human habitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spectacled-cobra-rescued-from-gurugram-house-267805
13-06-2021||Rewari||Official inspects land for AIIMS in Rewari village||Dr Shaleen, Director, Medical Education and Research, Haryana, today inspected land at Majra village here, which has been earmarked for the prestigious AIIMS project.On e-Bhoomi portal, villagers have shown willingness to give a total of 200 acre for the project.Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh said Dr Shaleen examined the drawings and locations of the proposed site and collected a detailed information about the land.He studied the connectivity of NHs 11 and 48 with the proposed site, besides receiving inputs about public transportation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/official-inspects-land-for-aiims-in-rewari-village-267697
13-06-2021||---||Theft accused flees from Rewari court; raids on||Rewari, June 12An accused in a theft case, identified as Rahul, alias Kalu, of Kaluvaas village here, fled from the police custody when he was being produced before a court here today.The police were conducting raids at suspected hideouts of the accused, but no clue was found about him till the filing of this report.Jitender, SHO, Model Town Police Station, said a case under Section 224 of the IPC had been registered against Rahul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/theft-accused-flees-from-rewari-court-raids-on-267694
13-06-2021||---||Karnal Police: Threat call not linked to Honeypreet||Karnal, June 12Karnal City police today claimed that the life threat complaint filed by MP Gupta, former father-in-law of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s adopted daughter Honeypreet, has no connection with the dera and Honeypreet.“The threat call was made by Gupta’s own relative and it was related to a property dispute. It has nothing to do with the dera head and ‘Kurbani gang’ as alleged by Gupta in his police complaint filed on June 10,” said Sandeep Kumar, in charge, City police station.Gupta had filed a complaint with SP Ganga Ram Punia claiming that he got a life threat call from an unknown person.Following that, the SP assigned the case to the City police team.“With the help of the cyber cell, we traced the number. The caller was Devki Nandan Gupta alias Boby Gupta who had a property dispute with MP Gupta,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-police-threat-call-not-linked-to-honeypreet-267681
13-06-2021||Palwal||Three held in ATM theft case in Palwal||Claiming to have cracked the ATM theft case of Rs 36.54 lakh within 24 hours, the district police have arrested three persons in this regard.An amount of Rs 27 lakh was also recovered by cops. SP Deepak Gahlawat said while two of the accused, identified as Neeraj and Mithun Kumar, both residents of Gobindpuri in New Delhi, were employees of SIS Cash Service Private Limited, which had been given the contract of transferring or loading money into the ATM by the bank, the third accused, identified as Bharat, was a friend of Neeraj but working with a private builder in New Delhi.He said the accused, arrested on Friday, had removed Rs 36.54 lakh from the ATM located near the Old GT Road here on the night of June 9 after it was loaded by the team. He said while the team which had arrived here to load the money into the ATM comprised Neeraj, Mithun, Kishori Lal, Amol Singh and Pramod Kumar, the money was taken out by Neeraj, who stayed on the premises on some pretext.Manmohan Singh, manager of the company, was informed about the incident and he found the money from the ATM missing the next morning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-held-in-atm-theft-case-in-palwal-267677
13-06-2021||---||Woman’s body found hanging from shower rod in Panipat, spouse booked||Panipat, June 12A 31-year-old woman was found hanging from the shower rod in the bathroom of her house in Model Town here early this morning.The police have booked three persons, including her husband, mother-in-law and father-in-law, for allegedly murdering the woman.The deceased was identified as Rachna, wife of Bhavesh Chawla.After getting information from the police control room, cops reached the spot and found Rachna hanging with the shower rod. The door of the bathroom was found locked from inside. The police opened the door and recovered the body and sent it for post-mortem examination.Purushottam Mehta of Nilokheri, father of the deceased, in a complaint to the Model Town police, said his daughter had got married 10 years ago on February 16, 2010. She is survived by her 10-year-old-son Angad.He alleged that the father-in-law of his daughter, Shyam Sunder Chawla, had assaulted her two days ago. Besides, her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law were regularly harassing his daughter for demands.In the morning, they received a call about her death. He further alleged that her husband and others had murdered their daughter by hanging her.Yogesh Kataria, SHO, Model Town, said a case had been registered against the husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law under Sections 302, 354 and 34 of the IPC.FACED HARASSMENT, ALLEGES FATHER||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/womans-body-found-hanging-from-shower-rod-in-panipat-spouse-booked-267673
13-06-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||172 acres of Khori forest land encroached: Report||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, June 12With as many as 5,158 residential constructions, the ground status report, prepared by the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF), has found a total land area of 172.10 acres under illegal occupation at Khori-Lakkadpur village here designated as forest land.The MCF is to demolish all constructions here within six weeks in compliance with the recent order of the Supreme Court.While the residential structures, which include pucca and kutcha houses, are spread over 57.98 acres, these are said to be 33.69 per cent of the total land area.With 430 constructions in the mixed land use category, the colony has 36 religious buildings and five educational institutions. A total of 80 shops (commercial) and two industrial units have also been found, along with around 877 vacant plots, according to the report prepared on the basis of the drone survey and imagery of the area.A total of 32.06 acres is occupied by road network, it is added. The religious units include as many as 23 temples, 12 mosques and one church.Among the residential units, only 1,968 houses have been found as pucca, while the rest are either semi- pucca or kutcha. Three schools and all religious units are of pucca structure, it is added.“Though the total units of all types of land use has been found to be 6,663, the population of the colony is expected to be not more than 30,000,” said an official of the MCF.Though no incident of protest by locals was reported today, it is learnt that some residents have either started shifting or have already moved their valuables to houses of their kin in other localities and Delhi. Many are likely to relocate in the next couple of days, as the demolition is imminent and could take place next week, said sources.Meanwhile, Jitender Kumar, an HCS officer, ,who has been appointed Joint Commissioner, MCF, has also been designated as competent authority to tackle the issues related to encroachment and demolition on the MCF land.Residential structures spread on 58 acresThe residential structures, which include pucca and kutcha houses, are spread over 57.98 acres. With 430 constructions in the mixed land use category, the colony has 36 religious buildings and five educational institutions. Eighty shops (commercial) and two industrial units have also been found along with 877 vacant plots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/172-acres-of-khori-forest-land-encroached-report-267664
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||GST cut on ambulances in Haryana||State Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today said the Centre had reduced the existing 28 per cent tax on ambulances to 12 per cent.Dushyant, who also holds the portfolio of the Excise and Taxation Department, gave this information through videoconferencing after attending the GST Council meeting held under the chairmanship of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.The Deputy Chief Minister said the GST Council had accepted all suggestions of a six-member committee of the Group of Ministers, which was constituted to determine the GST on Covid-related items. Haryana had made two suggestions — extending the time limit for the exemption of GST rates on Covid goods and reducing the existing tax on electric crematoriums. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gst-cut-on-ambulances-in-haryana-267663
13-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Travel agent faces fraud case in Yamunanagar||The police have booked a travel agent after a man alleged that he and his nine known persons were duped by the agent of Rs 17 lakh.On the complaint of Ravinder Kumar of Rapdi village, a case was registered against travel agent Rahul Verma of Radaur town at the Radaur police station on June 9. The complainant said he worked as an electrician and met Rahul in 2019 when he did some electrical fittings at his house and office. Rahul told me that he worked as a travel agent and could send him to Dubai or any other country.“The agent told us that he would send all of us abroad and asked us to deposit Rs 1 lakh each with him before going abroad and took Rs 17 lakh from us (10 persons) between August 2019 and March 2020,” alleged the victim. He neither sent us abroad nor returned our money. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/travel-agent-faces-fraud-case-in-yamunanagar-267662
13-06-2021||---||Boy succumbs; kin suspect honour killing in Hisar||Hisar, June 12The family of a 19-year-old youth, Shiv Kumar, who died during treatment at the medical college in Agroha town of Hisar, suspects foul play in the matter and alleged that it could be a case of honour killing.The police said that Kumar, a resident of Surya Nagar, had eloped with a girl of the same locality on June 2. The police traced the duo from Delhi and handed them over to their families.In her statement, the girl maintained that she had gone to her relatives’ place on her free will. The family members of the youth refused to take him back.The police stated that the youth had gone to stay with a friend after the family’s rebuff. He fell from the terrace of his friend’s house, resulting in injuries. He was rushed to a hospital.Mandeep Singh, SHO, said that an uncle of the victim suspects foul play and had pointed a finger at the family members of the girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boy-succumbs-kin-suspect-honour-killing-in-hisar-267661
13-06-2021||Ambala||1,965 liquor boxes seized in Ambala||The Ambala police seized 1,965 boxes containing 23,580 illicit liquor bottles of IMFL brands from two trucks bearing Haryana’s registration numbers parked at a godown in Mandaur village of Ambala late last night.The police got a tip-off that two trucks are parked in a godown. A police team and officials of the Excise Department conducted a joint raid and seized the stock. No person was found there.Excise inspector Vikas said, “Stock of three brands was seized. There were some bottles without label and without hologram. One brand was for sale in Haryana and some stock was for sale in Chandigarh.”A case has been registered against liquor contractor Pradeep Mittal, unidentified truck owners and drivers, godown owner and liquor factory owner at the Panjokhra police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-965-liquor-boxes-seized-in-ambala-267660
13-06-2021||---||Rain brings relief in Haryana, expect more||Hisar, June 12Rain accompanied by storm was witnessed in the region, including Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Jind districts, this evening. Hisar residents heaved a sign of relief as the temperature in the district had soared to 45°C in the past two days.According to reports, storm damaged some display boards in the Geeta Bhawan market in Sirsa town. A vehicle was also damaged. Several trees were uprooted and power disruptions were witnessed in several parts of the region.Prof ML Khichar, head of the agriculture meterological department, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU), said pre-monsoon showers were expected to continue across the state till June 15-16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-brings-relief-in-haryana-expect-more-267659
13-06-2021||---||Contractual health staff launch indefinite dharna in Hisar||Hisar, June 12Employees of the Health Department started an indefinite dharna at the Civil Hospital in Jind town today, alleging they were being harassed by the contractor at the time of the renewal of their annual contract.They alleged that the employer/contractor sought bribe for renewing their contracts and denied the renewal on his own.Ombir Singh, a contractual employee, said the outsourcing policy had promoted corruption in Haryana. A bribe of Rs 40,000 to 50,000 per candidate was sought for contract renewal, he added.Civil surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said he had talked to the outsourcing firm and asked them not to shift the employees as they had been working since they had been working relentlessly through pandemic time. “I am looking into the matter personally and hope that the issue will be resolved soon,” he added.BJP MLA Krishan Midda stated that he would speak to the health authorities that frontline workers should not be shifted or terminated who worked 24X7 during the Covid times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/contractual-health-staff-launch-indefinite-dharna-in-hisar-267658
13-06-2021||---||Covid-19: Haryana logs 426 cases, 45 die||Chandigarh, June 12The state recorded 426 new Covid cases on Saturday while 45 persons succumbed to the virus. The active caseload stands at 5,186, of which 3,512 are in home isolation. A total of 944 persons recovered from the infection.Meanwhile, 74,654 persons were inoculated today. Of these, 68,167 got their first dose while 6,487 received the second jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-logs-426-cases-45-die-267657
13-06-2021||Mukesh Tandon||In 2 months, Panipat saw twofold rise in casualties||Tribune News ServicePanipat, June 12The district recorded a twofold increase in deaths in April and May this year as compared to the corresponding period last year.Panipat had recorded 585 deaths in April and 718 in May last year. However, the figure increased to 1,317 deaths in April and 1,570 in May this year.As per the data of the Health Department, 152 Covid fatalities were reported in the district last year, but the figure rose to 404 up to May this year.The data revealed that seven Covid deaths were reported in March, 117 in April and 206 in May this year. On the other hand, three deaths were recorded in May last year while there was no fatality in March and April last year.As many as 117 Covid deaths were reported in April this year, but the difference of 1,200 fatalities has raised a question mark over the reporting of the actual fatalities in the district.Similarly, in May, 206 Covid deaths were registered, but the district recorded 852 more fatalities as compared to the previous year.In the last two months of the pandemic, the Municipal Corporation has cremated 492 bodies —160 in April and 332 in May — in accordance with the Covid protocol.Sources alleged that the actual number of Covid deaths was higher than the official figure.However, PNDT nodal officer Dr Amit Kumar said every single death, be it due to Covid or other reasons, had been reported and uploaded on the government portal regularly.Deputy Civil Surgeon-cum-District Surveillance Officer Dr Sunil Sanduja said people took the pandemic seriously last year and followed precautions. The death rate was also low. However, when the restrictions were lifted, people lowered their guard and stopped following the appropriate behaviour.Civil Surgeon Dr Jitender Kadiyan said all Covid deaths had been reported in the district and the data had been sent to the higher authorities to be put up in the public domain.“I can’t comment upon the rising number of deaths in the district,” the Civil Surgeon added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-2-months-panipat-saw-twofold-rise-in-casualties-267656
13-06-2021||---||Bar ex-president, son booked for assaulting police personnel in Panipat village||Panipat, June 12The police here have booked former district bar association (DBA) president and his son for allegedly misbehaving and assaulting on-duty police officials near Sewah village during the night domination on Friday night.Members of the DBA, meanwhile, alleged that the police had thrashed the former bar president and his son in the presence of a high-rank official and registered a false case against them.Enraged, over the registration of the criminal case against former president and his son, the DBA members held an emergency meeting today and announced to suspend work till the cancellation of the case and called a general house meeting over the issue on Tuesday.Besides, a delegation of the district bar association met the Superintendent of Police Shashank Kumar Sawan and demanded a probe into the matter.As per the details available, ESI Joginder Singh, in his complaint to the Sector 29 Industrial police, said he, along with a police team, were on night domination duty near Sewah over bridge. At around 12.20 pm, a vehicle and a scooty came there and they stopped the vehicle for checking.When he demanded documents from the persons, they refused to show their documents and attacked him and tore his uniform, he alleged.Sher Singh Kharb, president, DBA, said condemned the incident, saying “the cops misbehaved with the 70-year-old advocate who was a gentleman”.He alleged that they had an altercation over wearing masks and arrested them after framing them in a false case.Satish Kumar Vats, DSP, said a case had been registered against the duo Vedpal Kadian and his son. Both were later released on bail, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bar-ex-president-son-booked-for-assaulting-police-personnel-in-panipat-village-267647
13-06-2021||Jhajjar||Samyukt Kisan Morcha panel to look into complaint of verbal abuse||A five-member woman committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) would look into a complaint regarding the verbal harassment of a woman during her volunteering stint at the Tikri border.The woman had posted messages on Twitter in this respect.“Committees have been formed at all protest sites to look into the redress of any related complaints and to prevent any occurrence of harassment or any other violation. In the current case, a formal complaint has been given to a five-member all-woman committee at the Tikri border. 9818119954 is the phone number where related issues can be raised,” said a press note issued by the SKM leaders on Saturday. The SKM reiterates that it respects the rights of women protesters, wants their safety protected in all ways and welcomes their active participation in the current movement. The SKM has already stated that it will maintain zero-tolerance to any violation of safety. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-panel-to-look-into-complaint-of-verbal-abuse-267644
13-06-2021||---||Locate missing farmer or face protest: Jind residents to administration||Hisar, June 12Bijender Singh (25), a farmer from Kandela village, had gone to Delhi on January 26 to participate in the farmers’ tractor yatra. Over four months on, his mother Santosh Devi (65) is still waiting for his return.Devi, along with other villagers and farmers, met Deputy Commissioner Aditya Dahiya at Jind yesterday demanding that her son be located.Santosh Devi (65), Mother of Bijender Singh Helpless, mother issues appealI kept my family going when I lost my husband 14 years ago. But the disappearance of my son has broken me. All my efforts to find a clue about his whereabouts have remained unsuccessful till now. I appeal to the administration to help me locate my son.“I kept my family going when I lost my husband 14 years ago. But the disappearance of my son has almost broken me. All my efforts to find a clue about his whereabouts have remained unsuccessful till now. I appeal to the administration to help me locate my son,” she said to the Deputy Commissioner with folded hands at the DC office.Bijender had gone to Delhi to participate in tractor yatra with many other farmers. “He was seen joining a ‘jatha’ of farmers walking on the road after alighting from the tractor. But there is no clue of him after that,” Raj Singh, another farmer from Kandela, said.Singh alleged that the government was not taking interest in locating the missing farmer. “He might be in jail or in some hospital with injuries. Even if some mishap has occurred, the family should be given a satisfactory reply. The village is upset with the government’s apathetic attitude on the issue of locating him,” he alleged.BKU state spokesperson Chhaju Ram Kandela said that they have searched for Bijender at police stations in Delhi and Haryana. But the administration is not serious about tracing him. We have raised the demand for his search with the Deputy Commissioner, police and other state authorities. We have served an ultimatum to the Deputy Commissioner to locate Bijender by June 18. Otherwise, we will block the Jind-Chandigarh highway indefinitely from June 19, he stated.Deputy Commissioner Aditya Dahiya said that the family members and other villagers met him over the missing farmer. “I will talk to the Superintendent of Police and take appropriate action in the matter. The administration will let the villagers know about the location and status of the farmer,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/locate-missing-farmer-or-face-protest-jind-residents-to-administration-267643
13-06-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Villagers clash with cops as youth dies after ‘police torture’ in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 12High drama was witnessed at Badkali village of Punhana here as residents clashed with the police and set their official vehicle on fire after the death of a local youth, allegedly due to torture by the Faridabad police.Faridabad policePlan to disrupt peaceHe was neither illegally detained nor tortured as is being alleged. The allegations and the protest are aimed at disrupting peace in the area.Terming the allegations as baseless, the Faridabad police said the youth, identified as Junaid (22), was already a kidney patient. He along with others was detained for questioning in connection with an OLX fraud case and was released hale and hearty 12 days ago.After the youth died at his home this morning, villagers took the body to the Hodal highway and staged a dharna. On getting information, the Nuh police reached the spot and asked the villagers to remove the body and restore traffic.However, the situation turned tense when some protesters pelted stones at cops and damaged their vehicles. A virtual curfew was imposed at Punhana, with markets shut and tension gripping the area. The protesters were roaming in the streets till the filing of the report.Family members of Junaid alleged that he was illegally detained without any FIR by the Faridabad police. He was brutally thrashed in custody and they had to bribe policemen to secure his release.“His brother paid Rs 70,000 to policemen to secure his release. He had not been keeping well since then and had swelling in feet and injury on back. We consulted a local doctor, but his condition suddenly worsened and he died due to internal injuries,” alleged Junaid’s uncle Suleman.The youth’s family claimed that Junaid along with five others was going to a wedding in Rajasthan when he was detained from the border in connection with an OLX fraud case.“He was neither illegally detained nor tortured as is being alleged. His brothers and brother-in-law were involved in a cyber economic fraud and nabbed following a complaint. We picked up everyone, including notorious criminal Shahid. We questioned them and except Shahid, all others, including Junaid, were allowed to go. The allegations and the protest are aimed at disrupting peace in the area,” read a statement issued by the Faridabad police.Was among 6 detained in OLX fraud case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-clash-with-cops-as-youth-dies-after-police-torture-in-haryana-267537
13-06-2021||Rohtak||Wages in advance to woo back workforce||Eyeing to scale up production following relaxation in Covid curbs, industrialists in Rohtak and Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh have been wooing migrant workers back with a slew of sops. From depositing advance in their bank accounts to hiring private buses for their free return journey, the industrialists have been trying it all.The migrant workers had left for their native places, mainly in UP, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, around two months ago when strict restrictions were imposed in view of the second wave. They appear to be reluctant to return now, apprehending inconvenience due to the lockdown. “We hired two private buses to bring workers from western UP.Efforts are on to convince others as over 50 per cent of our workforce is yet to return,” said Rajat Gupta, the owner of a footwear company in Bahadurgarh.Narendra Chhikara, Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries senior vice-president, said businessmen were forced to take such steps due to severe labour crunch. “Bahadurgarh has more than 5,000 big, medium and small-scale industries where around 2.5 lakh people are engaged in labour work. All industries are facing acute manpower shortage,” he said.Rohtak IDC Industries Association president SK Khator said factory owners had little option but to send bus or train fare to workers. “Though raising production to capacity will take time, maintenance of machines is necessary. Labourers are being called,” said Khator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wages-in-advance-to-woo-back-workforce-267489
13-06-2021||Sumedha Sharma||High drama in Haryana's Punhana, villagers clash with cops alleging death of youth due to police torture||Tribune News ServiceGurugram June 12A high drama was witnessed in Badkali village of Punhana here as residents clashed with the police and set their official vehicle on fire as a local youth died after allegedly being brutally tortured in custody by the Faridabad police. The villagers were protesting with the youth's body on Hodal highway when Nuh police came to remove them and restore traffic. An argument soon turned into a clash and the locals allegedly pelted stones, beat up the police personnel and damaged vehicles. While the policemen fled for life, a virtual curfew has been imposed in Punhana with markets shut and tension gripping the area. The protesters were roaming in the streets till the filing of report.The drama started in the morning after 22-year-old Junaid, a painter, died at his home. The family alleged he was illegally picked up and detained without an FIR and arrested by the Faridabad police. They alleged that he was brutally beaten and they had to bribe cops to get him released. "His brother got him home after paying Rs 70,000 to cops. He was not well since and had swelling on his feet and injury in the back. We took treatment from local doctor but he suddenly died owing to internal injuries," said Junaid's uncle Suleman. The family first sat on protest near their village but getting no attention, almost entire village came to highway and blocked it. It was when Nuh police team came and asked them to vacate the mob went berserk and attacked the cops. The family claimed that Junaid was going to a wedding in Rajasthan with five others in a car and was picked up from border as one of the boys was found allegedly involved in an OLX fraud and was traced through his mobile phone. Police sources claimed that he was detained for questioning on May 31 and let off on bail on June 1."How can he die after 12 days? They are just creating ruckus, trying to communalise the issue," said a senior police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-drama-in-haryanas-punhana-villagers-clash-with-cops-alleging-death-of-youth-due-to-police-torture-267356
