14-06-2021|| Chandigarh||Haryana government to clear pending payments of sugarcane farmers by July 10: Minister||The Haryana government will clear all pending payments of sugarcane farmers by July 10, Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal said on Monday.Speaking during a review meeting held with the officers of Haryana State Cooperative Sugar Mills Federation (Sugarfed) here, he said that during the recent crushing season 2020-2021, the cooperative sugar mills have procured 429.35 lakh quintals of sugarcane, which amounts to a total amount of Rs 1,500.83 crore. “Out of this Rs 1,082.16 crore has been given to the sugarcane farmers and the remaining amount will be given by July 10," he said, according to an official release. During the meeting, he directed the officers of his department that only the necessary work of maintenance and repair should be done in the mills so that these can function at minimal cost. According to the release, in the crushing season 2020-21, 429.17 lakh quintals of sugarcane was crushed while 371.86 lakh quintals of sugarcane was crushed in the previous season. Around 630.16 quintals of jaggery was produced during the crushing season of 2020-21 by the Cooperative Sugar Mills of Meham, Kaithal and Palwal. Also, work has started on the biofuel project in Cooperative Sugar Mill of Kaithal and it will be started soon in other Cooperative Sugar Mills as well. During the meeting, Additional Chief Secretary, Cooperation Department, Sanjeev Kaushal said that the sugar mills where good work is being done by the employees and officers will be given incentives. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-to-clear-pending-payments-of-sugarcane-farmers-by-july-10-minister-268382
14-06-2021||Gurugram||Custodial death: 12 Faridabad cops booked for murder||"They separated three of us who were better built and took them and thrashed them. I was lucky to have a leaner physique and was thus saved from cane and was let off after being punched and kicked and made to do sit-ups. Their informer or agent from a nearby village approached our families and made them pay money for our release cops took my chain and even phone with its bill after two days of release,” says Asif, a Punhana resident who was picked up along with Junaid on May 31.Junaid wasn’t so lucky: the 24-year-old was allegedly beaten to death, sparking of clashes between villagers of Puhana and Nuh Police. A day after the clash, Haryana Police said they’d booked 12 Faridabad policemen for Junaid’s murder.Faridabad police picked up Junaid and four of his companions in a cybercrime case on May 31 as they were coming back from a wedding in Rajasthan. They were all taken to Faridabad, but they’d been no FIR.Junaid's family claims they were kept in police custody overnight and beaten up.The five were merely sharing a car ride, Asif said, and, except for one of their companions, Shahid, none of the others had criminal records against them.The police’s FIR filed in Nuh in the custodial death case names sub-inspectors Rajesh and Surjit, assistant sub-inspector Narendra and Javed, head constables Naresh and Dalbir, and an SHO, Basant. Five other unidentified cops have also been named in FIR.The FIR was registered only after Junaid’s relatives and neighbours surrounded Bichhor Police Station.  Protesters set a vehicle on fire and blocked several roads demanding exemplary punishment for the suspected policemen.Eight people were arrested and over 200 booked for attacking policemen, Nuh Superintendent of Police Narender Brijaniya said.“We have filed a case of murder on a complaint by (Junaid's) family and have written to Faridabad police to initiate action,” he said.Faridabad Police meanwhile had this to say on Twitter:  Online fraud gang gets fraud case registered against police.  It's usual and happens".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/custodial-death-12-faridabad-cops-booked-for-murder-268380
14-06-2021||---||Early monsoon comes in with an excess of downpour over the region||Vijay MohanTribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14The early monsoon has hit the region on a hugely positive note, with the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana receiving higher than normal rain fall in the month of June so far.From June 1 to June 14, Punjab received 38 mm rain against the normal of 14.7 mm for this period, accounting for a surplus of 158 per cent, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).In Haryana, rain was for surplus by 146 per cent. The state received 33.7 mm rain against the normal of 13.7 mm for the aforementioned period. In of Himachal Pradesh, the surplus was relatively lower at 26 per cent. The hill state received 42.2 mm rain against the normal of 33.5 mm for that period.The monsoon arrived over north India about 15 days ahead of its normal date of onset, which is a significant deviation in terms of climatic conditions as well as agro-economic practices. Rains impact sowing and cropping timing as well as the demand of water from dams and electricity or diesel for running bore wells.Information released by IMD states that as on June 14 the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar, covering the entire peninsular, central, east and northeastern India and some parts of north-western India. However due to approaching of mid-latitude westerlies winds further progress  of  monsoon  over  remaining  parts  of  northwest  India  is  likely  to  be slow, according to the IMD.Earlier, the IMD had predicted normal to above normal rainfall over most parts of South Asia during the 2021 southwest monsoon season from June to September. Geographically, above-normal rainfall is most likely over north-western India and some regions along the foothills of the Himalayas.Even in May, the precipitation in the region had been good. Rain was 138 percent above normal in Haryana and 39 per cent above normal in Punjab, but deficient by four per cent in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/early-monsoon-comes-in-with-an-excess-of-downpour-over-the-region-268359
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Foundation stone laid for BJP’s office in Haryana’s Jhajjar uprooted; FIR registered||An FIR has been registered in connection with the uprooting of the foundation stone of a BJP party office in Jhajjhar hours after it had been laid by the party’s state unit chief OP Dhankar, police said on Monday.The foundation stone laid for the party office on Rewari road of the district on Sunday was allegedly removed by a group of farmers protesting the new farm laws.The protesters, including women, were carrying black flags and raising slogans against the Centre for not rolling back the laws despite protests by thousands of farmers near the borders of Delhi for over six months.“Strict action will be taken as per the law,” Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said in Ambala, responding to a question about the incident.Several farmer groups have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP leaders in Haryana over the issue of the farm laws.Scores of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer.Several rounds of talks between the farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over these contentious laws.The government last held talks with farmer leaders on January 22. The talks between the two sides came to a halt after a January 26 tractor parade by farmers in Delhi turned violent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/foundation-stone-laid-for-bjps-office-in-haryanas-jhajjar-uprooted-fir-registered-268351
14-06-2021||Hisar||Out on morning walk, man shot dead by unknown assailants in Jind||A 48-year-old man—the owner of a private school—was shot dead by unknown assailants in Alipura village of Uchana subdivision in Jind district on Monday. The victim, identified as Suresh Kumar, had gone out for a morning walk when two assailants arrived on a motorcycle and confronted him.The accused opened fire from a close range and also threatened other persons who were witness to the attack to stay away and flee from the area. Kumar died on the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/out-on-morning-walk-man-shot-dead-by%C2%A0unknown-assailants-in-jind-268307
14-06-2021||Karnal||Soon, Karnal to have night market||In an attempt to attract people to the market at night, Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL), the company that is looking after the Smart City project, has planned to develop a night market in the city. It will be developed in Sector-12 market.“We are working on a project to develop a night market in an open area near Super Mall. It will have 40 food carts with similar design. There will be two lanes –- one of vegetarian food and the other of non-vegetarian food,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, CEO, KSCL, who is the Deputy Commissioner of Karnal.The design of the carts is being prepared, he said, adding that a monthly rent would be paid by the vendors. “We are expecting to complete this project within two months,” he said.High-mast lights, toilets and water ATM would be set up, the CEO maintained. Seating arrangements would also be made. He also made it clear if the number of applicants increases, they would conduct a draw for these carts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-karnal-to-have-night-market-268247
14-06-2021||Rohtak||Special mask drive launched||Camp held to meet blood shortageKarnal: The Ibrahim Mandi Association on Sunday organised a blood donation camp in Raghunath Mandir to overcome the shortage of blood units. Chief Minister’s representative of his constituency Sanjay Bathla and councillor Ish Gulati were the chief guests. Amit Ahuja, association president, said they were informed that due to Covid, the district blood bank was facing a shortage of blood units as people were hesitant in organising camps. “In all, 41 people donated blood during the camp,” he added.8-year-old K’shetra boy beats cancerAmbala: An eight-year old boy of Kurukshetra, who was diagnosed with hodgkin’s lymphoma stage 3 in December last year, has been successfully treated at the Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital. This was the first such successful paediatric cancer treatment at a Civil Hospital. The child was treated by Dr Vineet Anand, paediatric oncologist. The patient was suffering from neck nodules for the past two years and was running from pillar to post for treatment, but didn’t find any relief. Twelve free chemotherapy sessions were given to the boy over a period of six months. Civil Surgeon Kuldeep Singh said: “A state-of-the-art paediatric oncology centre has been made functional and every facility is being provided free of cost to all cancer patients at the Civil Hospital.”Tributes paid to late Mauritian presidentKarnal: To pay tributes to Mauritian ex-president Anirudh Jagannath, a condolence meet was organised by members of the National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists (NIFAA) and India-Mauritius Trade and Cultural Friendship Forum. Swami Gyananad and MP Karnal Sanjay Bhatia also expressed grief on his death. NIFAA president Pritpal Singh Pannu highlighted the contribution of the former president in building the relationship between the two countries. Meanwhile, it was announced that the NIFAA and the friendship forum would give four awards every year in the name of the ex-president.G’gram most liveable city amid Covid: StudyGurugram: A report by the Square Yards titled ‘Suitable Index: The Covid Perspective’ revealed that Gurugram was the most suitable city to live in during the pandemic considering factors, including population density, open area ration and hospital infrastructure. The study throws light on the suitability of living and working in three prime cities in the country, namely Bengaluru, Mumbai and Gurugram, with respect to Covid. As per the report, localities in the east zone such as Sectors 52-56, 58, 40-44, 30 and 24-27 were found to be the most suitable for living as per the index. Even though the density of cases in this zone was second only to the northern zone, the presence of maximum number of hospitals per 10,000 people, more than 40% open area and lowest population density made the area most suitable and hence liveable from the Covid perspective, the index stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-mask-drive-launched-268248
14-06-2021||Karnal||World Environment Day||Awareness on Covid vaccinationPanipat: As many as 14 NCC cadets, including Himanshu, Milan, Harman, Mohit Sharma, Fateh Singh, Shourya, Aryan Madan, Arshit Bharti, Shivam, Vinit Nagpal, Neerav, Mukul, Lakshay Bhardwaj, Aneek Goel of the NCC wing of Dyal Singh Public School, Panipat participated in tree plantation activity and motivated people about Covid vaccination campaign. They conducted campaign under the leadership of Lt Cdr Kapil Kumar Singh Commanding Officer, 1 Hr Naval Unit, Faridabad and Monu Singh CTO. Principal Vinita Kumar Tomar, and headmistress of the school, Dr Neelam Vats along with other teachers registered themselves for this movement and tagged other teachers of the school.Online summer campKarnal: Tiny Tots of Pratap Public School organised an online summer camp. Children were introduced to a range of basic cooking skills without fire. They were guided to make refreshing lemonade and different kinds of sandwiches. They prepared sandwiches using cheese, jam, butter, vegetables etc. under the guidance of their teachers. It was good to see the students turning into little chefs and preparing food for their loved ones.Shradha house first in science quizYamunanagar: Mukand Lal Public School, Yamunanagar conducted an online inter- house science quiz for classes VI-VIII. The quiz was conducted under the supervision of Dr Bhupinder Kaur Reen. The judges of the day were Shivani and Manju Arya. Sakshi Sikka was the scorer. Anchors Manju Kaushal and Kiran Manocha started the quiz. In the quiz, Shradha House (including Navya Arora, Ravish, Darshpreet Kaur, Kairavi Shekhar, Saanvi and Lakshay Paliwal) bagged Ist position. Satya House (including Manyu Goswami, Rudransh, Agrim Goel, Rishit Kharbanda, Disha Garg and Shruti) bagged second position. Shakti House (including Anshika Aggarwal, Mohd. Ibrahim, Aviral, Purvi, Akshat Sharma and Suryansh) bagged third position. Director Shashi Bathla and principal of the school Dr Mamta Verma congratulated the winners.47 units of blood collectedYamunanagar: The Panchnad Research Institute's study centre, Yamunanagar organised a blood donation camp for the welfare and assistance of Covid-19 affected people of the society. Suresh Pal, president of Panchnad Research Institute, Yamunanagar said 47 units of blood were collected. Madan Chauhan, Mayor of Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhari, who was the chief guest of the programme, praised the efforts of the Panchnad Institute.Summer Fiesta organisedYamunanagar: The home science association of Guru Nanak Girls College, Santpura, Yamunanagar, organised a national-level online inter-college summer Fiesta 2021. The theme of the programme was "Cake making and decoration: Entrepreneurship development in home science by setting start ups. As many as 650 students and faculty from various colleges and universities of different states of the country participated in this programme.Web talk on moral valuesYamunanagar: Punjabi department of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar organised an online lecture, 'Web talk on moral values and ethics' for all students of the college. Keynote speaker Dr Gurinder Singh Handa, head of the department of Punjabi, Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Karnal, spoke to the students about ethics.Workshop on photographyFaridabad: The department of communication and media technology of JC Bose University, YMCA, Faridabad organised a two-day online workshop on photography. During the workshop, professional photographer Nitin Arora shared his experience and knowledge in the field of photography with the students. The initial topics of discussion were related to the technical aspects of photography such as exposure, aperture, shutter speed and ISO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-environment-day-268249
14-06-2021||This week||Village pond full of water hyacinth||Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityPond in Kaithal a garbage dumpKaithal’s Bidhikyar pond had been turned into a garbage dump by residents who immerse flowers and all that is left after performing religious rituals in their homes into it. This not only pollutes the water but also the ecology and environment. The local municipal council owns the pond but the authorities do not care to maintain it. They seldom punish or fine the erring residents and do not care to clean this heritage situated in the heart of this town. The authorities should take note of it and act at once.Satish Seth, KaithalDug-up drain inconveniences Narwana ResidentsIn the Housing Board Colony, main road, Narwana, a drain was dug up to drain out excess rainwater two years ago, but the level of the drain was somewhat higher so it was an exercise in futile. Again, six months ago, the drain was dug up. But this time, the contractor simply abandoned the job and this dug up drain is causing a lot of inconvenience to shopkeepers and residents who live alongside it. Their business has collapsed and it has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The Nagar Parishad, Narwana, should direct the contractor to complete the job before the onset of monsoons.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/village-pond-full-of-water-hyacinth-268250
14-06-2021||---||Gurugram roads unsafe for 2-wheeler riders, pedestrians||Sanjay YadavGurugram, June 13Every month, an accident involving a pedestrian or a two-wheeler rider is reported in the city. They constitute 73 per cent victims of fatal road accidents.According to the figures of the local traffic police, 153 persons lost their lives in road accidents in the first five months of this year. Of them, 42 were pedestrians and 70 two-wheeler riders.In the corresponding period last year, 34 pedestrians and 59 two-wheeler drivers died in accidents.Of the 42 pedestrians who died in mishaps from January to May, 10 lost their lives in January, nine in February, 11 in March and six each in April and May. In all, 37 pedestrians were grievously injured.The police have said a majority of the pedestrians who died were hit while crossing a road. This indicates the city lacks pedestrian-friendly roads, footpaths and crossings.Meanwhile, of the 70 two-wheeler riders killed in road accidents, 56 were on motorcycle and 14 on Scooty. Besides, 107 two-wheeler riders were injured. Five bicyclists died and 12 were injured in the past five months.Sanjeev Balhara, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Traffic, said: “Bad engineering of roads is one of the key reasons for road accidents. The police are identifying the most risky spots for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. We will work with the authorities concerned to make the necessary changes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-roads-unsafe-for-2-wheeler-riders-pedestrians-268039
14-06-2021||---||Ambala, Yamunanagar district in-charges appointed||Chandigarh, June 13  The Haryana Government recently deputed two IAS officers as in-charges of the districts in addition to their present duties with immediate effect. Dr Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, has been deputed as the in-charge of Ambala.Anurag Agarwal, Chief Electoral Officer, and Principal Secretary to Government, Elections Department, Managing Director, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, and Managing Director, Haryana Financial Corporation, has been deputed as the in-charge of Yamunanagar. Sharing more details about the responsibilities of the Administrative Secretaries-in-charges, an official spokesperson said they would chair the District Public Grievances Committee whenever the nominated chairperson  could not attend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-yamunanagar-district-in-charges-appointed-268040
14-06-2021||Ravinder Saini
||3 months on, rail underpasses yet to become operational||Tribune News Service Rohtak, June 13 Though the nation’s first 5-km long elevated railway track started functioning three months ago, its two underpasses located at Sector 6 and near Sai Baba temple in the city are yet to be made operational causing inconvenience to residents of nearby localities as they have to take a longer route. A delegation of Sector 6 Resident Welfare Association (RWA) led by its president Ramesh Khasa recently met Pradeep Ranjan, State Coordinator for the elevated railway track project, and demanded that the issue be resolved by ensuring the removal of old rail track at the earliest. “The Sector 6 and 5 link road where the underpass is situated has been blocked for the past two years leading to inconvenience to residents of more than 10 nearby localities as they have to cover three to four kilometer extra to go to the other side of the underpass in a four-wheeler. Moreover, people do not hesitate to cross the track on a two-wheeler, leading to accidents,” said Khasa. He maintained two ITI students got injured a week ago when their scooty skidded while crossing the old rail track situated along the underpass. The elevated track was made functional on March 15 but the underpasses had not yet been opened, he added.  “Many residents daily go to other districts from Rohtak in roadways buses in connection with their jobs. They have to leave for the destination half-an-hour early to cover extra distance in reaching the bus stand or other points to catch buses,” said Ishwar Malik, a Sector 6 resident. Dinesh of Gandhi Nagar said some concrete boxes for level crossing had been placed under the elevated track in his locality but merely two-wheelers could pass through hence all were waiting for the old rail track to be removed to ensure passage for four-wheelers too.  Ranjan said a 5-km long road between Sector 6 to the Railway station was to be constructed after removing the old rail track. The state government had approved the project hence the work to remove the track would soon be initiated by the railway authorities.  Another officer on condition of anonymity said Covid situations were responsible for the delay in initiating the process for the removal of the old rail track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-months-on-rail-underpasses-yet-to-become-operational-268041
14-06-2021||Our Correspondent||50 key spots prone to waterlogging identified||Gurugram, June 13With monsoon around the corner, the Gurugram traffic police have prepared a detailed traffic management plan for the monsoon. The police have identified 50 key spots prone to waterlogging.The police will be deputing 2,500 police personnel around these areas. The police have demanded 25 cranes and 10 tractors to deal with traffic congestions during the monsoon.The teams of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have jointly organised a mock drill at the Hero Honda Chowk and Rajiv Chowk to avoid waterlogging in underpasses during the monsoon season in Gurugram. The traffic police will also take necessary measure to avoid last year’s situation when the people and vehicles were stuck in traffic jams for hours .The 24 key spots out of 50 are Shankar Chowk, Atlas Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower underpass, Sector 31, Jharsa Chowk, Rajiv Chowk underpass, Hero Honda Chowk underpass, Vatika Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Bata Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, Huda City Centre, Hanuman Chowk, Ghata More, Kherki Daula toll plaza, Rampura Chowk, IMT Chowk in Manesar, Panchgaon Chowk, Bilaspur Chowk, Kapriwas, Himgiri Chowk, Sector10, Ambedkar Chowk in Sohna and Jamalpur in Pataudi. “To avoid waterlogging during the monsoon, we have already prepared a plan. While 2,500 police personnel will be posted on these key spots we have also demanded 25 cranes and 10 tractors from the MC. We are trying to ensure that there are no traffic congestions during the coming days”, said Ravinder Singh Tomar, DCP, traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-key-spots-prone-to-waterlogging-identified-268042
14-06-2021||Rohtak||J&K girl students complete internship  at IIM||With a view to aiding the development in Jammu and Kashmir and contributing towards women empowerment, the Indian Institute of Management (IIM)-Rohtak offered an opportunity to girl students of Jammu and Kashmir to spend six to eight weeks on the IIM-Rohtak campus to hone their entrepreneurship and management skills.  “This programme was offered through different educational institutions of Jammu and Kashmir. Nearly 350 students expressed interest in the internship, of whom 64 were shortlisted. These students were invited to stay on the IIM-Rohtak campus, during which they got an opportunity to learn from our faculty and imbibe the IIM culture,” said a statement issued here today. The IIM-Rohtak Director, Prof Dheeraj Sharma, congratulated the students for successfully engaging in the internship with the institution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jk-girl-students-complete-internship-at-iim-268043
14-06-2021||Hisar||Man kills biz partner||A man killed his business partner over suspicion of illicit relations with his wife in Chautala village of Sirsa district.  The police said Naresh was beaten to death on Saturday by the accused, identified as Dharambir, and his family members.   On Saturday, Dharambir called Naresh to the fields and attacked him with sticks, leading to his death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-biz-partner-268044
14-06-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar saw 2-time rise in last 2 months||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, June 13The number of deaths reported in the district in April and May this year more than doubled from the number recorded during the corresponding period last year.As per the data from the office of the Additional District Registrar, Birth and Deaths, 1,264 deaths were reported in April and May last year. The count shot up to 2,833 in the corresponding period this year — an increase of 1,569 deaths.The data of the Health Department shows that no Covid death was reported in April and May last year but, this year, 49 deaths were reported in April and 153 in May.“The first Covid death in the district was recorded in June 2020. Since then, 367 persons have died due to the virus in the district,” said Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Yamunanagar district.Dr Rajesh Parmar, Additional District Registrar, Birth and Deaths, said that the data of birth and deaths was registered at 24 registration centres, including Mukund Lal District Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar; Civil Hospital, Jagadhri; Municipal Corporation offices at Yamunanagar and Jagadhri; six community health centres; and 12 primary health centres.Dr Dahiya added there was no chance of discrepancy in the number of deaths as every Covid death had been recorded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-saw-2-time-rise-in-last-2-months-268045
14-06-2021||Kurukshetra||Three  vehicles collide; 15 hurt||At least 15 persons were injured in an accident involving two private buses and a three-wheeler on the Delhi-Ambala NHhere on Sunday.  A bus carrying labourers and their family members from Bihar was on its way towards Ludhiana early in the morning, when it met with an accident with a three-wheeler following which the bus driver reduced his speed. Meanwhile, a double-decker bus coming from behind hit the first bus from the rear side and due to which its driver lost control over the vehicle and it overturned in the service lane. After getting information, police officials reached the spot and the injured were taken to the LNJP Hospital for treatment. A majority of the injured suffered minor injuries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-vehicles-collide-15-hurt-268046
14-06-2021||Pradeep Sharma||HPSC working with 50 pc staff strength||Tribune Need ServiceChandigarh, June 13The Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), the constitutional body mandated to make Group A and B appointments in the state, is functioning with only half its strength.It’s policy paralysisThe inordinate delay in the appointment of four HPSC members, out of the total strength of eight, points to policy paralysis in the BJP-JJP government. Aftab Ahmed, deputy leader, CLPWith two more HPSC members, Kulbir Chikkara and Vandana Sharma, retiring, the number of vacancies in the eight-member commission has risen to four. In fact, two vacancies had not been filled since March 2, 2020, when other two members, Neelam Singh and Rajesh Valid, had retired.Incidentally, 50 per cent vacancies in the commission exist at a time when the selection process for recruitment to the prestigious HCS (executive) and HCS (judicial) is under way.Meanwhile, Deputy Leader of the Congress legislature party and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed alleged that inordinate delay in the appointment of four HPSC members out of a total strength of eight pointed to the “policy paralysis” in the BJP-JJP government.Besides Chairman Alok Verma, who was appointed on October 22, 2020, the commission currently has four members — Neeta Khera, Jai Bhagwan Goyal,Surinder Singh and Pawan Kumar.Advocate Hemant Kumar said according to Article 316 (2) of the Constitution, the chairman and members hold office for a period of six years or 62 years, whichever is earlier. “This is very inappropriate that the posts of the member of the prestigious commission should remain vacant for a long time due to political or administrative reasons.”Till 2008, the commission had a strength of eight members, which was increased to 12 by the previous Congress government. However, it was reduced to six by the Congress government in 2012.The BJP government restored the strength to original eight in December 2018 with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hpsc-working-with-50-pc-staff-strength-268047
14-06-2021||---||More women reach Delhi border||Hisar, June 13Women activists from rural areas in Jind district today left for the Delhi borders, where farmers have been protesting against the three new agricultural laws for the past seven months.Panel members announcedJhajjar: The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Sunday announced a six-member Mahila Suraksha Samiti. Dr Jagmati Sangwan, a national-level woman leader, has been appointed its convener, while Sudesh Goyat, Amrita Kundu, Suman Hooda, Sharda Dikshit and Sudesh Kandela would be the members. TNSAbout 300 women gathered at the toll plaza in Khatkar village on the Jind-Patiala highway before leaving for the Tikri, Ghazipur and Dhansa borders. They were joined by “jathas” of women farmers from Punjab. They reached the protest sites in the evening.Women leaders say there is need to increase the participation of women at the dharnas as their strength has dwindled in view of harvesting of rabi crop and sowing of kharif crops.Rajpati of Khatkar village said she wanted to have an audience with Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a quick resolution of the stalemate. “We voted for him and made him the Prime Minister. I urge him to listen to our concerns. I am sure he will agree with farmers if he listens to us once,” she said.Sikkim Devi Nain, Jind BKU president, said: “These days, farmers have a lean period in the fields. So, they can devote time to the agitation. Women have decided to join them to give a further boost to the agitation. The Centre tries to set off speculations about the future of the agitation as soon as the strength at the Delhi dharna starts dwindling, but it should not be forgotten that the agitation is going strong.”Satbir Pahlawan, pradhan of the Khera khap, said enthused women activists were an indication that the morale of farmers was still high.“Farmers are determined to get the three farm laws repealed. The participation of women has been spontaneous. Their enthusiasm strengthens our determination,” Pahlawan stated.Sharda Devi from Jind’s Dariyawala village said she and many from her village would stay at the Delhi borders for a few months. “Women have been into divided three ‘jathas’ and they will camp at Tikri, Ghazipur and Dhansa borders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-women-reach-delhi-border-268048
14-06-2021||---||Groundwater level: 60% state area ‘red’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13About 60 per cent of the state’s area, spanning 85 out of the 141 blocks, falls in the “red category” as far as groundwater level is concerned, Additional Chief Secretary, Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Devender Singh, told the first meeting of the Haryana Water Resources Authority here today.He said the water-table was a cause of concern in 14 of the 22 districts of Haryana. In the year 2004, out of the 114 blocks in the state, 55 had come under the red category, which was about 48 per cent due to the groundwater exploitation. But in 2020, out of 141 blocks, 85 blocks had reached the red category, which was 60 per cent.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who presided over the meeting, said for the smooth availability of groundwater, river water and treated water to the farmers in the state, a centralised water monitoring system should be prepared over the next two years in which districts, blocks and villages should be included.He said the groundwater level had gone down to 80 ft in some districts, including, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal and Panipat, in the last five decades.Haryana Water Resources Authority chairperson Keshni Anand Arora said a customised water plan would be prepared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/groundwater-level-60-state-area-red-268049
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||All shops, malls, gyms to open||The Haryana Government today extended the lockdown for another week from June 14 to June 21 while announcing more relaxations, including the discontinuation of the odd-even system for shops and opening of sports complexes and gymnasiums.Besides, a gathering of more than 50 persons has been allowed with prior permission.An order of Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said shops would remain open from 9 am to 8 pm.The timing for the shopping malls would continue to be from 10 am to 8 pm. Gymnasiums will be open from 6 am to 8 pm. Restaurants, bars and club houses would be allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-shops-malls-gyms-to-open-268050
14-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Notice to 24 firms for illegal outdoor ads||Several companies have allegedly displayed their outdoor media advertisements illegally at various locations in the jurisdiction of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC. Mrinal Jaiswal, Engineer, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC, said they had issued show-cause notices to 24 companies between May 17 and June 10.  The companies have reportedly put up their advertisements on hoarding structures and building boards without taking permission from the MC, causing a huge revenue loss to the state exchequer. It is alleged that this illegal business continued from April 2018 to April 2021 as, during this period, no tender was issued in this connection. Now, the MC authorities have reportedly started the process of calling tender. Panchkula resident Ashok Kumar, who also deals in the trade of outdoor media advertisement, had lodged a complaint on the CM Window on May 28 against the MC  and companies that displayed outdoor media advertisements illegally in the jurisdiction of Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC. He had lodged a complaint on May 10 with the higher authorities of the Local Urban Bodies Department, but no action was taken. In his CM Window complaint, he alleged that several companies were displaying outdoor media advertisements illegally without taking permission and without paying fee to the MC. “As per the provisions of the advertisement bylaws notified by the state on March 28, 2018 and further fee notified on May 21, 2019, the loss of revenue to the MC is about Rs 50 crore in the past three years,” alleged Ashok. He said the MC had issued notices to only a few companies to save their skin, but the recovery amount wasn’t mentioned on it. Alleging that there were around 80 such companies, he demanded that the state government should get a vigilance probe conducted into this case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-24-firms-for-illegal-outdoor-ads-268051
14-06-2021||Gurugram||Friends for 7 yrs, two girls elope, get married||A 19-year-old girl eloped with her girlfriend and got married here. Hailing from Jhajjar district, they were schoolmates and had been together for the past seven years. On June 10, a Pataudi-based man filed a complaint at a local police station saying that his daughter was missing and accused one of her schoolmates and her family of abduction. An FIR was registered at the Pataudi police station under Section 346,  IPC.  Notably, the girls had  studied together till Class X and had expressed their desire to get married in front of their families, who reportedly refused fearing societal pressure. The duo then decided to elope and get married. The Pataudi family created a drama outside the court while trying to reason with their daughter but the duo left. “We are going to an undisclosed location for our safety. We had tried to reason with our families many times but they didn’t understand, so we had to elope,” one of the girls said. When contacted, their families didn’t respond. One of the girls is a student while the other is working with a private company. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/friends-for-7-yrs-two-girls-elope-get-married-268052
14-06-2021||Karnal||4 arrested in loot case||With the arrest of four persons, the Karnal police claimed to have solved the case of looting of an arhtiya of vegetable market at Taraori.  The police have recovered Rs 3 lakh out of total Rs 3.5 lakh that was looted, a country made pistol and two bikes from the accused. On a tip-off, a team of the detective staff arrested the accused from Shambli late evening on Saturday, said Harjinder Singh, in charge, detective staff. The accused have been identified as Malkeet and Sukhvir of Sonkra village, Parveen of Ramana Ramani village and Sagar of Shambli village in the district. The accused had snatched a bag containing Rs 3.5 lakh from commission agent Anil Kumar from Taraori vegetable market on June 10. “We are investigating the involvement of these accused in other cases,” Harjinder Singh added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-arrested-in-loot-case-268054
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Jhajjar village not to sow paddy over 3,445 acres||Farmers of Jhajjar’s Dhakla village have jointly decided not to cultivate paddy on 3,445 acres of their farmland. Last year, paddy was sown on 3,000 acres of the village.  This time, two farmers have not only uprooted their own crop, but have also taken the initiative to adopt crops that consume less water.  The farmers believe that the paddy crop cost increases due to its excessive water consumption. It also excessively depletes the groundwater. Both money and water can be saved by opting for alternative crops. The government is also providing incentives for growing alternative crops. Appreciating the decision, CM Manohar Lal Khattar said the primary objective of starting ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat Yojana’ last year had been achieved. This year, 2 lakh acres are to be brought under this yojana in the state. Expressing concern over the depleting groundwater level, the CM said today, 36 blocks of the state had come under the dark zone. “If awareness on water conservation is not spread today, then the situation will worsen in future.” Last year, the crops consuming less water were cultivated over 95,000 acres in the state. Under the yojana, 1,13,885 farmers are cultivating other low-cost crops instead of paddy on 1,26,928 hectares. Farmers Santram and Jaipal, who destroyed their crop in Dhakla village, had planted paddy by taking panchayat land on lease. But after awareness, they decided to uproot their crops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-village-not-to-sow-paddy-over-3-445-acres-268055
14-06-2021||Sunit Dhawan
||Rohtak PGIMS faculty oppose move to create common cadre||Tribune News Service Rohtak, June 13 Faculty members and resident doctors serving at the Rohtak PGIMS have taken an exception to the Haryana Government’s move to club the services/administration of the state medical colleges and create a common cadre of faculty members. Members of the medical fraternity have opposed the said proposal and have threatened to tender mass resignation if the state government goes ahead with its decision. The faculty members of the Rohtak PGIMS, the premier medical institution of Haryana, have launched a signature campaign against the move and demanded an urgent general body meeting of the Haryana State Medical Teachers Association (HSMTA) to discuss the matter and chalk out their strategy in this regard. “The government functionaries, instead of providing relief and support to Covid warriors, are scheming to disturb and harass them by bringing an arbitrary and unfair policy of clubbing the institute with other government medical colleges and opening up a Pandora’s box of pick-and-choose postings and transfers,” maintain the PGIMS teachers in a communique to the HSMTA. The letter further maintains that the faculty of the PGIMS “is deeply hurt and resentful of this new development that will cause permanent disruption in their professional and personal lives as well as teaching, especially at the postgraduate level”. “This is a draconian and unfair step and the HSMTA should take up the matter with the governmentto maintain status quoand avoid further issues,” assert the signatories, who include senior faculty members of the PGIMS. HSMTA president, Dr RB Jain said the move was a big setback for the state’s medical fraternity and the faculty members of the PGIMS were so agitated at the government’s decision that they were planning to tender mass resignations. “We will discuss the matter with the teachers of all medical colleges across the state and take it up with the state government to get the concerns of the medical faculty addressed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-faculty-oppose-move-to-create-common-cadre-268056
14-06-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||No plan to relocate Khori oustees: Gurjar||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, June 13With the demolition of 6,700 odd constructions, mainly of the residential nature in the Khori-Lakkadpur village located on the forest land of the Surajkund area in the district, inching closer, the authorities here have no definite plan to relocate or rehabilitate the population of around 30,000.Local MP and Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Krishan Pal Gurjar, today said that while he was in favour of the rehabilitation of the residents, he would discuss the issue with the Chief Minister so that the poor people do not become homeless.Claiming that as the demolition was imminent in the wake of the Supreme Court order, there was every possibility of rehabilitating the affected, for which a move could be taken soon. Sources said a delegation of the Khori Gaon Basti came to meet Gurjar at his residence here on Saturday, but could not meet him as he was out of station. DC Yashpal Yadav said there was no plan at present for rehabilitation at present for the Khori residents. He, however, added that the administration would respond to any direction received in this regard from the government.However, seeking the setting up of a transit camp immediately for providing shelter to the oustees, Nirmal Gorana, general secretary, Bandhua Mukti Morcha, an NGO, said while many residents could be shifted to the flats for poor lying vacant in Dabua Colony and Bapu Nagar here, the rest could be placed in the temporary shelter till their final rehabilitation.“Why not demolition be started from the 500 structures which have come up in the shape of hotels, farm houses, banquet gardens and commercial units in the area, prior to razing the houses of underprivileged or marginalised sections of society ?” he asked.Meanwhile, it is learnt that several residents have shifted their valuables or vacated the colony due to the fear of demolition. “Will have to leave soon as the police have been asking us to vacate the premises immediately,’’ said a woman resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-plan-to-relocate-khori-oustees-gurjar-268057
14-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Haryana BJP lays office stone, 2 hrs later farmers raze it||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, June 13A group of farmers, including women, removed the foundation stone of the BJP district office laid by party’s state president Om Prakash Dhankar on the Rewari road here on Sunday morning.The protesters, carrying black flags, reached the site two hours after the foundation-laying ceremony and uprooted the bricks laid for the foundation. They also raised slogans against Dhankar and the BJP-JJP government. The group came here from the Dhansa border (Delhi), where farmers of nearby villages have been staging a dharna for the past several months against the three farm laws.“The programme was scheduled for 10 am, but the BJP leaders came much earlier fearing resistance from farmers, who are opposing functions of the BJP-JJP leaders as per the instructions of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. We removed the foundation stone to register our protest,” said Amit, one of the protesters.Sources said the protesters left the site after an hour.Neither Dhankar nor BJP district president Vikram Kadian responded to phone calls to get their comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-bjp-lays-office-stone-2-hrs-later-farmers-raze-it-267966
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends Covid-19 restrictions with several relaxations||Haryana government decided to extend its Covid-19 restrictions by a week from June 14-21 but with several relaxations, an order from the state government said on Sunday—a development that comes despite declining Covid-19 case in the state.Among several exemptions given is the discontinuation of the odd-even system for opening shops.The order said the “Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana” restrictions that were first imposed in the state last month would further extend from 5 am on June 14 to 5 am on June 21.Although educational institutions will remain closed during this period, there would be several exemptions.All shops can stay open from 9 am to 8 pm, malls from 9 am to 8 pm, restaurants and bars, including those in malls, from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity for dine in, home delivery up to 10 pm; and sports complexes and gymnasiums can open up.Spas however will remain closed.Among other exemptions—All shops can stay open from 9 am to 8 pm—Malls can open from 9 am to 8 pm—Restaurants and bars, including those in malls, from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity for dine-in—Home delivery allowed up to 10 pm —Religious places can stay open with a limit of 21 persons at a time—Corporate offices can function with staff strength of up to 50 per cent—Weddings and funerals can have up to 21 people. No barat, or wedding processions, will be allowed—For gatherings other than weddings and funerals, upper limit on guests is 50. Such gatherings require prior approval of Deputy Commissioner concerned—Clubhouses/restaurants/bars of golf courses allowed to open with 50 per cent seating capacity from 10 am to 10 pm. Management must ensure members are allowed in a staggered manner to prevent crowding—Gyms allowed to stay open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity—All production units, establishments, and industries allowed to function but with strict adherence to Covid protocol—Sports complexes and stadiums can allow only sportspeople with appropriate Covid protocol. No spectators allowed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-extends-covid-19-restrictions-with-several-relaxations-267935
14-06-2021||Vibha Sharma||Monsoon arrives in Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana, 15 days ahead of schedule||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 13The Southwest Monsoon on Sunday covered the entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab, at least 15 days ahead of its scheduled arrival over the region.According to the IMD, the seasonal rain has covered the “entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, and some parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab today, June 13”.Conditions are favourable for its further advance “into most parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of east Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, some more parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab over the next 48 hours”, it added.Marking fast progress due to weather conditions in the northern Bay of Bengal since arrival over Kerala on June 3, the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) is currently passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar.Normally, the seasonal rain arrives in Delhi around June 28-29. Experts say the reason behind the sudden advancement is the formation of a low-pressure system over the northern Bay of Bengal, which has created conducive conditions for the advancement of monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-arrives-in-chandigarh-punjab-and-haryana-15-days-ahead-of-schedule-267828
