15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram tops in anti-Covid vaccination coverage||Millennium City Gurugram which has inoculated 49.3 per cent of its people eligible for Covid shots has topped among 24 cities in a Union government's survey of their vaccination coverage, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday.Vij said till June 12, over 8.5 lakh people in Gurugram have been vaccinated against the COVID-19 with both doses of the vaccine.People over 18 years of the age are eligible for the vaccination.Sharing details of the category-wise administration of Covid shots, Vij, in an official statement here, said 60,029 health workers and 55,408 front-line workers have been administered both doses of the vaccine.On inoculation of people with 60 years of age and above and those in the age group of 45 to 60 years, he said, 4,88,009 have been given both doses while in the age group of 18 to 44 years 2,47,708 have got both doses.“In the survey, Indore stood second with 44.9 per cent coverage, Kolkata third with 42.7 per cent, Chennai fourth with 39.2 per cent and Vadodara city fifth with 38.7 per cent vaccination,” Vij said.Meanwhile, "Swachhta Pakhwada" (cleanliness fortnight) was started in civil hospitals, primary health centres, community health centres as well as sub-centres of the state from June 15 to June 30.On the occasion, Vij digitally interacted with all civil surgeons of the state and gave necessary instructions to them.The minister said: “We have started Swachhta Pakhwada today but hygiene and cleanliness should be a consistent way of life”.“We are just out of the second wave of COVID-19, so we have decided to clean all the PHCs, CHCs, and hospitals,” he said.“Saluting” doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, and other 'corona warriors', the health minister said they worked round-the-clock as a team despite facing a lot of challenges in the most difficult times. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-tops-in-anti-covid-vaccination-coverage-268881
15-06-2021||Sanjay Yadav||After brakes fail, Haryana Roadways driver rams bus into unipole; save lives||Gurugram, June 15Timely action by a Haryana Roadways driver averted a major accident after brakes of the vehicle failed. After the bus went out of control the driver rammed it into a unipole to stop it and saved many lives. The bus was, however, badly damaged. A passenger identified as Jogeram was critically injured and rushed to a private hospital.The incident happened around 5 pm on Monday when a roadways bus of Faridabad depot left for Faridabad from Gurugram bus stand. It was near Kalyani hospital, Sector 14, the bus driver realised that the vehicle’s brakes were not working. He asked all passengers to shift to rear seats of the bus and hold on to rails tightly.When the bus crossed Bata chowk flyover its speed increased. To stop it the driver hit a unipole on the road divider near Sukhrali village. While the bus stopped immediately, a biker and an autorickshaw collided with it.“I panicked but driver Harbir shouted that he trying to manage. Finally he hit the unipole to stop the bus and averted a big accident,” said bus conductor Diler Singh.“A passenger, Jogeram, is critically injured while all passengers are safe. The bus driver averted a major mishap. We are investigating into the matter,” said ASI Munshi Ram who visited the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-brakes-fail-haryana-roadways-driver-rams-bus-into-unipole-save-lives-268875
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government extends schools' summer holidays till June 30||The Haryana government on Tuesday extended the summer vacation for all schools in the state till June 30.“All schools in the state will remain closed till June 30 as summer holidays have been extended,” Education Minister Kanwar Pal told reporters here after a state Cabinet meeting.According to an order issued by the Directorate of School Education last month, the state government had extended the summer vacation till June 15 after taking the coronavirus situation into account.Teachers, however, were allowed to attend school work from June 1.Asked about the declaration of the class 12 results, the minister said it would be out within a month.He said the class 12 results will be prepared on the basis of internal assessment and other parameters laid down by the Haryana Board of School Education.The Haryana government had earlier cancelled board examinations for class 12 due to a faster rise in coronavirus infection.The decision had come shortly after the central government had ordered the cancellation of the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In an official statement, meanwhile, Pal added that a fixed amount would be provided to the government school students up to class VIII to purchase their textbooks.Since the process of awarding tenders for distribution of textbooks among students was taking a long time, the government has decided to give the money directly to students to buy their textbooks.Senior classes students are also being encouraged to give their old textbooks to students studying in junior classes, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government%C2%A0extends-schools-summer-holidays-till-june-30-268836
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt increases pension, assistance under social security schemes||The Haryana government on Tuesday gave nod to increase pension financial assistance under social security schemes with effect from April 1. The Cabinet, which met here under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, also extended one-time settlement scheme till September 30 for the recovery of long-time outstanding "external development charges" from colonisers, an official statement said.  Till date, around Rs 551 crore has been recovered from colonisers under this policy, it said.  The Cabinet increased old-age pension and the assistance for widows, handicapped, girl child and eunuchs from Rs 2,250 to Rs 2,500 per month.Furthermore, the financial assistance given to destitute children has been increased from Rs 1,350 to Rs 1,600 per month and the assistance to disabled children not going schools has been hiked from Rs 1,650 to Rs 1,950 per month.In another decision, the Haryana government decided to put in place the system of registration of new fully built-up transport vehicles through the dealers in the state.The decision would facilitate the vehicle owners to get their new fully built-up transport vehicles registered through the dealer concerned. The process will be cashless. Footfall in the offices of Registering Authorities will come down considerably, the statement said.  After a suitable amendment in the Haryana Motor Vehicles Rules, 1993, a firm, dealer or manufacturer of motor vehicles would be empowered by the state government to perform such functions with such conditions as it considers appropriate with regard to registration of vehicles on their first sale.  The registration of fully built-up new transport vehicles will now be possible online by the dealers as is being done at present in the case of new non-transport vehicles.  More than 48.80 lakh new personal vehicles have been registered through dealer point registration in the last seven years. Encouraged by its success, the system is now being extended to fully built-up transport vehicles with a view to improve ease of doing business, it said. The applicant will apply online along with the required taxes and fees.  The registration certificate will be sent to the applicant by the Registering Authority concerned through the post. No direct interface of the buyer shall be needed with the registration authorities.In another decision, the number of members of the Haryana Public Service Commission has been reduced from existing eight to five.The Cabinet approved an amendment of the Haryana Public Service Commission (Conditions of Service) Regulations, 2018 in this regard.   The Cabinet granted relief to the real estate industry as well as change of land use permission (CLU) holders/entrepreneurs due to disruptions caused by the second wave of coronavirus for two months. The period from April 1 to May 31 will be considered as "zero period" for the purposes, including interest on payment of renewal fee of licence on delayed period, submission of fresh bank guarantee on account of grant of licence and interest /penal interest on payment of installment of external development works (EDC), building plan approval/extension of CLU permission and licences and  renewal of licences and related compliances.This is in line with the various relief measures granted by the Union government for various sectors of economy.  The colonisers have been granted relief of interest on the pending dues and for time-bound compliances. The colonisers/developers shall pass on the corresponding benefits to their allottees to ensure that the hardships faced by the end-users also get mitigated to that extent. PTI SUN VSD   RDKRDK06151749NNNN||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-increases-pension-assistance-under-social-security-schemes-268831
15-06-2021||Faridabad||Secton 144 imposed in Aravalli forest area village headed for demolition||Section 144 of the CrPC was imposed in Faridabad's Khori village on Tuesday where a major demolition drive on 150 acres of forestland is planned.The gathering of five or more persons and carrying of all kind of firearms or weapons have been prohibited within 200 metres of the village till the completion of the demolition work, said an order issued by the Faridabad DC. The Municipal Corporation Faridabad is to reclaim around 150 acres of Forestland, presently under illegal occupation of around 10,000 houses, mostly labourers and migrant workers, in wake of an order passed by the Supreme Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/secton-144-imposed-in-aravalli-forest-area-village-headed-for-demolition-268804
15-06-2021||Ambala||Man shot dead over old enmity in Ambala||A man was shot dead over an alleged previous enmity near Hathi Khana Temple in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday morning, police said.The deceased has been identified as Jeetu, a resident of Ambala Cantonment.Jeetu was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants, who fled from the spot after killing him. Jeetu was rushed to Civil Hospital Ambala Cantonment where he was declared dead. The incident was recorded on a CCTV camera.The deceased reportedly suffered eight bullet injuries.DSP (Ambala Cantonment) Ram Kumar said that around 8 am, Jeetu was returning after tying his cattle near the temple when two men came on a motorcycle and killed him."Jeetu has old enmity with a gang. A case is being registered and different teams have been formed to nab the accused," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-dead-over-old-enmity-in-ambala-268792
15-06-2021||Underground drainage system was laid in the lane of Mahesh Nagar police station about a month ago. After every 20 feet manhole/chambers were constructed. But within one month of the construction||Poor quality underground drainage work in Ambala||Dr Vinay Kumar Malhotra, Ambala canttTraffic cops’ monsoon plan boon for residentsIt is good news for residents that the Gurugram traffic police have prepared a detailed traffic management plan for the monsoon, which is due to commence in this week. For the past one decade I am living here and during every monsoon there is waterlogging in the city. This inconveniences them as long as it lasts. If the situation improves, it will bring much relief to the residents of Gurugram.SUBHASH C TANEJA, GurugramRain exposes pitiable condition of drainsOn Saturday night, it rained for half-an-hour and it completely exposed the poor condition of drainage system in the city. Rainwater accumulated in low lying residential and commercial areas and residents are finding it difficult to move out of their houses. Roads are flooded and broken manholes are not visible in flooded water so there is possibility of accidents taking place. The authorities concerned should drain out the accumulated water regularly.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaUnderpass submerged post rain in Ambala sectorThe said photo has been shared by residents of Sector 9.The underway railway passage, which is the lifeline of Sector 9 and connects the sector with the rest of the city and Cantonment got submerged after it rained for a short while two days ago. The administration has been reminded time and again but all in vain. The administration should be prepared to meet any eventuality during the monsoon because water accumulates at many places putting normal life in jeopardy. We hope the administration will look into the matter and act at the earliest.Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-quality-underground-drainage-work-in-ambala-268741
15-06-2021||Rohtak||Power point presentation||Talk show on career in Air forceHisar: The training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar organised another Udbhavana talk show-cum-webinar on the topic 'Career in Indian Air Force'. Wing Commander Rakesh Singh, who was commissioned into the Flying Branch of Indian Air Force in 1999, was the keynote speaker of the programme. He said the Indian Air Force was the youngest of the three services. It is the air arm of the Indian Armed Forces. The recruitment for all courses is carried out by the Ministry of Defence. He answered questions and doubts of the aspirants.NC varsity to aid studentsGurugram: NorthCap University (NCU) has stepped forward to aid its students adversely impacted by the pandemic. The university is launching a unique initiative offering financial assistance to existing NCU students who have lost an earning parent to Covid-19. To help grieving students enrolled in undergraduate and graduate programmes, the NCU has set up a relief fund Covid emergency aid for students education (CEASE) with a corpus of Rs 50 lakhs. The university has also constituted a committee, which will be responsible for reviewing all financial-aid applications and finalising the list of beneficiaries. Col Bikram Mohanty, registrar, NCU said, "During these unprecedented times, we take it as our collective responsibility to ensure that the students' learning doesn't stop due to financial difficulties".Webinar on wealth managementYamunanagar: The department of commerce and placement cell of Maharaja Agrasen Mahavidyalaya, Jagadhri organised an online national webinar on wealth management in the times of Covid and beyond with the theme of investing and making money in the stock market. Varun Aggarwal, MD of Profit Idea was the keynote speaker of the webinar and gave informative and enriching information about stock market.Capacity building workshopAmbala: The four-day Capacity Building Workshop for teachers organised by the Regional Training Centre DAV Organisation New Delhi, Ambala Cluster concluded on Sunday. On this occasion, JP Shoor, director, Public Schools and Aided Schools, DAV Organisation briefed that such type of programme enhanced the ability of teachers and equip them with new strategies and methodologies that they could use in virtual classroom.Virtual summer campKurukshetra: Tagore Global School, Kurukshetra held a virtual summer camp for students to enable them to unwind after their tests and spend quality and constructive time in fun-filled activities. Students attended zumba dance classes, science classes, vedic maths classes, and art and craft classes during the virtual summer camp.Art of memorisingKarnal: To equip students with enthusiasm to learn and enhance their ability to retain what they have learnt, Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, Karnal organised an informative webinar, "The art of memorising" by Krishan Chahal who holds the Guiness World Record of memorising the value of pi up to 43,000 digits. Krishan Chahal guided the students to excel in studies by augmenting their memory skills. He shared valuable tips to increase memory power and concentration to boost their mental performance and turn their short-term memories into long-term ones.Two students get placementHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Delhi-based Nutech Print Services organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof. Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university congratulated the selected students. Dr Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director said the selected students are Divesh Kaushal & Sourav Tanwar from B Tech Printing 2021 batch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-point-presentation-268740
15-06-2021||Deepender Deswal
||In Charkhi Dadri  town, faulty sewerage causes waterlogging||Tribune News Service Hisar, June 14 Due to the alleged faulty design of the water disposal system in the town, residents of the district headquarters town of Charkhi Dadri have been facing the problem of waterlogging, especially during the monsoon season. Deputy Commissioner Amarjeet Singh Maan has directed the district officials to ensure the cleaning of the disposal lines and has decided to chalk out a plan for a permanent solution to the problem.  A delegation of residents of the town met the DC in this regard recently. Nitin Jangu, a resident, said the sewer lines got blocked water during the rains and the backflow of the water led to inundation in houses in many localities.  A member of the municipal council, Vikram Singh from ward number 14, said the flow of the sewerage line was from the low-lying area to upper areas towards the Mahendergarh side. “A smooth water discharge is not possible due to the faulty levelling of the disposal lines. The Public Health Engineering Department officials had to install electric motors for the disposal of water from the sewerage lines, but it is not possible to discharge water from choked sewerages with the help of electric motors,” he stated.  Sources said the sewerage lines were laid about 30 years ago, while the population of the town, which is the newest district of Haryana, has increased manifold. The existing sewerage infrastructure is bursting at the seams due to the heavy population load. There is a need to lay new infrastructure to make the town a livable place, said Jai Bhagwan, a resident.  The DC, who inspected the sewerage treatment plant on the Delhi road, issued a warning to the PHE Department officials as the plant was found overflowing. “I want that there should be no waterlogging even after 100 mm of rainfall in a day. Thus, we have decided to chalk out a plan for the overhaul of the sewerage infrastructure. I have also directed the officials to clean the existing sewerage lines and appeal to the residents not to throw polythene and solid waste in the sewerage as it chokes the line,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-charkhi-dadri-town-faulty-sewerage-causes-waterlogging-268698
15-06-2021||---||Two juveniles held with 5-kg ganja||Ambala, June 14 The CIA-2 unit of the Ambala police held two juveniles and seized over 5-kg ganja from their possession on Sunday. As per information, the CIA-2 unit got information that two boys had been involved in the smuggling of Ganja following which a naka was set up near Nanhera village.  Both the boys belong to Bihar. They had been smuggling ganja in Ambala and Chandigarh. During checking 5.4kg ganja was seized from their possession.  A case was registered under Section 20 of the NDPS Act at the Parao police station. Investigation is  on They were sent to an observation home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-juveniles-held-with-5-kg-ganja-268700
15-06-2021||Gurugram||Rajasthan youth drowns in bid to save friend||A Class X student, Bijendra (17), who along with his five friends had gone to Dhankot canal for a swim, drowned while trying to save his friend who had slipped into the water.On Sunday afternoon, the six friends decided to go to the canal for a swim. One of the boys, Monu, got into the canal, slipped and started drowning.Seeing Monu gasping for breath, Bijendra jumped into the water and tried to help him. But the current was strong and both started drowning.The other boys started shouting for help and some villagers rushed to the spot. “The villagers used a long stick to help both friends. Monu succeeded in grabbing the stick, but Bijendra drowned,” one of the five boys told the police. After receiving information, a police team along with divers of the Fire Department reached the spot. A search operation was launched.All the boys are students and are residents of Devi Lal colony. Bijendra was a native of Alwar district in Rajasthan and presently lived in Devi Lal colony with his family. One of the boys managed to inform Bijendra’s family and they reached the spot. After two hours of search, the body was fished out of the canal. “The boy’s family has not filed a complaint.,” said the ASI. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rajasthan-youth-drowns-in-bid-to-save-friend-268701
15-06-2021||Nitish Sharma||Work to install Lord Krishna’s statue begins||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, June 14The excavation work to build the pedestal for the installation a 40-foot “virat swaroop” of lord Krishna has started at Jyotisar in Kurukshetra. The project will cost Rs 10 crore.A nearly 40-foot tall statue of Lord Krishna has been designed at a workshop of Ram Vanji Sutar in Noida, who designed the Statue of Unity.Sculpture Anil Sutar, son of Ram Vanji Sutar, told The Tribune, “The statue is ready and is made of “Ashtadhatu”. It will be brought to Kurukshetra in eight pieces and then assembled and installed at Jyotisar. The site has been handed over to us and the excavation work started on Sunday to build the pedestal. As soon as the pedestal is ready we will start the installation work of the statue. We will try to complete the project in three months.”“”Virat Swaroop” of Lord Krishna is a big project. It required a lot of detailing and a team of around 100 people have worked on this project. We visited the site last weekend and after consulting the entire committee, its location and angle on which the statue will be installed has been finalised”, he added.Earlier, the board wanted to get the statue installed by December last year so that it could be inaugurated during the International Gita Mahotsav but the project got delayed due to different reasons.Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary, Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB), said, “Tourists, who visit Jyotisar Tirtha, the birthplace of the Gita, in Kurukshetra, will be able to see the ‘virat swaroop’ of Lord Krishna at Jyotisar soon. Before starting the excavation, bhoomi pujan was also performed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-to-install-lord-krishnas-statue-begins-268702
15-06-2021||---||Five commit suicide in separate incidents||Hisar, June 14 An elderly couple ended their life by consuming poison at the court complex in Hisar today. The victims have been identified as Gyan Chand, 60, and his wife Kamlesh, 55, residents of Kheri Barki village of the district. They were reportedly upset with the behaviour of their daughter-in-law and her family.  The police said they consumed sulphas and were found in an unconscious condition at the court complex. They were rushed to the hospital where they died during treatment. The police recovered a suicide note in which they had mentioned that their son and daughter-in-law were having strained relations and often indulged in verbal dual. The family of their daughter-in-law took her to their home about a month ago.  In another incident, a woman and her two sons consumed sulphas at Sisar village of the district today. The police said Prem, 26, and Nanveen, 22, besides their mother Kamlesh, 55, consumed sulphas. They were rushed to the hospital, but died during treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-commit-suicide-in-separate-incidents-268703
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Local bodies portal launched||Once again reiterating his commitment of ensuring paperless, faceless and transparent governance, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched the ‘Local Bodies Vikas Nidhi Portal’. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Singh Chautala and Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij were also present on the occasion. The Chief Minister launched the portal while presiding over a meeting with the officers of the Finance Department, Urban Local Bodies Department, State Finance Commission and Development and Panchayat Department here today.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/local-bodies-portal-launched-268705
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Govt to clear cane dues by July 10||The state will clear all pending payments of sugarcane farmers by July 10, 2021. This was stated by Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal in a review meeting held with the officers of the Haryana State Cooperative Sugar Mills Federation (Sugarfed) here on Monday. He said during the recent crushing season, the cooperative sugar mills had procured 429.35 lakh quintal of sugarcane, amounting to a total amount of Rs 1,500.83 crore, of which Rs 1,082.16 crore had been given to the farmers and the remaining amount would be cleared by July 10. The meeting was informed that 429.17 lakh quintal of sugarcane was crushed during the 2020-21 season and 371.86 lakh quintals in 2019-20. Similarly, 41.97 lakh quintal of sugar was produced in 2020-21 while 37.41 lakh quintal in 2019-20. It was also informed that 87.59% capacity utilisation was achieved in the crushing season 2020-21 while 86.13% in 2019-20. Similarly, 7.53 crore units of power worth Rs 36.08 crore were sold in 2020-21 while 6.83 crore units worth Rs 32.19 crore in 2019-20. The minister was apprised that 630.16 quintals of jaggery was produced during the 2020-21 season by the Cooperative Sugar Mills of Meham, Kaithal and Palwal. Similarly, the work has started on the biofuel project in the Cooperative Sugar Mill of Kaithal and it will be started soon in other such mills as well. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-to-clear-cane-dues-by-july-10-268706
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||3 crore saplings to be planted this year: CM||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the Forest Department officials to work extensively on the scheme regarding contribution of people in the intensive plantation drive.The CM was presiding over a review meeting of the Plantation Campaign and Geo-Tagging Scheme of the Forest and Wildlife Department here on Monday. A target has been set to plant three crore saplings in the state this year.The CM said this year would be known as ‘Oxy-Van’ year and officers should work with this mindset. During this season, keeping in mind the objective of environmental and water conservation, plantation campaign should be carried out and not only school students but the public should also be involved in this campaign. He said the Forest Department should formulate such a scheme that plants were easily available to the common man. Besides, to make the scheme successful, drone mapping will be done. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-crore-saplings-to-be-planted-this-year-cm-268707
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||State aims to be region’s aviation repair hub||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said the government aims to make the state a leading MRO hub (maintenance, repair and overhaul) in north India in the field of aerospace and defence equipment production.Will generate 31,000 jobs in next 5 yearsIn the next five years, the state aims to generate job opportunities for about 31,000 youth, directly and indirectly, by investing Rs7,000 crore in the aerospace and defence equipment production sector. - Dushyant Chautala, Deputy Chief MinisterIt will be beneficial for the civil and defence aircrafts and will also reduce the maintenance cost for all airlines.The Deputy CM, who also holds charge of the Civil Aviation Department, gave this information after presiding over a meeting of senior officers regarding the ‘Haryana Aerospace and Defence Policy-2021’ here on Monday.He said the policy was being prepared to attract industries from the same field of aerospace and defence equipment production, which would be finalised soon. For the formulation of this policy, a committee, comprising the representatives of the state Civil Aviation Department, MSME Department, Industries and Commerce Department, and PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was formed in which the draft policy has been prepared after taking suggestions from all stakeholders at a conference held about three months ago.Dushyant said Haryana was already a leader in the auto sector, now by this policy, we were moving forward towards the path of making the statea hub of the aviation and defence equipment production sector. He said the aviation hub, which was being prepared in Hisar, wouldopen opportunities for other industries associated with the aerospace and defence equipment production sector.He said in the proposed policy, special concessions would be given to the industries investing in the field of aerospace and defence equipment production in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-aims-to-be-regions-aviation-repair-hub-268708
15-06-2021||Sushil Manav||Cases dip, but death rate shows upward trajectory in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14Even as Covid curve continues to dip steeply, the mortality rate still shows upward trajectory as 280 died against 3,570 cases with weekly fatality rate of nearly 8% in the past seven days in Haryana.With over 40 people succumbing to the virus daily during the past one week despite the new cases dipping to 500 daily on an average, the cumulative mortality rate of the state has also moved up to 1.17% from 0.87% in April-end, when the cases were at its peak in the second wave.The pandemic trajectory has witnessed a steep dip in Haryana during the past six weeks — from 1,01,009 (May 3 to 9) to 78,530 (May 10 to 16), 43,601 (May 17 to 23), 17,361 (May 24 to 30), 6,902 (May 31 to June 6) and 3,570 cases from June 7 to 13.The number of weekly deaths has also been coming down from 1,119 (May 3 to 9) to 1,080 (May 10 to 16), 827 (May 17 to 23), 709 (May 24 to 30), 491 (May 31 to June 6) and 280 fatalities from June 7 to 13.However, the dip in the number of deaths has not been proportionate with the steep fall in the cases, as weekly fatality rate (deaths divided by number of new infections) kept rising from 1.10% to 1.37%, 1.89%, 4.08%, 7.11% to 7.84%, respectively, during these six weeks.The sharp rise in the weekly fatality rate led to a sharp upward trajectory of cumulative mortality rate that has gone up from 0.87% towards April-end to 1.17% on this Sunday.Meanwhile, as far as the active cases in the state are concerned, six districts of Haryana — Sonepat, Jhajjar, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri, Nuh and Palwal — have 100 or lesser active cases.Five others — Panchkula, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Rohtak and Rewari — have cases between 100 and 200, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Jind, Bhiwani and Faridabad have cases between 200 and 300, Karnal, Panipat and Gurugram have between 300 and 400, while Hisar and Sirsa have the maximum active cases between 400 and 500.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-dip-but-death-rate-shows-upward-trajectory-in-haryana-268709
15-06-2021||Sumedha Sharma||12 Faridabad cops booked for murder||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 14The Nuh police have booked 12 Faridabad police personnel for murder by allegedly torturing a 24-year-old youth, Junaid, in custody after picking him up in a cybercrime case.The police have also arrested eight persons and booked 200 for attacking cops while protesting the youth’s death two days ago.CUSTODIAL DEATH CASEOn May 31, the Faridabad police detained Junaid and five of his companions in a cybercrime case as they were coming back from a wedding in Rajasthan. They were all taken to Faridabad, but no case was registered. Junaid’s family claims they were kept in police custody overnight and thrashed. Junaid died on June 12, sparking clashes between Punhana villagers and the Nuh police.The FIR names Sub-Inspectors Rajesh and Surjit, Assistant Sub-Inspectors Narendra and Javed, Head Constables Naresh and Dalbir and SHO Basant. Five other unidentified cops have also been named in the FIR.The case was only registered when Junaid’s relatives and neighbours thronged the Bichhor police station.Talking to The Tribune, Asif, a Punhana resident who was also picked up along with Junaid on May 31, said: “They separated three of us with a better physique and thrashed them. I was lucky to have a leaner body and was thus saved from the canecharge and was let off after being punched, kicked and sit-ups. Their informer or agent from the nearby village approached our families and made them pay money for our release. The cops then took my chain and even phone with its bill after two days of release.”Junaid wasn’t so lucky as the 24-year-old was allegedly beaten to death, sparking clashes between Puhana villagers and the Nuh police.Asif further said except for one of the youths, Shahid, none of the other five, including Junaid, had any criminal background and they were just sharing a car while on their way back from a wedding.Interestingly, the Faridabad police took to Twitter claiming that a false case was registered against them. “Online fraud gang gets fraud case registered against the police. It’s usual and happens,” the tweet read.Meanwhile, Nuh Superintendent of Police Narender Brijaniya said, “We have filed a murder case on the complaint of the victim’s family and have written to the Faridabad police to initiate action as per the protocol. We have also arrested eight persons for attacking cops and booked over 200.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-faridabad-cops-booked-for-murder-268710
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram gets new ADC||The state has issued transfer and posting orders of IAS officer, Vishram Kumar Meena, Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Ganaur. The officer has been posted as Gurugram ADC with immediate effect.The government has also given the additional charge of Director General, Hospitality and Secretary, Hospitality Department, to Vikas Yadav, Director General, Rural Development, Secretary, Rural Development Department and Secretary, Animal Husbandry and Dairy Department with immediate effect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-gets-new-adc-268711
15-06-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat
||Prepared for Khori demolition: Admn||Tribune News Service Faridabad, June 14 The Divisional Commissioner on Monday convened a meeting of the district task force officials to review the preparations for the demolition of 6,700 odd constructions in the Khori-Lakkadpur village located on the forestland of the Surajkund area. The authorities claimed that they were prepared to ensure the compliance of the Supreme Court direction for the removal of the encroachments from the forestland. A senior official said though the demolition would have to take place, addressing relocation matters properly at this point of time could have made things smoother. The official, however, claimed that the prime focus of today’s meeting was how to carry out the operation in a smooth and coordinated manner to ensure the proper execution of the drive. With no date announced, the demolition could be taken up any time, it is claimed. Meanwhile, the residents of Khori village too held a meeting on Monday and blamed the authorities for the problem. “If building houses here was a wrong move then who stopped the authorities from taking action against us at that time?,” asks Sanjay Saifi, one of the residents, who said the majority of houses had water and power connections. Describing the demolition as unjustified, he said who was now stopping the government to rehabilitate us if the demolition can’t be averted.  Appealing for relief, women residents said they were ready to pay all kinds of charges or development fees if the colony was regularised as they had no other place to go.  “Humne ek baat thaani hai, jiyenge bhi yahin aur marenge bhi yahin (We have decided to live and die here),” said the speakers at the meeting. The Supreme Court in its order on June 9 had ordered the removal of the encroachments within six weeks. Notably, 40 per cent of the residents have either shifted their valuables or are in the process to avoid damage or loss. The colony has around 7,000 houses with a population of around 30,000.  Meanwhile, the police staged a drill regarding its preparation for the drive expected to be held soon. DCP Anshu Singla, NIT zone, said the police were ready to handle any situation. “Any anti-social activity or violence during the operation will be dealt with strictly,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prepared-for-khori-demolition-admn-268712
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||DA stopped, Rs 216 cr loss to govt staff: SKS||Government staff have suffered a loss of more thanRs 216 crore because they have not received dearness allowance (DA) since January 2020 due to the pandemic,the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS) has alleged. Subhash Lamba, SKS chief, said employees retiring on June 30, 2021, would suffer a loss of Rs 2.22 lakh. “Besides,  the loss of each employee is pegged at Rs 72,000 since January last year.” He demanded the restoration of the DA with effect from July 1, 2021. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/da-stopped-rs-216-cr-loss-to-govt-staff-sks-268713
15-06-2021||Saurabh Malik
||HC: Living together different from live-in relationship||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 14 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that living together was different from a live-in relationship. Mere claim of two adults living together for a few days was not enough to hold they were truly in a live-in-relationship — an alliance accorded “some legitimacy” by the legislature. Certain conditions were required to be fulfilled by the partners for attaching legitimate sanctity to such a relationship.  Justice Manoj Bajaj ruled that the concept of the live-in-relationship between two adults of opposite gender had received recognition in India also, as the legislature had injected some legitimacy to this kind of alliance while promulgating the “Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005” and liberally defining “domestic relationship” in Section 2(f).  But some sections of society were reluctant to accept such relationships despite this elasticity. It was required to be constantly borne in mind that a relationship’s length, coupled with the discharge of certain duties and responsibilities towards each other, made such relationships akin to marital relations.  The Bench was hearing a protection plea filed by a minor couple. Justice Bajaj made it clear that a substantial number of pleas were filed by runaway couples to get the court’s seal of approval and not because of actual threat perception. Justice Bajaj added that a majority of the petitions were based on imaginary cause of action and rarely founded on “actual” or “real” existence of threat.  In pursuit of absolute freedom, youngsters in recent years have been leaving the company of their parents to live with the persons of their choice. After discussing in detail the pleas raised by the minor petitioners, Justice Bajaj directed Sirsa SSP to depute a responsible police officer to ensure the restoration of the 14-year-old girl’s custody to her parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-living-together-different-from-live-in-relationship-268714
15-06-2021||---||Private school owner in Jind shot dead||Hisar, June 14Enraged over the murder of a private school owner of the village, residents of Alipura village in Jind district today blocked the Jind-Patiala highway for three hours. Alleging negligence by the police, they demanded the arrest of the accused.The victim has been identified as Suresh Kumar (48). The incident occurred when Kumar had gone out for morning walk. He had gone some distance from his house when two motorcycle-borne youths confronted him. The accused fired seven rounds at him, killing him on the spot.Eyewitnesses informed the police about the incident. The assailants threatened the passersby, who witnessed the murder, with dire consequences and rode away.Karambir, the victim’s brother, who lodged a complaint with the police alleged that Suresh Kumar was a witness in the murder case of his son Sahil.Sahil was stabbed to death by some youths after a brawl in a college in Rohtak in 2018. The accused were reportedly applying pressure on him to turn hostile in the murder case. But he refused to do so.Suspecting the hand of the accused who were involved in the murder of Sahil in Rohtak, Karambir alleged that they — fearing an assault — had demanded police protection after Sahil’s murder.“Suresh’s murder has occurred due to the negligence of the police,” he alleged while fearing for his life and that of other family members.He said that he was walking about 50m behind his brother when the accused shot Suresh dead. He alleged that the accused also threatened him before fleeing from the spot.Ravinder Singh, SHO, said that Sahil was a student in Neki Ram College in Rohtak where he was stabbed to death by 11 persons.Jitender Khatkar, DSP, said that the police had now provided protection to the family and registered a case of murder against 11 persons. He said the villagers had removed the blockade from the highway in the evening today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-school-owner-in-jind-shot-dead-268715
15-06-2021||---||60 booked for razing BJP dist office stone||Jhajjar, June 14  The city police have booked 60 persons in connection with the uprooting of the foundation stone of BJP’s district office on the Rewari road here yesterday.  Three of them have been identified as Jitender, alias Babla of Raiya village, Amit, alias Chintu of Chhara village, and Virendra Dagar of Islampur village (Delhi), while others are unknown.  Rajesh Duggal, SP, said a case had been registered under Sections 148, 149, 153-A, 427, 447 and 506 of the IPC on the complaint of Hari Prakash, a local worker of the BJP, in this respect. However, no arrest has been made so far. “Investigation is underway and those involved are being identified on the basis of pictures and videos of the incident,” Duggal added. In his complaint, Hari Prakash alleged that the accused carrying bamboo sticks and iron rod came to the site around 11 am on Sunday and started raising slogans against the BJP. Thereafter, they damaged the foundation stone. They also abused the state government and elected public representatives, he added. The foundation stone was laid by BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar on Sunday in the presence of Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma. The protesters reached there after two hours of the foundation laying ceremony and uprooted the bricks used for the foundation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-booked-for-razing-bjp-dist-office-stone-268716
15-06-2021||Deepender Deswal
||Ahead of inauguration, farmers ‘open’ 2 parks||Tribune News Service Hisar, June 14 Protesting farmers inaugurated and dedicated two public parks in Hansi town, a day before their formal inauguration, slated to be done by BJP MLA Vinod Bhayana.  A group of farmers reached the Lala Hukam Chand Jain memorial park in Hansi town last night. The farmers said they got information that MLA Bhayana would be inaugurating the park on Monday. “Some farmers from adjoining villages invited Swami Ichcchapuri and got the park inaugurated from him. Swami has been backing the farmers’ agitation and is a regular visitor to the Ramayan toll plaza where the farmers were holding the dharna,” said Shamsher Nambardar, the BKU district president.  The inauguration board displayed at the park has mentioned the name of the MLA as the chief guest, besides mentioning the names of the MC chairperson of Hansi Nirmala Saini, executive officer Sanjay Rohilla and municipal engineer Jaiveer Singh. The farmers, meanwhile, blackened the name of the MLA.  The work on another park, Shaheed Bhagat Singh park in a locality in Hansi town, too, was completed recently. The farmers also inaugurated this park today.  The BKU leader Nambardar said the farmers had performed the task of the MLA. “The parks are meant for the local residents and nobody should have any objections if a prominent personality of the town has inaugurated the renovated parks,” he said. However, the MC authorities and the MLA did not turn up for the scheduled programme of inauguration of the parks today. The MC has renovated the park which was lying in a bad shape for some time.  The MLA Bhayana said he did not want to take any action against the farmers who blackened the name on the inauguration plate. “I have no programme for inaugurating the park,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ahead-of-inauguration-farmers-open-2-parks-268717
15-06-2021||Pradeep Sharma
||Babus get post-retirement bonanza||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 14 The BJP-JJP government, headed by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, seems to be quite liberal with former bureaucrats, with almost 20 appointments happening since February-March last year. In fact, the recommendation of the name of former IAS officer TC Gupta as the Chairman of the Right to Service Commission (RTS) by a high-level committee, headed by the Chief Minister, shows that the Khattar government was following in the footsteps of the former Congress government in the rehabilitation of the former officials on prestigious posts. The government appointed two former chief secretaries on important posts immediately after their superannuation. While DS Dhesi was appointed Chairman of the Haryana State Electricity Commission (HERC), Keshni Anand Arora was accommodated as the Chairperson of the Haryana State Water Authority. Dhesi was ultimately shifted to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) as Chief Principal Secretary to the CM. In the three years of the first tenure, which began on October 24, 2014, Khattar, unlike his predecessor Bhupinder Singh Hooda, resisted the temptation of re-employment of the retired officers. However, the powerful bureaucratic lobby ultimately prevailed on the CM, apparently under pressure from the party high command. Prominent among former IAS officers getting plum postings included Dhanpat Singh, State Election Commissioner, Navraj Sandhu, Chairperson, Haryana State Police Complaint Authority (HSPCA), Ramesh Chand Verma, HSPCA Member, P Raghavendra Rao, Chairman, State Finance Commission, and Surina Rajan, head of the Pay Grievances Redressal Commission to implement the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission. The IPS officers, RK Pachnanda, Chairman of the HERC, and KK Mishra, Member of the HSPCA, have also been adjusted by the coalition government. Besides, a former Indian Forest Service officer Alok Verma was elevated to the constitutional post of the Chairman of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC). The re-employment of the former officers on prestigious positions entitles them to retain government accommodation, besides pay and perks.  Meanwhile, Subhash Lamba, president, Sarv Karamchari Sangh, alleged that “the appointment of the retired officers on plum posts is unnecessary burden on the state exchequer, especially at a time when the state is facing economic downturn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/babus-get-post-retirement-bonanza-268718
15-06-2021||Sanjay Yadav
||In 5 months, 245 guns seized in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 14 Gurugram is fast emerging as a big market for illegal weapons. In the past five months, the local police have seized 245 illegal weapons and nabbed 159 arms traders.  Last year, the police had seized a total of 314 illegal weapons after the arrest of 316 arms suppliers.  “The largest network of illegal arms traders is in UP and MP. Our crime teams are on constant vigil and we have stepped up our operations against illegal arms trade,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime. According to an official, the majority of dealers get weapons from four states UP, MP, Bihar and Rajasthan. Recent hauls have highlighted that arms buyers have now graduated from country made pistols (or desi katta) to pistols as over 90 per cent of seized arms are pistols. “There has been a change in weapons being used in crime. Earlier, criminals preferred ‘katta’ priced between Rs 3,000 and Rs 7,000, but now, they prefer pistols which cost between Rs 20,000 and Rs 60,000. The unpredictability of action and instances of guns bursting in the hand have made criminals choose the pistol over the ‘katta’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-5-months-245-guns-seized-in-gurugram-268720
15-06-2021||---||‘Selfie with daughter’ drive completes 6 yrs||Jind, June 14 The ‘selfie with daughter’ campaign, which was launched from Bibipur village of Jind district in 2015, celebrated its sixth anniversary on June 9. Sunil Jaglan, founder of the campaign, said in the past month, 1,500 selfies from Nepal and 35,000 from across the world had been uploaded on their website to mark six years of the campaign. The drive was also launched in Nepal last year. Jaglan said an online event was organised to commemorate the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selfie-with-daughter-drive-completes-6-yrs-268721
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid death rate soars to 8% in Haryana, 6% in Punjab in a week||Punjab's case fatality rate (CFR), which is already highest in the country, has increased further. With 486 deaths and 8,343 cases, the state's CFR for the last week remained around 6 per cent, while the overall rate is 2.6 per cent.Similarly, the weekly mortality rate in Haryana has risen to nearly 8 per cent. The state reported 280 deaths and 3,570 cases in the past seven days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-death-rate-soars-to-8-in-haryana-6-in-punjab-in-a-week-268641
