16-06-2021||New Delhi||Judo coach arrested in Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case||The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch has arrested a judo coach in connection with a brawl at Chhatrasal Stadium involving Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar in which a wrestler died and his two friends were injured, officials said on Wednesday.The judo coach, 32-year-old Subhash, a resident of Kirari Suleman, was arrested from the national capital, a senior police official said.“Subhash was apprehended from his residence on Tuesday and arrested at 9 pm following interrogation. He works as a PT teacher at a government school in Rohini. He had gone to the stadium around 11.30 pm on the day of the incident,” the officer said.Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to injuries later.The Olympic medallist was arrested along with co-accused Ajay Kumar on May 23 from outer Delhi’s Mundka area.Police said 11 people, including Kumar, have so far been arrested in connection with the incident.On Friday, a Delhi court extended Kumar’s judicial custody till June 25 in connection with the case. The two-time Olympic medallist faces charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping.Police have claimed that Kumar was the “main culprit and mastermind” behind the alleged murder and said there is electronic evidence in which he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar with sticks.A video had surfaced on social media purportedly showing Kumar and his associates allegedly hitting a man with sticks.On May 31, police had suspended Kumar’s arms license. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/judo-coach-arrested-in-chhatrasal-stadium-brawl-case-269405
16-06-2021||Rohtak||Family’s wait for Natasha Narwal gets longer as release delayed||The family members and other acquaintances of student-activist Natasha Narwal, who were awaiting her homecoming after the Delhi High Court yesterday granted her bail in a matter pertaining to violence in northeast Delhi in February 2020, were disappointed as she could not be released from the jail on Wednesday.Activists Natasha, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha were not released from jail today as the Delhi Police told a court that it would take three days to verify the addresses of the sureties for the accused.“We have been waiting for Natasha and were hopeful that she would return to her home in Rohtak today. However, we have been told that her release has been delayed due to procedural issues. Now that Natasha and the other students have been granted bail by the High Court, I feel that the police should act with compassion and facilitate their release,” said Natasha’s aunt Sabita while talking to The Tribune this evening.Natasha’s father and Sabita’s brother Dr Mahavir Singh Narwal passed away at Rohtak recently while waiting and hoping for Natasha’s release from jail.Natasha had lost her mother years ago. Her brother Aakash, who is also a student, was also hopeful of her release and had gone to Delhi to receive her, said Sabita.“The High Court’s order (of releasing the arrested student-activists on bail) should have been implemented within 24 hours of its pronouncement. In the name of physical verification of the addresses of the sureties, the police are seeking time for getting the Delhi High Court’s order stayed by the Supreme Court,” maintained Inderjit Singh, a veteran Communist leader who has been closely associated with Natasha’s family.Natasha, who is a research scholar at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), participated in the anti-CAA protests, had been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and arrested in May 2020 in connection with north-east Delhi violence.She is also associated with ‘Pinjra Tod’, a collective of women students and alumni of colleges across Delhi that seeks to make regulations of hostels and paying-guest (PG) accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/familys-wait-for-natasha-narwal-gets-longer-as-release-delayed-269401
16-06-2021||Faridabad||'Distressed over impending demotion drive', man commits suicide in Aravalli Forest area village||A 50-year-old man committed suicide by hanging in his house in Faridabad's Khori village early on Wednesday morning as he was allegedly under stress due to the impending demolition drive in the area.Identified as Shri Lal, the deceased was under stress due to a loan of Rs two lakh taken for construction of his house in the colony that is facing demolition shortly.The Supreme court had ordered the removal of all encroachments on the 172 acres of land designated as Forest area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/distressed-over-impending-demotion-drive-man-commits-suicide-in-aravalli-forest-area-village-269308
16-06-2021||Hisar||'Concerned about fate of agitation', farmer commits suicide at Jind protest site||A 55-year-old farmer committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at a farmers' protest site at Khatkar toll plaza in Jind district on Wednesday.The deceased, Zile Singh, a resident of Khatkar village, had been providing services like serving food and tea to the farmers at the toll plaza for the last many months. He was a small farmer and owned two acres of land.The farmers said that he seemed to be in depression for the last 3-4 days on the issue of agriculture laws and used to often discuss the rigid stand of the government.Azad Singh, district BKU leader, said that Zile Singh was visibly upset and was concerned about the fate of the ongoing agitation. He is survived by his wife and three children.Azad Singh informed that he was alone at the shed last night after other farmers went back home. When a group of farmers arrived in the morning, they found him lying in the bed in an unconscious condition and a bottle of poison was recovered from the shed.Azad Singh said that they have taken the body to the Narwana civil hospital for postmortem examination and had informed the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/concerned-about-fate-of-agitation-farmer-commits-suicide-at-jind-protest-site-269292
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala launches online system for labourers||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said has that Haryana has become the first state where registered labourers involved in building and other construction works will get the benefit of government schemes on the “first in, first out” basis. He gave the information while addressing officers of the Labour Department here today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-deputy-chief-minister-dushyant-chautala-launches-online-system-for-labourers-269283
16-06-2021||Karnal||CIA team arrests Kaithal man with 21-kg opium||A CIA-II team from Kaithal arrested a man with 21 kg of opium on Monday evening. SP Lokender Singh said the accused, Gurpreet Singh of Kaithal, who was a truck driver, had brought opium from Bihar and was planning to sell it in Haryana and Punjab. Gurpreet had been booked under the NDPS Act, the SP said. TNSChandigarhTC Gupta takes oath as RTS chairmanCM ML Khattar administered the oath of office to TC Gupta as the Chief Commissioner, Haryana Right to Service Commission, here on Tuesday. The Governor appointed Gupta to the post on the recommendation of a committee formed under the Haryana Right to Service Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cia-team-arrests-kaithal-man-with-21-kg-opium-269274
16-06-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Peacock number dwindling in Panchkula mango orchard||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Peacock number dwindling in Panchkula mango orchardApartment owners of Suncity Parikrama request the authorities to save the wildlife habitat in the mango orchard, adjacent to Sector 20, Panchkula. The orchard is a home to the national bird, peacock and many other animals. There are countless numbers of peacocks in this orchard. It has come to the notice in the past one year that the number of peacocks has decreased, which raises concerns. We request the administration to conduct a probe against illegal activities, including any act to killing/displacing peacocks from the park. Residents of Suncity Parikrama, PanchkulaSector 20 cries for attentionThe recent spell of light rain has exposed the chinks in the preparedness of the authorities to face the fury of monsoon in Sector 20. In over a hundred multi-storeyed housing complexes, broken and choked concrete mesh on roadside gullies are in a mess, trash gets into the drain or is piled up on mesh troughs. The earth on underground drain behind Jal Vayu Vihar and other places has caved in and free rainwater flow gets blocked due to encroachment by ramps constructed outside gates by housing societies. The authorities need to take note and take action at the earliest. Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/peacock-number-dwindling-in-panchkula-mango-orchard-269273
16-06-2021||Hisar||World Food Safety Day organised in Hisar||Webinar on artificial intelligenceKarnal: A webinar on artificial intelligence (AI) was organised by Microsoft for teachers and students of Pratap Public School, Sector 6, Karnal. The resource person was Dr Niti Dwivedi who explained the concept to students and practical illustrations were given to make the concepts clear. During the session, a variety of concepts were discussed like AI-machine language and deep learning, AI depends on natural language processing (NLP), some ways to collect data for AI are camera, sensors, surveys, applications and observations and steps to create the chatbot. Students attended the webinar with full excitement and curiosity.Professors appointed HoDsRohtak: Vice-Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Prof Rajbir Singh has appointed Prof Vineeta Shukla and Prof Rajesh Dhankar as head of department of zoology and head of department of environmental sciences, respectively with effect from Tuesday in terms of provisions of statute 21 of the MDU Act. MDU registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja said Prof Vineeta Shukla's and Prof Rajesh Dhankar's term as HoD would be for a period of three years.Virtual hobby classesAmbala: Virtual hobby classes programme, "Hobbies wonderland" was organised by Bhartiya Public School, Ambala Cantt from June 7 to June 15. Through this programme, children got an opportunity to explore their potential and express their creativity in the field of yoga, art and craft, instrumental, personality development programme, singing and dance. Yoga classes focused on how to gain fitness, importance of healthy diet and benefits of asanas. Principal Munish Jain applauded the relentless efforts of those who made this event a success.Aerobics, yoga at campAmbala: An online summer camp was organised at Lord Mahavir Jain Public School. During the pandemic, a number of activities were organised for Classes I to IX. Aerobics and yoga and a variety of dances were taught at the camp. While brain activities such as quiz, puzzles, dictionary brain games were taught. Principal Richa Sharma said the camp was held to bring about all-round development of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-food-safety-day-organised-in-hisar-269272
16-06-2021||Ambala||Man held for raping 4-year-old in Ambala||A man has been arrested for allegedly raping a four-year-old girl. The accused has been identified as Yogesh Kumar (39). He was produced in a local court, which sent him to judicial custody. SHO, women police station, Devender Kaur said a complaint in this regard was lodged by the victim’s father on June 13.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-raping-4-year-old-in-ambala-269271
16-06-2021||Jhajjar||Hisar farmers join protest at Tikri border||A group of the All-India Kisan Sabha from Hisar on Tuesday joined the farmers’ protest at the Tikri border.Led by Phool Singh Sheokand, Sumit Dalal and Inderjit Singh, the group, including women, came in vehicles to mark 201 days of the sit-in. Inderjit criticised Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s remark over the objections raised by the SKM on the three farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-farmers-join-protest-at-tikri-border-269270
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Original articles sought for martyrs’ memorial in Ambala Cantt||Home Minister Anil Vij said if any person possessed any item related to the 1857 Revolution such as a rifle, gun, a pistol, a musket cartridge, a uniform, a sword, knives, badges, medals, documents, letters or correspondence, original newspapers, paintings of that period or maps, he or she could submit the same to the government to be preserved at martyrs’ memorial being built in Ambala Cantt. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/original-articles-sought-for-martyrs-memorial-in-ambala-cantt-269269
16-06-2021||Hisar||Two arrested for looting Rajasthan trader||The Rajasthan Police in assistance with its Hisar counterparts arrested two robbers, who were on the run after looting 17.5 kg of gold and 8.92 lakh in cash from a trader in Rajasthan’s Churu yesterday.The robbers headed towards Hisar after executing the crime. The Rajasthan police alerted its Hisar counterparts, following which nakas were laid. When the accused reached near Surewala chowk at Uklana, they tried to flee seeing a naka. However, the police managed to arrest two of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-looting-rajasthan-trader-269268
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent||5,800 students in Gurugram to get training in ethical hacking||Gurugram, June 15The Gurugram police will train 5,800 students in ethical hacking as part of its summer training programme.The 9th edition of the internship programme, mentored by ACP (crime) Karan Goyal, was held in association with the Society for Safe Gurgaon (SSG) and Indo-Israeli cyber security enterprise SafeHouse Technologies. “With the help of the latest technology, we are updating public interface systems and internal police processes that will enable the department to improve efficiency, effectiveness and transparency. We want to work with engineering and management students and leverage their assistance to enhance the process. More than 5,800 students have already registered for the internship,” said Police Commissioner KK Rao.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-800-students-in-gurugram-to-get-training-in-ethical-hacking-269267
16-06-2021||---||Naib tehsildar booked under corruption Act in Ambala||Ambala, June 15The Ambala police have booked incumbent naib tehsildar of Ambala Cantonment under the Prevention of Corruption Act after a local Congress leader accused him of seeking bribe for the mutation of a property in Ambala Cantonment.Onkar Nath Pruthi, Congress leader in Ambala Cantonment has accused that the naib tehsildar demandedRs 5 lakh for the mutation and threatened to cancel the mutation if the money was not paid. The Congress leader later approached Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij and now, a case has been registered at the Ambala Cantonment police station.In his complaint, Pruthi, a former municipal councillor, alleged, “On April 5, I went to get the mutation of a property done for which naib tehsildar Bodhraj sought Rs 2 lakh and I gave him Rs 1 lakh. On April 12, the mutation was registered and later an affidavit was verified by the naib tehsildar. But the official began asking for Rs 5 lakh for the mutation and threatened to cancel it if the money was not paid. Since the official had been seeking bribe in the Assembly constituency of Home Minister Anil Vij, I approached the minister and requested him to take action against the official.” A case has been registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act at the Ambala Cantonment police station against the naib tehsildar. Ram Kumar, DSP, Ambala Cantonment, said, “A case has been registered and the matter is being investigated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/naib-tehsildar-booked-under-corruption-act-in-ambala-269266
16-06-2021||Hisar||Farmer shot at, robbed of Rs 4.25 lakh in Hisar village||Three motorcycle-borne youths shot at a farmer and looted Rs 4.25 lakh from him near Ajima village in Hisar district on Tuesday.The victim, identified as Shriniwas, was rushed to a hospital with a bullet injury.The police said Shriniwas along with his father Krishan was going to make payment to an arhtiya on a motorcycle after withdrawing cash from Moth village. As they reached near Ajima village, three bike-borne persons waylaid them. One of the accused fired at Shriniwas while the other two snatched the bag containing cash and fled the spot.DSP Jugal Kishore said the police had started the investigation after registering a case. “We have formed three teams. The police are trying to identify the accused by scanning the CCTV footage. It is suspected that the accused could be trailing the farmer from the bank when he withdrew the cash,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-shot-at-robbed-of-rs-4-25-lakh-in-hisar-village-269265
16-06-2021||---||Haryana govt school tudents to get fixed amount for textbooks||Chandigarh, June 15Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar has said students of government schools up to Class VIII would be provided with a fixed amount for purchasing textbooks.He told this to the media after the Cabinet meeting here today.“As the tendering process for textbooks was taking long, the state government decided to give money to students. Besides, students studying in senior classes have been asked to give their textbooks to their juniors,” the minister added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-school-tudents-to-get-fixed-amount-for-textbooks-269264
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Summer break in Haryana schools extended||The Haryana Government has extended summer vacations in schools till June 30.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar today said although Covid-19 cases were seeing a decline, summer break had been extended as a precautionary measure.On April 21,the government had declared summer holidays in schools till May 31.However, later the vacations were extended till June 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/summer-break-in-haryana-schools-extended-269263
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram ranked first in vaccination drive||A survey by the Union Government has ranked Gurugram first among 24 major cities in the country to have vaccinated the maximum of its population. The survey findings show that Gurugram vaccinated 49.3 per cent of its population.Health Minister Anil Vij said, “Till June 12, 8.51 lakh doses (both doses) were administered in Gurugram. In all, 60,029 healthcare workers and 55,408 frontline workers have received both doses.”About 4.88 doses (both doses) have been administered to persons who are 45 years and above. The beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years have received 2,47,708 doses.Indore stood second with 44.9 per cent, Kolkata third (42.7 per cent), Chennai fourth (39.2 per cent) and Vadodara fifth (38.7 per cent). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-ranked-first-in-vaccination-drive-269261
16-06-2021||Parveen Arora||Odd-even pillars to demarcate Haryana border with UP||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 15With the state government easing lockdown restrictions, the construction of pillars which will demarcate the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border along the Yamuna has started.Once constructed, the pillars will resolve the decades-old dispute among farmers of the two states concerning land ownership and possession. The pillars will be numbered odd and even — odd number signifying land belonging to Haryana and even number will denote land belonging to Uttar Pradesh.The height of each pillar will be 21.5 m — 15 m will be underground and 6 m above.The site for the pillars was earmarked by the Survey of India last year. In all, 44 pillars are to be erected in Badi Kalan village in the district on a trial base. The Public Works Department, Haryana, will erect 20 pillars, while its counterpart in Uttar Pradesh will erect the remaining pillars.The estimated cost of erecting pillars in Haryana would be Rs 126.11 crore.The project was to start on April 23, but for the Covid-induced lockdown, it was delayed. The work started last month; its deadline is August 22.Two pillars have been erected, while the foundation of 10 pillars has been laid.Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who is monitoring the project, said: “The decision to erect pillars was taken by the two state governments after a meeting held in January last year. This will end the decades-old dispute among farmers of Haryana and UP.”Since 1950s, several violent clashes have taken place among farmers of the two states over thousands of acres of land. Every time the Yamuna changes its course when it is flooded, there is confusion about land ownership. Crops sown by farmers of one state are harvested by farmers of the other state, leading to clashes.In the 1970s, the Dixit committee was set up to resolve the problem. It had demarcated the land in 1975, taking the flow of the Yamuna at that time as the border between the two states, but it did not put a permanent end to the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/odd-even-pillars-to-demarcate-haryana-border-with-up-269259
16-06-2021||---||DGP submits interim report in Haryana CM security breach case||Chandigarh, June 15DGP Manoj Yadava has submitted an interim report in the CM security breach case to Speaker, state Legislative Assembly, Gian Chand Gupta, where an explanation has been sought from IPS officer Pankaj Nain and show-cause notices have been issued to eight police personnel.Gian Chand Gupta, Speaker Won’t comment now, says speakerThis is an interim report. I will comment only when the action-taken report is submitted, which is expected by June 18.“Show-cause notices have been issued to eight police personnel for lapses in their duties on March 10. Appropriate disciplinary action shall be taken against them after the receipt and analysis of their written replies,” said the report dated June 14.It added that IPS officer Pankaj Nain, currently posted as the Director, Sports and Youth Affairs, was the SSP, Security, on March 10. He was the in-charge of arrangements in the parking area, where the security breach incident took place. “In this regard, a letter had been issued to him seeking a detailed statement by June 15 evening. Since he was on leave from June 11 to 14, he could not submit his reply. As soon as his reply is received, appropriate action shall be taken,” says the report.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said, “This is an interim report. I will comment only when the action taken report is submitted, which is expected by June 18.”On March 10, SAD MLAs started raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, when the latter was addressing mediapersons in the parking lot of the Vidhan Sabha.SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia along with others attempted to break the security cordon, but they were stopped.A FIR was registered against nine persons in this regard on March 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dgp-submits-interim-report-in-haryana-cm-security-breach-case-269257
16-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Private-aided college teachers can’t claim parity with Haryana govt staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 15The High Court has ruled that the teachers of private-aided colleges cannot claim parity with government employees. They do not even enjoy the protection provided to government employees under Article 311 of the Constitution.Justice Anil KshetarpalService conditions different: BenchThe service conditions and the method of recruitment were different for teachers of private-aided colleges and government employees.The ruling by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came on a petition filed by five associate professors, who retired from “aided sanctioned posts” from non-government aided colleges between January 1, 2006, and June 30, 2006.They were seeking parity in the method of calculating pension with their colleagues who retired on or after the “cut-off” date of October 12, 2010.The Bench was told that the petitioners and other similarly situated retirees were entitled to pension in accordance with the 1999 Pension Rules. All identically situated employees, including the petitioners, opting for pension, gave undertakings that pension would be calculated at the rate of 50 per cent of the last 10 months’ average pay.Pursuant to the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations, Haryana revised the pension scheme for government employees. The counsel added the method of fixing pension on the basis of 50 per cent of the last drawn salary in the revised scheme was applicable only to employees retiring after the issuance of the communication dated October 12, 2010. She submitted that employees such as petitioners could not claim parity with the public servants.The Judge said the service conditions and the method of recruitment were different. The private-aided college teachers held non-transferrable posts and retirement age was 60. It was 58 for government employees and they were subject to transfer throughout the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-private-aided-college-teachers-cant-claim-parity-with-haryana-govt-staff-269256
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Brakes fail, Haryana Roadways driver rams bus into pole, saves lives||Gurugram, June 15A major accident was averted today when the driver of a Haryana Roadways bus rammed the vehicle into a unipole to bring it to a halt after brake failure.Only one passenger, identified as Jogeram, sustained critical injuries and was taken to a private. The bus was badly damaged.The incident took place around 5 pm when a Haryana Roadways bus left for Faridabad from Gurugram. When the bus reached near Kalyani hospital, Sector 14, driver Harbir realised that the brakes were not working. He did not get panic and asked all passengers to shift to rear seats and hold on rails tightly.When the bus crossed the Bata chowk flyover, its speed increased. To stop the vehicle, Harbir rammed it into a unipole on a divider near Sukhrali village. As the bus stopped immediately, a biker and an auto-rickshaw collided into it. However, they escaped with minor injuries.“Only Jogeram sustained injuries. Driver Harbir’s efforts averted a major mishap. We are investigating the matter,” said ASI Munshi Ram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/brakes-fail-haryana-roadways-driver-rams-bus-into-pole-saves-lives-269255
16-06-2021||---||35-year-old man shot dead over enmity in Ambala Cantt||Ambala, June 15A 35-year-old man was shot dead over an alleged enmity near Hathi Khana temple in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday morning.The deceased has been identified as Diwakar alias Jeetu, a resident of Kumhar Mandi in Ambala Cantonment.As per the information, at 7.50 am Jeetu was returning after tying his cattle near the Hathi Khana temple on foot when he was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants, who fled from the spot after killing him. Jeetu was rushed to Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, where he died. The incident was recorded on a CCTV camera. After getting information the police officials reached the spot and started investigation.A case has been registered against Saurabh alias Mau, Arjun alias Ajju, Shammi Pandit, Sonu alias Gajju, Monu Dagar, Aman Gappu, Arjit, Splendor Singh, and Randhir, all residents of Ambala Cantonment, under Sections 302, 34, 120b of the IPC and 25 Arms Act at the Ambala Cantonment police station.In her complaint to the police, deceased’s sister Hans Kumari, said, “We have a dairy business and my brother was returning after tying our cattle. Later, we got information that Jeetu has been shot and he was lying on the road. We rushed him to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, where he died while undergoing treatment. We are confident that Jeetu was killed by Saurabh and Arjun. In 2019, these people had opened fire at my brother.”As per the information on December 4, 2019, Jeetu came out on bail in connection with a kidnapping and assault case, and on the same evening he and his two friends were attacked.SHO Ambala Cantonment Vijay Kumar, said, “Jeetu and Saurabh both have criminal records and enmity is the reason behind the incident. Jeetu’s body has been handed over to the family after the postmortem. Raids are being conducted and the accused will be arrested soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/35-year-old-man-shot-dead-over-enmity-in-ambala-cantt-269254
16-06-2021||Sunit Dhawan||To make ends meet, world champ works as domestic help in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceSisar Khas (Rohtak), June 15It’s a classic case of government apathy towards a girl who has brought laurels to the country in sports.Sunita, a backward class girl from Sisar Khas village of Rohtak district who has won numerous national and international medals in strength-lifting, presently works as a domestic help in the village to make ends meet.Her family is so poor that they do not get even two square meals a day. Sunita primarily lives on a diet of ‘roti’ and ‘mirchi’ (chapatis and green chillies) and labours hard to maintain her fitness and strength. She has been using branches of trees and bricks to practise her sport.“My father is a labourer and mother works as domestic help. I also assist my mother whenever she gets assignments of cooking food at local ceremonies and get-togethers. I also do household chores and serve incapacitated elders of well-to-do villagers for a living,” Sunita says as she makes ‘rotis’ on an earthen ‘chulha’.Sunita’s parents Jamuna Devi and Ishwar Singh, who work as daily-wagers, have taken loans from private moneylenders for her training and her travels to participate in sporting events. “We had to take a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh on heavy interest from a private moneylender to send her to Bangkok for the World Strength-lifting Championship in 2020. We are working hard to repay the loan,” says Jamuna.Sunita won the gold medal in the World Championship. She has also bagged the gold medal in the National Strength-lifting Championship-2019 organised in Chhattisgarh and silver medal in the National Strength-lifting Championship-2021 in West Bengal. Political leaders ranging from local MLA Balraj Kundu to Union Minister Rajnath Singh have acknowledged Sunita’s achievements and assured her of help, but no help has been received till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-make-ends-meet-world-champ-works-as-domestic-help-in-rohtak-269253
16-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||3 weeks on, Jhajjar villagers not getting drinking water||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, June 15Residents of Harijan basti in Kablana village are compelled to fetch potable water from 1-km distance as they have not been getting water supply for the past several days due to unauthorised connections.“We are dependent either on groundwater or private tankers for potable water to meet daily requirements. We get water from a private hand pump installed in the fields, about a km from our houses. Daily our womenfolks bring the water in plastic drums and utensils on their heads. They have to cross the main road to reach there,” said Sunil, a villager.Vivek Kumar, Junior Engineer (Public Health)Issue will be resolved soonWater is supplied daily but more than 50 unauthorised connections have been found in the inspection of the main pipeline in the village. That’s why those houses located at the tail-end are not getting the supply. We have sought police force to remove these connection. The issue will be resolved soon.He maintained that they had met Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia on Monday and requested him to resolve the issue.Sandeep, another resident, said the water crisis prevailed in their locality for the past three weeks. “Those who can pay for water buy it from private tankers while others are forced to get it from the hand pump,” he added.Vivek Kumar, Junior Engineer (Public Health), said his team on Tuesday visited Kablana village on getting complaints about non-availability of potable water.“The water is supplied daily but more than 50 unauthorised connections have been found during the inspection of the main pipeline in the village. That’s why those houses located at the tail-end are not getting the supply. We have sought police force to remove these unauthorised connections,” said he, adding that the issue will be resolved soon after the removal of unauthorised connections.Sunil, villagerWomen face hardshipWe get water from a private hand pump installed in the fields, about a km from our houses. Daily, our womenfolks bring the water in plastic drums and utensils on their heads. They have to cross the main road to reach there. The DC said Executive Engineer (Public Health) had been directed to look into the complaint of Kablana village. “He has been asked to submit his report by Friday,” he added.Similar situation is being faced by residents in Gwalison village. “More than 50 houses in the village have not been getting government supply of potable water for the past two months. I am fetching water from other places on my motorbike,” claimed Amit, a Gwalison resident.Jagjit, Junior Engineer (Public Health), denied any issue of potable water in the village but said rationing of water was done as the canal water was now supplied to the village in 25 days in place of 16 days.“A tubewell has also been installed at the water works to supply water in case canal water is unavailable,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-weeks-on-jhajjar-villagers-not-getting-drinking-water-269251
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ineligible persons benefitting from EWS scheme, says Ashok Khemka||Senior IAS officer Ashok Khemka on Tuesday pointed out that ineligible persons were getting benefits under the Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojana, which provides social and financial security to families having an income of up to Rs 1.8 lakh per annum and landholdings up to 2 hectares.Ashok Khemka, Senior IAS OfficerMoney wasted It seems the family income is not verified before releasing the benefits under the scheme, leading to avoidable waste of public money. He said there were disproportionately high number of beneficiaries in five districts — Karnal, Hisar, Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Kaithal — comprising 43.4 per cent of the total, while Faridabad, Gurugram, Panchkula, Rohtak and Charkhi Dadri comprised just 7.1 per cent of the total.In his letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Khemka said Nuh, the most backward district, had just 2.4 per cent of the total beneficiaries, whereas Karnal, amongst the richest districts, had 10.4 per cent. Nuh has just 21,037 beneficiaries, while Karnal has 90,943.He said, “It seems the family income was not verified before releasing the benefits under the scheme, leading to avoidable waste of public money.”Khemka is the in-charge of Nuh district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ineligible-persons-benefitting-from-ews-scheme-says-ashok-khemka-269244
16-06-2021||Rohtak||PGIMS Rohtak staff launch stir on common cadre move||Faculty members, nurses and non-teaching employees of the PGIMS-Rohtak have launched a joint protest against the government move to club the services/administration of the state’s medical colleges and create a common cadre of medical teachers and other staffers.All employees will wear black badges from tomorrow, take out a joint protest march and submit a memorandum of their demands to the VC of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) on Thursday.These decisions were taken at a general body meeting of the Haryana State Medical Teachers’ Association (HSMTA) held on the premises of the PGIMS this afternoon.“The association has decided to take legal recourse in case the move to create a common cadre is not withdrawn. The opinion of legal experts will be sought in this regard,” Dr Varun Arora, secretary, HSMTA, said after the meet.Office-bearers and representatives of the HSMTA, nursing association and UHS non-teaching employees’ union resolved to strike work if the move was not scrapped within a week. The medical fraternity have also threatened to tender mass resignation if the state goes ahead with its decision.“Instead of appreciating or rewarding the PGIMS faculty and staff for serving as frontline warriors during the pandemic, certain government functionaries are trying to pursue their vested interests in the garb of creating a common cadre. We will fight against the irrational and arbitrary move tooth and nail,” said a senior faculty member. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-rohtak-staff-launch-stir-on-common-cadre-move-269240
16-06-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Kurukshetra road overbridge built in 120 hours||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, June 15A newly builty road overbridge on the Yamunanagar-Kurukshetra road near Chandpur colony here was on Tuesday thrown open to the vehicular movement.Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), which was entrusted with the construction work, said the road overbridge had been built in a record minimum time of 120 hours.This stretch of the road, which is considered a lifeline of the city, was closed on Thursday evening for the construction work.The district administration had diverted traffic to other routes, but commuters faced a difficult time due to long jams on alternate routes.“I am a daily commuter and use this stretch on the Yamunanagar-Kurukshetra road to go to my office in Industrial Area. However, due to the closure of the road, I witnessed long traffic jams on alternate routes,” said Rahul Kumar, a resident of Radaur town.Pankaj Gupta, chief general manager, DFCCIL, Ambala, said,“It was a challenging task to build a road overbridge on the dedicated freight corridor railway line here in a minimum possible time.”He said DFCCIL, Ambala unit, in close coordination with contractor M/S Tata Projects Limited, planned the construction using an innovative technique.“Limited site space and proximity to the Railway electricity lines carrying live 25 KV current made the task look more difficult and challenging,” said Gupta.He said, “Meticulously planning, close coordination with the operators of cranes, hydra cranes, JCB machines and multi-tasking work force enabled us to complete a mammoth task in a short period, with success and safety.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-road-overbridge-built-in-120-hours-269239
16-06-2021||---||No power for three days, Jind villagers block highway||Hisar, June 15Residents of Belarkhan village in the Narwana block of Jind district blocked the Jind-Patiala highway for nearly eight hours in protest against the non-availability of power in their area for the past three days.Shyam Vir Saini, Superintending Engineer, DHBVNPOLES REPAIRED, LINES RESTORED Villages in the Narwana block were worst-affected by the storm as around 200 poles got damaged. There is no problem now as all lines were restored on Tuesday.The villagers alleged that the power line got damaged during the storm three days ago but the officials concerned had not repaired the fault. The residents started blocking the highway on Monday night after which the police diverted the traffic via alternative routes.The police and officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) reached the spot and placated the protesters. The villagers lifted the blockade after an assurance from the officials on Tuesday.The officials said three days ago, the storm had uprooted nearly 450 poles and destroyed 35 transformers in Jind district.Meanwhile, Superintending Engineer, DHBVN, Shyam Vir Saini said the nigam officials had been working on war footing to repair the defected lines and erect the dismantled poles and transformers. “We have been able to restore the power supply to all villages and urban areas on Tuesday. The villages in the Narwana block were worst-affected by the storm as around 200 poles got damaged there. However, there is no problem now as all lines were restored on Tuesday,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-power-for-three-days-jind-villagers-block-highway-269236
16-06-2021||---||Amid labour crisis, paddy transplantation begins in Karnal district||Karnal, June 15Amid a shortage of labour due to the Covid-induced lockdown, paddy transplantation began officially in the district from today.“Last year too, there was a shortage of labour due to the pandemic outbreak. The situation is similar this year. We are now taking the help of local labour,” said Rishpal Singh, a farmer.Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture Farmers to get Rs 7K incentiveAn incentive of Rs7,000 per acre is given to farmers for crop diversification under the Mera Pani, Meri Virasat scheme. Any farmer who will leave the field uncultivated for crop rotation will also get Rs7,000 per acre.The Agriculture Department is expecting paddy transplantation on 1.60 lakh hectares of land in the district. The department has fixed a target to shift 8,200 acres to non-paddy crops under the ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ initiative this year. As per the authorities, 2,812 acres of land had been shifted to non-paddy crops last year.“The department opened the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal for farmers yesterday.They can get themselves registered till June 25 to avail benefits under the ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ initiative,” said Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture.“An incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre is given to farmers for crop diversification under this ambitious scheme,” he said, adding that any farmer who would leave the field uncultivated for crop rotation would also get Rs 7,000 per acre.“At least 4,000 litre of water is required for the production of 1-kg rice. To save water, the state government has come up with this scheme,” Dabas added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-labour-crisis-paddy-transplantation-begins-in-karnal-district-269232
16-06-2021||---||Arbitrator tells Reliance Infra to pay Rs 125 crore to Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited in 4 months||Chandigarh, June 15In an arbitration award, the sole arbitrator on June 11 directed M/s Reliance Infrastructure Limited (earlier Reliance Energy Ltd) to pay an amount of Rs 125 crore to Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL).The disputes under the adjudication of the sole arbitrator, Promilla Issar, former Chief Secretary, Government of Haryana, arose out of the contract for the construction of 2x600 MW Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Project at Khedar (Hisar), which had been awarded to M/s Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. The contract value was Rs 2,344.41 crore (indigenous component) and $321 million (offshore supplies).Since the company failed to complete the project on time, a penalty was levied on it as per the contract. The company was also required to operate and maintain (O&M) the plant till the final taking over, in which it failed again and the task had to be done by the HPGCL. Consequently, various deductions were made from the amounts payable to the company.Aggrieved by the penalty and other deductions, the company invoked arbitration. It filed claims amounting to Rs 1,752.27 crore (indigenous component) and $117.97 million (offshore supplies) and challenged the sole arbitrator’s appointment in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The then Chief Justice SJ Vazifdar dismissed the challenge and upheld the appointment. The company then filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court, which was subsequently withdrawn. Thereafter, the parties filed their respective claims and counter-claims before the sole arbitrator.During the pendency of the arbitration proceedings, the company initiated fresh litigation seeking the removal of the arbitrator on various grounds. The said challenge was rejected by the Special Commercial Court in Gurugram. The revision petition filed by the company was dismissed by the HC with the observation that it had adopted dilatory tactics and had made all efforts to stall the arbitration proceedings. The special leave petition filed by the company in the SC against the HC judgment was also dismissed.In the detailed award running into 188 pages, the arbitrator has held that the company was in the breach of contract as they delayed the completion of the project. Accordingly, the levy of penalty amounting to 10% of the contract value on the company was justified. The arbitrator also held that the company had failed to perform its contractual obligations regarding O&M of the plant till the final taking over. Due to the said findings, the arbitrator partly allowed the counter-claim of the HPGCL for expenses towards the O&M till the final taking over of the plant. The arbitrator further held that the amount would be worked out by the HPGCL and communicated to the company, which shall pay it within four months. As per the HPGCL calculation, the amount worked out to be Rs 125 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arbitrator-tells-reliance-infra-to-pay-rs-125-crore-to-haryana-power-generation-corporation-limited-in-4-months-269228
16-06-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Fake seed growers’ scam in Haryana unearthed; probe ordered||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 15An alleged scam of fake seed growers has been unearthed at Haryana Seed Development Corporation (HSDC) where people having meagre land have been found supplying seeds grown over hundreds of acres, in collusion with government officials, and pocketing money meant for genuine seed growers.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the matter.It has come to the fore that the practice has been going on for decades.The HSDC was set up in 1974 for providing certified seeds to farmers. Along with the HSDC, other government and private agencies provide around 33 lakh quintals certified seeds to state farmers. The government agencies provide certified seeds at subsidied rates.Those landowners who supply seeds to government agencies in Haryana get MSP of Rs 1,975 for wheat along with Rs 400 per quintal. For pulses and other kharif crops, it is MSP along with 30 per cent extra.After a complaint of fraud in the seed development programme from Jind, managing director (MD), HSDC, Sanjeev Verma found out that one of the elected directors of the HSDC, Mahinder Singh, had no land in his family’s name in Gilakhera village in Hisar, but had taken to the seed production programme over 60 acres from the HSDC, 13 acres from Kribhco in his wife’s name and 10 acres from IFFDC in his son’s name.At Thaska village, he has 9-10 acre land, but had taken to seed development programme over 42 acres from the HSDC. His daughter had taken 10-acre land in Sartod village, but she doesn’t own agricultural land in her name.In the case of former director Parvesh Vohra’s family in Umri, Verma found out that he had taken to the seed development programme over 315 acres, but on record he, along with his family, owns just 65 acres.The MD concluded that the role of officials of the HSDC and the Haryana State Seed Certification Agency (HSSCA), which certifies seed, could not be ruled out.He pointed out that traders, arhtiyas and other fake farmers are supplying wheat seed, after purchasing it at cheaper rates from UP, Rajasthan and other states and converting their black money into white as they get Rs 400 per quintal from the HSDC over MSP.The same land is being used for seed development programmes for different agencies. He said for wheat cultivation approximately 10-12 lakh quintals of wheat seed is used against 33-35 lakh quintals being processed, which points towards “fraud”.The HSDC has recommended for the recovery of Rs 4.62 lakh from Vohra and Rs 15.76 lakh from Mahinder Singh and requested the Agriculture Department to implement “Meri Fasal Mera Byora”, an online portal for keeping the record of farmers’ land, for the seed development programme of the HSDC and other government and private agencies.When the matter reached Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, he noted “serious irregularities” by seed growers and “officials of HSDC and HSSCA”. He requested the CM to refer the matter to the Vigilance Department on May 27. While ordering a vigilance inquiry, the CM, on May 29, also called for taking the issue to its logical conclusion regarding recovery.On June 11, the Agriculture Department wrote to the Chief Secretary for sending the matter to the SVB as per the CM’s order and submitting the inquiry report within a month.  Officials’ involvement not ruled outAfter a complaint from Jind, it was found out that an elected director of the HSDC, Mahinder Singh, had no land in his family’s name in Gilakhera village in Hisar, but had taken to the seed production programme over 60 acres from the HSDC, 13 acres from Kribhco in his wife’s name and 10 acres from IFFDC in his son’s name. More such cases have come to light. HSDC MD said the role of officials of the corporation and the state seed certification agency could not be ruled out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-seed-growers-scam-in-haryana-unearthed-probe-ordered-269211
16-06-2021||---||Haryana Cabinet Meeting: Now, traffic violators can pay challans on the spot or online||Chandigarh, June 15Traffic violators in the state will now have the option of paying their challans either on the spot or online.The decision was taken at the Cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here today.Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Education MinisterEase of doing businessThe Cabinet has taken two important steps. One, traffic challans can now either be paid on the spot or online. Two, auto dealers have been given the authority to register transport vehicles. The decisions are in line with the concept of the ease-of-doing business.After the meeting, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar told the media that the decision would make the payment of compounding fee faceless and cashless in line with the concept of the ease-of-doing business.Meanwhile, the Cabinet also added additional offences and enhanced the amount of fine for existing offences as per the amended Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019.The Council of Minister gave its nod to extend the one-time settlement scheme “Samadhan se vikas” for the recovery of outstanding external development charges (EDC) till September 30.To date, around Rs 551 crore has been recovered from developers under the scheme, it said.The state government has decided to put in place a system of registering new fully built-up transport vehicles through auto dealers. The process will be cashless and help reduce footfall in offices of registering authorities.Gujjar said, “More than 48.8 lakh personal vehicles were registered through dealer point registration in the past seven years. Encouraged by its success, the system is being extended to fully built-up transport vehicles to improve the ease-of-doing business in a faceless and cashless manner.”To govern the salary, allowances and other service conditions of presidents and members of State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forums, the Haryana Consumer Protection Rules, 2021, have received the Cabinet nod.The president of the state commission shall receive salary and allowances on a par with a sitting Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The members shall be entitled to an honorarium of Rs 80,000 per month and other allowances.The president of the district forum shall be entitled to a salary of a district judge, while the members will receive an honorarium of 55,000 per month, besides other allowances.The Cabinet also approved an amendment to the Haryana Public Service Commission (Conditions of Service) Regulations, 2018, reducing the number of the members from the existing eight to five.Gujjar said the chairman and five members would be enough to handle the HPSC’s work.The Council of Minster approved a proposal of tabling a Bill for changing the name of Maharishi Balmiki Sanskrit University, Kaithal, to Maharishi Valmiki Sanskrit University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cabinet-meeting-now-traffic-violators-can-pay-challans-on-the-spot-or-online-269032
16-06-2021||---||Old-age pension in Haryana hiked to Rs 2,500||Chandigarh, June 15The Haryana Government today increased pensions under various security schemes, including old-age pension, from Rs 2,250 to Rs 2,500 per month.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the state Cabinet that met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The increase would be effective from April 1, 2021.Besides old-age pension, benefits have also been hiked under various other social security schemes, including Widows and Destitute Women Scheme, Handicapped Persons Scheme, Ladli Social Security Allowance Scheme, Haryana Allowance to Dwarfs Scheme and Haryana Allowance to Eunuchs Scheme.Key Cabinet decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/old-age-pension-in-haryana-hiked-to-rs-2-500-269110
