17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana adds 232 Covid-19 cases, 38 deaths||Haryana on Thursday recorded 232 fresh Covid-19 cases that took its tally to 7,66,838 while 38 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 9,147, according to a health department bulletin.Palwal reported 20 fresh cases, Yamunanagar 19 and Gurugram, Karnal and Sirsa 18 each, the bulletin said.The latest fatalities include six from Panipat and five from Hisar, it said.There are 3,227 active Covid-19 cases in Haryana. So far, 7,54,464 people have recovered from the disease and the recovery rate stands at 98.39 per cent, the bulletin stated.The state has a cumulative positivity rate of 7.96 per cent, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-adds-232-covid-19-cases-38-deaths-269932
17-06-2021||Rohtak||Natasha Narwal released from jail but to stay in Delhi||Student-activist Natasha Narwal, who was granted bail by the Delhi High Court on Tuesday in a matter pertaining to February 2020 violence in northeast Delhi, was finally released from jail late on Thursday evening.However, Natasha’s family and friends, who were hoping that she would return to her home in Rohtak after being released, will have to wait for some more days as Natasha will have to stay in Delhi for a week.Nonetheless, the family members of the student-activist heaved a sigh of relief as she got released from the jail and expressed gratitude towards the justice-delivery system.“We are relieved. We are grateful to the judiciary which has upheld Natasha’s right to be out of the prison. Last two days were challenging as there was a delay in her release even after she was granted bail by the High Court,” said Natasha’s brother Akash, who was in Delhi to receive her.“It has been an extremely testing year and nothing can make up for the loss suffered during this time, but today our faith in democracy and judiciary has been strengthened. I wish our father was here to share this moment with us today. We owe it to him and thank all those who stood by Natasha during this difficult phase,” he stated.Natasha’s father Dr Mahavir Singh Narwal passed away at Rohtak recently while waiting and hoping for Natasha’s release from jail.Natasha, who is a research scholar at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in Delhi, participated in the anti-CAA protests, had been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and arrested in May 2020 in connection with north-east Delhi violence.She is also associated with ‘Pinjra Tod’, a collective of women students and alumni of colleges across Delhi that seeks to make regulations of hostels and paying-guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/natasha-narwal-released-from-jail-but-to-stay-in-delhi-269923
17-06-2021||Rohtak||Youth gunned down in Rohtak; 2 injured, 6 booked||Rohit, a 23-year-old man of Saiman village in Rohtak district, was killed while his brother-in-law Anesh and one Sandeep were injured as some youths opened fire at them after barging into Rohit’s house on Thursday night.The police have registered a case against Meetu, Ramlu, Vikas alias Matri, Sandeep, Deelu and Bala under Sections 120-B, 148, 149, 302, 307, 323, 452 and 506 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act on the basis of a complaint lodged by Rohit’s father Jagdish.Anesh is a police official and was at his in-laws’ house when the armed attack took place. As per the police officials, some personal enmity is stated to be behind the attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-gunned-down-in-rohtak-2-injured-6-booked-269922
17-06-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Woman stabs husband to death during quarrel in Gurugram||A 40-year-old engineer died after his wife stabbed him in the chest during a fight late Thursday night.The incident happened during a domestic quarrel in front of their 10-year-old daughter.Police have booked her for murder but she is yet to be arrested.According to the police the deceased is identified as New Jyoti Park colony resident Sachin Kumar who was working as an engineer with a Noida-based private company.His wife Gunjan is working with an export house in Gurugram. They lived with their joint family in New Jyoti Park with their two children.It was late last night when a fight broke out between them in front of their daughter. Enraged Gunjan allegedly took a knife from the kitchen and during struggle stabbed the knife in the chest of her husband.He was lying on the floor in a pool of blood and their daughter called her uncle Neeraj Kumar who lives on first floor.According to the complaint filed by Neeraj Kumar, his niece called him using her mother’s phone and asking him to rush to their room.“When I came down and went to their room my brother was lying on the floor in a pool of blood. My brother’s wife Gunjan and niece were there. We rushed my brother to a nearby private hospital and from there he was referred to Medanta Hospital where doctors declared him as brought dead. The police were called and they recovered the knife from the spot and it was only Gunjan who killed my brother,” Neeraj Kumar told police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against Gunjan under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at New Colony police station.“It was the result of domestic discord only. During struggle to snatch knife he was stabbed and died due to access of bleeding. We have registered a case and are investigating. The accused woman will be nabbed soon,” said Inspector Ved Pal, SHO of New Colony police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-stabs-husband-to-death-during-quarrel-in-gurugram-269919
17-06-2021||New Delhi||SC refuses to stay eviction of 10,000 encroachers from forest land in Faridabad||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to stay the demolition of over 10,000 illegal structures built on forest land in the Aravallis at Lakkarpur-Khori village in the Faridabad district of Haryana."In our opinion, no indulgence is required to be shown by this Court at this stage," a Bench, headed by Justices AM Khanwilkar, said after the petitioners' counsel Aparna Bhat urged the top court to halt the demolition as it would result in displacement of thousands of poor people during COVID19 pandemic.As Haryana government counsel said the encroachers were pelting stones, the Bench said that no order was required and the authorities knew what to do.Bhat said even as the hearing proceeded forceful eviction was taking place."Let them do it," said the Bench which had on June 7 ordered Haryana authorities to evict the illegal encroachers and file a compliance report in six weeks.Responding to Bhat's request that the affected families should be given temporary shelters, the top court said it was for the Haryana Government to look into it.The affected people had enough opportunity to vacate the forest land after its February 2020 order for their removal, it pointed out.While posting the matter for further hearing on July 27, the Bench made it clear that the pendency of the proceedings before it will not come in the way of removing the encroachers.This was the second petition on the issue this month. Earlier, holding that land grabbers can't take refuge under rule of law, the Supreme Court had on June 7 ordered the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad and the Faridabad Police to evict the illegal occupants of government land in six weeks."Land grabbers can't take refuge under rule of law and talk of fairness," the top court had said rejecting a plea filed by five encroachers against the demolition drive.Maintaining that there was no question of compromise on forest land irrespective of the policy, the Bench, however, had said the petitioners’ demand for rehabilitation can be considered independently.The petitioners had challenged the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran Rehabilitation Policy to the extent it limits the cut-off for rehabilitation to 2003 and sought a stay on demolition of about 10,000 houses at Khori Gaon in Haryana's Faridabad."In our opinion, the petitioners are bound by the directions given by the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Supreme Court…," it had said.It ordered the local police to give necessary logistical support to enable the corporation to implement its directions to “evict the occupants/encroachers including by forcible eviction from the subject forest land and to clear all the encroachments therefrom.”The Superintendent of Police, Faridabad, shall be personally responsible for ensuring adequate logistical support and police protection to the officials of the corporation, the court said.“We further make it clear that the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation and the Secretary of the forest department shall be personally responsible to oversee the implementation of the directions given in this order and submit their compliance report(s) within six weeks,” it had said.Noting that it had passed an interim order in February 2020 for removal of encroachment on forest land, the Bench had said it would be asking the civic body why the encroachments had not been removed so far.“First forest land has to be cleared. No concession with regard to the forest land. Don’t give us COVID excuses. File a compliance report. It may be a case where some people are hand in glove with the encroachers,” it said.The Bench directed the state forest department secretary to verify the factual situation regarding encroachments on forest land and submit an independent compliance report under his signature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-refuses-to-stay-eviction-of-10-000-encroachers-from-forest-land-in-faridabad-269862
17-06-2021||Gurugram||4-year-old shot dead over financial dispute in Gurugram||A 4-year-old child was killed while his father received bullet injuries when four bike-borne youths opened fire at them over some financial dispute in Pataudi village in Gurugram, police said on Thursday.The victim's mother stated in her police complaint that she was teaching her son Bhavya in front of the main gate of their house at around 7.30 p.m. on Wednesday when four armed assailants on two motorcycles came and opened fire at her son and fled from the spot."Thereafter my husband Praveen who was present at his ancestral property adjacent to the house also suffered gunshot wounds. He told me that the four alleged men identified as Navin alias Kanchi, Harish alias Bhaman, Paramjeet alias Susu and Yaman alias Baiya of Khodi village in Rewari district had fired at him," the woman alleged in her police complaint.The woman's family members immediately took the injured father-son duo to a trauma centre in Rewari where Bhavya succumbed to his injuries while Praveen is still undergoing treatment.During a preliminary investigation, the police suggested that they had some financial dispute.Based on a complaint lodged by the victims' family members, an FIR under section 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC has been registered against the four persons at Pataudi police station.An investigation is underway and teams have been deployed to nab the absconding culprits, the police officer said.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-year-old-shot-dead-over-financial-dispute-in-gurugram-269837
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure  treatment of  injured cows in districts: Haryana CM||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar presided over a review meeting of the Haryana Gau Sewa Aayog here on Wednesday.He directed the officials of the Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department to arrange one hospital in each district for the timely treatment of destitute cows injured in road accidents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-treatment-of-injured-cows-in-districts-haryana-cm-269764
17-06-2021||Hisar||Virtual lecture||Online cotton training sessionHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University will organise three-day online cotton training session from June 21. Vice-Chancellor Dr BR Kamboj said the farmers could attend the training session via google meet link.3 students clear talent search examsKurukshetra: Result of the national talent examination conducted by the National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT) in December last year has been declared in which three students of Gurukul, Kurukshetra have cleared the examination and are now eligible to participate in the next level. Acharya Devvrat, Governor of Gujarat and Col Arun Datta, director, Gurukul congratulated the meritorious students Anubhav Prakash Singh, Ayush and Rishi Bansal.Summer fiesta 2021Karnal: Mount Litera Zee School, Karnal, organised a virtual fun and frolic summer fiesta to encourage kids to be more creative. Numerous activities such as art-o-mania, cooking without fire, personality grooming, sargam (music), dance and yoga at home with family were conducted. A virtual party was also organised on the last day, in which students sang songs, performed dance, recited poetry, and prepared meals they learnt throughout the summer fiesta. Deep Bedi, principal, appreciated the efforts of the children for making the summer fiesta a success.Webinar at DAV CollegeYamunanagar: A one-day online national webinar was organised by the mass communication department of DAV College for Girls on "Journey from traditional media to new media". Dr Bindu Sharma, director, Institute of Mass Communication and Media Technology, Kurukshetra; Dr Ashok Kumar, assistant professor, Institute of Mass Communication and Media Technology, Kurukshetra and Dr Ajay Kumar from Government College, Cheeka of Kaithal district were the speakers. Officiating principal Dr Abha Khetarpal and head of the department Parmesh Tyagi and assistant professor Sukhjeet Kaur jointly presided over the programme. Dr Bindu Sharma discussed every aspect of media which was related to traditional and new media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-lecture-269763
17-06-2021||Kailash Park located in Vishnu Colony||Kurukshetra park in A pathetic condition||Gurugram Police must instill fear among snatchersIt is a matter of concern that six snatching cases took place in Gurugram district on Sunday and the culprits had also injured the victims. It seems that they have no fear of law and punishment. The Gurugram police will have to instill fear and punish snatchers.Subhash C Taneja GurugramEnsure seats for women in public transportWomen face harassment while waiting for public transport or once they are in it. Seats meant for women in buses should strictly be utilised by them only. Conductors in buses should own the responsibility if it is not adhered to strictly. Kapil Bakshi, YamunanagarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-park-in-a-pathetic-condition-269762
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||249 new Covid cases, 39 deaths in Haryana||The state today reported 249 new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 7.67 lakh. Besides, 39 more persons succumbed to the virus. Six deaths each were reported from Sirsa and Panipat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/249-new-covid-cases-39-deaths-in-haryana-269761
17-06-2021||Panipat||In Panipat, 75 booked for use of foul language||In all, 75 farmers, including BKU (Charuni) district chief Sudhir Jakhar, have been booked for allegedly using derogatory language against public representatives in a video viral on social media.   SI Satbir Singh, in his complaint to the Israna police, said some public representatives were scheduled to attend the inauguration of a textile mill near Brahman Majra village of the district on June 13.  However, Sudhir Jakhar, in a video released on social media, warned of dire consequences if any public representative come to attend the programme. Sudhir along with Satywan Narwal, Ram Singh, Harender, Ajmer, Pradeep and over 70 persons also reached the venue and protested there. Public representatives had to cancel the event to maintain law and order.  Following his complaint, the police have registered a case against the BKU activists under Sections 153 (provocation with intent to cause riot), 294, 505 (statement conducted to public mischief), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 66, IT Act. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-panipat-75-booked-for-use-of-foul-language-269694
17-06-2021||---||Tikri assault case: State to place victim’s audio clip before court||Chandigarh, June 16Just over a month after an FIR was registered for alleged sexual exploitation of an activist at the Tikri border in Bahadurgarh during her stay to participate in the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the state of Haryana today told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that it would place on record the audio clip of the victim.Referring to the clip, the state counsel told the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih that the involvement of petitioner-accused Ankur in the commission of the offence was made out from it.Next hearing on June 21The state counsel told the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih that the involvement of petitioner-accused Ankur in the commission of the offence was made out from it. Taking a note of the submission, Justice Masih fixed the case for further hearing on June 21Taking a note of the submission, Justice Masih fixed the case for further hearing on June 21. The matter was placed before Justice Masih after the petitioner, through his counsel SS Momi, sought anticipatory bail.Claiming innocence, Ankur submitted that hewas being unnecessarily harassed and humiliated by the police even though his name was not mentioned at any stage by the victim or her father in the complaint.Momi submitted: “She had informed her father telephonically as well as when her father met her in hospital. She had not mentioned Ankur’s name anywhere in the complaint or the FIR. He is innocent and has not committed any offence. No useful purpose would be served by sending the petitioner behind bars as there is nothing to be recovered from him.”The FIR in the matter was registered on May 9 at Bahadurgarh’s city police station in Jhajjar district of Haryana. As per the allegations, a delegation of six, including the petitioner, claiming to be the members of the Kisan Social Army, reached West Bengal as part of the campaign by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha. The victim met the group during the tour and joined the group on April 11 to travel to Delhi.On April 24, she developed cough and difficulty in breathing before being admitted to a hospital where she was diagnosed with Covid. On April 29, her father reached the hospital and she alleged that she was sexually exploited in a tent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tikri-assault-case-state-to-place-victims-audio-clip-before-court-269695
17-06-2021||Hisar||Protester dies by suicide||Concerned about the fate of the farmers’ stir against the three controversial laws, a 55-year-old farmer died by suicide after having consumed poison at the Khatkar toll plaza in Jind district today.The deceased — Satpal Singh of Khatkar village — had been serving food and tea to protesters at the toll plaza for months. He owned two acres.Protesters said Satpal seemed to be in depression for the past three to four days and discussed the rigid stand of the Centre on their demands.He was alone in the shed last night after other farmers returned home. When a group of farmers arrived today morning, they found him lying unconscious in the bed. A bottle of poison was recovered from the shed. His body is at the Narwana Civil Hospital for the autopsy. Azad Singh, district BKU leader, said: “Satpal was upset and concerned about the fate of the stir.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protester-dies-by-suicide-269696
17-06-2021||Pradeep Sharma
||Power Dept withdraws 146 posts of engineer, cancels appointments||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 16 More than two years after making a requisition for 146 junior systems rngineers (JSEs) in the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), the Power Department has shattered the dream of the selected candidates to land a government job by cancelling their appointment. The Power Department has withdrawn the posts “due to non-requirement of regular JSEs”. This comes days after the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) declared the results for filling the posts. “The Board of Directors (BoD) considered facts of the case and decided not to allow joining of 146 JSEs in the DHBVN since there is no requirement of regular JSEs in the nigam,” states minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors held on June 7. The decision was conveyed to the HSSC on June 14. The decision to cancel the recruitment has come nearly two years after the selection process for the posts was set in motion on July 5, 2019. The HSSC had initiated the selection process for the government posts only after it received a written requisition from the department concerned. Subsequently, the DHBVN realised that it could “outsource the posts as per requirement against the sanctioned posts instead of direct recruitment”. A “letter war” between the HSSC and the DHBVN ensued last year with the commission asserting that since the online exam had already been conducted, the “requisition for the posts cannot be withdrawn at this stage”. However, the UHBVN decided to fill the posts for a “limited period” before intimating the HSSC that the IT cadre posts had been withdrawn from the purview of the HSSC. Taking exception to the last-minute cancellation of the recruitment, Subhash Lamba, president, Sarv Karamchari Sangh, alleged that the BJP-JJP government was hell bent on snatching jobs from the youth during the pandemic. “It is gross injustice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-dept-withdraws-146-posts-of-engineer-cancels-appointments-269698
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Firms dwell on e-vehicle policy’||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said that it is the endeavour of the state government to make the state the leader in the field of manufacturing electronic vehicles in the country, and for this, a special cluster should be created. Chautala gave this information after a discussion with representatives of automobile manufacturers through videoconferencing regarding the formulation of the “e-vehicle policy” here on Wednesday. Representatives of Maruti Suzuki India Limited, Hero Corporate Services Limited, JBM Group, Minda Group, Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Private Limited, Amara Raja Group, Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited, Ather Energy, M/s Escort Limited, Nasscom, Ficci, Assocham and Ruchi Green Earth gave their suggestions on the “e-vehicle policy’ of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firms-dwell-on-e-vehicle-policy-269690
17-06-2021||Karnal||Transmission lines erected in fields, farmers demand relief||Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Charuni) on Wednesday met the DC, demanding a compensation from the power corporation for erecting transmission lines in their fields for supply to sub-stations.They said farmers should be given a permanent compensation as per the land value, not as per the crop loss. The farmers alleged that due to wires in fields, the value of their land decreases, resulting in losses.Jagdeep Singh Aulkah, member, state core committee, BKU, said they had a meeting with the DC, in which they apprised him about their genuine comcern. “Farmers are compensated only for the crop loss that too just once, but they suffer a permanent loss due to high-tension wires in their fields,” he added.Meanwhile, Rampal Chahal, senior BKU leader, said they stopped the corporation from erecting transmission wires in Indri and Assandh fields and would not allow it to do so until the compensation was delivered to the farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/transmission-lines-erected-in-fields-farmers-demand-relief-269691
17-06-2021||---||Will court arrest if farmers nabbed: Charuni||Ambala, June 16Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday threatened to launch a statewide agitation if anyone farmer was arrested in connection with the removal of the foundation stone of the district BJP office in Jhajjar on June 13.He gave the call to BKU activists to court arrest if any action was taken against accused farmers.On Sunday, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar had laid the foundation stone of the district BJP officeon the Rewari road. A few hours later, farmers protested at the site and removed the foundation stone.“The state government is trying to instigate farmers. After having registered the case, the police have started conducting raids to arrest farmers. If any farmer is arrested in connection with the Jhajjar incident, farmers across the state will court arrest as had happened in Tohana,” said the BKU chief in a video message.He claimed the case had been wrongly registered as farmers didn’t quarrel with anyone Sunday. “How can a case be registered for just removing some bricks?” asked Charuni.He added, “The BJP’s ploy is to instigate farmers by registering FIRs. It employed such method in Kurukshetra where two FIRs were registered — first in April and then in May — under political pressure. The party is getting FIRs registered through its party workers. The government should stop raiding houses of farmers. If it takes action against Jhajjar farmers, peasants across the state will protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-court-arrest-if-farmers-nabbed-charuni-269692
17-06-2021||---||Kin of Panipat man held by Mozambique terrorists in despair||Panipat/Rohtak, June 16The family of Vinod Beniwal (42), who was abducted by the Islamic State (IS) terrorists in Mozambique, are in a state of despair as their efforts to get him released have failed to bear fruit.They have urged the Prime Minister through an email to intervene into the case to ensure safe and prompt release of Vinod, whose wife and two children reside in Panipat’s Samalkha town.“My elder brother went to Mozambique in 2015 on work visa. He is a branch manager with a private company in Palma city. Militants claiming to be a part of the IS group attacked Palma and abducted some foreigners, including Vinod, on March 24 this year. On getting information, we approached the Indian Embassy in Mozambique and requested the officials there to trace my brother,” said Satendra Beniwal, a Railway Police Constable.He said on April 20, the terrorists made a call to Vinod’s employer and demanded a ransom of USD 1 million for his release. The employer got ready to pay the money to the militants in the dense forest located on the border of Tanzania and Mozambique but he could not do so as the local army didn’t allow anyone to go there, he added.“Since then we have been in constant touch with the Indian Embassy at Mozambique and are requesting the officials to get Vinod released either by mounting political pressure on the local government for acting against the militants or by providing a safe passage to give them ransom. However, except assurance, we have not got anything,” Satendra said, adding that they had sought help from the External Affairs Minister through an email 10 days ago but to no avail.Vinod’s wife Seema said she and her children were under immense stress. “My husband is the sole breadwinner for the family. We have requested the PM to pressurise the Mozambique government for getting him released at the earliest. We will be devastated if anything wrong happens,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kin-of-panipat-man-held-by-mozambique-terrorists-in-despair-269693
17-06-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram cops flag poor quality of CCTV cameras||Gurugram, June 16The Gurugram police have rejected over 1,000 CCTV cameras installed under the Smart City project stating that these do not serve the purpose of surveillance.According to the police, these cameras are of no use at night as they have so far managed to record the headlights of vehicles rather than car numbers. After highlighting the issue repeatedly at many coordination meetings, the police have now written to Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to discontinue these cameras in the second phase of the project.Bad night vision“The CCTV cameras are for surveillance, especially at night. What is the point of having such cameras which cannot capture car numbers or faces at night. We have highlighted this issue many times to GMDA and asked them to get better ones now,” said a senior police official.In the first phase of the project total 1,018 cameras were installed at 201 different points in city and out of these, 60 per cent cameras at 180 crucial spots are said to have poor night vision. The analysis comes after repeated failure of footage of these cameras to aid in dealing with crime. Crores of rupees were spent on installing these cameras.According to the police, the cameras do not have good night vision. In case of any night crime, the footage only reveals flashing lights.Maqsood Ahmed, DCP, East said the quality of cameras installed at roundabouts were of such poor quality that in the footage they could not even identify the make of the vehicle, vehicle number or colour of the dress worn by the accused. Many of these failed to take footage of speeding vehicles. The police did test runs with dummy vehicles to prove the point.“The quality of cameras installed under the Smart City project in the city is poor. We have informed officials concerned and recommended not to install cameras like these in the second phase because these are of no use”, added Maqsood Ahmed.However, GMDA differs as a senior officer of the Smart City Division of GMDA says cameras just have minor issues, which can be resolved.“In the first phase these proved to be helpful in surveillance and the police have even issued challans to violators using the footage”, the officer added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-cops-flag-poor-quality-of-cctv-cameras-269680
17-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Railways begins removing old track from underpass||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 16The Railways authorities today started the work of removing the old rail track from an underpass at Sector 6 in the city, bringing relief to residents living in nearby localities. The underpass was lying blocked for the past three months. The Tribune had highlighted the issue in these columns on June 14.Sources said Deputy Commissioner (DC) Manoj Kumar held a meeting with officials of the Railways, public health and Engineer Department yesterday to review the progress of various development projects and issues pertaining to these.“At the meeting, the DC asked the railway officials when would the work of removing 5-km long track start as people of nearby areas had to take a longer route as the underpasses at the Sector 6 and near Sai Baba temple in the city were not operational even after three months of completion of the elevated rail track. The DC then directed the railway officials to remove the track within a week,” said sources.Ramesh Khasa, president of Sector 6 Resident Welfare Association, said a team of labourers and technicians with a JCB machine reached the underpass this noon and started the work of removing the old rail track located along the underpass.“The residents of Sector 6, 5 and 4 Extension, Sun city, Sector 34, 35 and 36, Kabir Colony, Jasbir Colony and Basant Vihar had been inconvenienced due to the closure of the underpass for the past three months. The elevated track started functioning on March 15 but the authorities failed to remove the old rail lines,” said Khasa.Pardeep Ranjan, state coordinator of the project, said the railway officials had assured that the track would be removed within a week. Thereafter, both underpasses and eight concrete boxes for level crossing on the route would also become operational, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/railways-begins-removing-old-track-from-underpass-269681
17-06-2021||---||Man held for killing aunt over land dispute||Ambala, June 16  The Ambala police have held a man for allegedly killing his aunt over land dispute and then burying her body in the fields under the jurisdiction of Naggal police station.  The accused was produced before a court on Wednesday which sent him to three-day police custody. The deceased has been identified as Surender Kaur, alias Jelu Baba (51), a resident of Naggal village, while the accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh and Kala. The accused had strangulated Surender Kaur and then buried her body in her fields.  As per information, Amarjeet Singh, brother of the deceased woman, had claimed that his sister had gone missing following which a missing complaint was lodged on June 11 and the police started the probe.  During the investigation, the police came to know that Surender Kaur was last seen with her nephew Gurpreet following which the police nabbed Gurpreet Singh. During interrogation, he confessed that he had killed Surender Kaur and buried her body. The woman was unmarried and living alone. The dispute was related to a nearly 20-acre agricultural land which was under the possession of Surender Kaur. Gupreet and his family allegedly wanted to obtain the land. On the night of June 9, Gurpreet took Surender Kaur with him in a car on some pretext and then on the way, strangulated the woman and buried her body in her fields with the help of his friend. To mislead the police, Gurpreet had left her mobile at a Dhaba in Kurukshetra.  On the basis of the disclosure of the accused, the body of Surender Kaur was exhumed from the field and shifted to Civil Hospital for postmortem. From there it was sent to Khanpur Kalan Medical College, Sonepat, today. Dharamveer, SHO, Naggal police station said, “Gurpreet killed Surender Kaur over property dispute.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-killing-aunt-over-land-dispute-269682
17-06-2021||Karnal||Elective surgeries at KCGMC likely from today||After a gap of around two months, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) is likely to resume elective and emergency surgeries from Thursday. All operation theatres (OTs) have been fumigated for the surgeries. After the outbreak of second wave, the KCGMC was declared a dedicated Covid hospital for four districts – Karnal, Kaithal, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra. Only emergency surgeries were being conducted at the Civil Hospital to avoid overburdening the KCGMC, already struggling to deal with the rising pandemic load. “We are going to resume all kinds of elective and emergency surgeries from Thursday, for which we have made all arrangements,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, director, KCGMC.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elective-surgeries-at-kcgmc-likely-from-today-269683
17-06-2021||---||Panel reviews demarcation of border with UP||Karnal, June 16 A committee today reviewed the progress of erecting pillars along the Yamuna river here to demarcate the Haryana-UP border. Similar pillars will be erected in four other districts — Panipat, Sonepat, Faridabad and Palwal. Once constructed, the pillars will resolve the decades-old dispute among farmers of the two states concerning land ownership and possession. Lt General Girish Kumar (retd), former Surveyor General of India; and Amna Tasneem, Director, Land Holdings and Land Records, Haryana, conducted a meeting of officials of the five districts.  Lt General Kumar said, “The Survey of India is demarcating land based on the Dixit Award in 1975. The entire work is being taken up as per the Alteration of Boundaries Act, 1997. Through GPS, the location of pillars can be determined.”  Tasneem said, “The Chief Ministers of both states are taking interest in the project. They want a permanent solution of problems faced by farmers of the two states.” Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said 396 pillars would be erected in the jurisdiction of Karnal district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-reviews-demarcation-of-border-with-up-269684
17-06-2021||New Delhi||Explore feasibility of super-speciality hospital at Faridabad, says minister||Union Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar has asked Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) to study the feasibility of setting up a super-speciality hospital in Faridabad. This is in response to Faridabad Congress MLA Neeraj Sharma making representation to Gangwar regarding the matter.  Sharma had called on Gangwar last week and urged him to start the multi-speciality hospital in the private Sunflag Hospital in Faridabad. The possession of the Sunflag Hospital building and the premises is under the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA). It had resumed the premises under law from the party to whom the allotment had been made. The hospital had stopped functioning and only an empty building remains there.  Following Gangwar’s direction, the ESIC headquarters have asked the office of the local regional director to study the feasibility of starting the proposed hospital under its aegis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/explore-feasibility-of-super-speciality-hospital-at-faridabad-says-minister-269685
17-06-2021||Faridabad||Man sets self on fire outside police station||A 57-year-old man died by suicide by setting himself on fire outside the Sector 17 police station here on Wednesday.Identified as Shankar Narula of Sector 16 here, the victim reportedly poured petrol and set himself on fire on the main road outside the police station around 3.15 pm. He died on the spot.According to reports, Narula took the extreme step soon after he came out of the police station, where he had gone regarding his complaint of blackmailing by an unidentified person.Claiming that Narula was involved in the steel fabrication business had received a phone call from an unidentified person asking for money for not disclosing his identity in a honey trap case, police sources said he was upset with the blackmailing.“We are probing the matter,” said Naresh Kumar, SHO, Sector 17 police station. An FSL team collected the evidence from the spot. A case has been registered in this regard. — TNSFive arrested in honey trap case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-sets-self-on-fire-outside-police-station-269686
17-06-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Cops must show compassion, says activist Natasha’s family||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 16Family members of student activist Natasha Narwal, who were awaiting her homecoming after the Delhi High Court yesterday granted her bail in a matter pertaining to violence in Delhi in February 2020, were disappointed as she could not be released today.Activists Natasha, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha were not released as the Delhi Police told a court that it would take three days to verify the addresses of the sureties for the accused.Testing times for family“We were hopeful that she would return home in Rohtak today. However, we have been told that her release has been delayed due to procedural issues. Now that Natasha and other students have been granted bail, I feel the police should act with compassion and facilitate their release,” Natasha’s aunt Sabita told The Tribune this evening.Natasha’s father Dr Mahavir Singh Narwal passed away recently while waiting and hoping for Natasha’s release from the jail. She had lost her mother years ago. Her brother Aakash, who is a student, was also hopeful of her release and had gone to Delhi to receive her, said Sabita.“The High Court’s order (of releasing the arrested student activists on bail) should have been implemented within 24 hours of its pronouncement. In the name of physical verification of the addresses of the sureties, the police are seeking time for getting the court’s order stayed by the Supreme Court,” said Inderjit Singh, a Communist leader, who has been associated with Natasha’s family.Natasha is a research scholar at JNU. She had participated in anti-CAA protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-must-show-compassion-says-activist-natashas-family-269687
17-06-2021||---||School teachers not to be assigned non-academic duty||Jhajjar, June 16The Directorate of Elementary Education has directed all district elementary education officers (DEEOs) not to rope in government school teachers for non-academic duties such as management, training and supervision of any programme outside the school.The DEEOs have been asked to call back all those teachers, who have been appointed as nodal officers for different projects and are working at the Block Education Office or other offices partially or full time. They have also been directed to submit a report to the Directorate within a week that all such teachers have been sent back to their school concerned.“The move aims at improving the quality of education and raising the strength of children in government schools. As teachers’ engagement in non-academic works not only adversely affects the studies, but also takes a toll on students’ strength. It also reduces the efficiency of teachers, who could not take classes due to other duties. As per the Right to Education Act-2009, teachers cannot be engaged in non-academic activities,” said an official of the Education Department.Tarun Suhag, general secretary of the Rajkiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, said school teachers were the only government employees, who were engaged in any non-academic activity.“Teachers are performing the duties from booth-level officers (BLOs) for election-related works to coordinator of ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ programmes. They have also been engaged in Covid duties. Teaching is the primary work of teachers, but unfortunately, their services are used in other works. We welcome the directives and urge the Directorate to execute these effectively,” Suhag added.A communiqué sent to the DEEOs by the Directorate states that disciplinary action would be taken against the DEEO concerned if any teacher was found engaged in non-academic activities outside the school.Diljeet Singh, DEEO, Jhajjar, said all BEOs had been asked to submit a report on those teachers engaged in non-academic duties in their block concerned and call them back with immediate effect.Directive issued||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/school-teachers-not-to-be-assigned-non-academic-duty-269688
17-06-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Cops probe audio clips in Junaid case||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 16Investigating the alleged murder charges against 12 Faridabad cops, the Nuh police have come across an audio recording where a deal is being struck for Rs 6 lakh to release one of the five men detained by them.The Faridabad police is under fire after the death of a 22-year-old Punhana resident, Junaid, after his alleged brutal torture in custody.Police under fireThe Faridabad police are under fire after the death of 22-year-old Junaid after his alleged torture in custody. The police had allegedly picked up Junaid and five others while they were returning from a wedding.The cybercrime team of the police had allegedly picked up Junaid and five others while they were returning from a wedding and brutally thrashed them. The families alleged that they had all paid money to get their children out and Junaid, who allegedly suffered internal injuries, died 10 days after his release.Out to support their allegations, one of the families has provided an audio clip to the police and released it to social media, where a man, who is claimed to be a cop, is talking to a family on WhatsApp call and seeking Rs 6 lakh for the release of their son.The clip has been released on YouTube and taken up as an evidence by the Nuh police.While SP Narender Brijania was not available for comments, a senior police official revealed that the Faridabad cops had not so far been questioned, but the Nuh police were collecting all evidence and getting medical examination of all others done. The police have started recording the statements of other five men.Meanwhile, a mahapanchayat was held by villagers and family members of Junaid, who demanded exemplary action against the cops “for misuse of power and murder”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-probe-audio-clips-in-junaid-case-269689
