19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 33 fatalities, 170 fresh Covid cases||Haryana on Saturday reported 170 fresh COVID-19 cases and 33 deaths, taking the infection tally to 7,67,217 and the death toll to 9,216.  According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest deaths include five from Panipat, four each from Hisar and Sirsa districts, among other places.Meanwhile, Jind reported 29 new cases, while 18 cases were from Palwal.The total active cases in the state stand at 2,677. The total recoveries so far have reached 7,55,324. The state’s recovery rate is 98.45 percent.The cumulative positivity rate is 7.91 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-33-fatalities-170-fresh-covid-cases-271008
19-06-2021||---||Dushyant shown black flags near Hisar airport||Hisar, June 18A group of farmers showed black flags to Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala near the local airport on the outskirts of Hisar on Friday.Dushyant was in the town to offer condolences on the demise of his maternal grandmother.He was on his way to the airport from Hisar to hold a meeting with the district officials, when a group of 50 farmers led by Kisan Sabha district president Shamsher Nambardar gathered near the chowk on the Delhi bypass. As the cavalcade of the Deputy CM crossed the farmers, they raised slogans and waived black flags.Nambardar said they had decided not to protest during Dushyant’s visit to the residence of his maternal grandmother, who died on June 11, to express condolence to the family. He said they came to know that he would be holding a meeting at the airport and thus organised a protest near the place. He claimed they had also gone to his residence in Urban Estate but the Deputy CM decided not to visit his residence.“We are upset with him as he got the votes in the name of farmers but has joined hands with the BJP, which has instituted three black farm laws. We will continue our protest until the Centre withdraws the laws,” he added.Meanwhile, DC Priyanka Soni and other officials attended the meeting, which lasted for nearly two hours at the airport. The Deputy CM issued instructions regarding expediting the pending projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-shown-black-flags-near-hisar-airport-270730
19-06-2021||---||75 illegal colonies to be regularised in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 18In what has left over 2.5 lakh residents elated, as many as 75 unauthorised colonies in Gurugram will be regularised by the state government.These are part of the list of 1,200 colonies in the state, the regularisation of whichwas announced by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday.The residents of these colonies will have access to basic amenities such as water, electricity, sewer system and proper roads, etc to be maintained by the Gurugram Municipal Corporation.A majority of these colonies were developed 20 years ago and had ever since been seeking regularisation. It was under a state scheme that they applied for it, justifying the stake with the number of years of establishment or people residing in them.Pay taxes for amenities, residents toldThe colony residents don’t want to pay water or property tax. In such a scenario, it won’t be possible to give them the infrastructure. They will also have to clear the dues to claim the amenities. —Senior MC Official The move will smoothen the lives of over 2.5 lakh residents living in colonies, including New Palam Vihar Phase I, Devansh Nagar-Bhondsi, SR Green City, Kherli Lala, Lotus Celebration City, Ryan Enclave-Bhondsi and NKV Residency, Sector 72, etc.“The colonies were asked to update their infrastructural gaps along with other information on the state government portal and after analysing the facts, they were regularised,” said Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner.The MC, however, has emphasised that the facilities would only be provided if the residents pay taxes. “The colony residents here don’t want to pay water or property tax. In such a scenario, it will not be possible to give them the infrastructure. They will also have to clear the pending dues to claim the amenities,” said a senior MC official.Meanwhile, local BJP MLA Sudhir Singla said the state government had fulfilled its yet another promise. “These people were waiting for the regularisation of their areas for the past two decades. Finally, we have done it. The move will ensure the provision of facilities at the grassroots level.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-illegal-colonies-to-be-regularised-in-gurugram-270732
19-06-2021||Hisar||Didn’t conduct tests at Kumbh, says Nalwa lab||The Nalwa laboratory based in Hisar, which has figured in a case of conducting fake Covid tests during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, has stated that they had struck a MoU with Max Corporate Services for testing during the Kumbh.Washing his hands of the controversy of issuing fake Covid reports, Dr Navtej Nalwa, son of Dr JPS Nalwa, lab owner, said the MoU was signed in the last week of March for the Kumbh fair only. “We had not deployed our staff and technical team for testing in Haridwar. There has been zero transaction of money between us and Max Corporate Services. We have also not taken any penny from the government.”Dr JPS Nalwa is the district president of the IMA in Hisar. He too denied any wrongdoing on their part, stating that it could be possible that some third party or the agencies with whom they had signed the MoU had committed some fraud. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/didnt-conduct-tests-at-kumbh-says-nalwa-lab-270733
19-06-2021||---||SYL project: Centre to push for Khattar-Amarinder meet||New Delhi, June 18The Centre will push for a joint meeting of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar to resolve the contentious matter concerning the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal.Khattar told this to the media after having met Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat here today.A few months ago, Capt Amarinder had assured the ministry to convene a meeting at his end. It has, however, not materialised yet.Coal-based units allowed to operateKhattar also met Environment and Forest Minister Prakash Javadekar and urged for exemption from the rule which prohibits operation of industries based on coal and other traditional fuel in areas where LPG, CNG and PNG pipelines have not been laid.The Environment Ministry acceded to Khattar’s request with regard to industrial units in eight districts of the state. Also, permission for smooth running of formaldehyde units in Yamunanagar would be granted by the ministry soon.With regard to sharing of the Yamuna waters with Delhi, Khattar informed Shekhawat that Haryana was providing the national capital more than its share even though Haryana was facing shortage of water.The Centre has sanctioned about Rs 1,120 crore for the implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM).Khattar requested that the state should be provided with a financial help of Rs 3,200 crore for its “Mahagram” project, under which sewage pipelines would be laid in 130 villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/syl-project-centre-to-push-for-khattar-amarinder-meet-270734
19-06-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Flats for slum dwellers to be used for affordable housing scheme||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, June 18As many as 2,555 flats constructed for slum dwellers in the city that have been lying unused for the past over 10 years have now been selected for the affordable housing scheme launched by the Union Government.The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has floated a tender to invite bids for repair and handing over of these flats to private companies for leasing these on rentals to the poor.“The request for proposal has been invited to retrofit, repair, develop, operate and transfer 2,555 flats at Dabua colony and Bapu Nagar to prepare these for affordable rental housing complex,” said a senior official of the MC.Only 350 of these allotted to residentsThe estimated cost of the project is Rs 18 crore. Claiming that it was for the first time that such a scheme had been launched, sources in the civic body said it would not only help in putting these flats to use but also earn revenue for the MC in the form of rentals, besides saving it from the hassles of maintenance.A majority of the flats which have not been allotted so far are in a dilapidated condition due to the lack of upkeep. Though a total 2,916 flats had been built at Dabua colony and Bapu Nagar, only 350 of these could be allotted to residents who have been paying a monthly rent of Rs 300 till the completion of 15 years from the date of allotment. The flats lying unoccupied include 1,776 in Dabua colony and 779 in Bapu Nagar locality.“A proposal mooted to shift some of the oustees of Khori village seems non-feasible in view of the condition of the flats,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/flats-for-slum-dwellers-to-be-used-for-affordable-housing-scheme-270735
19-06-2021||---||Karnal MC sweeping machine a ‘white elephant’||Karnal, June 18A road-sweeping machine is proving to be a “white elephant” for the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC). The corporation pays Rs 4.7 lakh as rent per month to the company which has been providing this service in the city.So far, the KMC has spent Rs 56.4 lakh as rent in a year. Besides, the KMC has also spent Rs 27.72 lakh for the fuel to operate this machine from May 2020 to March 2021.This came to light in an RTI reply filed by activist Rajesh Sharma who sought information about the expenditure on the sweeping machine. Apart from the RTI reply, The Tribune also collected some facts. As per an official, the cost of the machine is around Rs 70 lakh and it sweeps roads in only 30 km area in a day.“The machine was provided through a Delhi-based company on rent basis by the Director, Urban Local Bodies, to sweep the roads of Karnal city in May 2020. Its monthly rent is Rs 4.7 lakh. The KMC does not bear the cost of maintenance and repair, but it has to pay the cost of diesel,” the reply said.The residents alleged that the machine has limited use as it is operated on some roads of the city. Being large in size, it cannot go into small lanes. “This machine is proving to be a burden on the KMC. The government should send it back by cancelling the tender of the company,” said Rajesh Sharma, who had sought information under RTI.Sagar Nagpal, a city resident, said that the machine has proved worthless.Simarjeet Singh, another resident, said that it was limited to some specific routes and it does not go to major parts of the city. “The contract of the firm should be cancelled to save the hard-earned money of the public which they have paid in the form of taxes,” he added.Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC, said that the machine was sent by the head office. “I will analyse the route of the machine and its output in a couple of days,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-sweeping-machine-a-white-elephant-270736
19-06-2021||---||Man held for stealing 133 smartphones||Chandigarh, June 18The Haryana Police have arrested a person in Nuh district for stealing 133 smartphones from a delivery vehicle, associated with a major e-commerce company, on the way from Chennai to Manesar (Gurugram).Giving this information here on Thursday, a Haryana Police spokesperson informed that the police had also recovered 85 smartphones worth around Rs 7.5 lakh from his possession.The incident came into light when a complainant from Delhi approached the police in Nuh district about the theft. On the basis of his complaint, a case was registered against the accused vehicle driver and his associates.Based on intelligence and other inputs, a police team arrested the accused identified as Shabuddin, a resident of Dhana in Nuh district, and recovered 20 stolen mobile phones from him.During the course of investigation and interrogation, the police also recovered 65 mobile phones belonging to Amazon company from his residence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-stealing-133-smartphones-270737
19-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram to have largest peepal, banyan nursery||Gurugram, June 18The Hariyali Kranti Abhiyan being run under the aegis of “Give me trees trust” in Manesar, Haryana has laid the foundation of world’s largest peepal and banyan tree nursery on the Karma lake land in Manesar. The project has collaborative efforts of 31 battalion of the CRPF.“This place has been chosen because there is proper security and availability of water. The state tree of Haryana is peepal and the National tree is banyan and ironically both are disappearing fast due to commercialisation. We hope that this initiative helps in their protection. We will rope in all schools, colleges, the Army and sportspersons in this endeavour,” said trust spokesperson.The nursery will be built in an area of nine acres, which is a part of three-year programme. In the first phase, two acres has been marked, then next year two more acres will be utilised and in the third year, the nursery will be developed on five acres. There is a plan to make a nursery of 20 lakh trees, which will be the world’’s largest nursery of peepal and banyan trees. CRPF personnel will come every month and help in the care of this nursery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-to-have-largest-peepal-banyan-nursery-270738
19-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Ex-MLA booked for ‘forging’ court records||Gurugram, June 18The police on Friday booked three persons, including former BJP MLA Umesh Agarwal, for allegedly forging court records and circulating them on social media.The FIR has been registered following a complaint by the district town planner (DTP), RS Bath, who alleged that Agarwal had circulated forged and fake summons on social media and allegedly planted stories in the local media about him being tried in a court for contempt.Notably, the DTP and the ex-MLA had clashed earlier this week while the former carried out demolition of an alleged under-construction illegal colony near the Kherki Daula toll, which according to him belonged to Agarwal and other accused.According to the complaint, since the incident, the accused — Deepak Chugh, Manorama and Agarwal — were allegedly continuously misrepresenting the media that the DTP had violated the court orders and threatened him and other government officials to file a contempt petition against them.“Before carrying out the demolition, the due process of law was followed. Fresh show-cause notices were served upon the aforesaid persons, whereby reasonable opportunity of hearing was granted to them. But when they did not stop the construction and continued to raise structures illegally, a restoration order was passed. We were discharging our official duties. It was on June 17, 2021, the trio got a news published claiming they have filed a contempt petition against six persons, including me, and that while issuing the notice of the same, the court has directed us to appear on July 1, 2021,” said the DTP in his complaint.An FIR has been registered against the trio under Sections 466, 469, 499, 500 and 120B of the IPC at the Sector 14 police station.The former MLA did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-mla-booked-for-forging-court-records-270739
19-06-2021||---||Cops: Accused, victim drank alcohol, argued||Jhajjar, June 18A day after a 42-year-old man was set ablaze at a fuel station at the Tikri border, it has come to light that the accused and the victim had drinks together at the protest site on Wednesday night before engaging in a verbal duel, the police have said.The family of the deceased, Mukesh Mudgil of the district’s Kassar village, has alleged the accused were part of the farmers’ agitation.A case under Sections 302 and 307 of the IPC has been registered against four persons — main accused Krishan of Jind’s Rai Chand village, Sandeep of Jind’s Nirjan village and two unidentified persons.Tikri ‘suicide’: Video goes viral“Krishan has confessed to his crime. He disclosed he had been staying at the protest site for 10 days,” said Inspector Jai Bhagwan, SHO, Sector 6 police station, Bahadurgarh.Krishan was today produced before a local court, which remanded him in a day’s police custody.The SHO said the police today visited the fuel station, where the alleged incident took place. Close-circuit TV cameras installed at the fuel station had been out of order, he added.Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal said, “The cops have launched a manhunt for the three other accused. The motive behind the crime is yet to be ascertained.”Meanwhile, residents of Kassar village appealed to farmers’ leaders to not visit the village to express condolences to the bereaved family.“Resentment against farmers prevails among villagers. Anything can happen if they visit the village,” said Tony Mudgil, Kassar sarpanch.Government’s nefarious design exposed: SKMThe SKM on Friday said the state government's nefarious design had been exposed. “Paras Bai, a singer from Punjab, has released a video, in which he gives an eyewitness account of his struggle to save Mukesh Mudgil. He had recorded a live video of the incident,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All India Kisan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-accused-victim-drank-alcohol-argued-270740
19-06-2021||---||Panipat refinery fined Rs 62.5 lakh||Panipat, June 18The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has imposed Rs 62.5 lakh fine on IOCL refinery here reportedly for flouting the Hazardous and Other Wastes Management (HOWM) Rules, 2016.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) recommended that the financial penalty shall be imposed on all defaulting units for violating the norms for handling and disposal of hazardous wastes.Following the NGT order, joint teams of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the State Pollution Control Board conducted inspections in all 23 refineries in the country.During the inspection, it was found that the IOCL, Panipat, was generating 8,505.215 MT of spent catalyst and approximately 400 MT was stored in the three yards of the refinery, he added.During the verification of the records, it was found that the refinery had stored 1,950 MT of spent catalyst for more than 90 days, which was a violation of the HOWM Rules, 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-refinery-fined-rs-62-5-lakh-270741
19-06-2021||Karnal||Interstate gang of drug  peddlers busted; 3 held||With the arrest of three persons, a joint team of the CIA-1, Karnal, and the STF, Ambala, has claimed to have busted an interstate drug peddlers’ gang. The police have recovered 7.530 kg of opium and 128 kg of ‘doda post’ worth Rs 15 lakh from them.Deepender Rana, CIA-1 in-charge, said they arrested the trio with a truck near Nagla Megha Chowk on the Meerut road in the wee hours on Friday. They were coming from UP side. The accused have been identified as Rajat of Bibipur Jatan village, Kuldeep and Gurmeet of Barot village in Kurukshetra district.He said they had hidden the drugs in plastic bags among rice gunny bags. A case under Sections 15, 18 and 25 of the NDPS Act has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interstate-gang-of-drug-peddlers-busted-3-held-270742
19-06-2021||---||Actor urges Rijiju to help Rohtak player||Rohtak, June 18Noted Bollywood actor-director Farhan Akhtar has urged Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju to help world strength lifting champion Sunita Devi of Rohtak’s Sisar Khas village, who is forced to work as a domestic help to make ends meet.Quoting a news report highlighting Sunita plight in The Tribune, the celebrity filmmaker has tweeted: “Respected @KirenRijiju ji, writing to you with the hope that you can look into Sunita’s case and provide relief to a sportsperson who has brought so much pride to our country”.Meanwhile, a group of golfers from Panchkula have transferred an amount of Rs 20,000 in Sunita’s account, said Haryana cadre ex-IPS officer Rajbir Deswal, who is associated with the group.US-based Indian philanthropist Raj Aggarwal has also offered monetary help to her.“I am grateful to The Tribune for publishing my story. After this, I have started getting help from various quarters,” Sunita said on Friday.Sunita has won several national and international medals in strength lifting. Her parents Jamna and Ishwar, who are daily wagers, have taken loans from private moneylenders for her training and travel to participate in various sporting events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/actor-urges-rijiju-to-help-rohtak-player-270743
19-06-2021||---||2,871 selected for PM’s Covid programme||Chandigarh, June 18The Haryana Government has identified 2,871 candidates to pursue customised crash course programme for training them as Covid frontline workers in three centres namely Kaithal, Rohtak and Yamunanagar.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the ‘Customised crash course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers’ under which one lakh youth will be trained in a period of two to three months. Six customised courses have been launched from 111 centres in 26 states, of which three has been set up in Haryana.In Haryana, initially three training centres, namely Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra (PMKK) Centum Skills in Kaithal, PMKK Orion in Rohtak and Shiv Education Society in Yamunanagar, have been shortlisted for conducting the training in the general duty assistant job role following the full protocol of the Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-871-selected-for-pms-covid-programme-270744
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Pained to see people dying of bed, O2 crunch: Hooda||Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda said he was pained to see people dying due to the lack of beds, oxygen and medicines. Reacting to the statement made by CM Manohar Lal Khattar that his pain was political, Hooda said he was deeply pained by the human sufferings.“It pains me to see how Haryana, which had reached number 1 spot in the country through hard work of nine and a half years, has been brought down to the ranks of the poorest states by the BJP’s misrule. During the Congress tenure, Haryana was the leading state on all parameters, including per capita income, investment, employment generation, farmers’ interest, honour and respect of sportspersons. But now, it leads in crime, unemployment, pollution, debt, scams and atrocities on farmers.”He said he was pained to see the condition of the farmers fighting on the streets for their legitimate demands for the past seven months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pained-to-see-people-dying-of-bed-o2-crunch-hooda-270745
19-06-2021||Gurugram||Pataudi hospital oxygen plant starts operations||An oxygen plant at Civil Hospital, Pataudi, was made operational on Thursday.An official spokesperson said under the CSR, five plants had been set up in Gurugram, including one each in ESI, Sector 9, Government Hospital, Sector 10, and one each in Sohna and Pataudi.Six oxygen plants have already been set up by the state and Centre in Panchkula, Hisar, Karnal, Ambala, Sonepat and Faridabad. He said arrangements, including buying and transporting oxygen from other states, refilling and delivering cylinders to home-isolated, concentrators for step-down patients, setting up isolation wards, oxygen-equipped beds and distribution of Covid kits to patients, were made by the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pataudi-hospital-oxygen-plant-starts-operations-270746
19-06-2021||---||Job racket busted; 2 Delhi men arrested||Palwal, June 18Busting a gang operating a fake recruitment network, the district police have arrested two persons. Around 100 fake appointment letters, stamps, SIM cards, printing machine and cash amounting to Rs 12,000 have been seized.SP Deepak Gahlawat said that the accused identified as Arjun Tak and Vinod Kumar, both hailing from Delhi, have been nabbed by a team of the crime branch on the basis of inputs.He said while Arjun was arrested on June 11, Vinod was nabbed on June 15 on the basis of information provided by Arjun. A third accused identified as Manoj, a resident of Mathura district, is absconding.The probe into the racket was launched in response to a complaint lodged by one Umesh Kumar of Chandhut village on April 7. He told the police that he was duped of Rs 26,000 by some persons who gave him a fake appointment letter for the post of peon in the local judicial complex.The accused used to contact candidates who had applied mainly for Class IV posts and had not been selected. Then, they used to offer appointments against payment. Once the money was transferred to them, they stopped answering the phone call of the victim.While one of the accused is already on seven-day police remand, the other accused was remanded to judicial custody on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/job-racket-busted-2-delhi-men-arrested-270747
19-06-2021||---||Release of K’shetra man from Oz jail sought||Karnal, June 18The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) today demanded that the Union Government must approach the Australian Government and demand the early release of 24-year-old Kurukshetra native Vishal Jood, who was arrested on April 16 in Sydney for his alleged involvement in three suspected hate crime incidents. He went to Australia on a student visa.“Jood is a son of India. The Centre must raise the matter with Australia and bring him back to India,” BKU leader Jagdeep Singh Aulakh said after a meeting at the Bastara toll plaza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/release-of-kshetra-man-from-oz-jail-sought-270749
19-06-2021||This photograph covering badly damaged road (in front of houses No 2824 and 2828) in Sector 21 (Part-III)||Panchkula road in pathetic condition||Panipat residents face shortage of waterResidents of different colonies are facing shortage of water supply. The problem is increasing with the rise in temperature. Those living in the outer colonies of the city are the worst sufferers. The Municipal Corporation, Panipat has failed to provide a proper solution to the problem. There are over 200 tubewells in the city to fulfill water demand but nearly 20 tubewells are lying shut and 20 tubewells are there on papers only. The residents have time again complaint to the MC and to the municipal councillor to resolve their problems but all in vain. —Vijay Kumar, PanipatDrains in several colonies blocked in RohtakResidents of several colonies under municipal ward number14 and 19 are facing the problem of waterlogging due to the blockage of drains this season while the authorities claim that they have made full arrangements for draining out rain water. Pre-monsoon rains exposed the claims of the authorities as water still remains accumulated in some streets even after four days of rain forcing the people to wade through it. The administration should get the drains cleaned before the monsoon season to avoid such situations. —Residents, RohtakSix-laning of Pipli road in K’shetra inconveniences commutersThe ongoing six-laning work of Pipli road has become a cause of inconvenience and accidents for Kurukshetra residents and commuters. The work started in 2018 and is still going on. Things get worse during poor weather conditions and in the late hours. The government should initiate action against contractors and the department concerned for the delayed work and inconvenience being faced by the residents, besides getting the work completed at the earliest. —Rakesh Kumar, KurukshetraWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-road-in-pathetic-condition-270757
19-06-2021||Mahendragarh||CUH holds webinar on language||Poster-making competitionYamunanagar: Maharaja Agrasen College, Jagadhri organised a poster-making competition on World Day against Child Labour. The programme was held under the guidance of Dr Pawan Tripathi, head of the department of sociology. Principal Dr PK Bajpai said child labour was a stigma for any society; therefore, the evil must be stopped. In poster-making competition, Jagdeep of BA-III came first followed by, Nishant Verma of BA-III, Muskan of BA-II bagged the third and Komal of BA-III was given the consolation prize.Expert talk conductedYamunanagar: Training and employment cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar organised an expert talk on "A smart line of difference between job and career". The resource person of the programme was Abhishek Sachdeva, an alumnus of the college. Principal of the college, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said this programme was organised so that it could help students clear their vision and take wise decisions regarding their future. Dr Rajinder Singh Vohra, coordinator training and employment cell asked several questions on behalf of participants.Summer camp concludesKarnal: An online summer camp was organised for Classes III to X by Dyal Singh Public School, Dyal Singh Colony, Karnal. It included aerobics, best out of waste, English communication skill, dance, art and craft and cooking. Principal Sushma Devgan said summer camp was a great opportunity for children to explore new things or dive deep into the areas they love. Parents also made sure that their children made the best use of time. On the last day of the camp, a video presentation prepared by the students was showcased in all class groups.Awareness on government jobsKarnal: The career guidance and placement cell, KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal organised a webinar on the topic, "Awareness on government jobs" in collaboration with the SSB institute, Mumbai. Sanjana Raheja, convener addressed the virtual gathering and formally introduced speaker Sukrut Bhushan and Kundan Pandey. She said the webinar was a platform to create awareness regarding government jobs among students. Sukrut made the students spoke about opportunity available to them in the government sector such as the RBI, SBI PO, SBI clerk, UPSC and Railway etc. Dr Punam Kundu, co-convener thanked the SSB Institute for their collaboration. She thanked principal Renu Mehta for organising the webinar.Panel discussion on yogaRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) organised an online panel discussion over 'Yoga' ahead of International Yoga Day to be celebrated on June 21. Prof Raj Kumar, dean students welfare, MDU, said six eminent speakers expressed their views on Yoga. Dr Hansaji Yogendra, director, The Yoga Institute, Santacurz, Mumbai, underlined the role of yoga in physical and mental health. Prof Surender Kumar, director, Centre for Yogic Studies, MDU, explained vedic literature and Indian philosophy. Dr Anand Kumar, former Special Director, Ministry of Home Affairs stressed on the role of yoga in modern life and relevance of yoga in helping youth to imbibe good habits in their life. Dr Balvir Acharya, a retired professor, spoke about the historical growth of the dimension of yoga in India. Dr Mahavir Agarwal, Pro Vice-chancellor, University of Patanjali, Haridwar, and Dr Mamta from the PGIMS, Rohtak, said Yoga helped in enhancing our body and mental immunity. It also helped in replacement of dead cells with new cells and increasing the haemoglobin level in our body.Plea for patent-free vaccinesKurukshetra: Prof Narender Rustogi, professor of management at Howard University, USA, while speaking at the online foreign media press meet organised by the Universal Access to Vaccines and Medicines (UAVM) campaign Group on Friday, said unless everyone was vaccinated across the globe, Corona virus would keep mutating and harming the humanity. “We need to make vaccines and medicines patent free and allow technology transfer for the benefit of the entire humanity,” added Rustogi. Professor Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, welcomed the speakers and media persons and introduced the background of the media meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cuh-holds-webinar-on-language-270758
19-06-2021||Palwal||Cop booked for rape||Chandigarh3 IPS officers transferredThe state government has transferred three IPS officers. Rajender Kumar Meena, ADC to Governor, has been posted as the Commandant, 5th Battalion, Haryana Armed Police (HAP), Madhuban. Sumer Pratap Singh has been posted as the ADC to Governor. Smiti Chaudhary has been posted as SP, Law and Order, Police Headquarters. TNSSonepatFarm protest on June 26Farmers of Punjab and Haryana will gather at Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Mohali and Nada Sahib Gurdwara in Panchkula on June 26 and will then move towards the Raj Bhawans in Chandigarh. This was decided in the meeting of the leaders of SKM held on Friday in the Kisan Morcha office in Kundli. The SKM has announced the ‘Kheti Bachao, Loktantra Bachao’ programme on June 26. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-booked-for-rape-270768
19-06-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Six of Haryana’s 30 Tokyo qualifiers from Sonepat district||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, June 18Local sportspersons have given Sonepat a reason to cheer with six of them making it to the Indian contingent for the Tokyo Olympics scheduled to begin on July 23.Haryana Sports Minister Sandeep Singh said a total of 30 players from the state had secured berth in the Indian hockey, wrestling, boxing, shooting and athletic teams.Punjab to give Rs2.25 crore for Olympic goldGold medal winners at the Olympics will be given Rs2.25 crore as prize money, said Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi on Friday. At least 26 Punjab athletes have qualified for games.With the selection of six players — four hockey and two wrestling — Sonepat district is at the top, followed by Kurukshetra and Jhajjar.Monika Malik (Gamri village), Nisha (West Ram Nagar), Neha (Arya Nagar) and Sumit (Kurar village) have secured place in the hockey teams, while Sonam Malik (Madina village) and Ravi Dahiya (Nahri village) have qualified in wrestling.Four players each are from Kurukshetra and Jhajjar, while three each are from Hisar, Rohtak and Bhiwani. Nine state players have been selected in the women’s hockey team. They are Rani Rampal, Navjot Kaur and Navneet Kaur (Kurukshetra), Monika Malik, Neha Goyal and Nisha (Sonepat), Sharmila and Udita (Hisar) and Savita Poonia (Sirsa). Surender Kumar (Kurukshetra) and Sumit (Sonepat) have made it to men’s hockey team.Eight wrestlers who secured the Olympic berth are Vinesh Phogat (Charkhi Dadri), Anshu (Jind), Bajrang Punia and Deepak Punia (Jhajjar), Sonam and Ravi Kumar (Sonepat), Sumit and Seema (Rohtak).Among boxers are Amit (Rohtak), Vikas, Manish and Pooja (Bhiwani).In shooting, Abhishek (Palwal), Yashaswini (Panchkula), Manu Bhaker (Jhajjar) and Sanjeev (Yamunanagar) have been selected. Besides, three athletes — Neeraj (Panipat), Sandeep (Mahendragarh) and Rahul (Jhajjar) – are among the Tokyo qualifiers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-of-haryanas-30-tokyo-qualifiers-from-sonepat-district-270806
