21-06-2021||Chandigarh||6.27 lakh people vaccinated on International Yoga Day: Anil Vij||A mega anti-Covid vaccination drive was conducted in Haryana on International Yoga Day with 6.27 lakh people receiving their jabs on Monday, state Health Minister Anil Vij said.He had told reporters on Sunday that a target has been set to vaccinate 2.5 lakh people during this drive.However, in a tweet on Monday, Vij informed that 6.27 lakh people have got their jabs.“Under the mega vaccination day today, 6.27 lakh people in Haryana have been given Covid vaccine,” Vij said.He said that in Gurgaon alone over one lakh people had received their jab.“It is a historic day for the people of Haryana in the efforts made to contain the spread of COVID-19,” the minister said, according to an official statement.He thanked health department officials for their effort to vaccinate a large number of people in one day.Vij said that so far 76,59,624 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the state which includes over 10.32 lakh people in Gurgaon.Notably, people aged 18 and above are eligible to receive vaccine.He also shared that so far 5,56,030 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Ambala while 2,76,061 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Bhiwani till date.Among other districts, as many as 2,65,284 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Panchkula till date while 2,73,029 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Panipat and 1,97,691 in Charkhi Dadri, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-27-lakh-people-vaccinated-on-international-yoga-day-anil-vij-271946
21-06-2021||Ambala||Farmers block highway in Ambala, force Haryana Education Minister to skip meeting||Farmers protesting against the three agri laws, which were enacted last year, blocked a highway here on Monday, forcing a Haryana Minister to skip a scheduled meeting in the city.Education Minister Kanwar Pal was supposed to chair a meeting at the Panchayat Bhavan located along the Ambala-Hisar national highway, which the farmers had blocked for a few hours, officials said.The farmers gathered for their protest when Pal was scheduled to reach the venue to chair the district grievance committee’s meeting. The Minister skipped it following the demonstration by them, sources said.Senior officers of the district were present at the Panchayat Bhavan for 11 am meeting, the officials said.Police had barricaded all roads leading to the meeting’s venue in the morning and deployed a large number of personnel. The blocking of the highway caused inconvenience to some commuters, but farmers ensured emergency vehicles like ambulances are allowed to pass during their protest.The farmers had gathered near the Agarsain Chowk near the meeting venue, and they also broke barricades in a bid to reach it, police said. Police had a tough time controlling the situation.Ambala president of farmers’ union BKU, Malkeet Singh, said that they will continue to protest the public programmes of the ruling BJP-JJP’s leaders till the time the “black farm laws are rolled back”.Farmers have been opposing public functions of BJP-JJP leaders in the state over the laws.Several farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-block-highway-in-ambala-force-haryana-education-minister-to-skip-meeting-271912
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Yoga included in govt school curriculum from Classes 1 to 10 in Haryana: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said that yoga has been included in school curriculum for classes 1 to 10 from the current academic session.He was addressing an event here on the occasion of the International Yoga Day."...We have included yoga in school curriculum from this year for Classes 1 to 10 so that children make it a part of their daily lives," Khattar said."Like we need oxygen, food and water, in order to keep the body healthy yoga has its own importance. To inculcate the habit of practising yoga and to make it a part of students' lives since childhood, we have decided to include it in school curriculum from this year," he added.In December, the Haryana government had announced that yoga would be included as a separate subject in all government schools from the next academic session.An official statement had earlier said the curriculum for yoga would be designed in such a way that it would have both theoretical and practical content on the pattern of physical education.Khattar said the state government's aim is to take yoga to the grassroots level and encourage people to make it a part of their lifestyle.For this, 'vyayamshalas' (gyms) and other adequate infrastructure is being made available at the village level."We have decided to set up yoga and 'vyamshalas' in 1,000 villages. So far, these have been set up in 550 villages and work is going on in the rest. One thousand yoga trainers and 22 yoga coaches will also be appointed," he said.On the events being held across the state on the occasion of International Yoga Day, he said programmes were being conducted at 1,100 places in all 22 districts, with 50 participants taking part at each venue by following Covid protocol.Meanwhile, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij took part in an event organised at Ambala.Speaking at an event in Panchkula, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said, "We should perform yoga daily to stay fit and healthy." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yoga-included-in-govt-school-curriculum-from-classes-1-to-10-in-haryana-khattar-271871
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram residents mark Yoga Day||As India is celebrating the seventh International Day of Yoga, residents, bureaucrats and ministers across Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Mohali performed Yoga to mark the occasion on Monday.Also read: Yoga remains 'ray of hope' as world fights Covid: ModiIn Himachal Pradesh, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, state ministers and residents gathered to perform Yoga in Shimla.In Chandigarh, people performed yoga at a green belt in Sector 38 West, Chandigarh to celebrate International Yoga Day.Also read: In pictures: India celebrates 7th International Day of Yoga; President, Union ministers perform yogaGovernment officials gathered over a video conference to mark International Yoga Day in Mohali. Also read: In pictures: Chandigarh, Mohali residents mark Yoga DayIn Haryana's Gurugram, residents participated in the International Yoga Day organised by the distinct administration at Tau Devi Lal Stadium.Also read: CM Jai Ram Thakur leads Yoga Day celebrations in Himachal's Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-residents-mark-yoga-day-271843
21-06-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon advance to be slow in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-advance-to-be-slow-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-271786
21-06-2021||---||Haryana eases curbs, shops to open till 8 pm||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20The Haryana Government on Sunday extended restrictions by a week till June 28, but with more relaxations.Among exemptions are increase in cap on gatherings at weddings/funerals and religious places from 21 to 50 and full attendance in corporate offices. Relaxations will be subject to adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. All shops can stay open from 9 am to 8 pm, malls from 10 am to 8 pm, restaurants and bars from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity for dine-in. Sports complexes and gyms can open with no spectators. Swimming pools and spas will remain shut.No prior permission from the DC would be required for gatherings up to 50.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-eases-curbs-shops-to-open-till-8-pm-271759
21-06-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Clear Singhu road within week, locals tell farmers||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, June 20The standoff between agitating farmers and local villagers continues to persist over barricades put up on the National Highway-44 in the Singhu border area by the protesters.At a mahapanchayat held today in Sersa village of the Kundli area in the district, villagers served a week’s ultimatum on the farmers as well as the government, demanding that one side of the NH-44 should be vacated.Also read: Firing at Singhu border; 4 men came in car with Chandigarh numberAt Singhu, farmers to clear part of NH-44The villagers held the mahapanchayat under the banner of Rashtrwadi Ekta Manch, represented by residents of a dozen villages from the district and Delhi.Ramfal Saroha, a member, said their business was affected as the road was blocked for the past seven months. “If the farmers do not vacate one side of the highway, we will hold a mahapanchayat in Delhi to decide the next course of action. Villagers can also come out on the streets over their problems,” he added.Hemant Nandal, who presided over the mahapanchayat, said a decision was also taken to remove barricades put up on village roads and a committee would be formed to ensure peace in the area.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, in turn, accused the BJP-JJP government of hatching a conspiracy to defame the “peaceful” farmers’ protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clear-singhu-road-within-week-locals-tell-farmers-271719
21-06-2021||---||Farmers oppose Dhankar’s Karnal visit, block highway||Karnal, June 20 Scores of farmers blocked the Karnal-Indri state highway in protest against the visit of state BJP president OP Dhankar to Jain temple here today evening. The police allegedly thrashed one of the protesters. In the morning, the farmers had protested outside the temple to oppose the visit of Dhankar, who was supposed to inaugurate a blood donation camp there.  They dispersed after the district administration claimed that the BJP leader’s visit had been cancelled. But in the evening, Dhankar visited the temple. As soon as farmers learnt about it, they blocked the highway. Bhadur Singh Mehla, a leader of the BKU (Charuni), said: “The administration lied to us. They misled us into believing that Dhankar’s visit had been cancelled. Farmers will continue to oppose the visit of BJP and JJP leaders till the three farm laws are revoked.” The situation remained tense for an hour. Sadar police station SHO Baljeet Singh defused the situation and convinced farmers to lift the blockade. Commuters, meanwhile, had to face inconvenience.  Protesting farmers have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP leaders in the state over the farm laws. Earlier, Dhankar and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia visited Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, and distributed around 200 injections of black fungus among patients. “The BJP will train 16,000 volunteers to tackle the third wave of Covid. They will be deployed in rural areas and wards of the states,” said Dhankar. On the farmers’ agitation, he said the BJP always worked for the welfare of the farmers, but the agitation was politically motivated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-oppose-dhankars-karnal-visit-block-highway-271498
21-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Aadhaar reunites 5-yr-old Covid patient with family||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 20A five-year-old boy under treatment for Covid in the PGIMS here for the past two weeks was reunited with his family on Sunday. His parents — migrant labourers working at a brick-kiln in Sonepat district — had left him alone in the PGIMS around 10 days ago.The child’s grandfather, Kanhaiya Lal of Nawada (Bihar), reached the PGIMS on Sunday and got emotional on seeing him resting at ward 14.“The child was brought to the PGIMS in the first week of June. He was admitted to ICU after being found Covid-positive. On June 10, the child was shifted to trauma centre. The authorities informed the police on not finding his parents there,” said sources, adding that nurses and other staff took care of the child in the trauma centre. On June 18, he recovered from Covid and was shifted to the paediatrics ward.Dr Suresh Singhal, in charge, trauma centre, PGIMS, said Aadhaar card helped trace the parents of the child. “We sent fingerprints of the child to the government agency which found his parents’ address from the Aadhaar card,” he added.“The parents left the child alone during treatment for the fear of getting infected,” said Dr Mahesh Mehla, Deputy Medical Superintendent, PGIMS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aadhaar-reunites-5-yr-old-covid-patient-with-family-271499
21-06-2021||---||Girl from MP rescued; molestation case registered||Faridabad, June 20 A 17-year-old girl, who ran away from her home on June 6, has been rescued by the police from the Old Faridabad railway station. The police have registered a molestation case against the accused. No one has been arrested so far. According to a statement given by the victim before the police, she was abducted by two youths, identified as Kunal and Anil, from New Delhi, who left her at the old Faridabad railway station on the night of June 18, when they failed to get a hotel there. She told the police that three persons in civilian dress, claiming to be officials of the Railways Department, tried to outrage her modesty by making sexual overtures and advances towards her while she was in the waiting room of the station on the night of June 18. That made her approach the police.  The victim called the women’s helpline number 1091, following which cops reached the spot and took her to police station, where an FIR, under Sections 341, 354-A, 363, 366, 34 of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act, was registered against the accused on Saturday. The victim told the police that she had run away from her home in Betul district of MP on June 6 after a quarrel with her father and sister over an issue. She spent a week each at Bengaluru and Nagpur at the places of some known persons before coming to Delhi on June 17, where she met the two youths. “While the girl’s family has been informed, the allegations of molestation are being probed,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-from-mp-rescued-molestation-case-registered-271500
21-06-2021||Jhajjar||Rohtak MP visits bereaved family||Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma today visited the family of Mukesh Mudgil (42), who died of burn injuries at the Tikri border on Wednesday night after four men associated with the farmers’ agitation allegedly set him on fire, at the district’s Kassar village.The family and village sarpanch Tony Mudgil demanded a CBI probe into the case, a government job for one member of the bereaved family and financial help. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-mp-visits-bereaved-family-271501
21-06-2021||---||City bus service ‘shut’ in Karnal||Karnal, June 20The city bus service, an ambitious project of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, has been ‘shut’ in Karnal city. All buses are parked on the premises of the Karnal bus depot of Haryana Roadways. The lack of interest among residents for using the public transport is considered as one of the reasons for the authorities to shut the service.The CM had inaugurated the service of six buses (three AC and three non-AC), procured by the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) at the cost of Rs 1.60 crore, on January 20, 2018. As per sources, these buses proved to be ‘white elephant’ for the MC as these have been incurring loss of around Rs 7 lakh per month. The sources further said due to the lockdown, the movement was restricted and people were not availing the service, due to which these had been parked in the depot.Since, the MC had space crunch and did not have its workshop, so these GPS enabled buses were given to the Haryana Roadways Karnal depot for operation. Drivers and conductors of these buses were of the MC. The fair of non-AC buses was Rs 5, 10, 15 and 20 as per /kms, while in AC buses, it was fixed of Rs 10, 20 and 30, said an official.However, the MC authorities are claiming that they are restructuring the city bus service. “The work is being done on restructuring the service for providing benefit to maximum people. We are also exploring the option of extending the routes to cover more distance,” said , Commissioner, Karnal MC.incurred loss of nearly Rs 7 lakh per month||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/city-bus-service-shut-in-karnal-271502
21-06-2021||---||Potholes on newly built Karnal roads irk residents||Karnal, June 20 Residents of various areas of the city are inconvenienced due to the poor condition of roads. A couple of newly constructed roads have been damaged due to the poor quality of material used and work done. Their surfaces have been washed out making it difficult for commuters to move around on these roads. As per the information gathered by The Tribune, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) got a stretch of around 2-km constructed on Raghunath Mandir and Bhagwadia Gas Agency road for around Rs 27 lakh in December 2019, but now, it is full of potholes.  The road was constructed a few months ago, but now, it has become an accident prone road, said Amit Ahuja, president, Ibrahim Mandi Association. Ward13 councillor Ish Gulati maintained that it was the result of the poor work done due to which the main road, constructed around 17months ago had become full of potholes. Similarly, a stretch of around 2km on the Daha-Madanpur road, 1,200 meters of Gaushala road, 700 meters of New Valmiki Basati,  250meters in Shakti Colony, a link road of 700 meters from bus stand to Kunjpura road market, Ansal to Gopi Wali Gamdi road, a road in Janakpuri and other roads of the city are in bad shape. Rajni Parocha, councillor of ward16, said she had raised the issue of construction of roads in her ward. The commuters have been having a tough time.  Roads of the villages,  in the Karnal MC are also crying for repair. Roads in Baldi, Uchani, and other villages are full of potholes. Naveen Kumar, Deputy Mayor, said the roads in the villages were dug up to lay pipelines, but not repaired, due to which the residents of his ward were facing problem. Renu Bala Gupta, Mayor, claimed that people and councillors had raised the issue of  roads which were in pathetic condition with her and it would be raised at the house meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholes-on-newly-built-karnal-roads-irk-residents-271503
21-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||Carpenter as good as gold, returns jewellery to owner||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 20Setting a rare example of honesty, Kuldeep (22), a carpenter, returned 180 gram of gold jewellery to its owner today. He found it in an old almirah he had purchased from a Sector 13 resident in Hisar.The youth purchased the old furniture and a washing machine from Dinesh Thakral who was shifting to Chandigarh and was disposing of his household items. Kuldeep picked up the almirah and washing machine from the owner today and took it home to Harikot village of the district.However, when he found one of the lockers in the almirah locked, he broke it open. Much to his surprise, he found gold jewellery sets, silver jewellery sets and some documents from inside the locker. He immediately contacted the owner and called him to visit his house to collect the valuables. Dinesh Thakral stated that there was about 180 gram of gold jewellery besides some silver jewellery and documents inside the almirah.He said they had no idea about the items and had forgotten that the jewellery was lying inside the locker.Kuldeep who works as a carpenter and deals in old household items and furniture stated that he was taken aback to find the jewellery. “I did not think twice before calling the owners. I am feeling relieved on returning the jewellery to the family”, he said.Thakral tried to give some reward to Kuldeep but he refused to accept any cash reward while stating that it was his duty to return the valuables to its real owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/carpenter-as-good-as-gold-returns-jewellery-to-owner-271504
21-06-2021||---||Youth shot dead in fields||Sonepat, June 20A youth was shot dead in the fields near the Baiyanpur minor on the Kakroi-Mehalana road on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Sagar of Tihar Malik village. The youth was living with his family at Mayur Vihar in the city.Surender Singh, father of the deceased, in his complaint to the Sadar police, said his younger son Sawan was lodged in a jail in a criminal case. His elder son Sagar was going to meet his friend on Saturday evening on his motorcycle, but did not come back. They started searching for him and his mobile phone was also switched off. He received information about a body lying in the fields near Kakroi village. He reached the mortuary in the General Hospital and identified his son.He alleged that some unknown persons had murdered his son. According to the police, there was a bullet injury on the left side of his stomach and injury marks on his body parts. His mobile phone, cash and motorcycle were also not found near the crime spot. A case was registered on the complaint of the victim’s father.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-shot-dead-in-fields-271505
21-06-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad industrial plots fetch high price||Financial crunch and downturn faced by the industry in the wake of the Covid pandemic have failed to stop the rise in the price of industrial plots.This has been reflected in the recent auction of 30-odd plots by HSIIDC in the Industrial Model Township (IMT) here. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) which auctioned the plots of various sizes in the past week in the IMT located in Sector-70 here grossed a revenue of Rs 95.55 crore.The rates of the plots sized between 450 sq m and 1,800 sq m have shown an average hike of 27.6 per cent over the last auction held in September 2020, according to the officials of the department concerned.A 450 sq m plot in the industrial sector carved out by the HSIIDC was sold for Rs 1.86 crore in the auction held on June 15, it is revealed. It had fetched Rs 1.56 crore in September last year. “While this is a 18 per cent hike, plots of the size of 1,000 sq m were sold at an average price of Rs 3.55 crore each against the price of Rs 2.66 crore just eight months ago,” says Vikas Chaudhary, Estate Manager, HSIIDC, Faridabad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-industrial-plots-fetch-high-price-271506
21-06-2021||Rohtak||Blood donors felicitated||Indians in US send 14 ventilatorsJhajjar: Indians living in the USA have come forward to provide medical equipment used in the treatment of Covid infection. “The Associations of Indians in America (AIA) and Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, have jointly sent 14 ultramodern ventilators to India, which will be distributed among charitable hospitals in various states,” said Bal Kishan Goel, a Bahadurgarh resident, who is associated with the AIA. One of the ventilators had been provided to a hospital in Bahadurgarh, he added.Mass rural vaccinationHisar: The Congress MLA from Dabwali, Amit Sihag, kick-started a rural mass vaccination drive for Covid in his segment on the occasion of the birthday of the party leader Rahul Gandhi. Named “Hamara Gaon Surakshin Gaon’, the MLA started the drive from Ramgarh in his constituency Dabwali, with an aim to vaccinating 90 per cent of the eligible village residents at the earliest. Sihag said vaccines were the only sure known protection against the deadly virus and vaccinating rural populations in large numbers was essential to ward off the prospective third wave. Quoting WHO, the MLA said 70 per cent vaccination in an area was essential to develop herd immunity. Keeping this in mind, he had kept an ambitious target of vaccinating 90 per cent of the eligible residents of the village at the earliest.‘Good roads my right’ driveFaridabad: ‘The facility and availability of good and motorable roads is not only a basic amenity, but also the justified right of every citizen, especially the taxpayer.” This was perhaps the conclusion of a unique demonstration staged by some residents here on Sunday. “Organised by ‘Save Faridabad’, an NGO based here, members and supporters of the group took out a march in the Greater Faridabad area to highlight the issue of the potholed roads and the need to repair or fix these,” said Paras Bhardwaj, convener of the NGO. “The drive will cover the whole city as the residents deserve good roads,” said Deepa Saksena, a member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blood-donors-felicitated-271510
21-06-2021||Karnal||Inter-school virtual competition||Father's Day celebratedAmbala: Delhi Public School, Ambala celebrated Father's Day. Students expressed about their bond with their fathers through various online activities. Tiny tots at home enjoyed dancing and singing with their fathers. Students of primary section participated in health and fitness activities with their fathers. Students of middle wing created portfolios of the childhood events and precious moments spent with their fathers. They shared it with their class teachers and described contribution of their fathers in their lives. Students of senior classes revealed their tender feelings by taking selfies with their fathers and making beautiful cards for them with warm messages expressing love, respect and gratitude.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inter-school-virtual-competition-271511
21-06-2021||Panchkula||Detained in Panchkula, protesters let off after five hours||Around 50 farmers, who assembled at Thapli to protest against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to inaugurate Panchkarma Wellness Centre, were detained today.Khattar was to reach the venue after overseeing the demonstration of adventure activities at Tikkar Tal in the Morni area.The protesters were subsequently taken to Crime Branch, Sector 26, Chandigarh. To express solidarity with the detainees, hundreds of their supporters gathered outside the Crime Branch, demanding their immediate release.Apprehending the situation getting out of control, the police released them after five hours. No FIR was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/detained-in-panchkula-protesters-let-off-after-five-hours-271512
21-06-2021||Panchkula||Nurture saplings, get extra marks||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nurture-saplings-get-extra-marks-271513
21-06-2021||There is a problem of waterlogging in the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) area during the rainy season. The sewerage and drainage lines here are almost closed as these are very old. So||Waterlogging plagues Gurugram IDC area||— Gurgaon Industrial AssociationComplete outer ring road on western border of Karnal MCThe Haryana Government has already expanded the boundaries of Karnal Municipal Corporation and divided it into 45 sectors and 20 corporation wards. Just as the Haryana Government has taken a good decision in public interest and decided to build Eastern Bypass Highway from Karna Lake to Bastara for heavy vehicles coming from Meerut, Shamli, Haridwar, Yamunanagar to Delhi or Chandigarh. Similarly, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and MP Sanjay Bhatia along with Union Road and Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari should also complete the outer ring road on the western border of the Karnal MC from Jhanjhari village to Bastara Toll Plaza via Kachhwa-Chirao villages. Due to this, heavy vehicles coming from many districts going towards Delhi or Chandigarh will not have to pass through Karnal city, but all these heavy vehicles will pass easily from outside Karnal.Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-plagues-gurugram-idc-area-271514
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana lockdown curbs relaxed; bars, restaurants to open till 10 pm||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the Covid-19 lockdown in the state by another week till June 28, but eased restrictions imposed on weddings and funerals, and allowed corporate offices to operate with full attendance.According to an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, up to 50 guests can now attend weddings and funerals or cremations, up from 21 earlier, subject to strict observance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and social distancing.Corporate offices can now open with full attendance, but there has to be strict observance of social distancing, Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and regular sanitisation, it said.Weddings can now take place in courts, but processions are not allowed, the order said.It, however, said swimming pools and spas in the state would continue to remain closed.Club houses, restaurants and bars of golf courses are allowed to open with 50 per cent seating capacity from 10 am to 10 pm, it added."Now after duly considering the fact that although Covid positivity rate and the number of new Covid positive cases have declined, so as to continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the Covid pandemic … the 'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' is extended for another week from June 21 (5 am onwards) to June 28 (till 5 am) in the state," the order issued by Chief Secretary Vardhan said.All shops can continue to operate from 9 am to 8 pm, and restaurants and bars, including those in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity.The timings for shopping malls will continue to be from 10 am to 8 pm, the order stated.The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)".The number of daily Covid-19 cases, which had crossed the 15,000-mark last month, has now come down to under 300, while the count of fatalities has also registered a sharp fall.The Haryana government-imposed lockdown in the state has now been extended for the seventh time. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-lockdown-curbs-relaxed-bars-restaurants-to-open-till-10-pm-271449
