23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to provide jobs to international medal holders||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said the players who will secure medals in international events would be given government jobs.He was interacting with Olympic medalists on International Olympic Day here. Haryana Minister of State for Sports Sandeep Singh was also present.The chief minister said besides getting government jobs in the sports department, international medal winners would be appointed on deputation in the education department and other departments.Expressing his willingness to promote sports, Khattar said that if sportspersons excelling in their field are appointed as coaches or trainers, the young sportspersons could be greatly benefited.The state has formulated a policy to promote sports. Under it, along with three per cent reservation, government services are being provided according to the medals won by the sportspersons.Apart from this, the state is enhancing sports infrastructure along with renovation of sports stadiums to promote sports.The Minister of State for Sports said 30 players have been selected for the Tokyo Olympic Games. A sum of Rs 5 lakh has been provided to each of the players as preparation amount.He said in the Olympic Games, cash amount of Rs 6 crore will be given for gold medal winners, Rs 4 crore for silver medal winners and Rs 2.50 crore for bronze medal winners.Sandeep Singh said to mark the International Olympic Day, 11,000 saplings would be planted in the sports complexes which would be beneficial for the environment.On this occasion, the chief minister planted a sapling at his residence here in the name of martyr Havaldar Shiv Kumar.— IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-provide-jobs-to-international-medal-holders-272933
23-06-2021||New Delhi||Former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala completes sentence in JBT case, to be released soon||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala has completed his sentence in the JBT case, said his lawyer Amit Sahni.According to Chautala's lawyer, the Tihar Jail Authority has communicated that the Government of Delhi has passed an order regarding special remission of six months to convicts who are sentenced for 10 years and have already completed nine years and six months of custody, including regular remission."It has been a battle to seek justice for Chautala. We had to approach the Delhi High Court on multiple occasions for his release. The Delhi High Court has reprimanded the Delhi government for not considering his early release despite his fulfilling all parameters," Sahni told ANI.The Tihar Jail Authority informed the lawyer that Chautala had completed his sentence and he is eligible for special remission."The said convict will be finally released whenever he formally surrenders before the jail authority as he is currently on parole due to the Covid situation," the Tihar Jail Authority said.Earlier, Sahni had approached the Delhi High Court for the directions to release the petitioner by granting special remission in light of the Special Remission Notification issued by the Government of India, as the petitioner has already undergone the prescribed sentence awarded under the Prevention of Corruption Act.His lawyer had submitted that the petitioner is aged about 83 and as per the disability certificate issued by RML Hospital, New Delhi, in 2013, the petitioner is suffering from 60 per cent permanent disability of residual paralysis of both lower limbs and left upper limb.Chautala was serving a 10-year jail term in the teachers' recruitment scam in Haryana during his tenure as the state's chief minister. The jail term was awarded by a CBI court in the national capital. ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-cm-om-prakash-chautala-completes-sentence-in-jbt-case-to-be-released-soon-272884
23-06-2021||Rohtak||Double whammy for jewellery biz in Rohtak, 'loss of Rs 75 crore' during lockdown||Jewellers in Haryana's Rohtak district are facing a double whammy of manpower shortage and a rise in prices of raw materials. As a result, the manufacturing cost has increased, making it difficult for jewellers to fulfil orders booked before the lockdown at reduced prices. Hemant Bakshi, state coordinator, Indian Bullion and Jewellers Association, said: “More than 2,000 workers are engaged in the jewellery business in the district. A majority of them belongs to West Bengal and Maharashtra. Only 30 per cent of them have returned to Rohtak.”A chain of workers is required to manufacture ornaments. Local workers melt, polish and cut the metal, while migrant workers manufacture jewellery items. “As manufacturing units in Rajkot, Surat, Mumbai, Coimbatore, Chennai, Ahmadabad, Jaipur, Kolkata and Delhi are yet to resume operations, jewellers are not getting ready-made jewellery from there to meet the demand,” Bakshi said, adding “Rohtak district has around 1,000 jewellery shops which suffered a loss of Rs 75 crore during the lockdown”.He had booked an order for gold ornaments at Rs 43,800 per ‘tola’ before the lockdown, but now the prices have shot up to Rs 48,000 per ‘tola’.Ajay Malhotra, a local jeweller, said the prices increased by more than 10 per cent after the lockdown. “A majority of jewellers get raw materials from Rajkot (Gujarat) and Mumbai (Maharashtra), but both cities have been hit hard by the pandemic. Hence, those having limited stock of raw material are selling it at higher prices,” he added.Sandeep Sehgal, another jeweller, said he had taken advances from customers, hence he could not cancel the orders. “I have no other option, but to suffer losses,” he said with a shrug of resignation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/double-whammy-for-jewellery-biz-in-rohtak-loss-of-rs-75-crore-during-lockdown-272881
23-06-2021||Karnal||Virtual workshop on yoga||Literary, fine arts, music-e-carnivalKarnal: KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised "Indradhanush 2021: State -level literary, fine arts, and music e-carnival" with zeal online due to the pandemic. The literary events included poetry recitation in Hindi, shlokacharan competition with a running trophy in the memory of Surya Swami, and speech competition in Sanskrit, English caption writing, and English literature and language quiz, Punjabi poetical recitation competition, Punjabi essay writing, quiz contest, essay writing competition, power point making competition and others. Principal Renu Mehta said 53 colleges with 674 participants made this online festival a successful virtual carnival managed skillfully by all the faculty members of the college. In addition to individual prizes, there were three running trophies that were won by the following colleges: Dayanand Mahila Mahavidyalaya, KKR bagged Surya Swami Smriti Chalvijayopahar in Sanskrit Sholakacharan competition; Vaishya Arya Kanya Mahavidyalaya, Bhadurgarh, Jhajjar, bagged the running trophy for English caption writing competition, and English literature and language quiz; Guru Nanak Khalsa College, KNL got the running trophy for musical events. This year's overall running trophy was won by Dayanand Mahila Mahavidyalaya, KKR.Yoga Day at St Lawrence SchoolYamunanagar: International Yoga Day was celebrated at several educational institutes of Yamunanagar district. On this occasion St Lawrence International School, Jagadhri, organised special online yoga sessions for its students. Chairman Dr MK Sehgal said that a special online yoga session was conducted and students performed various yogic postures. Principal Dr PK Bajpai said a seven-day yoga camp was held at Maharaja Agrasain College, Jagadhri, and it concluded on June 21. Principal Anil Budhiraja said that the staff members of Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, celebrated 'International Yoga Day' by performing yoga on the campus. College principal Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang said cadets, students and staff of Guru Nanak Khalsa College celebrated International Yoga Day.Webinar on media organisedYamunanagar: A one-day online national webinar was organised by the mass communication department of DAV College for Girls on "Journey from traditional media to new media". Dr Bindu Sharma, director, Institute of Mass Communication and Media Technology, Kurukshetra, Dr Ashok Kumar, assistant professor, Institute of Mass Communication and Media Technology, Kurukshetra and Dr Ajay Kumar from Government College, Cheeka of Kaithal district were the speakers. Officiating principal Dr Abha Khetarpal and head of the department Parmesh Tyagi and assistant professor Sukhjeet Kaur jointly presided over the programme. Dr Bindu Sharma discussed every aspect of media which was related to traditional media to new media.Azadi Amritmahotsav seriesHisar: The speakathon club under the mentorship of training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar organised the sixth edition of 'Azadi Amritmahotsav series' in form of "online elocution event" to commemorate the 75 years of India's independence. This week's freedom fighter was 'Ram Prasad Bismil' as his birth anniversary falls on June 11. About 32 students of the university as well as other affiliated colleges participated in this event.Medicinal plants distributedKarnal: The 7 Haryana Battalion NCC and Dyal Singh Public School, Dyal Singh Colony, jointly distributed plants with medicinal value to staff members. Sushma Devgun, principal handed over the plants and highlighted the contribution of plants in everyone's life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-workshop-on-yoga-272736
23-06-2021||After facing a tough phase during the second wave of Covid-19||Extensive vax drive should be launched||Cops should check traffic violations strictlyWhen I was travelling on the Hisar road on the outskirts of Ambala City a mini truck carrying iron spikes was running at unbelievable speed. The iron spikes were protruding having no caution flag, probably red, could cause danger to any commercial or passenger vehicle and its occupants. It is not understandable as to how it escaped from the eyes of the police which are present at almost all crossings within and outside the city. We hope the police will take cognizance of the issue and streamline the things so that no untoward incident takes place. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityMake housing societies honk-free zone in P’kulaHonking is a very serious issue on the premises of the housing society in GH-3, MDC, Panchkula. Despite repeated requests, many residents honk incessantly while driving carelessly within the society. On a few occasions there was a near-accident. Because of the speeding vehicles on the society premises it has become difficult, particularly for the elderly and also children to play or cycle. The car owners honk unnecessary. The housing societies should be made a honk-free zone. Dr Chetana Vaishnavi, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/extensive-vax-drive-should-be-launched-272735
23-06-2021||Ravinder Saini
||Neglected monuments in Mahendragarh to get facelift||Tribune News Service Mahendragarh, June 22  Historical monuments — Chhatta Rai Bal Mukand Dass and Mirza Ali ki Bawdi — will be revamped by the district administration in order to preserve heritage sites and attract tourists. A proposal has recently been sent to Department of Archaeology and Museums for renovation of both monuments that will cost Rs 5 crore.  “Both monuments have been in a dilapidated condition for a long time as no sincere efforts were made to revamp these. Walls and rooftops are lying broken at many places. Locals have encroached upon areas belonging to the monuments. These sites have the potential to become tourist attractions after rejuvenation,” said Ratan Lal Saini, District Convener, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. Chhatta Rai Bal Mukand Dass, popularly known as Chhatta of Birbal, is a spacious five-storey building with several halls, rooms and pavilions constructed by Ray-i-Rayan Mukand Dass, the Diwan of Narnaul, during the reign of Shah Jahan.  It is believed that the building has four underground tunnels leading to Jaipur, Mahendragarh, Delhi and Dhosi. Legend has it that Akbar and Birbal visited this town. That’s why it is called Chhatta of Birbal. Similarly, Mirza Ali ki Bawdi, also known as Takht Baoli, was a resort constructed during the reign of Emperor Akbar. It included a beautiful garden, water pool, a ‘baoli’ with steps to reach the water and an imposing three-storey gateway structure overlooking the ‘baoli’.  Ajay Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, said that Takht Baoli and Chhatta of Birbal would be renovated to attract tourists. The proposal has been approved by Chief Engineer, PWD (B&R). It is likely to get a nod from the Archaeological Department as well. A committee had also been formed to review the renovation work and to give suggestions for conservation of heritage sites, he added. “The work is delicate. Hence, more emphasis will be given to preserve the original aesthetic and natural look of the monuments. Marble, teakwood, natural colours, coloured stones will be used for renovation,” said Kaustubh Varat, Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate (CMGGA).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/neglected-monuments-in-mahendragarh-to-get-facelift-272451
23-06-2021||---||Over 89K students migrate from pvt to govt schools in 2 months||Chandigarh, June 22  In just two months, 89,138 students have shifted from private schools to government ones, with the maximum exodus from Class III to VII. Officials say the number could rise as government school admissions are going on and there is a sharp fall in private school enrolment in 2021-22.  In Class III, 10,014 students while in Class IV 10,894 students have opted for shifting to government schools in 2021-22 so far. In Class V, 10,737 students, and in Class VI 10,323 opted for migration. The maximum shifting has been seen in Class VII where 11,638 students chose government schools. In 2020-21, about 1.46 lakh students had shifted from private to government schools.  If we see the overall enrolment in the state, in 2020-21 the private schools had 29.83 lakh students while in 2021-22 there are just 15.78 lakh. “So the remaining students could come to government schools,” said an official. In government schools, in 2020-21, there were 21.78 lakh students while in 2021-22 there are 19.63 lakh. The gap is just 2.15 lakh.  “Due to pandemic and its consequences, many students have shifted from expensive private schools to government ones. Parents have also felt that when classes are being conducted online, there is no need to pay high fees in private schools. Also, we are providing students with various facilities such as giving tabs to those of Class VIII to XII,” said an official of the Education Department.  He added, “Our students are clearing all major entrance tests due to the Super 100 programme.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-89k-students-migrate-from-pvt-to-govt-schools-in-2-months-272452
23-06-2021||---||Arhtiyas seek release of pending  payments||Karnal, June 22 Members of the Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association today held a meeting demanding release of pending payment of around Rs400 crore and nine per cent interest on the delayed payment. Meanwhile, the state body also disapproved the resignation of Ashok Gupta, who had been serving as president from September 2019 and had resigned on April 8 from the post of president. The association announced that Gupta will continue to serve as state president. Besides, it was also decided that the elections of the state body for two years will be conducted at the earliest before the fixed schedule. Gupta said the government should release the arhtiyas’ commission at the rate of 2.5 per cent of the MSP, instead of Rs46 per quintal. He said a delegation of the association had a meeting with the CM on April 5, in which the association was assured that the commission would be released within 15 days after the procurement season is over, but even after the assurance of the CM, it was not released so far. Rajnish Chaudhary, president of Karnal Arhtiyas Association, said the interest on the delayed dues should be released as the arhtiyas are also facing financial crisis. He said the state government has not cleared the loading of paddy at the rate of Rs1.88 per bag. The association also raised the issue of the procurement of private crops through arhtiyas to ensure the speedy payment to farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiyas-seek-release-of-pending-payments-272453
23-06-2021||Ambala||Squadron Leader arrested after wife kills self||The Ambala police have today arrested a Squadron Leader after his wife Lieutenant Sakshi (29) allegedly committed suicide at her service quarter in Ambala Cantonment on Monday.   The police said Sakshi’s husband, Navneet Sharma, has been arrested and will be produced before a court on Wednesday. A case has been registered under Sections 304-B and 34 of the IPC at the Ambala Cantonment police station against Navneet Sharma, his mother Luxmi Sharma, father Chetram Sharma and brother Mohit Sharma.   The complianant, Sourabh, Sakshi’s brother, said Sakshigot married in December 2018. Her in-laws used to harass her for dowry and beat her over petty issues. “She had told us that her in-laws want to give her son to Navneet’s sister. They have been torturing her. She informed us the same on Sunday night too. On Monday, we got call that Sakshi has committed suicide. Navneet had also got CCTV cameras installed in their room and threatened to divorce Sakshi,” he added. Sourabh alledged that the accused may have got the footage erased. Demanding police action the family today reached outside the police station in Ambala Cantonment and refused to accept the body till the accused were  arrested.  The SHO Ambala Cantonment, Vijay Kumar, said “Following a complaint, the squadron leader has been arrested  .” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/squadron-leader-arrested-after-wife-kills-self-272454
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Varsity, college staff told to join work||The staff  working in colleges and universities across state have been directed to attend their respective institutes with 100% staff strength with immediate effect, an official spokesperson said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/varsity-college-staff-told-to-join-work-272455
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||3 HCS officers transferred in Haryana||The state government has transferred three HCS officers. Meenaxee Raj, Joint Director, State Transport, Haryana and Vigilance Officer, Hafed, has been posted as the Secretary, Haryana Right to Service Commission.  lnder Jeet, Joint Director (Administration), Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, has been posted as Secretary, Housing Board, Haryana, Panchkula. Suresh, Joint Director (Administration), Art and Cultural Affairs, has been posted as Joint Director (Administration) Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-hcs-officers-transferred-in-haryana-272456
23-06-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava seeks repatriation to IB||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Haryana Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava has sought repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau (IB) “to resume duties as Additional Director in the IB due to career and family considerations”.In a letter addressed to Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajiv Arora 1988-batch “hardcore IB officer” Yadava has said that he “would now like to return to the Intelligence Bureau” to resume his duties as Additional Director and has sought premature repatriation.The letter will be put up to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for approval.Yadava had joined as DGP in February 2019 for a period of two years. However, two months before his term was about to end, the state government had, in January this year, gave him an extension “till further orders”.Taking exception, Home Minister Anil Vij had pushed for sending names of “eligible officers” to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to select a new DGP. The names of officers, who had completed 30 years of service, were put together and sent to the Chief Minister.Khattar, however, dug his heels in. He was keen on keeping Yadava as the state police chief. So, Yadava continued to be the DGP.In March this year, the Ministry of Home Affairs approved Yadava’s extension by one year.Meanwhile, Home Minister Vij said the government already had the names of officers eligible to head the police force. “The names of all officers who have completed 30 years of service will be forwarded to the UPSC, which will send back a panel of three officers,” he said.According to the IPS gradation list, the names of 1988-batch officer PK Agrawal, 1989-batch officers Mohammad Akil and RC Mishra, 1990-batch officers Shatrujeet Kapoor and Desh Raj Singh would make it to the list of IPS officers proposed for empanelment as the DGP. It is up to the government to include the names of 1991-batch officers Alok Roy and Sanjiv Jain in the panel irrespective of their rank. In other words, it doesn’t matter whether or not they are Director Generals.Sources say that once the Chief Minister approves Yadava’s request, the government will give the additional charge to the senior-most officer if Yadava decides to relinquish the charge before the selection of the new DGP.‘Now, IB beckons’Now, the IB beckons and I wish to go back to Government of India due to career and family requirements. I have made a request to the Haryana Government to permit me to go back. Jai Hind. Manoj Yadava, DGPDifferences between CM, Vij||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dgp-manoj-yadava-seeks-repatriation-to-ib-272457
23-06-2021||---||3 Palwal men victims of cyber fraud, lose Rs 7.6 lakh||Palwal, June 22 A case has been registered in connection with bank cyber fraud involving Rs7.68 lakh, the police have said. In the past three weeks, as many incidents of fraud have been reported. On May 30, Dharamwati of the district’s Dhatir village approached the police, alleging that Rs 3.6 lakh was illegally withdrawn from her bank account.  On June 2, Rs 3.1 lakh was withdrawn from the account of Rishipal of Jatola village without his knowledge. Ravi Kumar of Chandhut village complained that Rs 98,000 was taken out from his account on June 16. The three complaints were clubbed into one FIR.  “The police have launched a probe into the complaints. The accused will be nabbed soon,” said a police official. On June 7, the police had claimed to have busted a gang of cyber criminals for committing a fraud of Rs 31 lakh in a span of seven days. The police have registered 43 FIRs of cyber fraud in the past couple of months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-palwal-men-victims-of-cyber-fraud-lose-rs-7-6-lakh-272458
23-06-2021||---||Haryana CM: Need to spread awareness about farm laws||Chandigarh, June 22 A delegation of farmers backing the Centre’s farm laws met Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here today and was advised to form a group of 30-40 members having knowledge about the legislations to spread awareness about them in every village of the state. The delegation was led by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Guni Prakash.  He said the protest against the Centre’s farm laws was political in nature and that the “real farmers” were in favour of the legislations.  Khattar said, “Rather than agitating against the farm laws, every farmer should be well versed about the benefits of the laws so that those who are trying to spread misinformation and mislead them fail to attain their vested interests.” 	  He suggested that, if needed, farmers should be given training to help them get ample knowledge about the laws.   Prakash submitted a letter of support to the CMon the farm laws and said that “from day one, the real farmers are in favour of these legislations, while the so-called farmers have given a political colour to this peaceful movement and the real farmers like us are bearing the brunt”. “Those agitating on Delhi borders are political representatives,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-need-to-spread-awareness-about-farm-laws-272459
23-06-2021||Our Correspondent 
||Rs 2-lakh mobiles go missing from Flipkart warehouse||Gurugram, June 22 Mobile phones and other items worth more than Rs 2 lakh went missing from the Flipkart warehouse at Tajnagar in the Farrukhnagar area today, the police have said.  According to the complaint filed by Anil Sharma, processing centre manager of transport company Rivigo Services Private Limited, two boxes out of 10 were missing from the warehouse.  An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the IPC at the Farrukhnagar police station.  The police said they were trying to identify the accused with the help of the CCTV footage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-2-lakh-mobiles-go-missing-from-flipkart-warehouse-272460
23-06-2021||Karnal||Take lead, resume talks with protesting farmers: HSGMC to Haryana CM||The Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) today urged Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to make efforts for the talks to resume between the Union Government and protesting farmers. A delegation led by HSGMC president Baljeet Singh Daduwal met Khattar in Chandigarh in this regard. He said Khattar could play a vital role in ending the stalemate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/take-lead-resume-talks-with-protesting-farmers-hsgmc-to-haryana-cm-272461
23-06-2021||---||State-level training sessions for doctors, nurses start at Rohtak PGIMS||Rohtak, June 22 Medical experts have cautioned that the third wave of Covid may affect adults as well. The persons who have recovered from Covid should also be cautious as the possibility of re-infection cannot be ruled out, though those who have got themselves vaccinated are at a lower risk of getting infected. “There is no room for complacence. It’s not that the third wave (of Covid) will affect only the children. The virus does not differentiate between children and adults,” stated Prof (Dr) OP Kalra, the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, here today. Professor Kalra said state-level training programmes were being organised at the Rohtak PGIMS to train the doctors as well as nurses with special focus on pediatrics and critical care to maintain preparedness for the third wave of the pandemic. “Work is in progress for the provision of 400 oxygen-beds for children and a new 100-bed ICU for adults at the PGIMS. Medical gas pipeline is also being upgraded,” he maintained. The doctors serving at the state-run health facilities are being trained in pediatrics and intensive care by a team led by Prof Kundan Mittal of the department of pediatrics and Prof Prashant of the department of anesthesia at the UHS. Addressing the doctors participating in the training session, Dr Mittal warned against the administration of excessive oxygen, which can be risky. PGIMS Medical Superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said 22 doctors from Jhajjar, Jind and Sonepat districts were being trained in the ongoing session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-level-training-sessions-for-doctors-nurses-start-at-rohtak-pgims-272462
23-06-2021||---||Seven Yamunanagar factories without eco nod sealed||Yamunanagar, June 22After an order was passed by National Green Tribunal against formaldehyde-manufacturing units being run without environmental clearance, the district administration has swung into action.Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Yamunanagar, has recently sealed seven factories found violating norms.Power snappedBesides, officials of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) have started cutting power connections of such factories. “We have sealed seven formaldehyde factories and written to authorities of UHBVN to disconnect power connections of those factories,” said Nirmal Kashyap, Regional Officer of HSPCB, Yamunanagar.Pankaj Deswal, SDO of UHBVN, said that they had cut electricity connections of two factories on Monday and the connections of other factories would be cut soon.According to information, Yamunanagar district has 10 factories of formaldehyde. Out of these 10 factories, seven factories were being run without environmental clearance from the Union Ministry of Environment and Forest.Formaldehyde is a chemical which is used in plywood factories here.In October 2020, when the HSPCB, Yamunanagar, came to know that some factories of formaldehyde were being run without environmental clearance, they sealed the seven factories. However, on the request of owners of those factories, the government allowed them to operate for six months without environmental clearance on November 10, 2020.The permission granted by the state government came to an end on June 10, but the seven factories failed to obtain clearance during this period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seven-yamunanagar-factories-without-eco-nod-sealed-272463
23-06-2021||---||Protesters have political agenda: Haryana BJP Chief Dhankar||Chandigarh, June 22  State BJP president OP Dhankar today described the farmers’ movement as a political agitation and said the state government had identified leaders behind it. “Farmers have a political agenda. The government knows every leader. The agitation continues under the banner of ‘lal jhanda’ (red flag). The recent criminal incidents at the protest sites have undermined their credibility,” he told the media here. Meanwhile, the BJP’s state-level executive committee will meet on June 24 at six places — Chandigarh, Jind, Hisar, Rewari, Rohtak, and Gurugram. CM Manohar Lal Khattar and state BJP in-charge Vinod Tawde will be present during the meeting, which will also be held virtually.  “The meeting will discuss the state’s political situation. Besides, welfare schemes introduced by the state government during the Covid pandemic will be taken up,” said Dhankar.  He further said the BJP would observe June 25 as a black day to make the young generation aware of the conditions prevalent during the Emergency.  From June 23 to July 6, the party will organise a tree plantation drive in the honour of Jana Sangh leader Shyama Prasad Mukherjee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-have-political-agenda-haryana-bjp-chief-dhankar-272464
23-06-2021||---||Over 200 farmers booked in Ambala||Ambala, June 22A day after farmers had blocked a road, forcing Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar to skip a scheduled meeting in the city, the district police today booked more than 200 farmers.The minister was to chair a meeting on Monday at Panchayat Bhawan on the Ambala-Hisar national highway, which the farmers had blocked for a few hours.The farmers had gathered for their protest when Gujjar was scheduled to reach the venue to chair the district grievance committee’s meeting. The minister skipped it following the demonstration by farmers.A case has been registered under Sections 147, 149, 186, 188, 269, 270 332, 353, and 506 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at the Ambala City police station.More than 200 unnamed protesters have been booked on charges of holding unlawful assembly, committing riots and assaulting a public servant and obstructing them in the discharge of their duty on a complaint of the Sector 9 police station SHO Suresh Kumar.In his complaint, the SHO said around 200-250 farmers broke the barricades, and manhandled and assaulted him due to which he suffered an injury in his right hand’s thumb, the police have said.The SHO also said some of the farmers threatened him with dire consequences if he did not allow them to reach Panchayat Bhavan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-200-farmers-booked-in-ambala-272465
23-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Transfer policy not applicable in case of posting on promotion||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear the transfer policy was not applicable in case of posting upon promotion. The Bench has also made it clear that service rules framed by a state government will have preference over the guidelines issued by the Centre.The ruling by Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi came upon a petition filed by Associate NCC Officer Satpal challenging an order, whereby he was relieved from Government Senior Secondary School, Behlba, in Rohtak district for joining Government Girls Middle School, Manethi, in Rewari.Justice Sethi asserted the question for consideration before the court was whether the petitioner had any right to claim posting at a particular place of his choice or was liable to serve anywhere in the State of Haryana keeping in view the rules governing the service.Further question was whether the present case was of posting upon promotion and whether the transfer policy would be applicable in the facts and circumstances of the matter. It was also to be seen whether guidelines issued by the Centre would confer any right upon the petitioner to continue to serve at a particular station or the employer Education Department had the right to post the petitioner in administrative exigencies even where there was no NCC unit as envisaged under the rules governing service.Justice Sethi asserted service rules would have preference over the guidelines issued. Once the service rules envisage that the petitioner could be posted anywhere in Haryana, employer Education Department would be well within its right to post the petitioner anywhere in the state and the guidelines could not create impediment within the state’s powers to post the petitioner even where NCC unit did not exist if administrative exigencies demand the same.Justice Sethi added the present case was not of transfer but posting upon promotion. Not only the petitioner, but 1,100 employees were posted upon promotion to various stations. The exercise of powers by the respondent-school was an administrative act. As the present case was of posting upon promotion, the reliance being placed upon transfer policy dated June 29, 2016, by the petitioner was totally misplaced and could not be accepted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-transfer-policy-not-applicable-in-case-of-posting-on-promotion-272466
23-06-2021||Ambala||‘Pathi’ paraded with face blackened||A “pathi” was paraded with his face blackened by the residents of Bhurangpura village on Monday. The locals accused him of committing immoral acts on the gurdwara premises.The “pathi” hails from Patiala and had been working at a gurdwara in the village for the last few years. The locals said there was suspicion that the “pathi” was involved in some immoral act and he was warned in the past, but to no avail.Gurnam Singh, president of the gurdwara committee, said, “The villagers showed me some objectionable video of the ‘pathi’ with a woman of our village. He was paraded in the village by the youths. The gurdwara committee came to know about the immoral acts on Monday after the villagers installed a hidden camera. It has been decided that he will not work here anymore.”Dharamveer, SHO, Naggal Police Station, said, “No complaint has been received so far.”Sultan Singh, DSP (headquarters), said, “A video has gone viral. We will verify the facts and take action accordingly.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pathi-paraded-with-face-blackened-272468
23-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||IGP, Hisar range, warns of legal action on false complaints by women||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 22With nearly 30 per cent cases of rape cases turning out to be false, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Hisar range, has issued directions to initiate criminal proceedings against complainants who lodged false complaints.The IGP, Rakesh Kumar Arya, today reviewed the status of cases of crime against women in the five police districts in the Hisar range comprising Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Hansi.He requisitioned the cases for last three years besides the cases of current year. Surprisingly, the IGP found that a large number of complaints had turned out to be false during the investigation by the police. The police had filed cancellation report in these cases.The police data revealed that of the 87 cases of rape registered under Section 376 of the IPC, 30 had been cancelled in these districts this year till May 31. Significantly, as many as 221 cases of rape were registered last year and 89 were found false during the investigation.In the cases of abduction under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC, the police registered 149 cases till May 31 of which 76 cases had been cancelled so far. Last year, 180 cases out of a total of 310 cases in these sections too were cancelled following police probe, the IG office data revealed.In the cases of assault or criminal force against woman with intent to outrage her modesty, registered under Section 354 of the IPC, the police had cancelled 50 cases out of a total 148 cases registered this year till May 31, stated the data of the IGP office. A number of cases of dowry harassment too had ended in similar fate as 54 cases out of 311 cases had been cancelled following the police inquiry this year.The IGP said it amounts to misuse of the laws when any person lodges false complaints against anybody. “I have directed all SPs of the five police districts to take cognisance of the false complaints and initiate action against the complainants,” the IGP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/igp-hisar-range-warns-of-legal-action-on-false-complaints-by-women-272469
23-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||Family’s bid to sell 13-yr-old girl for Rs 50K in Hansi foiled||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 22A poor family tried to sell their 13-year-old daughter to a man in lieu of Rs 50,000 in Hansi town of the district. However, the mother of the girl informed the police after which the child marriage protection-cum prohibition officer raided the house and foiled their bid.The protection-cum-prohibition officer, Babita Chaudhary, said today that they got a call from the police yesterday that a family in Hansi town was trying to sell their daughter to an elderly man at a village in Bhiwani district. She said they went to the spot and served the notice on the family under the Child Marriage Prohibition Act.Wanted to marry her off to elderly manThe family members, including the victim, her mother, elder sister and sister’s husband, were summoned today. They had been served warning and were asked to give in writing that they would not marry off the girl until she turned 18.The officer said the elder sister and her husband had struck a deal with a man in Bhiwani district. The girl is uneducated. The family earns a living by collecting waste in the town. “We came to know that they struck a deal for Rs 50,000 with the man for marrying the girl to him,” she said.She added that the girl’s mother was opposed to the marriage and thus called the police. “I along with the police visited the house and cautioned them against marrying the child. We have not proceeded with a police action in the case as the marriage had not taken place,” she said, adding that the girl had been restored to the family after they gave in writing to abide by the law as per the Child Marriage Prohibition Act.In another incident of human trafficking, a 25-year-old woman from Odisha has been sold twice in Fatehabad and then in Rajasthan. The woman, mother of two children, complained to the Hisar police that she contacted Anil, a resident of Rajasthan, for getting a job. He called her to Hisar and sold her to an elderly man in Fatehabad district on April 15. The complainant said the man raped her for 20 days and gave her Rs 20,000. Later, he sold her to another man Sunil of Raslana village in Rajasthan. Sunil, too, raped her for nearly one-and-a-half month and tried to enter into wedlock with her. She, however, opposed him and informed the police.The police have registered a case under Sections 344, 366, 368, 370, 376(2) (N), 506 and 34 of the IPC against five persons, including two women, and started the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/familys-bid-to-sell-13-yr-old-girl-for-rs-50k-in-hansi-foiled-272470
23-06-2021||Karnal||Doctor couple evades police  notice in kidnapping case||In the case of an alleged kidnapping of a four-day-old boy of Kunjpura, the accused doctor couple is yet to join investigation. The case was registered on June 15 and the police have served notice on the couple.  “We have served a notice on the accused doctor couple to join the probe,” said Ganga Ram Punia, SP. The Kunjpura police had registered a case against the doctor couple, Dr DP Shrivastava and his wife Dr Shashi Bala.  The baby was adopted by a couple of Meerut by signing an affidavit with the help of accused. The police are yet to trace the couple. A week after the registration of case, the mother is waiting for her baby. Dr Shashi Bala has refuted the allegations of kidnapping. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctor-couple-evades-police-notice-in-kidnapping-case-272471
23-06-2021||---||Cracks in Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee come to fore||Kaithal, June 22Differences among the members of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC ad-hoc) once again came to the fore on Tuesday as around 20 members of the committee of 41 held a meeting in Kaithal.They criticised the working of president Baljeet Singh Daduwal who had won the post on August 13, 2020.The dissident members alleged that the executive committee formed by the president is ‘illegal and unconstitutional’. They also accused the president of not calling the meeting of the general house. These members also referred to the newly nominated 10 members by the government as “illegal”.After the meeting, members led by Didar Singh Nalvi, former senior vice-president of the HSGMC, sent a memorandum to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar demanding sacking of the newly formed executive body, calling of a meeting of the general house to constitute the new executive body and security to the members of the old general body to enable it to perform the duties in a peaceful atmosphere.Daduwal denied the allegations and said that some of the members are misleading society. “The whole process of constituting the body is legal and transparent. As many as 10 posts of members were vacant, so the government nominated 10 new members. Three members had died, four had joined the SGPC, two did not come for any meeting and one was sacked,” said Daduwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cracks-in-haryana-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-come-to-fore-272472
23-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Cop abducted, beaten up by mining mafia||Gurugram, June 22A head constable, who stopped a truck of illegal miners, was allegedly abducted and brutally thrashed by them before being dumped on the roadside. An FIR has been registered against the driver and dumper owner at Bilaspur police station.According to the complaint filed by mining inspector Bhanu Pratap Singh, a checking team of the Mining Department along with policemen stopped a stone-loaded dumper at Mahalaxmi Grit Udyog in the crusher zone yesterday. As the dumper driver could not show any e-bill, the dumper was impounded.“The dumper driver was asked to reach Bilaspur police station with the dumper and head constable Hitender accompanied him. The dumper driver drove away at high speed from there. Later, we found the head constable at the roadside near Sidhrwali village,” the mining inspector told the police.“The head constable said on the way, two people came in a white car. They threatened to kill him and finally pushed him out of the dumper and drove away. The head constable was badly injured and rushed to a hospital. The Udyog owner and his associates not only kidnapped the policeman but also thrashed and threatened him,” the mining inspector told the police.An FIR has been registered against the owner of Mahalaxmi Grit Udyog, dumper driver and others at Bilaspur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-abducted-beaten-up-by-mining-mafia-272473
23-06-2021||---||Khori demolition: AAP MP submits memo to PMO||Faridabad, June 22Dr Sushil Gupta, AAP MP from Delhi, managed to submit a memorandum to the PM’s Office in New Delhi today on the issue of demolition at Khori village despite an attempt allegedly made by the police administration to stop him.Gupta, who started his march from Sarai Khwaja here near the Delhi border this morning, was halted by the local police, claimed a spokesperson of AAP. He alleged that the Rajya Sabha member was detained by the Faridabad police for over three hours in the city before he was allowed to proceed and cross the Delhi border at around 12.30 pm.It is claimed that the police threatened to book him if the march was not suspended.The AAP spokesperson said Dr Gupta reached the PMO around 2 pm and submitted a memorandum to the Union Government regarding the demolition of Khori village. “Demanding immediate rehabilitation of all the affected people prior to any demolition, the memorandum has described the move as unjustified in wake of the fact that thousands of poor people had been residing here for two to three decades,” he said.A spokesperson of the local police however claimed the Faridabad police did not detain or arrest the MP as charged by the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khori-demolition-aap-mp-submits-memo-to-pmo-272475
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||AIDS awareness campaign to be launched||Haryana Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Rajeev Arora said an intensive HIV/AIDS awareness campaign would be started in all  districts of the state, wherein HIV/AIDS counselling and testing services would be provided. The campaign will be held in slum areas, high-risk cluster sites, truck unions and taxi stands, a counsellor and a lab technician will be available there. Arora was speaking at a state-level programme on HIV/AIDS and drug abuse organised by the Haryana State AIDS Control Society in Panchkula today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aids-awareness-campaign-to-be-launched-272477
23-06-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri ||Haryana DGP Yadava, whom Home Minister Anil Vij wanted changed, seeks repatriation to IB||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 22Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava has sought repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau "to resume duties as Additional Director in the IB due to career and family considerations".Yadava had joined as DGP, Haryana, in February 2019 for a period of two years. The Haryana Government, in January 2021, two months before his term ended, had extended Yadava's term "till further orders". However, Home Minister Anil Vij had taken exception to the extension and pushed for a panel to select a new DGP. But Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar dug in his heels and Yadava continued to be the head of the police force. Later, the Ministry of Home Affairs also gave permission for extension of stay by a period of one year to Yadava in a letter in March this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dgp-yadava-whom-home-minister-anil-vij-wanted-changed-seeks-repatriation-to-ib-272386
