24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana records 19 fresh deaths, 102 cases||Haryana on Thursday reported 19 more coronavirus-related deaths, taking the fatality toll to 9,333, while 102 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 7,68,002.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest deaths include two each from Gurgaon, Hisar, Panipat and Bhiwani districts.Palwal (20), Fatehabad (10) and Panchkula (10) were the only districts where the fresh cases were recorded in double digits on Thursday, while in the four of the remaining 19 districts in the state, there were no new cases reported during the past 24 hours, the bulletin stated.The number of active cases in the state is 1,990.A total of 7,56,679 patients have recovered so far in the state, as per the bulletin, adding the recovery rate was 98.53 percent.The cumulative positivity rate was 7.80 percent, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-19-fresh-deaths-102-cases-273413
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||60,789 jabbed across Haryana||As many as 60,789 persons in the state were vaccinated against Covid-19 today. The number of vaccinated people is pegged at 80,59,232.Meanwhile, 174 fresh Covid cases were reported, taking the number of infected persons to 7,67,900. With 19 more dying to infection, the death toll has reached 9,314. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-789-jabbed-across-haryana-273067
24-06-2021||---||A day later, Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava deletes tweet expressing his desire to rejoin Intelligence Bureau||Chandigarh, June 23Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava (in pic), today, deleted his tweet expressing his desire to rejoin the Intelligence Bureau (IB).In a tweet, the DGP, announcing his desire to relinquish charge as the head of the police force, had said, “Now, the IB beckons and I wish to go back to Government of India due to career and family requirements. I have made a request to the Haryana Government to permit me to go back. Jai Hind.”Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava seeks repatriation to IBThis was accompanied by the letter he had written to the ACS (Home) expressing his desire to go back to the IB. Yadava is an IB officer who had come to the state on deputation for two years and had got an extension for another year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-day-later-haryana-dgp-manoj-yadava-deletes-tweet-expressing-his-desire-to-rejoin-intelligence-bureau-273069
24-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Panel to review timelines for delivering services by HSVP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23The Haryana Right to Service Commission (HRTSC) has made clear its intent to review the timelines prescribed for the delivery of services notified by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP).The commission made it further clear that the current timelines were fixed when the HSVP — erstwhile HUDA — was delivering services offline. But now, the delivery of services is being done online. As such, the commission is of the opinion that these timelines are required to be revisited and re-fixed. “The commission may, after enquiry, propose to make suitable recommendations to the government,” the HRTSC added.The commission also issued notices to four estate officers for personal appearance and the production of documents pertaining to the alleged failure of services to be delivered. Those put on notice are two estate officers of Gurugram, HSVP, and one each in Panchkula and Faridabad.Secretary to the commission and HCS officer Meenaxee Raj said HRTSC Chief Commissioner TC Gupta issued the notices for July 8 and 9 in exercise of powers of a civil court conferred by the Haryana Right to Service Act, 2014.One of the notices said it had been ascertained that the Estate Officer-I, HSVP, Gurugram, had failed to deliver or delayed the delivery of notified services in accordance with the Act in many cases. Therefore, it was decided by the commission to initiate suo motu inquiry.It would be carried out to ascertain whether services were delivered within the notified timelines to the applicants, who submitted their application between January 1 and March 31 to the designated officer.In cases where any of the services were not delivered to the applicants, the commission would ascertain the names of officers responsible for the non-delivery of services or delay in the delivery for deciding whether action for the imposition of penalty/ recommendation of departmental action was called for.The HRTSC has been conferred powers under the Haryana Right to Service Act, 2014, to initiate suo motu inquiries against the government departments failing to deliver services falling under the ambit of the commission. It enjoyed the powers of a civil court under Section 17 of the Act.The need for it||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-to-review-timelines-for-delivering-services-by-hsvp-273070
24-06-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Om Prakash Chautala can’t fight LS, Assembly poll in ’24||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) supremo Om Prakash Chautala, who is set to be released from the jail, cannot contest the 2024 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections.The Representation of People’s Act, 1951, bars any leader convicted of corruption from contesting elections for six years after the release, say sources.However, the four-time Chief Minister will still rule the roost in the state politics. All political parties, including the Congress and BJP, would be in the line of fire of the senior leader, but the JJP, which broke away from the parent INLD to cobble together an alliance with the BJP, would be the main target.The 86-year-old leader has been a bitter critic of the JJP, which his elder son Ajay had formed after parting ways from the INLD in 2018. After the 2019 Assembly poll, the JJP emerged as the kingmaker in Haryana by winning 10 seats.The INLD, on the other hand, had won only one seat — the party’s worst performance to date. Chautala has the tough task of keeping the INLD relevant.While the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections are almost three years away, Chautala’s organisational skills to woo back INLD’s traditional vote bank — farmers — would be at test in the months to come.As per Act, Can’t contest for 6 yearsChautala JJP’s role model: DigvijayDeputy Chief Minister Digvijay Chautala has expressed relief and happiness at the proposed release of his grandfather Om Prakash Chautala from the jail, and said the INLD patriarch was the JJP’s role model. He blamed the Congress for hatching a conspiracy to jail Chautala and his father Ajay in the JBT recruitment scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/om-prakash-chautala-cant-fight-ls-assembly-poll-in-24-273071
24-06-2021||Kurukshetra||International conference on Mobile radio communications in Kurukshetra University||New VC for Starex universityChandigarh: Educationist Prof MM Goel has joined as Vice-Chancellor, Starex University, Gurugram. Professor Goel was welcomed by Mohinder Singh, Chancellor, to the university campus. Professor Goel was currently Adviser(Public Finance) of the Sixth Haryana Finance Commission Haryana. Meanwhile, Dr SL Vasishtahas rejoined as the registrar of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/international-conference-on-mobile-radio-communications-in-kurukshetra-university-273072
24-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Abandoned infant girl’s parents traced to Ambala||The police have traced the parents of a newborn girl, who was found abandoned in a park of the Jagadhri Civil Hospital on June 21, to a village of Ambala district.The baby was spotted by security guard Nikhil. He handed over the child to a nurse posted at the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of the hospital.On the complaint of the security guard, a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 315 of the IPC at the City police station, Jagadhri, on June 22. The baby was covered in a cloth and underneath her was the plastic cover of a private hospital of Yamunanagar. This plastic cover led the police to the parents of the infant. Suresh Sharma, SHO, Jagadhri city police station, said a woman gave birth to twin girls at a private hospital of Yamunanagar eight days ago. While one child was physically fine, the other girl had congenital deformity in her lower limbs. Her in-laws’ family abandoned her in a park of the Civil Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abandoned-infant-girls-parents-traced-to-ambala-273077
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers told to opt for pulses, oilseed||The state government is encouraging farmers to sow pulses and oilseed crops in the state during kharif-2021 so that the fertility of the land can be increased while ensuring availability of edible oil in the state.An official spokesperson said the state government was encouraging farmers to grow pulses (moong, tur) and oilseeds (castor, groundnut) in all districts of Haryana. The government aims to plant pulses instead of millet on 70,000 acres and oilseeds instead of millet on 30,000 acres. The spokesperson said under this move, financial assistance of Rs 4,000 per acre would also be given to farmers.He said registration for pulses and oilseed can be done on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal till July 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-told-to-opt-for-pulses-oilseed-273081
24-06-2021||---||AAP to contest local body, panchayat poll in Haryana on party symbol||New Delhi, June 23The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest the forthcoming elections to Urban Local Bodies and gram panchayats in Haryana on its symbol.The elections are long overdue, and are expected to be held after the easing of the Covid pandemic.“The decision to fight the local bodies’ elections will be the concrete starting block for its plans to contest the next Assembly and Lok Sabha poll in the state,” Rajya Sabha member and AAP’s Haryana in-charge Sushil Gupta said here today.“The local elections will be contested on the party symbol to convey the message that AAP is not woolly headed, but full of determination,” he said.AAP’s optimism stems from the support it claims to be receiving from people in villages, especially after the farmers’ agitation against the three Central farm laws.The party had tested the political waters by unsuccessfully contesting the last Lok Sabha and Assembly elections in the state.It had contested from Faridabad, Ambala and Karnal in the 2019 parliamentary elections in alliance with the JJP. Subsequently, it had contested 46 seats in the Assembly elections. The party had failed to open its account in both elections.AAP leaders said though the party did not bag any seat in the elections, it sent out a loud message that it was here to stay. Besides, the move inspired confidence among people, and helped the party to increase the enrolment of new members.Gupta said, “The ruling BJP-JJP government has been discredited, while the Congress is a faction-ridden entity. The INLD and the JJP, depend on caste politics. In this scenario, AAP feels confident of making inroads into the local elections.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-to-contest-local-body-panchayat-poll-in-haryana-on-party-symbol-273082
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM: Govt job for international medal-winners||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that the players who win medals in international sporting events would be given government jobs.The Chief Minister was interacting with Olympic medallists on International Olympic Day here on Wednesday. Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh was also present.The CM said besides getting government jobs in the Sports Department, international-level medal-winning sportspersons would be appointed on deputation basis in Education and other departments.Singh said Rs 6 crore would be given to Tokyo gold medal winners, Rs 4 crore to silver medallists and Rs 2.5 crore to bronze medal winners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-govt-job-for-international-medal-winners-273083
24-06-2021||Gurugram||Mobile dealer’s car robbed in Gurugram||Two unidentified men snatched a car from a Julana-based mobile shop owner at gunpoint near IFFCO Chowk here last night, the police have said.The victim, identified as Sukhchain of Jind’s Julana town, and two of his friends were returning home after having bought mobile phones and accessories from Delhi when the incident took place.More than Rs 1 lakh, 11 mobile phones, three LED screens and mobile accessories worth Rs 25,000 were in the car.The police recovered the car from Delhi with the help of the GPS installed in it, but the cash and other articles were missing.An FIR was registered under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mobile-dealers-car-robbed-in-gurugram-273085
24-06-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram MC issues fake death certificate of living doctor, under lens||Gurugram, June 23The Municipal Corporation is under the scanner for allegedly issuing the death certificate of a living doctor.The certificate was allegedly used by fraudsters to claim the doctor’s insurance money. The fraud came to the fore when an insurance surveyor visited his home.Dr Ashish Singla, Medical Officer, Municipal Corporation, could not be contacted.Following a complaint by the doctor’s wife, an FIR has been registered at Sector 29 police station.According to the complaint filed by Deepika Bhalla, a resident of South City-1, unidentified fraudsters made a claim on her husband Dr Prashant Bhalla’s insurance on her behalf.According to her, the accused used a fraudulent death certificate of her husband. Dr Prashant Bhalla is the owner of Manav Rachna University.“The data regarding my nomination in the insurance policies of my husband were leaked from the insurance company. Subsequently, some miscreants hatched a plan to rob us of the insurance amount. They went to the extent of falsely registering the death of my husband with the Registrar, Births and Deaths, at Government Hospital, Sector 10, Gurugram, and obtained a fake death certificate duly verified and signed.“They further synchronised a bank account of an impersonator having the same name as mine to withdraw the funds. Fortunately, officials of the insurance investigative agency landed at our house for verification and we got to know of the fraud,” said complainant Deepika Bhalla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-mc-issues-fake-death-certificate-of-living-doctor-under-lens-273086
24-06-2021||The road||Vendors continue to block Defence Colony road in Ambala||Anil, Ambala canttHisar’s Desar Talab now turned into garbage dumpThe Desar Talab, a pond in Bass Akbarpur in Hisar district, has become a garbage dump. There was a time when this pond was known for its clean water and people used it for domestic purpose. Festivals were celebrated on the bank of Desar. Animals from three villages -- Bass Akbarpur, Bass Badshahpur and Bass Khurad Bijan-drank fresh water in the pond. Now, the pond has become a garbage dump. The village now has become a nagarpalika. The Bass municipality and tehsil administration should look into this matter and take necessary action to clean the pond.Subedar VK Moun (Retd), HisarDamaged roads in Rohtak pose risk to commutersIn Rohtak, there are many places where the conditions of roads are very poor. Use of poor quality material is one of the reasons behind the pathetic condition. Because of this, many accidents are also taking place daily in the city. The National Highways Authorities of India should fill the pits as soon as possible as these are prone to accidents. At night, there is no light on many roads in the city.Jaideep Ahlawan, RohtakIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vendors-continue-to-block-defence-colony-road-in-ambala-273088
24-06-2021||Gurugram||Man held for sodomising six-year-old boy||A 29-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly sodomising a six-year-old boy on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Deepak (29), was produced in a local court, which sent him to judicial custody. The accused runs a shop in Sector 9 here. He called the boy, who lives in the same locality, to his shop on the pretext of playing PUBG and allegedly committed the crime. The accused has been booked under the POCSO Act. He has reportedly confessed to his crime. ocChandigarhPost of ‘numberdar’ to stay, says DushyantDeputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has announced that the post of ‘numberdars’ would not be abolished. Besides, the ‘numberdars’ would be given honorarium on a fixed date of every month. All ‘numberdars’ have been linked to the Ayushman Bharat scheme by the state government and soon, smartphones would also be given to them for accelerating the work and connecting them digitally to the welfare schemes. TNSKarnal4 injured in firing incidentFour people received injuries when some unidentified persons opened fire at Arjun Nagar in Kaithal city late on Tuesday night. The miscreants also attacked the families of the victims. The reason behind the attack is yet to be ascertained, but the police suspect it to be the result of some old enmity. Six persons have been booked. TNSAmbalaSquadron Leader sent to police custodyThe Squadron Leader, who was arrested by Ambala police after his wife Lieutenant Sakshi (29) allegedly died by suicide at her service quarters in Ambala Cantonment on Monday, was produced before a court today which sent him to one-day police remand. TNSChandigarhYouth Cong poll schedule outHaryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja today announced elections for Indian Youth Congress (IYC) in the state. Holding a press conference on Wednesday, she informed that the nomination process would start from June 24 and would continue till June 30. TNSAmbalaInfant, found abandoned in field, diesA newborn baby girl, who was found abandoned in a field of Bhareri Khurd village on Wednesday, died at the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, during treatment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-sodomising-six-year-old-boy-273089
24-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||PMAY: Two years on, no trace of 800 housing scheme applicants||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 23Over 800 persons who were found eligible to get monetary aid under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana (PMAY) to build houses in Rohtak and Jhajjar districts remain untraceable even after two years. Their cellphones continue to either remain switched off or out of the network coverage area while home addresses mentioned in the application forms are also undetectable. The municipal authorities have now urged the state government to reject their applications. As many as 438 such persons are in Rohtak and 365 in Jhajjar district.Sources said fake applications, shifting of applicants to other places, change of contact number and their disinterest might be the reasons behind it.A total monetary aid of Rs 2.5 lakh in three installments is provided to people from the BPL category under the PMAY to build new houses. The first installment of Rs one lakh is given after construction of the house upto the DPC level and second installment of the same amount on building of rooftop are transferred to the beneficiary’s bank account while the last one of Rs 50,000 is awarded on the completion of the house. Similarly, a financial aid of Rs 1.5 lakh is also provided for the enhancement of the house.“The applications for the scheme were invited in 2017-18 and around 10,000 persons residing in Jhajjar applied to avail the benefit. In 2019, a total of 701 among them were found eligible on the basis of documents attached with the applications. Around 365 among them are untraceable,” said Arun Sagoo, an official associated with PMAY, in Jhajjar.“Our teams visited localities mentioned in the application but applicants were not found residing there. Their contact numbers too are inaccessible hence all such people are requested to come to our office to avail the benefit,” he added.Jagdish Chander, Zonal Taxation officer, Municipal Corporation, Rohtak, said a total of 1,221 applicants were declared eligible for the scheme two years ago. “As many as 438 among them are still untraceable as locality names instead of house numbers are mentioned in the applications. It came to the fore when our teams went there for geo-tagging of the site. We have sent their reports to the government urging it to reject the applications,” he added.Monetary aid to BPL categoryA total monetary aid of Rs 2.5 lakh in three installments is provided to people from the BPL category under the PMAY to build new houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pmay-two-years-on-no-trace-of-800-housing-scheme-applicants-273090
24-06-2021||Parveen Arora||9 Karnal hospitals indicted for overcharging||tribune news serviceKarnal, June 23Even as the Haryana Government has fixed rates for Covid treatment, at least nine city hospitals have been found guilty of overcharging.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav had formed an audit team to probe the accounts of 15 private medical institutions. The nine hospitals charged Rs 57.17 lakh excess amount from 481 patients between March 1 and May 31, the audit report found.The audit team found no discrepancies in the record of five hospitals, while the record of one hospital was not found in order. Its management has been issued a show-cause notice and told to reply in a week. Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma has been told to get the excess amount refunded to the patients or their attendants.Yadav said, “The audit team reviewed each and every bill and contacted the attendants or patients. I will ensure that the overcharged amount is refunded to them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-karnal-hospitals-indicted-for-overcharging-273197
24-06-2021||Panchkula||Posts of numberdar won’t be abolished: Haryana Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today announced that the post of numberdars would not be abolished and they would be given an honorarium on a fixed date of every month.“All numberdars have been linked to the Ayushman Bharat Scheme by the state government. Soon, smart phones will also be made available for accelerating work and connecting them digitally to the state government welfare schemes,” Chautala added.Chautala invited numberdars to give feedback and suggestions so that they could be included during social audits at the village, town, block, tehsil and district levels.Numberdars would also be included in the committee constituted to monitor development works being carried out by panchayati raj institutions.“If there is more participation, the honorarium of numberdars can be increased. The state government’s vision is to make a provision for a fixed salary budget at each village, block, tehsil and district level so that institutional development can be ensured,” said Chautala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/posts-of-numberdar-wont-be-abolished-haryana-deputy-cm-273195
24-06-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Former Haryana CM Chautala set to walk free from Tihar; reviving INLD his biggest challenge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23The re-entry of former Haryana CM and Indian National Lok Dal supremo Om Prakash Chautala on the political scene is all set to change the way Jat politics plays out in the state.Chautala, serving a 10-year prison term in the teacher recruitment scam, is presently out on parole and will be freed from Delhi’s Tihar Jail as soon as he surrenders before the jail authorities.His release comes in the wake of the Delhi Government granting him a six-month remission of sentence amid Covid. He has already served over nine-and-a-half years of his jail term.In Haryana, his release is being watched with interest since the state has always been divided along the caste lines and between Jat and non-Jat voters.no MLA in AssemblyOP Chautala-led INLD is unrepresented in AssemblyIts lone MLA Abhay quit in the wake of farm protestsChautala faces tough task of rebuilding the INLDIn his absence, the vacuum in the Jat leadership was filled by Congress leader and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda as also Chautala’s grandson Dushyant, who is Deputy CM in the BJP-JJP government. Whether he can regain the lost ground is the biggest challenge for him. The INLD is presently unrepresented in the Haryana Assembly after the lone sitting member and Chautala’s son (Abhay Chautala) resigned in the wake of farmers’ protests.The 86-year-old leader will need to consolidate his vote bank of farmers and Jats. He has the onerous task of rebuilding the INLD, which has completely lost out to the breakaway faction, the JJP.In the backdrop of the farmers’ protests, it remains to be seen how the INLD supremo uses the platform to further galvanise the movement and bring the INLD into reckoning. Whatever gains the party makes will be at the cost of the JJP and the Congress. The upcoming panchayat polls in the state will be his first test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-cm-chautala-set-to-walk-free-from-tihar-reviving-inld-his-biggest-challenge-273191
