25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress terms Haryana govt’s move to increase market fee as ‘anti-farmer’||The Congress party on Friday slammed the Haryana government’s move to increase the market fee levied on all varieties of paddy.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala demanded that the decision to increase the market fee levied be rolled back immediately.On June 22, the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board had increased the levy of market fee from 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent on ad-valorem basis on the agricultural produces comprising—Basmati, 1509 (paddy variety), DB and Sarbati paddy, that is on all varieties of paddy including PR variety.“The government’s decision to increase the market fee and its proposal to increase the HRDF (rural development fund cess) on paddy is an anti-farmer diktat,” he said in a statement.He said after this decision, the farmers of Haryana will be compelled, either to sell off their crops in the neighbouring states’ agricultural mandis or they will have to sell paddy to the traders at a price cheaper by at least Rs 100-150 per quintal.The Congress party’s chief spokesperson further said that last year 42.5 lakh metric tonnes of Basmati & 1509 paddy and 56 lakh metric tonnes of parmal rice variety was procured in the state of Haryana.He said the decision to hike the fee will cause additional economic burden not only on farmers, but also on arhtiyas (commission agents), labourers working in grain markets and as well as on rice millers.“The farmers will either have to sell their paddy in neighbouring states like Punjab-Delhi etc, where the market fee is less, which would be a time consuming proposition as well as the farmer will have to pay the cost of transportation, which will increase his cost,” he said.Surjewala said that if Haryana farmers go to the mandis of other states to sell their crops, then they will not only suffer financial loss, but at the same time the state government will also generate less revenue as not being able to collect the tax.He said that paddy crop is grown in abundance in large parts of the state including Yamunanagar, Kaithal, Ambala, Jind, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Panipat, Karnal, Sonipat districts. “On one hand, the government insists that the grain markets are not being abolished, but the decisions being taken by the state government in the name of reducing losses of Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) are clearly indicative of the government’s ill intentions to eliminate mandis and push the farm business to the big private players.“Haryana’s paddy will be sold outside Haryana’s mandis due to increase in market fee, which will have a direct impact on the state’s mandis and they will reach the brink of ruin. It has also become clear from the decision of the government that it intends to eliminate both traders and farmers,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-terms-haryana-govts-move-to-increase-market-fee-as-anti-farmer-273907
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana ex-minister Ajay Yadav lodges police complaint over Aadhaar misuse||Senior Congress leader and former Haryana minister Ajay Singh Yadav lodged a police complaint in Rewari alleging misuse of his Aadhaar card number by someone in Bihar to make purchases of urea fertliser.He said he has been receiving messages on his mobile phone regarding the purchase.Yadav told reporters in Rewari that he recently received three messages on his mobile phone of making purchase of neem-coated urea from a dealer in Saharsa in Bihar.The recent message received was for a purchase made for Rs 2,394.“I received messages on my mobile number, saying the subsidy on the urea purchase made will be borne by the Government of India on behalf of the farmer,” the Congress leader said.He said after receiving the first message, he had alerted the Rewari deputy commissioner and an agriculture officer.Yadav said after preliminary investigation, he was told that someone in Bihar could be misusing his Aadhaar card number.“Thinking this may be part of some scam and someone may be cheating the real beneficiary farmers in Bihar, I lodged a police complaint on Thursday with the cybercrime police here,” he said.“I am an ex-minister from Haryana and a former six-time MLA, if my Aadhaar card is misused like this, what will be the fate of a common man? I urge the Centre and Nitish Kumar (Bihar CM) to take immediate cognizance of the matter as this may be some sort of a fertilizer scam, which needs to be probed,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ex-minister-ajay-yadav-lodges-police-complaint-over-aadhaar-misuse-273878
25-06-2021||Hisar||Haryana BSEH Board Exam 2021: Assessment formula For Class 12 released; results by July 25||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani is likely to announce the results of class 12 students by July 25.  BSEH Jagbir Singh said that the board had devised a formula to compile the result of the students where 30 per cent weightage would be given to marks in matriculation, 10 per cent to marks in class 11, and 60 per cent to marks pre-board examinations held in class 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-bseh-board-exam-2021-assessment-formula-for-class-12-released-results-by-july-25-273809
25-06-2021||---||Protester from Punjab’s Moga dies at Tikri border||Jhajjar, June 25A 75-year-old protester from Moga district of Punjab died at the Tikri border in the wee hours of Friday.He has been identified as Balvir Singh of Budh Singh Wala village.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said Balvir was brought dead to the Trauma Centre at Bahadurgarh."The exact reason of death will be ascertained after autopsy," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protester-from-punjabs-moga-dies-at-tikri-border-273802
25-06-2021||Karnal||Solid waste management plant hazardous for Karnal residents||A solid waste management plant, situated near Shekhpura Suhana village on the Karnal-Meerut road, has become a health hazard for residents living in the vicinity as the plant is not fully functional. Heaps of garbage are piling up on the premises, causing inconvenience to the residents and commuters.As per an estimate of officials, around 1 lakh MT legacy waste and around 25,000 tonnes fresh waste is lying unattended on the premises of the plant, which is a cause of concern for the administration as the monsoon is nearing.With an aim to convert solid waste into compost and refuse-derived fuel (RDF) under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), the previous Congress government had started this project in 2012. Hydro-air Tectonics Pollution Control Development Limited (HTPL), a Mumbai-based company had constructed the plant at the cost of Rs 32 crore. Half of the cost of the project was borne by the state government. It was a BOT basis project for 30 years, but the work tender was cancelled by the Karnal Municipal Corporation in 2017 due to ‘poor operation’ of the project and the MC took over the charge of the plant.Since that day, the MC has been operating the plant by hiring an agency. As per sources associated with the project, the plant is working in one shift, which is not sufficient to process the whole garbage. The plant can process around 150 tonnes garbage per day, but it is processing very little garbage, leading to heaps of garbage mounting outside.The residents are afraid that the rain can lead to outbreak of diseases in the vicinity. “Monsoon is nearing and still a huge quantity of garbage is lying there, which is yet to be processed.The garbage can spread diseases and the place will become a breeding ground for mosquitoes,” said Happy, a resident of Sector 5.Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, MC, Karnal said the plant was not working to its full capacity. “I visited the plant and found it was not functional to its full capacity. My target is to ensure functioning of the plant to its full capacity, which is around 150 tonnes per day. Also, efforts are being made to enhance its capacity to 300 tonnes per day,” he added. “I have given the target to the agency concerned, which has been assigned for bioremediation for the treatment of legacy waste to establish its plant within 15 days, so that processing of waste can be completed in a time-bound manner,” the Commissioner said. “For the fresh waste, we are trying to ensure the functioning of the machinery round the clock in three shifts, which is at present in one shift,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/solid-waste-management-plant-hazardous-for-karnal-residents-273503
25-06-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Food delivery boy thrashed as curry box leaks||In a shocking incident which has led to uproar online, a Swiggy delivery executive, was allegedly thrashed by a flat owner and his domestic help as a box of curry leaked. The executive complained to the police and an FIR was registered at the Sector 50 police station.According to the complaint filed by Charan Singh, a native of UP, he had gone to deliver food in south city 2 in Sector 49 last night. He works as a delivery boy with the online food supplier chain, Swiggy.“The domestic help came out to take the delivery and I gave the food to him. Soon, he called another man who was probably the owner and started shouting at me saying a box of gravy had leaked. As I tried to reason out with both of them, they began beating me. They held me there and threatened to kill me till a security guard nearby intervened and rescued me and I called the police, “Charan Singh told the police.As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the accused under Sections 323 (causing hurt), 341 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Sector 50 police station.“We are verifying and investigating. The accused will be nabbed soon”, said ASI Dinesh Kumar, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/food-delivery-boy-thrashed-as-curry-box-leaks-273506
25-06-2021||Kurukshetra||Biological advancements in vaccines||Agri-business incubation centreHisar: Shomita Biswas, Joint Secretary, Mechanisation and Technology Division, Development of Agriculture Cooperation and Farmer Welfare, Government of India, visited the Agri-Bussiness Incubation Centre (ABIC), Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar, and said the youth with the help of ABIC could be job providers instead of job seekers. The ABIC centre not only helps in becoming a successful entrepreneur but also give technical knowledge and skill. Biswas said establishment of the ABIC was praise worthy as it was motivating startups in the agriculture field and helping farmers and students financially. Vice Chancellor BR Kamboj informed the Joint Secretary that the ABIC is motivating youth and farmers and imparting technical knowledge and skill for establishing successful startups in the agriculture field.Teachers' training workshopAmbala: INTACH, Ambala, organised a webinar on teachers' training workshop, which was coordinated by Col RD Singh, Convener. As many as 35 teachers from 18 schools, including one from Naraingarh, participated in the webinar. The aim of the workshop was to focus on heritage of Ambala, and empower teachers to further motivate their students towards heritage awareness and its upkeep.Jhajjar girl brings laurelsJhajjar: Niharika Singh, first year student at World College of Medical Sciences, Jhajjar, has secured third position in inter-college talent hunt event organised online by Government Medical College, Bharatpur (Rajasthan). She got the prize in the sketching competition of the event. Niharika was also declared first runner up in the poetry recitation contest.CUH holds webinarMahendragarh: Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised a webinar on "Mentoring and monitoring of mental health of students in higher education: An essential component of NEP 2020." CUH Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad informed Prof Girishwar Mishra, Ex-VC, Mahatma Gandhi International Hindi University, and Dr Umed Singh, retired professor of Kurukshetra University were the key speakers. Mishra emphasised on health, especially maintaining of physical and mental health, to deal with various problems for a long time. Singh said the mental health of the students would have to be worked on at the school level itself and parents will have to make a special contribution in this effort.Web talk organisedYamunanagar: A web talk on "Universal access to vaccine and medicine as a fight against Covid 19" was organised by the department of physics of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said this event was a part of five-day programme related to World Awareness Week organised by Kurukshetra University. He said the keynote speaker of the programme was Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Yamunanagar district.Interactive session on careerYamunanagar: An interactive session on career opportunities after graduation was organised at Maharaja Agrasain Mahavidyalaya, Jagadhri. The programme was held by Professor Gourav Bareja, convener of career guidance and placement cell of the college. The keynote speakers of the programme were Tamosi Sarkar and Savita from Bulls Eye, Chandigarh. College principal, Dr PK Bajpai said setting goals and moving forward with a positive attitude was the only step to achieve success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/biological-advancements-in-vaccines-273507
25-06-2021||Gurugram||Ashadh Mela  from  June 25||With Covid cases at an all time low, Gurugram is all set to host the Sheetla mata ashad mela from June 25.With 300 cops on duty and equal number of officials, the authorities will strive to keep this religious fair of region a success. There will be a provision for online darshan, live screening of the aarti and limited hours for physical darshan. According to officials, devotees can visit the temple between 5 pm to 10 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ashadh-mela-from-june-25-273508
25-06-2021||Karnal||Paediatrics intensive care unit established at KCGMC||Keeping in view the third wave, which may affect children the most, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, a dedicated Covid hospital for four districts, has geared up to strengthen the health infrastructure for childcare. It has set up the facility of Paediatrics Intensive Care Unit (PICU) of 20 beds on the second floor of the indoor patients department (IPD) building. Besides, it has also increased the strength of beds in the paediatrics ward to 60 beds from 30 beds for childcare.The hospital already has a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of 14 beds, which is for new born babies. For the children upto the age of 14years, it did not have any ICU, which has now been established. The authorities have installed six ventilators in PICU and a demand for 10 more neonatal ventilators have been made for the NICU, which, as per officials, will help in strengthening the childcare infrastructure. “We are strengthening the childcare infrastructure. So far, we have set up the PICU and demand for 10 neonatal ventilators has been sent to the state government. We have also sent the list of vacant post of doctors and paramedical staff, so that it can be filled timely to cater to the need during the third ward if it arises,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC. Besides, the KCGMC authorities will also impart training to the doctors and staff nurses to handle the pediatrics patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paediatrics-intensive-care-unit-established-at-kcgmc-273509
25-06-2021||Rohtak||Covid casts shadow on jewellery business||Jewellers in the district are facing a double whammy of manpower shortage and rise in prices of raw materials. As a result, the manufacturing cost has increased, making it difficult for jewelers to fulfil orders booked before the lockdown at reduced prices.Hemant Bakshi, state coordinator, Indian Bullion and Jewellers Association, said: “More than 2,000 workers are engaged in the jewellery business in the district. A majority of them belongs to West Bengal and Maharashtra. Only 30 per cent of them have returned to Rohtak.”A chain of workers is required to manufacture ornaments. Local workers melt, polish and cut the metal, while migrant workers manufacture jewellery items. “As manufacturing units in Rajkot, Surat, Mumbai, Coimbatore, Chennai, Ahmadabad, Jaipur, Kolkata and Delhi are yet to resume operations, jewellers are not getting ready-made jewelleries from there to meet the demand,” Bakshi said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-casts-shadow-on-jewellery-business-273510
25-06-2021||Karnal||Free Wi-Fi facility in parks non-functional||Free Internet service available through Wi-Fi in 25 parks of the city is non-functional. Only pillars with signboards, displaying free Wi-Fi facility in the parks are standing tall, but on the name of facility there is nothing in parks.The Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) had initiated this smart step of developing Wi-Fi zones in 25 parks for offering free access to the Internet for its citizen with the cost of Rs 6.5 lakh per month, in April, 2017.At that time, tall claims were made by the authorities that the free Wi-Fi facility would help the residents in surfing net in the cozy green environment. The Karnal MC developed 25 Wi-Fi zones in Atal Park, Karan Park, Karan Taal, Swami Vivekanand, Park Avenue Sector 13, Shaymalsen Park in Sector 13, Musical Fountain on Mughal Canal, Jernaily Colony Park, Saint Kabir park, Kalpana Chawla Park in Model Town, Parnami Park, Sant Kashmira Singh Park, parks in Ward 14, 1 and others. At that time, it was claimed that a data of 100MB per day per person would be extended. Besides, it was said that every Wi-Fi hotspot would have a range of 100 meters.The sources in the MC said that the facility was lying non-functional for the last two-years. The residents blamed the KMC for taking step without proper planning. “Developing Wi-Fi zones in 25 parks was not a wise decision, but instead it should have been developed in three to four major parks of the city where a large number of people visit,” said Simranjeet Singh, a resident of the city. Sagar Nagpal, another resident, said that after looking signboard in Atal Park, he tried a lot to access the Wi-Fi facility, but failed to do so. If the facility is non-functional, then the display boards should be removed as these boards mislead the residents.Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, MC, said he would review the project soon and find out as to why it was not functional. “We will take decision after reviewing the previous operation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-wi-fi-facility-in-parks-non-functional-273511
25-06-2021||This visibly accident-prone hotspot||Potholes dot this widely used Panchkula road||Pvt cabbies Overcharge in absence of roadways busesDue to prolonged lockdown, the Haryana Roadways has suspended its operations that has led to mushrooming of illegal private cab business. After six in the evening, when the state roadways buses still don’t operate, these cab drivers can be seen around bus stands. They don’t have any permit to operate but still they carry 6-8 passengers at double the rates of the state buses. They violate all Covid norms. They drive recklessly to avoid checking by the roadways staff. The traffic police should challan and impound such illegal vehicles. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaLet’s cycle for good health, immunityWe have just celebrated International Yoga Day. We must do yoga daily for good physical and mental health. Similarly, we must build cycling as a part of our daily habit. We should use bicycle as our main conveyance for short distances, particularly students. That will not only ensure good health but also enhance our immunity against Covid. It will save unending road accidents, make life simple, and lead to a better environment. The authorities should think of cycle tracks, and safety of the cyclists. Let’s not see cycle as a poor man’s conveyance, but symbol of good health. — Colonel RD Singh, Ambala CanttIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholes-dot-this-widely-used-panchkula-road-273512
25-06-2021||Rohtak||SKM mobilises Dalits, students, women for protest tomorrow||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has said associations of labourers, women, students, Dalits and minorities would be roped in for the June 26 event to mark seven months of the farmers’ agitation against the three agricultural laws enacted last year.Farmers at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points are gearing up for June 26 and they will observe the day as “Save Agriculture, Save Democracy Day”.The SKM told the media here today that memorandums would be submitted to the President through the Governors of different states on June 26.June 26 also marks the anniversary of Emergency imposed in 1975 by then Congress government.“It is an irony that the BJP leadership, which claims to be the victim of the Emergency, has declared a sort of undeclared emergency in the country, where voices of dissent are suppressed with brutal force,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, Haryana unit.Yogendra Yadav, SKM leader, said the BJP regime at the Centre had made emergency-like situation a normal way of life.When asked about the possible solution to the stalemate between farmers and the Centre, he said: “Satta (government) should bow before janata (public).”Jhajjar: Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda visited the family of Mukesh Modgil, who died of burn injuries at the Tikri border a week ago after four men associated with the farmers’ agitation allegedly set him on fire, in the district’s Kassar village today.He expressed his condolences, and demanded financial aid and a government job for the deceased’s wife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-mobilises-dalits-students-women-for-protest-tomorrow-273513
25-06-2021||Hisar||Black flags outside BJP office in Hisar||A group of protesting farmers waved black flags and tore banners of the BJP near the party head office as local party leaders participated in the state executive body meeting via the online mode here today.As the farmers had given a call to stage a protest demonstration during the BJP meeting, the police had erected barricades near Sector 14. The farmers, however, took another alternative route and reached in front of the BJP head office even as the police tried to block their way. The farmers, carrying black flags, staged a demonstration and raised anti-government slogans. Some youths also tore a banner of the BJP.Satbir Dhayal of the BKU said they would continue to protest against ruling party leaders until the Centre withdrew the three agriculture laws.Meanwhile, BJP leaders, including Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta, attended the meeting held in Chandigarh through video-conference. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-flags-outside-bjp-office-in-hisar-273514
25-06-2021||Hisar||Mining mafia attacks RTA’s vehicle; 3 hurt||The incident of the attack on a vehicle of the regional transport authority (RTA) by an overloaded truck left three officials seriously injured, while the vehicle was completely damaged near Chaudhariwas village in the district on Tuesday night.The police registered a case of attempt to murder case against the truck driver who fled from the spot.Case registeredOn Tuesday night, a driver, who was carrying sand in his truck, rammed into the RTA’s vehicle when he was to stop near Chaudhariwas village of Hisar district . An attempt-to-murder case was registered.The police said the RTA inspector Kuldeep Singh, along with constable Sandeep and another employee Jitender, was deployed at the Shahpur-Ludas chowk when they signalled the overloaded truck (HR-55L-9196) coming from Rajgarh in Rajasthan to stop. However, the truck driver speeded up, after which the team overtook the truck and tried to bring his vehicle to a halt. The truck, however, rammed into the government vehicle from behind and sped away. The officials suffered serious injuries, but managed to contact their colleagues who rushed them to hospital.Sources said the RTA officials got a tip-off that mining and overloading mafia were working in tandem by creating a WhatsApp group, in which they shared information about the presence of RTA officials. But the RTA team managed to dodge them on Tuesday night.DTO Sunil Kumar Dhaka said the attack had not dampened their resolve and they would continue to act against the overloading mafia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-mafia-attacks-rtas-vehicle-3-hurt-273515
25-06-2021||Panipat||Acid poured into infant’s mouth; dead||A four-month-old child was allegedly murdered by pouring acid into his mouth in Vikas Nagar Colony here.The police have registered a case under Sections 302, 328 of the IPC against a woman, Lakshmi.The deceased was identified as Harshit, son of Nawal Kishor. Kanta, mother of the deceased, said they were living in a rented accommodation in the Vikas Nagar. She said Lakshmi was also living in the same building.Kanta said around a week ago, she had a feud with Lakshmi over the children. She went to take water on the first floor on Tuesday and her son Harshit was in a room.As she returned, she saw Lakshmi coming out of her room. She saw her child was vomiting some acidic substance. The child was taken to the General Hospital, where he died on Thursday.Kanta and her husband alleged Lakshmi had murdered their son by pouring acid into his mouth.As per the postmortem report, some acidic substance (like toilet cleaner) was found in the stomach of the child, the police said Inspector Sunil Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/acid-poured-into-infants-mouth-dead-273516
25-06-2021||Sonepat||Eight Sonepat men duped of Rs69L on pretext of police jobs||A Chandigarh resident has been booked for allegedly duping eight men of Rs 69 lakh on the pretext of getting them jobs in the Haryana Police.The accused has been identified as Vishal Vashisth. The matter came to notice when Kuldeep, a resident of the district’s Gharwal village, submitted a complaint to the Superintendent of Police.One bookedIn his complaint, Kuldeep said he came in contact with Vashisth during a wedding in 2017. “He had stayed at my place for three days for the wedding functions. During his stay, he had claimed that he had good relations with senior government officials and that he could get a job for my son in the police,” he said.In 2018, when the state government had advertised posts of constable and Sub-inspector, Vashisth had called up Kuldeep and asked him to fill his son’s form for the ASI’s post. He claimed to get the job for his son and, in return, he demanded Rs 10 lakh, alleged the complainant.“He asked me to rope in more candidates. I talked to five youths who agreed to pay up. Later, two more youths joined. Vashisth demanded Rs 8 lakh for the post of constable and Rs 25 lakh for the Sub-inspector’s,” Kuldeep said in his complaint.The gullible youths ended up paying Vashisth Rs 69 lakh. “He took Rs 50 lakh in cash, while Rs 19 lakh was deposited in his bank account,” said Kuldeep in his complaint.When the result for the police posts was announced in January 2019 and none of the eight youths made the cut, they demanded the money back.“At first, he made excuses and later threatened me of dire consequences. After much persuasion, Vashisth returned Rs 59 lakh by selling his brother’s land,” said the complainant.“The accused has been booked under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC. The investigation is in progress,” said Baroda police station SHO Inspector Badan Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eight-sonepat-men-duped-of-rs69l-on-pretext-of-police-jobs-273517
25-06-2021||Kaithal||Kaithal saw 8-fold rise in deaths in May||Kaithal district has witnessed an eight-fold surge in deaths in May, during peak of second Covid wave, in comparison to the fatalities reported in the same month last year.As per the records procured from the Health Department, the district reported 192 deaths in May against 23 in the same month last year.In April, the district reported 38 deaths in comparison to 17 in the corresponding month last year. In March, 17 deaths had been reported against five in March last year.As far as Covid deaths are concerned, the record further reveals, 178 persons died of Covid in May this year, while one death had been reported last year in the corresponding month. In March and April last year, no death had been reported, but this year 24 people died of Covid in April and one in March.In May, patients had a distressing time as they had to struggle for ventilators, beds and oxygen supply. Also, increasing fatalities were a cause for concern. A health official said the number of fatalities could also have increased due to people preferring home isolation over hospitalisation due to fear.Kaithal Civil Surgeon Dr Shailender Mamgain Shelly said the record of every death had been maintained by the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-saw-8-fold-rise-in-deaths-in-may-273518
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||1,225-km village roads to be paved, says Dushyant||Cong leader’s Aadhaar ‘misused’; files plaintRewari: Congress leader Capt Ajay Yadav has filed a complaint to SP, expressing apprehension about the misuse of his Aadhaar card in Bihar. “I received three text messages in the past two months, mentioning that I bought 45-kg bags of fertilisers, for which subsidy has been credited to my bank account. I have not purchased fertilisers. On June 18, I received the second message and apprised SDO (Agriculture) Deepak Yadav, who found out that my Aadhaar card has been misused,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-225-km-village-roads-to-be-paved-says-dushyant-273519
25-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Panels formed to check illegal cutting of trees||After an order was issued by Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal regarding formation of committees to check illegal cutting of trees, the authorities of Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar, have swung into action.They have formed committees in all 22 wards of twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri for providing legal protection to healthy trees within the MC limits.850 trees cut in four yearsOn March 31, Lokayukta issued the order on the complaint of Dr SL Saini, president of Haryana Environment Society (HES), an NGO.The HES has planted 2.5 lakh plants and nurtured those in Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Panchkula districts in the past 30 years.“The Lokayukta court issued some recommendations including forming district-level committees in the state in respect of the complaint filed by me in 2016 for constant monitoring of green cover protection within the MC limits,” said Dr Saini.He said that he knocked on the door of the Lokayukta after MC authorities miserably failed to protect the twin cities’ green cover which, over the years, was developed by HES with the public cooperation.Locally known as “green man”, Saini claimed that about 850 green trees had been cut illegally from roads and parks of the twin cities in the past four years. But only eight FIRs had been lodged in this regard.Mrinal Jaiswal, Municipal Engineer of Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, said that they formed committees in all 22 wards about 15 days ago. “Every committee will have an SDO, a junior engineer and MC councillor of the ward. Their responsibility is to stop illegal felling in their area,” said ME Mrinal Jaiswal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panels-formed-to-check-illegal-cutting-of-trees-273520
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Protect ‘proclaimed person’ with intent to appear before court: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a “proclaimed person” who showed sincere intention and desire to appear before the trial court was required to be protected from arrest.“The objective of the coercive mechanism prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure is to ensure that the accused remains present before the court to receive the orders and punishments as are passed qua (with regard to) the accused. If the accused shows his sincere intention and desire to appear before the court, it would not be unjustified to protect him from being arrested,” Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill asserted.Cheque-bounce caseThe assertion by Justice Gill came on a petition filed against the State of Haryana and another respondent by a woman. She was seeking the quashing of an order, dated May 6, 2019, passed by Faridabad Judicial Magistrate First Class, vide which she was declared a ‘proclaimed person’ on a complaint in a cheque bounce case under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments ActThe assertion by Justice Gill came on a petition filed against the State of Haryana and another respondent by a woman. She was seeking the quashing of an order, dated May 6, 2019, passed by Faridabad Judicial Magistrate First Class, vide which she was declared a “proclaimed person” on a complaint in a cheque bounce case under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act.Her counsel told the Bench that the cheque amount involved in the present complaint was Rs 2, 00,000. She was summoned by the trial court on September 1, 2017, pursuant to which she appeared before the court and was admitted to bail on February 20, 2018. Subsequently, the parties entered into a compromise. But payment in accordance with the compromise could not be made due to loss in business suffered by her husband.The petitioner’s bail was cancelled on December 15, 2018. Thereafter, she was declared a “proclaimed person” on May 6, 2019. He further submitted the petitioner was ready to pay Rs 50,000 to complainant/ respondent by way of a demand draft to show her bona fide.After hearing the counsel, Justice Gill allowed the petition before setting aside the order dated May 6, 2019, subject to the payment of Rs 50,000 by the petitioner to the respondent/complainant before the trial court.The petitioner was further directed to appear before the trial court within 10 days. “On her doing so and paying the amount of Rs 50,000 to the complainant/respondent, she shall be released on bail, subject to furnishing bail and surety bonds to the satisfaction of the learned trial court/Duty Magistrate,” Justice Gill asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protect-proclaimed-person-with-intent-to-appear-before-court-high-court-273521
25-06-2021||Gurugram||Chautala’s release to change political scenario: Birender||Birender Singh, BJP leader, has said the dynamics of the state politics would change with the release of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) supremo Om Prakash Chautala from jail.“People of our state have a gentle heart. They may show sympathy to Chautala. His release presents a challenge to other parties. The dynamics will change,” Singh told the media here.The former Cabinet minister further said the impact of Chautala’s release would be more on the JJP.The BJP leader, meanwhile, praised Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his governance and transparency, but hit out at the bureaucracy. “The main reason for the people’s grievances is that officers have been found wanting in their work.”On the farmers’ agitation, Singh said: “I will not be surprised to see farmers forming the government if they decide to form a political party and contest the elections. That is possible, but the agitation will not lead them anywhere. The stir is directionless and leaderless. Farmers have been misled.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chautalas-release-to-change-political-scenario-birender-273522
25-06-2021||Karnal||3 booked in suicide case||A 29-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house at Jundla village in the district late on Wednesday evening.The family members blamed three persons, including a woman, for it. The Sadar police have registered a case against the trio. The deceased was identified as Sanjeev, while the accused are Manish, Toshi and Salinder of the same village. The family members told the police that Sanjeev was under the influence of occultism in which the trio indulged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-in-suicide-case-273523
25-06-2021||Faridabad||In Faridabad, no takers for industrial plot regularisation scheme||The Municipal Corporation Faridabad’s (MCF) scheme to regularise over 1,000 illegally subdivided industrial plots in the city has failed to draw response. Industrial bodies have urged the authorities to waive or reduce the regularisation charges.“The authorities have fixed Rs 5,500 per sq feet as development charges, which are too high. Amid the pandemic outbreak, most industrial unit owners or entrepreneurs are not in a position to pay the amount. The MCF has been urged to either withdraw or reduce these charges,” said Ramneek Prabhakar, president of the Manufacturers Association of Faridabad. He said the authorities had also been urged to postpone the implementation of the scheme for at least three years as most industrial unit owners were facing financial crisis.“None of the industrial units has applied for regularisation, though notices had been served on them last month,” he said.Rajive Chawla, president of the Integrated Association of Small, Micro and Medium Units, said, “We request the government to either put the scheme on hold or reduce development charges.”Commissioner, MCF, Garima Mittal, said the request of the association had been forwarded to the Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development, for consideration. As per the scheme, August 31 is the last date to apply for regularisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-faridabad-no-takers-for-industrial-plot-regularisation-scheme-273525
25-06-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram birth-death registrar’s ID hacked, 14 fake certificates issued||The official account of birth and death Registrar, Gurugram, has been hacked and 14 fake certificates have allegedly been made.This came to light during investigation of issuance of a fake death certificate of a living doctor. The authorities now suspect that a major insurance scam is being run in the city.According to senior officials of the Health Department, 14 fake certificates were issued from February till today. Out of these, 13 were from Sohna block and one from Bhondsi block.Multilevel scam fearedThe threat of a multilevel scam came to the fore yesterday when fraudsters tried to claim the insurance money of director of Manav Rachna educational institute Dr Prashant Bhalla using his fake death certificate.For all these certificates, there is no data available with the department. The department has now changed the e-mail id and password and has also informed MC Gurugram.“We have alerted all the authorities concerned about the hacking. We have also filed a police complaint,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.The threat of a multilevel scam came to the fore yesterday when fraudsters tried to claim the insurance money of director of Manav Rachna educational institute Dr Prashant Bhalla using his fake death certificate.Preliminary investigation revealed that the fraudsters first hacked the ID of district registrar and then stole the QR code of death certificates issued last year. After scanning the QR code, they changed the name and address and issued the certificates.The anomaly was highlighted by many people who visited common service centres and found fraud registrations on QR codes of their certificates.Meanwhile, a local resident has moved MC, Gurugram, claiming that a senior MCG official had burnt some official papers on the stairs of his society. The complainant, in his letter addressed to MCG Commissioner, said that he had highlighted the issue with former Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh but no action was taken. “I have half torn and burnt papers and I suspect that it may be linked to this scam,” the complainant told The Tribune.MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that they are looking into the matter and the complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-birth-death-registrars-id-hacked-14-fake-certificates-issued-273528
25-06-2021||Hisar||Ex-sarpanch dies by suicide||Fed up of allegedly being blackmailed after getting trapped in a honeytrap, a former sarpanch of Malwi village in Jind district committed suicide by jumping in front of a train yesterday.The police had registered a case of abetment to suicide against four persons, including a woman, and started investigating the matter.The police said the former sarpanch Ramkala had been trapped by the woman and figured in a video. The woman demanded money from him to settle the matter. The police said the body was recovered from the railway tracks near Julana town and a suicide note was also recovered from the place.The victim’s family lodged a complaint with the police against four persons, identified as Muskan, Bablu, Kuldeep and Abhimanyu. “We have registered a case and started investigation,” Railway police SHO Devender Singh said.The former sarpanch had been dismissed from service in a forgery case in 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-sarpanch-dies-by-suicide-273530
25-06-2021||Rohtak||Now, get fitness certificate for commercial vehicles anywhere in the Haryana||Now, owners of commercial vehicles need not face inconvenience in getting fitness certificates for their vehicles due to heavy rush at the government inspection centre in their district concerned.They will now be able to get fitness test of their vehicles done anywhere in the state as the state government has decided to allow authorised dealers of the original equipment manufacturers (automobile companies) to operate “testing stations” for conducting fitness test and grant/renewal of certificate of fitness for the make of vehicles concerned, said sources.The sources maintained that the decision had been taken in view of the problem of capacity, including expert manpower and infrastructure required, for testing and perennial complaints of transparency. The dealers would have to apply to get a grant of letter of authority by paying a stipulated fee.“The test of fitness and grant of certificate of fitness in the state has, thus far, been done by the Board of inspection, but it has, however, been plagued by multiple problems, hence it has been decided to increase the availability of quality facilities for testing fitness and for the grant of certificate of fitness to improve ease-of-doing business and for transparency,” said an order sent by Transport Commissioner, Haryana, to All district Transport officers-cum-Secretary, Regional Transport Authorities (RTA) yesterday.The order further states that testing stations will have to meet the criteria laid down in the rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-get-fitness-certificate-for-commercial-vehicles-anywhere-in-the-haryana-273531
25-06-2021||Kurukshetra||Mohali resident found shot dead in Pehowa||A resident of Mohali in Punjab was found shot dead in his car near a canal in Bodhni village of Pehowa on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Sandeep Singh. Sources said the victim was a property dealer as well as a commission agent.The victim’s wife, Kuldeep Kaur, in her complaint to the police, stated that on June 21, Sandeep told her that he was going with his friend Manjeet Singh who needed to collect some payment. Sandeep also took his personal revolver, licence, clothes and car with him.On June 23, around 7 pm, Sandeep informed her that he would reach Chandigarh in two hours, but soon his phone went silent and he didn’t return. On Thursday, Sandeep’s body was recovered from his car near a canal in Bodhni village of Pehowa.Kuldeep Kaur alleged that Manjeet and his accomplice had killed Sandeep using Sandeep’s licensed revolver.A case was registered under Sections 302, 201, 34 of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act against Sandeep’s friend Manjeet Singh at the Pehowa police station.The deceased had suffered around four bullet injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mohali-resident-found-shot-dead-in-pehowa-273532
25-06-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Now, farmers’ stir to enter next level to save democracy: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 24The farmers’ agitation is all set to enter the next level to save democracy with the slogan ‘kheti bachao, loktantra bachao’ with effect from June 26, which marks the completion of seven months of the stir.Associations of labourers, women, students, Dalits and minorities will be roped in for the purpose and memoranda will be submitted to the President through the governors of different states on June 26.An announcement to this effect was made at a joint news conference of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and office-bearers of other farmers’ organisations here on Thursday.Incidentally, June 26 also marks the imposition of Emergency by the Congress government in 1975.“It is an irony that the central BJP leadership, which claims to be victim of the national emergency imposed by Indira Gandhi, has declared a sort of undeclared emergency in the country wherein all voices of dissent are suppressed with a brutal force,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president of the Haryana unit of All India Kisan Sabha.Endorsing his views, SKM leader Yogendra Yadav said the BJP government at the Centre had made emergency the normal way of life.“The government has been trying to sabotage the farmers’ agitation, but it has failed to do so. They are stating that the stir has been politicised. Let me tell them that no political party in the country has the capability to sustain such a massive agitation for so long,” maintained Yadav.On being questioned about the possible solution of the stalemate between the farmers and the government, he asserted that the only solution was that the satta (government) should bow before the janta (public) to uphold democratic values.“However, the ruling party’s leadership fails to accept this premise owing to its arrogance. Instead of having open-minded talks with the farmers, they are trying to incite their followers to weaken the stir by all means,” he stated.Satyawan, president of the All-India Kisan Khet Mazdoor Sabha, and Prem Gahlawat, vice-president of the All-India Kisan Mahasabha, also addressed the conference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-farmers-stir-to-enter-next-level-to-save-democracy-sanyukt-kisan-morcha-273378
