26-06-2021||Hisar||Haryana adopts 30:10:60 plan for Class XII results||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani, has announced a 30:10:60 formula on the pattern of the CBSE’s 30:30:40 to evaluate Class XII students whose final examination couldn’t be conducted this year due to Covid.The results, to be declared before July 31, would give 30 per cent weightage to Class X marks, 10 per cent to Class XI and 60 per cent to pre-boards or internal assessment examinations held in Class XII. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-adopts-301060-plan-for-class-xii-results-274245
26-06-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Faridabad village faces potable water shortage||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Faridabad village faces potable water shortageAnkhir village located right opposite Sector 21 is facing acute shortage of drinking water these days. With no or irregular supply of water, residents of the village have to procure drinking water at a cost of Rs 700 per tanker for the past 15 days. The matter has been taken up with the local MLA from Badkhal , MP and the Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, officials, several times, but no relief has come so far. Though the village having a population of 10,000 falls under Ward 18, the civic authorities have failed to turn up to fix the problem till date leaving the residents at the receiving end. Tilak Bidhuri, FaridabadOpen Second gate of Kurukshetra varsityThe Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, had closed the second gate of the university, when the corona pandemic was at its peak, which was a good move to prevent the spreading of virus among the general public and the campus community in particular. Now, the number of cases are going down day by day, but the authorities have still kept the second gate closed, which is the main entrance to the main branches of the university, due to which the visitors and employees, residing outside the campus, have to reach their offices through third gate after covering a long distance. The KU administration should open the second gate immediately. RL Bansal, KurukshetraFine vehicles parked in non-parking areasNow days, in our city, parking of vehicles is a major cause for traffic jams, due to which people are facing problem not only in normal conditions but also in emergencies. The police should take note of it and fine the vehicles in non-parking areas. Jaideep Ahlawat, RohtakMaheshnagar area in Ambala sans public toiletThe Haryana Government boasts of many achievements, but I am sorry to say in the entire Maheshnagar area of Ambala Cantt, there is no public toilet. Leave aside proper toilets, there is not even a urinal in the area. Shopkeepers and others use open drains or some vacant plots to ease themselves. The one urinal at the bus stop, which was there earlier, was demolished to make space for installing a electricity transformer. I request the authorities concerned, both the Ambala MC and the state government, to build some toilets in Maheshnagar. Rattan Chand Goel, Ambala Cantt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-village-faces-potable-water-shortage-274179
26-06-2021||Hisar||6th edition of Azadi Amritmahotsav||Online extension lectureKurukshetra: An online extension lecture was organised by the department of home science, Indira Gandhi National College, Ladwa, on the topic "Adolescent nutrition". Dr Shweta Saini, assistant professor, HoD, department of home science, Dayanand Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Kurukshetra, was the resource person of the programme. Showing her concern for the disorganised meal patterns of adolescents due to various social, environmental and psychological reasons, Dr Shweta emphasised on the importance of creating awareness on the value of nutrition among the youth. She said imbalanced diet patterns might lead to severe ailments in future such as obesity, hypertension, diabetes, cancer and heart diseases. Awareness of nutrition in youth may help them change their food preferences on the basis of its nutritive value.GJUST professor honouredHisar: Washington-based organisation Geology in Public Interest (GPI) has invited Professor R Baskar from Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, to join the steering committee for the global network for Geoscience and Society. This network strengthens cooperation and actions that supports the global geoscience community. It provides an opportunity to partner with others to advance resilience and sustainability following the UN' s sustainable development goals (SDGs). They will also associate Prof Baskar with issues concerning geoscience education. The GPI will promote awareness of geoscience among public. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university, congratulated Prof Baskar for this achievement.Tree plantation activityYamunanagar: Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised a tree plantation activity, in which students of various streams participated with zeal and enthusiasm. Around 20 students planted saplings and shared it through their "geotag location". Dr Neeti Daryal, HoD of self- finance department motivated and encouraged students by saying that they should participate in these types of activities for their overall development. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of college, said such activities played a very important role in the holistic development of participants.Public speech competitionYamunanagar: A national-level public speech competition was organised under the aegis of commerce department at Maharaja Agrasen College, Jagadhri. The main theme of this competition was screen free life. College principal Dr PK Bajpai said due to the Corona epidemic, every person had started using mobile, TV, laptop, but too much of everything was bad. Head of the department, Dr Seema Gupta presided over the programme. Programme organising secretary, Dr Rakhi said all participants presented their views on the subject.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6th-edition-of-azadi-amritmahotsav-274177
26-06-2021||---||Patwari arrested taking Rs 5,000 bribe in Ambala||Ambala, June 25A team of state vigilance bureau has arrested a Halka Patwari while taking a bribe of Rs 5,000 for some work related to a stay order of a land on Thursday.The accused has been identified as Lalit Kumar, Halka Patwari of Gadholi, in Naraingarh.As per the information, Lalit Kumar had sought Rs 25,000 from a woman for some work related to a stay order of a land. He was caught red-handed while accepting the money near Panjlasa Chowk in Naraingarh.DIG Vigilance, Ambala, Ashok Kumar said, “A woman of Gadholi village in her complaint stated that Halka Patwari was seeking Rs 25,000 for some work related to a stay order of a land , of which he had sought Rs 5,000 as advance. Following her complaint, a team was formed and the accused Halka Patwari was held red-handed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/patwari-arrested-taking-rs-5-000-bribe-in-ambala-274175
26-06-2021||---||Retired nurse held in Kurukshetra for illegally performing MTP procedure||Kurukshetra, June 25A team of Health Department, Kurukshetra, has held a retired staff nurse for illegally performing MTP procedures in Shahabad. The accused has been identified as Maya Devi, a resident of Shahabad. As per the information, the Health Department got a tip-off that a woman in Shahabad performed medical termination of pregnancy at a private hospital on Ladwa road.After getting information of the illegal activity, the Health Department arranged a decoy woman and a deal was struck for Rs 5,000. On Thursday, the health officials conducted a raid and the woman was arrested. The person who is running the hospital claimed that he was not aware of any such activity being conducted at the hospital. A health official said the woman was held in 2014 for the same offence. The woman is not qualified to perform MTP procedure.Civil Surgeon, Kurukshetra, Sant Lal Verma said, “The MTP procedure can be performed only at authorised centres and that too by trained gynaecologists. The woman who has been arrested can’t perform the MTP procedure. The person running the hospital claimed that he was unaware of any such activity at the hospital which is strange and not possible. We have filed a complaint at the Shahabad police station and the matter is being investigated.” A case has been registered. The Shahabad SHO said, “The accused was sent her to judicial custody.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retired-nurse-held-in-kurukshetra-for-illegally-performing-mtp-procedure-274171
26-06-2021||---||Promotion worries for polytechnic lecturers in Haryana||Ambala, June 25A section of lecturers, under the banner of Polytechnic Teachers’ Welfare Association, met Haryana Home and Technical Education Minister Anil Vij to apprise him of the growing resentment among the staff of government polytechnic colleges related to pending promotions and merger of government polytechnic societies and government polytechnic colleges.Kunal Jeet, association president, said, “There are 24 polytechnic colleges and 12 polytechnic societies in Haryana. The Department of Technical Education is preparing to merge these two technical institutes. The faculties of Government Polytechnic Societies are being promoted while the promotion in the Government Polytechnic Colleges has been pending for many years. Due to this, the junior staff of the societies will become senior after getting promotion and the senior staff of Government Polytechnic Colleges will be considered junior. They have been waiting to get promotion for many years.”“If the department considers promotions for staff of polytechnic societies before the merger, then the association will oppose the merger as it will affect the seniority adversely. Such a situation will increase the number of court cases and it will also disturb the working environment of the institutions. The minister has assured that there will be no injustice with the staff of polytechnic colleges”, he added.Meet Home Minister VIJ||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/promotion-worries-for-polytechnic-lecturers-in-haryana-274168
26-06-2021||Parveen Arora||More areas included in Karnal Smart City project||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 25With an aim to develop ing more areas under the Smart City Mission, Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the Karnal Smart City project, will cover the whole city under the project, instead of the area-based development (ABD) plan.Earlier, under the ABD plan, the project was limited to 720 acres, which included areas around Clock Tower Chowk, Kunjpura Road, bus stand, Model Town and the Mughal Canal market.Earlier, it was also planned to work on 54 projects, but later several projects had been dropped by the authorities and the list came down to 30 projects. Now, with the increase of area, around 55 development projects will be taken up to improve core infrastructure and services to make the city more liveable, economically vibrant and environmentally friendly, Nishant Kumar Yadav, CEO, KSCL-cum-Deputy Commissioner.“We have completed 13 projects worth Rs 10.27 crore, which includes improvement of education system by latest IOT for schools, installing of water harvesting system, civil estimates for schools, upgrading of waste pickup vehicles, construction of Neki ki Dewar, construction of various roads, parking in the old vegetable market, and others,” said the CEO, adding that 20 projects worth Rs 182.90 crore are underway.Installing of open air gyms, development of oxy parks, laying of footpaths with tactile flooring, walking street in cultural corridor are some of the ongoing projects, the Deputy Commissioner asserted.Karnal was included in the list of smart cities on June 23, 2017.The development of the project is scheduled to be completed in five years, said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-areas-included-in-karnal-smart-city-project-274165
26-06-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala residents protest inadequate water supply||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 25Residents of different areas such as Kalal Majri, Hari Nagar, Prem Nagar, Kajiwara, several other areas of Ward 10 and Ward 8 have been facing shortage of water supply in Ambala City. The residents said they had been getting inadequate water supply but the Public Health Department was yet to resolve their issues.Naresh Sharma, a resident of Kalal MajriMade complaints at CM windowFor the past several days, there has been poor water supply. We have repeatedly requested the Public Health Department and also made online complaints on the CM window in this regard, but to no avail. To mark their resentment, the residents of ward 10 led by Municipal Councillor of their ward Mithun Verma and Congress leader Devender Verma staged a dharna at the PWD rest house in Ambala City late last night. The residents lifted their dharna only after an assurance was given in writing by the SDO of the Public Health Department that the water would be released soon.Naresh Sharma, a resident of Kalal Majri, said, “For the past several days, there has been poor water supply. We have repeatedly requested the Public Health Department and also made online complaints on the CM window in this regard, but to no avail.”Dinesh Gaba, XEN, Public Health Department, Ambala CityThings will be streamlined in 2-3 daysDue to recent storms, some poles of the UHBVN had fallen, following which the supply of water also got affected. The issue has been resolved and everything will be streamlined within two-three days. Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Kajiwara, said “Earlier, we were getting water twice a day, but for the past nearly 20 days the water is being supplied once a day and the pressure of water has also reduced.”Mithun Verma said, “Several areas of my ward have been facing acute shortage of water supply, but the Public Health Department has not been able to resolve the issue following which we staged a dharna at the rest house and raised slogans against the district administration. Later, as per the assurance given, water was released at around 4 am and then again stopped. We met the SDO on Friday again and he has assured us that the adequate supply will be ensured. If the adequate water supply is not ensured we will be forced to hold protest again.”Surender Dhingra, husband of Ward 8 MC Councillor, Meena Dhingra said, “Inadequate water supply is the biggest issue that we have been facing these days. We have raised the issue with the officials concerned and every time they seek a period of two-three days to resolve the issue. With the help of the City MLA we have been making efforts to improve the situation.”XEN Public Health Department, Ambala City, Dinesh Gaba said, “Due to recent storms, some poles of the UHBVN had fallen, following which the supply of water also got affected. The issue has been resolved and everything will be streamlined within two-three days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-residents-protest-inadequate-water-supply-274163
26-06-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||51 Delta plus cases across 12 states, 2 in Punjab, 1 Haryana||Punjab’s Ludhiana and Patiala districts, Faridabad in Haryana and Katra in J&K have reported their first cases of the highly transmissible Delta plus variant. In all, 51 cases have been reported across 12 states, the maximum 22 in Maharashtra.In Himachal Pradesh, Vax drive for teachers, studentsShimla: HP Education Department will undertake a special vaccination drive on June 28 and 29 for students above the age of 18 and both teaching and non-teaching staff of all educational institutions in the state.The Centre on Friday urged states and UTs to take up immediate containment measures, including preventing crowds, conducting widespread testing and increasing vaccine coverage on a priority basis in districts where the Delta plus variant had been detected. The measures were suggested by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to the chief secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat.Cases in Patiala and Ludhiana, Punjab alertedChandigarh: With Punjab reporting first two cases of the Delta plus variant in Patiala and Ludhiana districts, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has, in a letter to state’s Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, asked the state to take up immediate containment measures as the variant was highly transmissible. The Centre has also suggested sending adequate samples to the designated INSACOG laboratories for genome sequencing.Sujeet Singh, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director, said 22 had been found in Maharashtra, nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in MP, three in Kerala, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, J&K, Haryana and Karnataka. The cases have been found in 45,000 samples sequenced so far.No tax on Covid ex gratiaThe government on Friday announced tax exemption for expenditure incurred on Covid treatment as well as on ex gratia up to Rs10 lakh received on death due to the pandemic.The Delta variant of concern, meanwhile, has emerged as the dominant Covid mutation circulating in India with presence in a whopping 80 per cent of the samples genome sequenced so far to study viral mutations. Of the 21,109 variants of concern detected in India after studying 65,000 samples until now, 16,238 are Delta, first detected in Maharashtra last year and now present in 80 countries.“Delta is a stronger variant than B117, first detected in the UK. Among all variants of concern found in India, Alpha (B117) accounts for 3,969 cases, Beta (detected in South Africa) 149 and Gamma (detected in Brazil) one case. We have found 48 cases of the Delta plus mutation and are studying them for public health implications,” National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director SK Singh said today.The NCDC data shows the Delta variant spread across 174 districts in 35 states with the highest numbers reported from districts in Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, Punjab, Telangana, Bengal and Gujarat. Of the 21,109 variants of concern, Maharashtra has highest 3,117, Delhi 2,973, Kerala 2,382 and Punjab 1,431.The NCDC chief said even the proportion of cases with variants of concern in India had risen from 10.31 per cent in May to 51 per cent on June 20. The spread of Delta in India has been dramatic—from presence in one district in late December 2020 to 52 districts in late March and 174 today.Although overall the second wave was receding and 565 districts today had below 5 per cent positivity rate, ICMR chief Balram Bhargava said 74 districts still had over 10% positivity rate and 92 districts had 5 to 10% positivity. “States must impose strict restrictions wherever case positivity is above 5%,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/51-delta-plus-cases-across-12-states-2-in-punjab-1-haryana-273920
26-06-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Death certificate scam across 7 Haryana districts||The ongoing investigation into the fake death certificate and insurance scam has pointed to its spread in at least 7 districts of Haryana, including Nuh, Yamunanagar, Karnal, Jhajjar, Faridabad, Hisar and Ambala.The local health department and police have so far unearthed fake certificates issued for Nuh and Yamunanagar residents from Gurugram. The police suspect it to be a state-wide insurance scam that thrived during the second Covid wave.Insurance racket“We have found fake death certificates of residents of other districts being issued from here. Local health departments have been alerted with special emphasis on Sohna block in Gurugram (13 of the 14 complaints of fake death certificates have been received from Sohna). We are seeking details of the current and former employees of the health department,” said Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav.The health department is looking into the local records.Meanwhile, the police are also investigating the recent case of a fake death certificate. A senior police officer said that in the case of Faridabad-based Manav Rachna educational institute director Prashant Bhalla’s fake death certificate, an unknown woman had opened an account in the name of Dr Bhalla’s wife Deepika Bhalla in HDFC Bank.“The woman opened the account in the HDFC’s Palam Vihar branch in May. She had submitted a copy of the Aadhaar card, driving licence and PAN card. We are reviewing the CCTV footage to identify the woman and our two teams are investigating the matter. We hope that the accused will be arrested soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/death-certificate-scam-across-7-haryana-districts-273966
26-06-2021||Panipat||Farmers to protest at Punjab and Haryana Raj Bhawans in Chandigarh today||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has put everything in place to hold a protest at the Raj Bhavans of Punjab and Haryana in Chandigarh tomorrow.Thousands of farmers from Haryana will enter Chandigarh from the Panchkula side, while those from Punjab will come from the Mohali side.The morcha had announced to observe June 26 as “Kheti bachao, loktantra bachao” (save farming, save democracy) day on the completion of seven months of the farmers’ protest and the 47th anniversary of Emergency in India.Punjab farmers will gather at Gurdwara Amb Sahib in Mohali, while those from Haryana will gather at Gurdwara Nada Sahib in Panchkula at 11 am tomorrow.SKM leader Yogendra Yadav said the farmers would hold a protest march from Gurdwara Nada Sahib to the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh. “We will organise a peaceful march and submit a memorandum to the President of India through the Governor,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-protest-at-punjab-and-haryana-raj-bhawans-in-chandigarh-today-273967
26-06-2021||Sonepat/Delhi||Sonepat man shot in Delhi, wife critical; honour killing suspected||In a suspected case of honour killing, a 23-year-old man was shot dead and his 19-year-old wife was critically injured when some unidentified assailants opened fire on them at Ambrahi village in Dwarka, Delhi, on Thursday night, the police said today.Woman’s kin grilledThe Delhi Police on Friday questioned Kiran’s father and uncle. The police said the two were interrogated in connection with the incident but weren’t arrestedSantosh Kumar Meena, DCP, Dwarka, said the couple was shot multiple times by 6-7 assailants inside their rented accommodation in Ambrahi village.Vinay Dahiya succumbed to four bullet injuries, while his wife Kiran was shot five times and is undergoing treatment in a hospital, the police said, adding that the couple belonged to the same village — Gopalpur in Sonepat.Couple had moved HCIn August last year, the couple had approached the HC, demanding police protection. The court had asked the Sonepat police to ensure their safetyThe couple had eloped last year against the wishes of their families.As per police record, an FIR was registered in Kharkhoda, Sonepat, on August 13 last year after a complaint by Kiran’s mother Sheela Devi, who alleged that her daughter had been abducted by some unknown person. During investigation, it was learnt that Kiran had eloped with Vinay of the same village and they had got married.Sources said a panchayat was held in the village over the issue. The couple, however, did not enter the village after getting married. Vinay worked as a cab driver. It is being suspected that the brother and other family members of the girl are behind the killing, said the sources.In August last year, the couple had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, demanding police protection. The court had passed directions to the Sonepat police for the safety of the couple, a police official said.Superintendent of Police, Sonepat, Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, meanwhile, said the SHO, Kharkhoda, had cancelled the FIR in September.“Despite efforts, the police were unable to trace the couple. The attempts to trace them were recorded in daily diary from time to time,” the SP claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-man-shot-in-delhi-wife-critical-honour-killing-suspected-273992
26-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Undertrial dies by suicide in Jagadhri||An undertrial accused of murder allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in district jail, Jagadhri, on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Jareef (42) of Bibipur village of Yamunanagar district.Jareef was found hanging from a tree inside the district jail at about 12.20 pm.He was taken to Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar. After the post-mortem examination, the body was handed over to his family members.Jareef was arrested in connection with a murder of a man in his village on March 10 over a piece of land. He was lodged in jail on March 16.Sanjeev Patad, superintendent of district jail, said that Jareef was under stress due to the murder case and other reasons. That might have led him to take the extreme step. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/undertrial-dies-by-suicide-in-jagadhri-274158
26-06-2021||Panchkula||Farmers’ stir: Keep off these roads in Panchkula today||The police on Friday issued a traffic advisory in light of a proposed march by farmers from Nada Sahib Gurdwara to Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh on Saturday on a call given by Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The police have asked commuters to avoid routes, including national highways passing through the district, which could be affected between 10 am and 5 pm due to the proposed march. These routes are Yamunanagar to Panchkula (NH-7), Zirakpur to Kalka (NH-5), the road connecting Housing Board, Chandigarh, to Shimla highway via Old Panchkula. Those travelling from Chandigarh to Shimla can go via Nayagaon-Nalagarh route. Commuters coming from Yamunanagar can reach Chandigarh via Barwala-Dera Bassi route. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-stir-keep-off-these-roads-in-panchkula-today-274157
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Send panel of names for DGP’s post: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij today asked the state government to send a panel of eligible officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for appointment as state’s DGP in place of Manoj Yadava, who had sought repatriation to the Central government.Sources said Additional Chief Secretary (Home) has forwarded Yadava’s request letter asking for repatriation to the Central government to Vij. Vij, in turn, forwarded the outgoing DGP’s request to the state government.Earlier, Yadava had written to the state government, requesting he be relieved of the DGP’s post for “personal and professional” reasons to enable him to join the Intelligence Bureau (IB), New Delhi. Yadava was Additional Director, IB, before joining as state’s DGP over two years ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/send-panel-of-names-for-dgps-post-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-274156
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Korean company meets Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on R&D facility||Seoul Semiconductor, a South Korea-based multinational company, is exploring the possibility of setting up a research and development (R&D) facility in Haryana to cater to the needs of the Indian customers.The company, which is into the business of manufacturing compound semiconductors and innovative LED lighting, already has its office in Gurugram. Top company officials from India and Korea today met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. South Korean Ambassador to India, president of Federation of Korean Associations and representative of Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KOCHAM) in India joined the meeting online. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/korean-company-meets-haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-on-rd-facility-274155
26-06-2021||Gurugram||1 held for smuggling turtles in Gurugram||A 21-year-old Gurugram resident was nabbed by a wildlife team for allegedly smuggling and selling turtles. The team has rescued 23 turtles from his possession. The accused has been identified as Bhavya, a resident of Sector-7. He would procure these turtles through courier from smugglers in Delhi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-smuggling-turtles-in-gurugram-274153
26-06-2021||---||Job racket busted, 3 held in Kaithal||Kaithal, June 25With the arrest of three persons of Noida, the Kaithal police have claimed to have busted a gang of fraudsters who used to dupe people on the pretext of promising them government jobs in different departments. The accused ran a call centre in Noida.The police seized 32 mobile phones and fake appointment letters from the accused, said Lokender Singh, Superintendent of Police.The accused were identified as Salman, Avej and Asmau of Meerut district in Uttar Pradesh, said the SP, adding that the accused were produced in the court and were sent to seven-day police remand.“We are yet to determine the involvement of others in the gang. The accused were running a fake call centre in Sector 6 Noida and used to make calls to people for extorting money on the pretext of promising them jobs.”We have registered a case against them on the complaint of a resident of Kaithal who had paid Rs 41,000 to them through online payment for a job, but he did not get the job. The accused had also sent him a fake appointment letter, said the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/job-racket-busted-3-held-in-kaithal-274151
26-06-2021||Pradeep Sharma||No hiked DA for Haryana staff, pensioners||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25In a setback to over 5 lakh Haryana Government employees and pensioners, their increased dearness allowance (DA), which has been put on hold since January 1, 2020, in view of the economic crisis triggered off by the Covid pandemic, will not be restored with effect from July 1, 2021.TVSN Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance)State to follow Centre Since the Haryana Government follows the Central Government in the release of the DA instalments, it is waiting for the Centre to restore the DA of its employees. As soon as the Centre releases the hiked DA for its employees, the government will follow suit.Sources said the Khattar government would not restore the increased DA as the after-effects of the pandemic on the state’s economy were still visible and it would not possible to restore the hiked DA.The suspension of the payment of the DA installments, moratorium on new government jobs and putting leave travel concession (LTC) on hold were some of the austerity measures announced by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar last year.“In view of the crisis arising out of Covid, it has been decided that the additional installment of the DA payable to the Haryana Government employees and dearness relief (DR) to the Haryana Government pensioners, due from January 1, 2020, shall not be paid. However, the DA and DR at the current rate of 17% will continued to be paid,” the letter from the Finance Department had said.Meanwhile, Subhash Lamba, president, Sarv Karamchari Sangh, alleged that the denial of the DA instalments to the employees and the pensioners was violation of their fundamental rights. “While the prices have increased substantially since last year, there has been no increase in the DA since one and a half years, putting employees to financial loss during the pandemic,” he said, adding that the sangh would soon launch an agitation on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-hiked-da-for-haryana-staff-pensioners-274150
26-06-2021||Faridabad||Youths take dip in pool; owner booked in Faridabad||In Faridabad, 13 illegal constructions razedFaridabad: A team of the Department of Town and Country Planning (enforcement and vigilance) here pulled down 13 illegal constructions which had come up in two unauthorised residential colonies spread on seven acres in the revenue area of Nachauli and Kheri Kalan villages of the district on Friday. According to District Town Planner (DTP) Rajender Sharma who led the demolition drive, the constructions razed today include two residential buildings (houses), a property dealer’s office and 10 boundary walls. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youths-take-dip-in-pool-owner-booked-in-faridabad-274148
26-06-2021||---||Farmers' protest: DSGMC to aid of ‘harassed’ Golden Hut Dhaba owner near Pipli in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, June 25Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa today extended support to the Golden Hut Dhaba owner, who has alleged harassment by the Haryana Police for extending “sewa” to farmers protesting against the three laws enacted last year.The eatery is situated on the Ambala-Delhi national highway near Pipli in Kurukshetra.Its owner, Ram Singh Rana, alleged the road to the eatery had been blocked and boulders had been placed. He also alleged that he had been receiving death threats.Sirsa said, “The access to only his dhaba has been blocked, while others hotels and eateries are functioning. I will request the DGP to provide Rana with security. We will also lodge a police complaint in this regard.”An NHAI official in Ambala said, “The NHAI has been closing unauthorised cuts on the Ambala-Delhi NH by putting cemented blocks. This is being done to strengthen road safety.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-dsgmc-to-aid-of-harassed-golden-hut-dhaba-owner-near-pipli-in-kurukshetra-274143
26-06-2021||Karnal||Kidnapped Karnal boy rescued, 2 held||In an alleged case of kidnapping, which the police suspect to be a case of illegal adoption, the Kunjpura police have arrested a Meerut-based couple and rescued a nine-month boy from them.The main accused, a doctor couple, is yet to be arrested.Main accused evade arrestThe boy was produced before the Child Welfare Committee chairman Umesh Chanana, who has sent him to MDD Bal Bhawan.The police may get the boy’s DNA test conducted to verify the biological identity with his mother, Jyoti, who is the complainant.“For the custody of the boy, the mother has to approach the court. We will send him to Bal Upwan Aashram, a specialised adoption agency,” he added.Munish Kumar, SHO, Kunjpura, said that they have arrested the Meerut couple — Vishal and Neha — and have rescued the boy from them.Last week, the police had registered a case against Meerut-based doctor couple Dr DP Srivastava and his wife Dr Shashibala on the complaint of Jyoti of Kunjpura village under Sections 363, 368, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 80 and 81 of the Juvenile Justice Act.She alleged four days after the birth of the boy, the couple came to her and took the baby for treatment to Meerut as they told her he was suffering from a respiratory problem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kidnapped-karnal-boy-rescued-2-held-274137
26-06-2021||---||SCs to get 20% quota under outsourcing policy in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 25Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced that 20 per cent reservation would be ensured for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) in recruitment under the outsourcing policy.He was presiding over a meeting of the State-Level Vigilance and Monitoring Committee constituted under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Rules, 1995.To provide timely financial assistance in cases of atrocities against the SCs, Khattar directed the officials concerned to release Rs 50 lakh to every district.Haryana Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Minister, Dr Banwari Lal, Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Anoop Dhanak, MP Sunita Duggal, and MLAs Varun Chaudhary, Satyaprakash Jarawat and Ramkaran Kala were also present at the meeting.Khattar said reservation under outsourcing should be monitored at regular intervals.He also instructed the officials that the meeting of the State Level Vigilance and Monitoring Committee should be held every six months.Hoardings or banners should be put up in areas with high density of the Scheduled Caste people and at prime locations to make people aware of their rights, he said.The CM said that every MP and MLA should organise seminars at regular intervals in their constituencies to educate people belonging to the Scheduled Caste about their rights. He added the reason behind atrocities against SCs in certain areas of the state should also be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scs-to-get-20-quota-under-outsourcing-policy-in-haryana-274126
26-06-2021||---||Faridabad Municipal Corporation staff protest delay in salary||Faridabad, June 25Around 4,500 Municipal Corporation employees have gone on strike in protest against the delay in receiving the salary and non-sanctioning of interest-free wheat loan.Every day, they will strike work till 2 pm till their demands are met.Balbir Singh, Chief, Nagar Nigam Safai Karamchari UnionReceive pay after 3-week delayFor more than a year, civic body employees have been receiving salary after a three-week delay. Besides, the MC authorities are dithering on giving interest-free wheat loan of Rs 20,000. Balbir Singh, president, Nagar Nigam Safai Karamchari Union, said: “For more than a year, the employees have been receiving salary after a three-week delay. It was only after we protested yesterday that the salary for May was released yesterday evening. Besides, the MC authorities are dithering on giving interest-free wheat loan of Rs 20,000.”The MC has 6,700 employees, including 2,200 contractual or daily wage staff.Naresh Kumar Shastri, president, Nagar Palika Karamchari Sangh, claimed senior officers lacked the will to improve the financial condition of the MC. “The expenses are more than the income. This is because of corruption in the civic body and poor recovery of taxes. There is need to fix accountability of officials concerned.”Garima Mittal, Commissioner, MC, said: “The civic body has released Rs 19 crore towards the May salary of both regular and contractual staff. The matter pertaining to wheat loan is under consideration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-municipal-corporation-staff-protest-delay-in-salary-274106
26-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Crime against women, children is crime against society||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25The Punjab and Haryana HC has ruled that crime against women and children was “a crime against society as a whole”. The assertion came as the High Court refused anticipatory bail to a rape accused, who claimed the matter had been compromised with the victim’s father.Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill, HCScars body, soulA crime against women and children, being heinous and gruesome, as it not only takes away from them their dignity, but scars their body and soul for all time to come, is a crime against society.“A crime against women and children, being heinous and gruesome, as it not only takes away from them their dignity, but scars their body and soul for all time to come, is a crime against society as a whole,” Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill of the High Court asserted.The petitioner was seeking anticipatory bail in the case of kidnapping, rape and other offences registered under Sections 363, 363-A, 366-A, 376 and 511 of the IPC and the provisions of the POCSO Act.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, the petitioner’s counsel contended that the FIR was registered against some unknown person. The petitioner was not named in the FIR, but was falsely implicated due to political motives. Moreover, a compromise has been finalised between the petitioner and the complainant-father of the victim, vide a compromise deed dated May 1. In such circumstances, the petitioner may be granted the concession of anticipatory bail, the counsel added.After hearing the counsel for the petitioner and going through the record, Justice Gill asserted that the allegations against the accused were of kidnapping the prosecutrix, stated to be 14-year-old, and also committing rape.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-crime-against-women-children-is-crime-against-society-274088
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||1 case of Delta plus variant found in Faridabad||The Centre today asked the Haryana Government to test Covid positive patients for the Delta plus variant of the virus.The order comes in the wake of a sample testing positive for the Delta plus variant at the ESIC Hospital, Faridabad.Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, in a communication to state Chief Secretary, told him to “ensure that adequate samples of positive persons are sent to the designated laboratories of INACOG, a consortium of laboratories for whole genome sequencing in the context of the Covid pandemic so that the clinical epidemiological correlations can be established.”The Delta Plus variant has increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-case-of-delta-plus-variant-found-in-faridabad-274082
26-06-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Covid-19: Rohtak saw marked rise in deaths in May||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 25The district witnessed a marked increase in the number of deaths in May as compared with the corresponding month last year. A steep surge was recorded in the number of deaths caused due to Covid during April and May this year.No Covid-related death was reported from the district during April and May last year, whereas 304 residents lost their lives due to Covid during the two months this time.The data compiled by the Health Department show that 2,667 persons died this May, while the number of deaths stood at 1,643 during May last year.The number of fatalities recorded in April this year showed a marginal increase in comparison with the deaths which took place in the corresponding month last year.While 1,045 residents of Rohtak died in April 2020, the number of deaths recorded in April this year was 1,078.As per the official data, no death related to Covid was recorded during the two months last year, while Covid claimed 44 lives in April this year and 260 the next month.Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla said, “The district administration and Health Department made concerted efforts to check the spread of Covid and ensure the provision of requisite facilities to patients when the pandemic was at its peak. Besides, a majority of the residents exercised restraint and observed Covid-appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-rohtak-saw-marked-rise-in-deaths-in-may-274045
26-06-2021||Mukesh Tandon||National-Highway-44 widening stuck for seven months in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, June 25The widening work of the National-Highway-44 from the Singhu border to Rai, a 10-km stretch out of a total of 70.5-km-long highway from Mukarba Chowk in Delhi to Panipat, has been halted for the past seven months due to the farmers’ protest.The Central government had inaugurated the project, worth Rs 2128.72 crore, of 12-lane widening of the NH-44 and the work was allotted to Essel Infra Projects Limited in 2015 during the first regime of the BJP-led government.The company had, however, failed to complete the project.After a period of one-and-a-half-years, the NHAI cancelled the tender of Essel Infra Projects and re-allotted the work to a new company, Well Spun, last year. The NHAI had fixed the target to complete the work by September 2021.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers pitched tents and parked trolleys on both sides of the NH-44 on November 26 last year due to which the company had to stop the work on the stretch.Even, the service road sides were dug up and sewage and muddy water had been filled on these service lanes.Anand Dahiya, manager, technical, NHAI, said no work was carried out in the 10-km stretch, which is around 14% work of the total project, for the past seven months due to the protest.The work is in full swing from Rai to Panipat except on a 10- km stretch occupied by farmers, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-highway-44-widening-stuck-for-seven-months-in-panipat-274000
26-06-2021||---||Farmers protest Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar’s Karnal visit||Karnal, June 25Four farmers were detained for allegedly opposing the visit of Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar to Panchayat Bhawan here today. He was in the city to chair the district grievances redressal meeting.When farmers learnt about the minister’s visit to the city, they started assembling near National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI).Apprehending trouble, the police detained four farmers, including BKU (Charuni) leader Bhadur Singh Mehla and BKU president (Indri block) Manjeet Singh.This made farmers angry and they protested outside Panchayat Bhawan. Subsequently, the police released the detained farmers.Mehla said farmers would continue to oppose the visit of BJP-JJP leaders until the three laws were repealed by the Centre.During the district grievances redressal meeting, Gujjar heard 12 matters out of 15, and resolved 11.In Kaithal as well, farmers were detained for opposing a BJP’s programme.Protester dies at TikriJhajjar: A 75-year old farmer, identified as Balvir Singh of Budh Singh Wala village in Moga district (Punjab), died at the Tikri border in the wee hours of Friday. He had been staying at the border for more than 10 days. Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said, “Balvir was brought dead to the trauma centre, Bahadurgarh. The cause of death is yet to be ascertained.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-education-minister-kanwar-pal-gujjars-karnal-visit-273981
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers to march towards Governor’s house on Saturday||Farmers from Haryana will march to the Governor’s house here on June 26 and submit a memorandum to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation against the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws.The memorandum to the President will be sent through the Governor, said the BKU (Chaduni), a farmer union part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leading the stir. Farmers camping at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders will observe June 26 as the “Save Agriculture, Save Democracy Day” to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation.The BKU (Chaduni) said on the call of the SKM, farmers of Haryana will submit a memorandum to the state Governor in Chandigarh.The protesting farmers will assemble in the morning at Panchkula from where they will march towards the Raj Bhavan, it said.Meanwhile, keeping in view the farmers’ programme, tight security arrangements have been put in place by the Chandigarh Police.According to a statement issued by the Chandigarh traffic police, 13 entry and exit points in Chandigarh will remain closed on June 26 from 10 am to 6 pm.“In view of the law and order situation in the city, following entry/exit points will remain closed on June 26 from 10 am to 6 pm. These are Mullanpur barrier, Zirakpur barrier, Sector 5/8 turn, Hirsa Singh Chowk, Sector 7/8 turn, Lake turn, Sector 7 residence cut opposite PRB, Golf turn, Gursagar Sahib turn, Maulijagran bridge, Housing Board near bridge, Kishangarh turn and Matour Barrier,” the statement said.“Therefore, the general public is advised not to use these routes and to stay at home except in case of any emergency,” it said.Farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the withdrawal of these three laws and that a new law be made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.Several rounds of talks between the farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over these contentious laws.The government last held talks with farmer leaders on January 22. The talks between the two sides came to a halt after a January 26 tractor parade by farmers in Delhi turned violent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-to-march-towards-governors-house-on-saturday-273917
26-06-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Fake death certificate scam spreads to 7 Haryana districts||Gurugram, June 25The ongoing investigation into the fake death certificate and insurance scam has pointed to its spread in at least 7 districts of Haryana, including Nuh, Yamunanagar, Karnal, Jhajjar, Faridabad, Hisar and Ambala.The local health department and police have so far unearthed fake certificates issued for Nuh and Yamunanagar residents from Gurugram. The police suspect it to be a state-wide insurance scam that thrived during the second Covid wave.“We have found fake death certificates of residents of other districts being issued from here. Local health departments have been alerted with special emphasis on Sohna block in Gurugram (13 of the 14 complaints of fake death certificates have been received from Sohna). We are seeking details of the current and former employees of the health department,” said CMO Virender Yadav.The health department is looking into the local records.Meanwhile, the police are also investigating the recent case of a fake death certificate. A senior police officer said that in the case of Faridabad-based Manav Rachna educational institute director Prashant Bhalla’s fake death certificate, an unknown woman had opened an account in the name of Dr Bhalla’s wife Deepika Bhalla in HDFC Bank.“The woman opened the account in the HDFC’s Palam Vihar branch in May. She had submitted a copy of the Aadhaar card, driving licence and PAN card. We are reviewing the CCTV footage to identify the woman and our two teams are investigating the matter. We hope that the accused will be arrested soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-death-certificate-scam-spreads-to-7-haryana-districts-273910
