27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM: Working for release of youth lodged in Australia jail||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said efforts were on for the release of Karnal youth Vishal Jude, who is lodged in an Australian jail.The Chief Minister said he would meet External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar again regarding the release of Jude and will urge the Australian High Commission to intervene and ensure his safety.On the second day of his visit in Manali, the Chief Minister held a virtual meeting with representatives of NGOs and NRIs living in Australia and thanked them for extending help to the state by sending oxygen concentrators and other health equipment to India amid the pandemic.BJP state president O.P. Dhankhar and other officials also joined this virtual meeting.The Chief Minister said he has spoken to the External Affairs Minister, who has assured full cooperation regarding Jude’s release.Khattar urged the diaspora to invest in the state. He said the state has moved towards sin the last six-and-a-half years. Ease-of-doing business and single-window clearance system for setting up new industries have put the state on the world map.In the state, 10 industrial model townships with world-class facilities have been set up. A separate MSME department has been created for the purpose of promoting Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).Dhankhar also thanked the NRIs for their help in India during the pandemic. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-working-for-release-of-youth-lodged-in-australia-jail-274870
27-06-2021||---||SIT to probe Rs 180-cr Gurugram MC advertisement scam||Gurugram, June 27 Haryana Lokayukta on Sunday ordered to formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe Rs 180 crore advertisement ‘scam’ of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram.According to the mandate, the SIT will comprise one retired District and Sessions Judge and two retired competent officers from the Municipal Corporation who were never posted in MCG and are of impeccable integrity.Abhay Jain, convener of Manav Awaaj, had filed a complaint in the office of Haryana Lokayukta in 2015 against the MCG for not recovering Rs 180 crore as advertisement tax from the big mall owners and builders.Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Aggarwal observed in the judgement that the connivance of the public servants of MCG with the advertising agencies for embezzlement of hundreds of crores, at the relevant times i.e. from 2010 to 2014-15 is apparent.The Lokayukta ordered that the SIT “to enquire/investigate into the matter (Rs 180 crore unpaid advertisement tax) and whosever are found guilty, be punished by taking strict disciplinary /departmental action against them (MCG officers) besides recovering the dues from their pocket”.The MCG officers had submitted before the Lokayukta court that the MCG could not recover the amount due to the various cases pending in different courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sit-to-probe-rs-180-cr-gurugram-mc-advertisement-scam-274865
27-06-2021||Bristol||Haryana’s Shafali becomes youngest Indian cricketer to make debut in all formats||Opener Shafali Verma on Sunday became the youngest Indian cricketer to make debut across formats after being picked for the first ODI against England Women here.On her ODI debut, Verma scored 15 runs off 14 balls before being dismissed by Katherine Brunt.The Haryana girl took 17 years and 150 days to make her debut across format, making her the fifth youngest cricketer overall in the list, headed by Afghanistan’s Mujeeb Ur Rahman.Rahman had made his all format debut at 17 years and 78 days, followed by England’s Sarah Taylor (17 years 86 days), Australia’s Ellyse Perry (17 years 104 days) and Pakistan’s Mohammad Amir (17 years 108 days).Verma had scored 96 and 63 in her dream debut in the one-off Test against England which ended in a sensational draw last week. She was the youngest batter to score two fifties on debut in women’s Test.Verma has scored 617 runs with three fifties in the 22 T20Is that she has played so far since making her debut in September 2019. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-shafali-becomes-youngest-indian-cricketer-to-make-debut-in-all-formats-274849
27-06-2021||Gurugram||Bank manager booked for rape in Gurugram||A Faridabad woman was allegedly raped at knife-point by a bank manager who had lured her with easy gold loan.The accused, who is at large, had allegedly video-graphed the act and blackmailed her. An FIR was registered at the Sadar police station.The victim had been seeking a loan for some time. A few days ago, she got a card of one Rajender Singh, who had said he was manager of IndusInd Bank on the Sohna road. She contacted him and he asked her to share some documents with him. He took her to his house where he raped her and videographed the act. So, she approached the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bank-manager-booked-for-rape-in-gurugram-274682
27-06-2021||---||Modern revenue record rooms in two months in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 26Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue, Disaster Management and Consolidation Department, Sanjeev Kaushal, has said that modern revenue record rooms will be ready in the next two months at all district headquarters of the state.He said the work of digitising the age-old revenue records in the state was going on at a fast pace and soon these records would be easily available at the click of the mouse. Kaushal said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had approved an ambitious project of Rs 77 crore to digitise the record rooms of revenue offices across the state.Kaushal was holding a review meeting with the deputy commissioners across the state through video-conferencing here today. He said at present, the Revenue Department was piled up with lakhs of files, some even before the year 1870 and the department was maintaining it manually.He said that under the new initiative, important revenue records and documents were being scanned, catalogued and kept in digital boxes in modern record rooms. These records/documents could be accessed at the time of need, which would save time and money of the department and the general public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/modern-revenue-record-rooms-in-two-months-in-haryana-274681
27-06-2021||Yamunanagar||Smartphones for 35 students in Yamunanagar||Samsara Foundation, a Panchkula-based social organisation, today distributed 35 mobile phones among students of government schools so that they could get online education during the Covid pandemic.The programme was held at the residence of Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar in Jagadhri.“Covid has forced schools to shut across the world. The new normal is online classes, a matter of privilege. I realised this when our house helper’s daughter started coming with her to work. They had one phone in their house which her father took to work. It’s not easy to afford a new device, especially when the pandemic has reduced your earnings,” said Anvesha Mongia, project leader of Samsara Foundation.Sonia Mongia, chairperson of the foundation, said that in India, 320 million students were out of school. “Keeping this in mind, we conducted this technology drive and distributed 35 mobile phones among students,” said Sonia Mongia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/smartphones-for-35-students-in-yamunanagar-274680
27-06-2021||---||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar Khattar takes up pending  National Highway projects with Nitin Gadkari||Chandigarh, June 26Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today met Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari during his stay at Manali and discussed 11 projects worth Rs 6,393.32 crore with regard to development of national highways in Haryana.An official spokesperson said among the projects taken up by Khattar with the Union Minister were declaration of Pehowa-Kurukshetra road up to National Highway-44 as national highway (NH), construction of underpass on Jalandhar-Panipat road (NH-44) near Kamboopura (Karnal), construction of underpass on Panchkula- Yamunanagar NH near Sector 26-27 of Panchkula, underpasses at Bilaspur chowk and Bawal chowk on NH-48 and construction of interchange on Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) to link Palwal-Aligarh NH in Palwal district.Service road along Delhi-Vadodara Expressway for connecting Nuh-Mandkola-Palwal road on the Western Peripheral Expressway (WPE), construction of new national highway from Faridabad bypass and entry at EPE interchange near Chainsa village, East-West Expressway from Dabwali to Panipat and construction of service road along Rohtak bypass were some of the other projects taken up by the Chief Minister with Gadkari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-khattar-takes-up-pending-national-highway-projects-with-nitin-gadkari-274679
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Book Kejriwal for deaths due to oxygen crisis: Anil Vij||Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday demanded the registration of a criminal case against Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his associates for the death of Covid patients due to the lack of oxygen.Besides this, a high-level committee should be constituted to find out what the ruling government under the leadership of Kejriwal did to deal with the oxygen situation during the second wave.Anil Vij, Minister Form probe panelA high-level committee should be constituted to probe what the Delhi Govt did with the surplus oxygen.Lambasting Kejriwal in a series of tweets on Saturday, Vij said, “The Kejriwal government in Delhi presented false figures with regard to the availability of oxygen in the state and thus procured surplus supply during the Covid period, which has affected other states for which the CM and his associates should be booked for the death of patients due to the lack of oxygen.”In another tweet, he demanded an inquiry saying that “a high-level committee should be constituted to investigate what the Delhi Government did with the surplus oxygen and also it should be inquired whether it was sold at exorbitant prices to earn profit.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-kejriwal-for-deaths-due-to-oxygen-crisis-anil-vij-274678
27-06-2021||Kaithal||2 held for illegal trade of mobiles in Kaithal district||With the arrest of two persons, the Kaithal police have claimed to have busted an inter-state gang allegedly involved in the illegal sale and purchase of mobile phones by creating cloning of different apps.The accused used to get gift vouchers from different e-commerce apps and later sold these to people. In preliminary investigation, it came to light that the gang members used to purchase mobiles in bulk by creating different IDs.The accused were identified as Rajat Kumar of Kaithal city and Sudhir Narang of Amargarh Gamri in Kaithal district.The police recovered 872 mobile phones, worth Rs 71.41lakh, and cash of Rs 15.15 lakh from their possession.About the modus operandi, the SP said that on a tip-off, a racket involved in the illegal sale and purchase of mobile phones was active in the city. The special cyber cell arrested both accused. The accused said they had created cloning of android apps and used to purchase mobile phones through apps on fake IDs. Later, they used to sell these phones without bills in Delhi without bills and other parts of the state, the SP said. They also earned gift vouchers and duped people by selling them these fake gift vouchers.“We have registered a case against the both under the various Sections of the IPC and IT Act. The involvement of other gang members is yet to be determined,” the SP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-illegal-trade-of-mobiles-in-kaithal-district-274677
27-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram, two arrested||Gurugram, June 26Yet another fake call centre was busted in Gurugram today by the cybercrime unit.The accused were duping foreigners through pop-ups in name of social security number (SSN). They were allegedly threatening them of blocking the SSN and making them pay up. While two partners of the call centre have been nabbed, the owner is at large.Two laptops, three mobiles and three I-watches have been seized by the police. An FIR of cybercrime has been registered at cybercrime police station. The police are conducting raids to nab the mastermind.The cybercrime police got a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from Udyog Vihar phase-3. Inspector Chander Vallabh with his team conducted raids at the centre where 16 men and four women employees were busy on computers and laptops.They could not show any valid OSP licence of Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.The police arrested fake call centre partners identified as Jinal Alkesh Acharya, a native of Ahmedabad, and Vaibhav Susaniya, a native of Mumbai. They revealed they had duped many foreigners and the call centre had been operational for the past six months. They revealed that the mastermind is their partner Parth Kesu, a native of Daman and Diu who visited them thrice a month.An FIR has been registered against the accused under Sections 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, Sections 66-D, 75 of IT Act at cybercrime police station.“The accused used to buy data of the American people from websites. After that, they used to send messages to the American people by uploading the data in their server. Then, they called them up and demanded $100 to 800 by misusing their identity and threatening to block their SSN,” said inspector Chander Vallabh, the investigating officer.MODUS OPERANDI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-two-arrested-274651
27-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Nuh tops Class I admissions in govt schools||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 26Government schools across the state have registered a total of over 1.06 lakh new admissions for Class I up to June 24 in the current academic session that commenced on May 1.As per the records of the Education Department, Nuh district topped the tally with 13,664 followed by Karnal with 6,917 and Sirsa with 6,914 new admissions.An officialPressure on school heads There is a pressure on the school heads for improving the number of students. Hence, they are carrying out a parents-contact programme in their villages or areas concerned to persuade them to get admission of their children done in government schools. The count is likely to increase in the coming days.Jhajjar is at the bottom, with 1,750 admissions in the Class I, followed by Charkhi Dadri 1,790 and Rohtak 2,112.“There is a pressure on the school heads for improving the number of students, hence they are carrying out a parents-contact programme in their villages or areas concerned to persuade them to get admission of their children done in government schools. The count is likely to increase in the coming days,” said an official.The official record reveals that up to June 24, Fatehabad recorded 6,542 new admissions, Ambala 3,941, Bhiwani 4,120, Faridabad 4,336, Gurugram 3,788, Hisar 6,025, Jind 5,168, Kaithal 6,917, Kurukshetra 4,531, Mahendragarh 2,457, Palwal 6,458, Panchkula 3,069, Panipat 4,468, Rewari 2,430, Sonepat 5,118 and Yamunanagar 5,062 admissions in Class I.Sources said as far as other classes were concerned, there were over 1.94 lakh admissions in Class II, 2.07 lakh in third, 2.16 lakh in fourth, 2.19 lakh in fifth, 1.95 lakh in sixth, 1.87 lakh in seventh, 1.92 lakh in eighth, 2.02 lakh in ninth, 1.83 lakh in 10th, 1.29 lakh in 11th and 1.46 lakh in Class XII up to June 24.Diljeet Singh, district elementary education officer (DEEO), Jhajjar, said efforts were on to raise the strength of students. “We held a meeting of school heads on Friday to discuss various points for improving the strength further. Since the admission process is on, students’ strength will go up considerably in the coming days,” he said, adding that the academic session started on May 1, but the schools remained closed for several days due to the Covid situation.Sunita Panwar, DEEO, Rohtak, could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-tops-class-i-admissions-in-govt-schools-274643
27-06-2021||Hisar||Two flee from police custody in Hisar||A father-son duo fled from the police custody soon after the two were arrested in connection with a case of assault on a police party from near the Rajgarh road in the town today.SI Mahendra Singh said he was at the Rajgarh road police barrier with his team on Friday night when they got a tip-off about the movement of two persons, Rajendra and his son Sandeep, who were accused in a case of assault on cops. The police interrupted their motorcycle and arrested them on the spot and handcuffed them. When the cops were completing paper work on the spot, the accused asked the police for toilet break along the roadside. The accused then pushed the cops who were holding them and fled from the spot.In the SI’s complaint, the police booked the duo, residents of Ban Mandori in Bhattu Kalan tehsil of Fatehabad district, under Section 224 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-flee-from-police-custody-in-hisar-274641
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Crop Diversification: Now, register till July 15 in Haryana||The state will provide incentives on sowing water-saving crops instead of paddy under the crop diversification scheme this year. CM Manohar Lal Khattar gave the approval to implement the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat Yojana’ for the kharif 2021 season under crop diversification.To take advantage of the scheme, interested farmers will have to register on ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal. Earlier the last date for registration was June 25, which has now been extended to July 15.Presiding over a meeting of the Agriculture Department officers, state Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal said instead of paddy, farmers should be motivated to sow alternative crops. “Farmers have been an option to grow cotton, maize, pulses, vegetables and fruits instead of paddy to get an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crop-diversification-now-register-till-july-15-in-haryana-274640
27-06-2021||---||End stir, resume talks, appeals Tomar as SKM holds protests in several states||New Delhi/Chandigarh, June 26As protesting farmers on Saturday tried to march to Raj Bhavans in several states on the completion of seven months of their agitation, the Centre appealed to the farm unions to end their stir and come forward for talks on any provision of the agricultural reform laws they deemed unfair.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar said the government was ready to listen to the unions about any objections they might have to specific provisions of the legislations, and even resolve them. He, however, ruled out repeal of the laws, as demanded by the protesters. “I want to appeal to the unions to end their agitation. The government has already conducted 11 rounds of talks with the farmers. Agricultural reform laws are going to change the standard of their living,” he said.Tomar said a large section of the country was supporting the laws but if the unions had any objection to any provision, the government was ready to “discuss and find a solution to their concerns”.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 unions protesting at various Delhi border points, claimed the farmers were detained in states like Haryana, Punjab, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana during the protests. The farmers were to submit memorandum of demands to the President through Governors.Terming Tomar’s recent statements as “perplexing and contradictory”, the SKM asserted that farmers were not seeking some “meaningless amendments”, maintaining the laws had “fundamental flaws”.Farmers from various parts of Punjab had gathered at the Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Mohali from where they started marching towards Chandigarh in the afternoon. The police used water cannons and even resorted to mild lathicharge to stop the farmers, but they succeeded in entering Chandigarh after breaking through barricades. Carrying flags of unions and raising slogans against the BJP-led government, the protesters, including women and youths, marched towards Chandigarh on tractors and other vehicles or on foot.Led by union leaders, including Manjit Dhaner, Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ruldu Singh Mansa and Manjeet Rai, the farmers marched till the Madhya Marg light-point where the Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner came to accept their memorandum.In Panchkula, farmers from several parts of Haryana gathered at Gurdwara Nada Sahib and headed towards Haryana Raj Bhavan, forcing their way through a layer of barricades. Led by BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni, the protesters were stopped at the Chandigarh-Panchkula border where the state police had deployed water cannons and trucks.Farm protests began on November 26 last year in the wake of the parliament passing The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. The protesters have been adamant on repeal, which the government has ruled out. The talks hit a roadblock after the January 26 violence in the national capital.Ludhiana man dies at Tikri borderA farmer, identified as Sukhvinder Singh (45) of Token Kalan village (Ludhiana), died at the Tikri border late on Friday night. The autopsy revealed cardiac arrest as the cause of death. It was the second death of a farmer at Tikri in two days.BJP meet disrupted, 15 booked in HisarThe police have booked 15 farmers on the charges of mischief causing damage, rioting and unlawful assembly outside the BJP office in Hisar when the district unit was holding a meeting on June 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/end-stir-resume-talks-appeals-tomar-as-skm-holds-protests-in-several-states-274462
27-06-2021||Saurabh Malik||Decade on, no end to honour killing menace in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26More than a decade has lapsed since the Punjab and Haryana High Court expressed the hope that the practice of honour killing would be “stamped out” like sati with the state and society’s intervention. But the menace continues, with the Delhi incident of the alleged honour killing being just one of the many cases.The couple, attacked in the Delhi’s Dwarka area, had approached the HC for protection after they tied the knot in August, 2020. Claiming themselves to be major, the petitioners had submitted that they had contracted marriage on August 13, 2020, voluntarily but against their family wishes.Disposing of the plea on August 19 last year, Justice Raj Mohan Singh had asked the couple to approach the Sonepat SSP “before whom they have statedly moved a representation”. The officer, in turn, was asked to ascertain the truth in the allegations of the petitioners and pass appropriate order in accordance with law. Their counsel, Abhimanyu Kalsy, says before this, an FIR was registered against the boy for kidnapping on August 13, 2020, at the Kharkhoda police station. As the boy’s quashing petition came up before Justice Alka Sarin in October last year, the state counsel said a cancellation report had since been prepared. The petition, as such, was dismissed as infructuous.Their life story is not the only one without happy ending. An affidavit by DGP Manoj Yadava in December last year said 13 criminal cases involving honour killing were pending in eight districts. The matter is currently pending before Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi.Questioning such incidents, Justice Arun Monga had asserted that one often heard of honour killing in the name of protecting family pride, not giving two hoots to the rights of the runaway couples. The problem appeared to be pan India — north to south.“It is a fight of ‘love versus honour’! One wonders, what kind of mindless pride/honour is this, which so much blinds the family members/parents as to even kill their own, the ones they gave birth to and/or to eliminate her/his chosen partner?” Underscoring the importance of granting protection to the couples, including the ones in a live-in relationship, Justice Jaishree Thakur added that one could not also lose sight of honour killings prevalent in northern India, particularly in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and UP. It was a result of people marrying without family acceptance. Justice Thakur observed: “It would be a travesty of justice in case protection is denied to persons opting to reside together without the sanctity of marriage…”Empowerment of Women importantThe HC, in Feb 2008, ruled: “We are of the view that the honour killing issue needs attention of all concerned. The issued is linked to gender equality and women empowerment, which is included in the millennium development goals of the international conference of 199 countries in 2000.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decade-on-no-end-to-honour-killing-menace-in-haryana-274639
27-06-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Cop goes extra mile to reunite mentally ill man with kin after 28 years in Yamunanagar village||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, June 26It was a touching reunion at ‘Ni Aasre Da Aasra’, an orphanage in Magharpur village of Yamunanagar district on Thursday, when a man named Amarnath arrived to take his father back home after nearly three decades.Rohit (now 64), who had gone missing from Mirzapur town of Uttar Pradesh in 1993 (28 years ago), was presumed dead by his family. It was the efforts of ASI Rajesh Kumar, who is posted in the Haryana State Crime Branch (Anti-Human Trafficking Unit), Panchkula, which helped Rohit reunite with his family.Talking to The Tribune, the ASI said Jaskirat Singh, who runs the orphanage in Magharpur village, informed him that Rohit had been living there since April 2021. “Rohit is mentally challenged. He was brought to this orphanage from Shahabad of Kurukshetra district in April this year. When I counselled him, he gave me brief information about himself and with its help I succeeded in finding his village and family,” said ASI Rajesh.Amarnath of UP’s Maandi village of Prayagraj and currently working in a Gurugram company said he got to know about his father from the ASI. “It was like a miracle when I saw my father through a video call after about three decades,” he said.Amarnath said his family members searched for his father for years, but failed to find him. “When we failed to find him, we presumed him dead and performed the last rites,” he said.Meanwhile, the ASI said, “Amarnath told us that his father was employed as a Home Guard in Mirzapur of UP. One day while on duty, he suffered an epileptic seizure and went missing after that.” He said he had been working with the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit of the Haryana Police since 2016 and since then he had reunited about 540 men, women and children with their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-goes-extra-mile-to-reunite-mentally-ill-man-with-kin-after-28-years-in-yamunanagar-village-274635
27-06-2021||Nitish Sharma||Maize growers in Ambala struggle to get fair price||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 26Maize farmers in Ambala are getting prices far below expectations for their produce.Rajiv Sharma from Hasanpur village here said he had to sell his crop for just Rs 1,150 a quintal.“The production cost increases every year, but there is no stability in the market. You never know what price you are going to be offered. Two years ago, farmers got Rs 1,650-1,750 a quintal, but the prices crashed to around Rs 1,100 last year. Due to poor rates offered last year, I had decreased my maize crop area from 4.5 acre last year to 2.5 acre this year. I have sold nearly 74 quintal of crop at Rs 1,150 per quintal this year at the Talheri grain market,” added Rajiv Kumar.Rajiv Kumar, FarmerNo storage facility Many farmers have already sold their produce to private buyers at cheaper rates. As the farmers don't have the facility to store their produce, they are forced to sell immediately after harvesting. We can’t hold the produce and wait for prices to improve.Another farmer, Satinder Handa, said, “Due to losses incurred last year, I reduced my maize area from 17 acre to just 7 acre this year. The government has failed to provide a market to farmers. In the absence of government purchase, farmers are forced to sell their crop to private traders at cheaper rates. I have sold my crop for Rs 1,000 a quintal, which is insufficient.”A trader said, “The prices of maize have improved marginally over the past couple of days. Earlier, the farmers were getting Rs 900-1,450 per quintal. Now, the prices have increased to Rs 1,100-1,615 per quintal depending on the quality and moisture content in the produce.”A senior official in the Agriculture Department said, “The crop that is currently being brought to the grain market is not notified by the government due to which it is not procured by a procurement agency on MSP. Drop in yield is an issue, but the government has ensured that the maize sown during the kharif season will be procured on MSP.”Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) chief, said, “Farmers are exhorted to adopt crop diversification and when they sow crops other than wheat and paddy, the government makes no arrangements for its procurement. It doesn’t make any sense that the government will purchase the maize sown in the kharif season only. Last year, the government had fixed Rs 1,850 per quintal for maize. If the government has fixed the MSP of a crop, then it must be procured on it. This is one of the major reasons the farmers have been holding the agitation and demanding a law on MSP.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maize-growers-in-ambala-struggle-to-get-fair-price-274632
27-06-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad Municipal Corporation staff call off strike||The Municipal Corporation Employees Union has called off its tool-down strike after a meeting with Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, here today.Balbir Singh, president of the workers’ union, claimed that the salary for May has been credited into the account of the MCF staff. He said that the strike has been withdrawn after an assurance was given by Garima Mittal, Commissioner, MCF, regarding the fulfilment of the other pending demand of release of interest-free wheat loan or advance of Rs 20,000 to the employees soon.He said as many as 4,500 employees had resorted to strike to register their protest against the delay in release of their salaries and non-sanctioning of the wheat loan this time. He said all the workers have returned to work as part of the agreement today. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-municipal-corporation-staff-call-off-strike-274626
27-06-2021||Jhajjar||Fire in Bahadurgarh footwear factory; loss in lakhs||Raw material and slippers worth lakhs were gutted in a fire that broke out in a footwear manufacturing unit at Modern Industrial Estate (MIE) in Bahadurgarh town here on Saturday.No loss of life was reported. Short-circuit is believed to be the reason behind the incident. The incident took place when several workers were working in the factory. Initially, the fire broke out on the first floor but also spread to the ground floor later. The workers came out of the factory on seeing the flames. Fire tenders rushed to the spot and doused the flames. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-in-bahadurgarh-footwear-factory-loss-in-lakhs-274623
27-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||Fleeced by two private hospitals in Hisar, victim’s kin get Rs 2.4L refund||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 26After nearly a month of admission and death of a Covid patient, two private hospitals in Hisar refunded Rs 2.4 lakh excess amount to the victim’s kin following the intervention of biologist Dr Ramesh Punia of the Civil Hospital.Sohan Lal of Tohana town in Fatehabad district said his relative Rajkumar of the district’s Khudana village was admitted to a private hospital from May 9 to 21 after testing positive for Covid. He said the hospital charged them Rs 3.9 lakh. Later, they came to know about the guidelines of the state government and approached a biologist in the Hisar Civil Hospital.Sohan Lal said after the official’s intervention, the hospital returned them Rs 1.43 lakh charged in excess. On May 21, they shifted the patient to another private hospital when his condition deteriorated. However, the patient died on June 1.Meanwhile, the second private hospital too charged Rs 3.43 lakh from the family. When they complained the biologist, the private hospital returned Rs 99,350 to the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fleeced-by-two-private-hospitals-in-hisar-victims-kin-get-rs-2-4l-refund-274613
27-06-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||First Delta+ patient  in Faridabad district recovers at home||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, June 26A 25-year-old youth, who was detected as the first case of the Delta Plus variant of Covid mutant in the district, has recovered and none of his family members has been found infected, though samples of all his kin have been collected again as a precautionary measure.Revealing that the youth hailed from the Ballabgarh area and was working with a private company in Delhi, Civil Surgeon Dr Randeep Singh Poonia said he had been found Covid-positive on April 30 after he travelled to and attended a function in New Delhi.“With normal fever and cough symptoms, the patient recovered in routine after home isolation and medication advised by doctors. The disclosure about his infection from the newest variant (Delta Plus) surfaced after a genome sequencing test taken up by the ESIC hospital here as part of a research project in which the sample of this person was found to be positive.”Total 165 samples had been collected for random sequencing, of which 164 were found to be negative,’’ said Dr Asim Das, dean, ESIC Medical College and Hospital, here. He added that the matter was not of grave concern as the person had already recovered with no more cases of this kind.Claiming that while samples of all other five members of his family had been collected for a fresh test, Dr Ram Bhagat, district nodal officer, Covid, said extensive tracing, testing and treatment had been taken up of all primary, secondary and extended contacts of the person so that there was no chance of further spread. He said 5 per cent of the samples collected for routine tests were marked for genome sequencing. The area of residence of this case had been put under surveillance and all persons having fever were being traced and tested, besides increasing vaccination.Contact tracing onChandigarh: Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday said the state had ordered the contact tracing of the Faridabad patient detected with Delta plus variant. Responding to the Centre’s letter to the states to create a containment zone to contain the new variant, Vij said the state had already told the officials concerned to do so and conduct testing on a large scale. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/first-delta-patient-in-faridabad-district-recovers-at-home-274611
27-06-2021||Hisar||15 protesters booked for stir outside BJP office in Hisar||The police have booked 15 farmers for creating disturbance during the meeting of the district unit of the BJP at the party’s head office in Hisar on June 24.A case has been registered on the charges of mischief causing damage, rioting and unlawful assembly of farmers.BJP district secretary Krishan Khatana lodged a police complaint that a group of protesters, including Sandeep and Virender of Bichpari village, created disturbance, tore banners and posters of the BJP near its office in Sector 14 in the town.The protesters gathered outside the BJP head office as the local leaders participated in the state executive body’s online meeting in Hisar on the call by the SKM. Despite barricading by the police, the farmers took an alternative route and reached in front of the BJP head office. BJP leaders, including Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa and Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta, had attended the online meeting held in Chandigarh on Saturday.Meanwhile, BKU leader Shamsher Nambardar said the police had wrongly booked the farmers and they would devise a strategy to oppose the move. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-protesters-booked-for-stir-outside-bjp-office-in-hisar-274610
27-06-2021||---||At Tikri, farmers hold tractor march||Jhajjar, June 26Protesting farmers on Saturday took out a tractor march at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on the completion of seven months of their ongoing agitation on the Delhi borders.The march started from Pakoda Chowk and culminated at the same point after passing through Jakhoda, Sankhol and Bahadurgarh city.A considerable number of women participated in the march. The protesters raised anti-government slogans.“All those farmers who could not go to Chandigarh to submit a memorandum to the Governor following the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) were the part of tractor march. The protest completed seven months today. We are still adamant on our demands with the same enthusiasm and spirit despite braving all sorts of weather conditions,” said Parminder Singh, a protester.Meanwhile, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, chief of BKU (Ekta), claimed, “Farmers will be devastated if the three black laws are executed. Hence, getting these laws repealed is the only option to protect farmers and farming.” He said farmers were ready to resume dialogue with the Centre if it was positive towards their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-tikri-farmers-hold-tractor-march-274608
27-06-2021||Chandigarh/Mohali/Panchkula||Punjab, Haryana farmers take out protest marches, police use water cannons||Farmers from Punjab and Haryana took out protest marches and submitted memorandums to officials from the Governor House before returning home on Saturday, even as Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to them to end their stir and offered to resume talks on the provisions of the three legislations.Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting at various Delhi border points, claimed that farmers were detained in states like Haryana, Punjab, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana during the protests.Terming Tomar’s recent statements as “perplexing and contradictory”, it asserted that farmer leaders are not seeking some “meaningless amendments” in the central farm laws which have “fundamental flaws” and urged the people “to punish the BJP”.Security was tightened in Delhiand other cities after the SKM said that representatives of farmers will submit memoranda of their demands, addressed to the President, to governors in various states.Tens of thousands of farmers from Punjab entered Chandigarh after breaking police barricades and facing water cannons. Punjab farmers collected in Sector 17 where they submitted a memorandum to Chandigarh DC, while farmers from Haryana handed over a memorandum to an official from Governor office at Chandigarh entry point.Also read: News of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's arrest fake: Delhi PoliceFarmer leaders speak virtually to Delhi LG, submit memorandum demanding repeal of farm lawsFarmers had planned to march towards the Punjab and Haryana Raj Bhavans here and submit a memorandum to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation against the three Central agri-marketing laws on June 26.A heavy police force was deployed in and around Chandigarh to stop protesters from heading towards the Punjab and Haryana Raj Bhavans.Barricades were put up at many places to prevent farmers coming from Mohali and Panchkula to go towards Chandigarh.However, agitating farmers, coming from the Mohali side, entered Chandigarh after forcing their way through barricades put up at the Chandigarh-Mohali border while facing water cannon.Farmers coming from the Mohali side were led by farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, while protesters from the Haryana side were led by Haryana BKU (Chaduni) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Samyukt Kisan Morcha member Yogendra Yadav.Farmers in Panchkula forced their way through a layer of barricades but they were not allowed to enter Chandigarh and stopped at the Chandigarh-Panchkula border where Haryana police had deployed water cannon and trucks.Earlier, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni had said they would sit peacefully at the entry point if police would not allow them to enter Chandigarh.The farmers had lined up since Saturday morning in their vehicles alongside Zirakpur roads and Amb Sahib gurdwara in Phase 8 in Mohali awaiting green signal from their leaders to march towards Chandigarh. The police have erected barricades at several places.Farmers marched from Mohali's Amb Shahib Gurdwara to Chandigarh via YPS chowk at 1 pm.  The protesters were carrying farmers union flags on tractors, cars and walking on foot. The farmers raised slogans against the Centre government. En route to Chandigarh, both from Punjab and Haryana, special 'langars' or community kitchens were organised for the protesting farmers by locals.Heavy traffic jam was witnessed in the city. Many farm activists were seen coming to Chandigarh in buses.Meanwhile, gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who was booked for his alleged involvement in violence that ensued at the Red Fort on Republic Day, could also be seen participating in the farmers' protest programme.Earlier, addressing the gathering at Gurdwara Amb Sahib, Rajewal slammed the Modi-led government over the three farm legislation and alleged that the Central government intended to “hand over farming” to corporate houses.Independent MLA from Haryana Sombir Sangwan, who was present at Gurdwara Nada Sahib, said the farm laws will “destroy” the farming community.Farmers have been protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Also read: Farmers to protest at Punjab and Haryana Raj Bhawans in Chandigarh todayThe morcha had announced to observe June 26 as “Kheti bachao, loktantra bachao” (save farming, save democracy) day on the completion of seven months of the farmers’ protest and the 47th anniversary of Emergency in India.— With PTI inputs A post shared by Kisan Ekta Morcha (@kisanektamorcha)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-farmers-take-out-protest-marches-police-use-water-cannons-274365
