28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government extends date of crop loan repayment||Haryana Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal on Monday said the state government has extended the date of repayment of crop loan given to the farmers through primary agricultural cooperative societies. The date of repayment of the Rabi crop loan, which was to be paid on or before June 30, has been extended to August 31, the minister said.The move will benefit about 3.5 lakh farmers of the state, who are likely to get interest relief of about Rs 35 crore, according to an official statement. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-extends-date-of-crop-loan-repayment-275312
28-06-2021|| Sanjay YadavGurugram||Faridabad man falls off third floor after being chased by neighbour's dog||A man died after he accidentally fell off the third floor of his residential colony while being chased by a dog, police sources said.  Sameer Mathur, 43, was climbing down the stairs at Sainik Colony, Faridabad, when a dog belonging to his downstairs neighbour suddenly charged at him. He ran down the stairs in fear, slipped and fell off the third floor, a complaint made by his father, Girish Mathur, said. He died at a hospital hours later, the complaint said.Police have booked the neighbour, identified as Sanjeev Bhadauria, for culpable homicide (section 304 of the Indian Penal Code), Inspector Sohanpal, the Station House Officer of Dabua police station, where the complaint was filed, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-man-falls-off-third-floor-after-being-chased-by-neighbours-dog-275311
28-06-2021||---||Leopard found dead on Surajkund road||A leopard was found dead on the Surajkund road in Faridabad on Monday morning.Though the post-mortem report is awaited to ascertain the cause of death, prima facie it appears to be death by accident.The accident occurred near Pali Chowk on Surajkund road.Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) MS Malik said, “A board of doctors has been formed to conduct the post-mortem. Our priority right now is to ascertain the cause of death.”It was the local police that informed the forest officials about the leopard’s death.This is not the first incident but according to local wildlife activists, seven leopards have been reported dead by accident in last three years.The Haryana government had promised a wildlife corridor to allow safe passage to animals especially on Faridabad road but nothing has been done so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leopard-found-dead-on-surajkund-road-275280
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Vij asks Home Dept to send panel of eligible officers for appointment of next DGP||Haryana minister Anil Vij on Monday asked the state Home Department to send a panel of eligible officers to the UPSC for appointment of the state’s next DGP in place of Manoj Yadava, who has sought premature repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau citing “career considerations and family requirements”.Vij, who is the state’s Home Minister, said that Yadava’s application seeking that he be relieved has been accepted.“The Home Department has been asked to send a panel of eligible officers to the Centre. Yadava, in the meanwhile, has been asked to continue till a new appointment is made,” he told reporters in Ambala.As per the process, now the names of eligible officers will be sent to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to be considered for the post of the state’s next police chief.Last week, Yadava had sought premature repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau (IB) citing “career considerations and family requirements”.Yadava, a Haryana-cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the 1988 batch, on Tuesday wrote to Haryana Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora with a “request for premature repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau” and seeking that he be relieved.He was granted one-year extension by the Centre earlier this year amid simmering differences over his tenure between Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Vij.Khattar was keen on keeping Yadava as the state police chief while Vij was in favour of his replacement after his two-year term ended.Yadava was appointed the Director General of Police (DGP) of Haryana on February 21, 2019 for a two-year term. The Khattar government had extended his tenure as DGP till further orders in January this year.He had joined the Haryana government on deputation from the Intelligence Bureau, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, for a period of two years.Further, his tenure as DGP was extended beyond January 20, 2021, till further orders.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs vide an order dated March 2, 2021 had also conveyed the approval for extension of his deputation tenure for a period of one year beyond February 20, 2021 or till further orders whichever is earlier. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-asks-home-dept-to-send-panel-of-eligible-officers-for-appointment-of-next-dgp-275265
28-06-2021||New Delhi||SC rejects plea seeking SIT probe into 'forcible conversion' of Hindus in Haryana's Nuh||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea seeking setting up of a special investigating team (SIT) to probe the alleged forceful conversion of Hindus in Haryana's Nuh district.Sorry, the plea is dismissed, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana told senior advocate Vikas Singh, who was appearing for the petitioners.Singh told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, that two of the petitioners had visited the area and met people there including the family of 21-year-old Nikita Tomar, who was shot dead outside her college in Ballabgarh in October last year.“We do not think we can entertain this petition based on newspaper reports,” the bench observed.One of the accused in the murder case identified as Tausif was trying to force the student to marry him.In March this year, a fast-track court in Haryana's Faridabad had sentenced two men to life imprisonment for Tomar's murder.The plea, filed in the apex court through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, had alleged that life, personal liberty and religious rights of Hindus in the areas of Nuh are being “continuously eroded” by members of the minority community who are in a “dominating position” there.The petition, filed by a group of lawyers and a social worker based in Uttar Pradesh, had claimed that the state government, district administration and the police have failed to exercise their powers due to which the life and liberty of Hindus, particularly of women and Dalits, are in jeopardy and they are bound to lead “life under sword” of the dominant group there.It had sought the top court's direction for constituting a SIT, comprising members from the CBI and the NIA, under the supervision of a retired apex court judge.It had said the SIT should probe instances of alleged forceful conversion of Hindus, illegal execution of sale deeds of their properties, atrocities committed against Hindu women and girls, encroachment made on public land, conditions of temples and religious places and also cremation grounds existing in the area.It had said the authorities should be directed to rehabilitate Hindus at their respective properties and restore all temples, places of worship and cremation grounds, which been encroached upon by any member of society, in their original form.Referring to the Census 2011, the plea said the total population of Mewat district was 10,89,263 in which Muslim population was estimated to be 79.20 per cent, Hindus comprised 20.37 per cent and the remaining 0.43 per cent were Sikh, Buddhist, Jains etc. “It is relevant to mention that there are about 431 villages in Mewat-Nuh. As many as 103 villages have become totally devoid of Hindus. In 82 villages, only 4-5 Hindu families are left," the plea submitted, adding, “There is significant decline of Hindu population in the district of Mewat-Nuh giving rise to a demographic change which will be disastrous for the unity of the nation.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-rejects-plea-seeking-sit-probe-into-forcible-conversion-of-hindus-in-haryanas-nuh-275231
28-06-2021||Tirbune News Service||Chandigarh cop, two others held for murder||Kurukshetra, June 27The Kurukshetra police have arrested a Chandigarh Police constable and his two accomplices in connection with the murder of a Mohali resident, whose body was recovered from his car near a canal in Bodhni village of Pehowa on Thursday.The accused have been identified as Chandigarh Police constable Manjeet Singh, Pradeep Kumar, and Sukhpal, residents of Patiala.The victim, Sandeep Singh, was a property dealer as well as a commission agent. He had suffered four bullet injuries.DSP Narender Singh said, “Following a complaint received from Sandeep’s wife Kuldeep Kaur, a case was registered against Manjeet Singh and the investigation was given to the anti-narcotics cell of the Kurukshetra police.“During investigation, Manjeet, Pradeep and Sukhpal were arrested. Manjeet said he was a constable in Chandigarh and his service record was bad due to which the higher authorities had stopped his 18 increments. Around two years ago, Manjeet came in contact with Sandeep who assured him that he had good contacts and would get his record clear, for which Sandeep had taken Rs 10 lakh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chandigarh-cop-two-others-held-for-murder-274954
28-06-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||1st audit of all-women police stations in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27Five years after the all-women police stations were set up in all districts of Haryana to provide a congenial environment for women complainants, the first-ever audit to assess their performance and effectiveness is being carried out across the state.The assessment, which is likely to be completed by the end of next month, is aimed at analysing the public perception of women police stations and map the awareness of police initiatives as also to understand the experiences and problems faced by those working at the “mahila thanas” in relation to those at the regular police stations in dealing with crimes against women and children.“Initially, the opinion within the police on the setting up of women police stations was divided, though it is an old concept in policing. However, the Haryana Government believed it was a much-needed intervention, given Haryana’s high incidence of crime against women. While the initial focus was to expand and increase coverage, we want to consolidate on performance standards and user satisfaction. Though episodic information by way of positive and not-so-positive feedback keeps coming in, this idea of a performance audit has been on our mind and carrying out a scientific study to establish effectiveness will help us serve the users better,” Haryana DGP, Manoj Yadava, said.An initiative of the Women’s Safety Cell of the Haryana Police, this performance audit is being carried out in association with the Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates and the Centre for Studies in Gender and Sexuality, Ashoka University. An MoU was signed between the Department and the university earlier this month.“The study will be carried out in 10 districts of the state and we are likely to have a performance report by the end of July. The idea is to identify factors hindering optimal functioning and take corrective steps, if needed, to improve their effectiveness,” ADGP (CAW), Kala Ramachandran, said.During the course of the survey, personnel of the women police stations and regular police stations will be interviewed, while feedback will be taken from the complainants.“We have begun with the process of interviewing the stakeholders. These are likely to be completed latest by mid-July after which the data collected through questionnaires will be analysed,” says Meghna Kaladi, CMGGA, adding that the CMGGAs in the 10 districts had been involved in the entire exercise.In a state which has one of the worst sex ratios and crime against women is consistently high, these all-women police stations, seen as one-stop shops for all crimes against women, were rolled out by the Manohar Lal Khattar government in the first year of his first term in government on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.Presently, there are 33 women police stations in the state and 239 help desks have been set up in conventional police stations specifically to deal with crime against women and children.Gauging the public moodThe assessment, which is likely to be completed by the end of July, is aimed at analysing the public perception of women police stations and map the awareness of police initiatives as also to understand the experiences and problems faced by those working at the “mahila thanas” in relation to those at regular police stations||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1st-audit-of-all-women-police-stations-in-haryana-274955
28-06-2021||---||5 Cong MLAs slam Abhay Chautala for anti-Hooda remark||Rohtak, June 27Reacting strongly to INLD leader Abhay Chautala’s remarks against former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda that he had hatched a conspiracy against his father and former CM Om Prakash Chautala, five Congress MLAs on Sunday lambasted Abhay stating that those living in glass houses should not throw stones at others.In a joint statement, the MLAs, including Raghuveer Kadyan, Geeta Bhukkal, Aftab Ahmed, Rao Dan Singh and Bharat Bhushan Batra, also asked Abhay several questions pertaining to the jail sentence to his father in the JBT recruitment case.“From preparing the lists of selected candidates to the case being handed over to the CBI for investigation, all developments in the case had happened during the tenure of Chautala government in Haryana. Despite all this, Abhay is blaming Hooda just to gain political mileage. When he will stop lying,” they questioned.Giving advice to Abhay, the Congress MLAs said instead of lying, he should dare to speak the truth in front of the public. The entire state knows that Hooda had never indulged in political vendetta and he ensured overall development of the state during his two stints as Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-cong-mlas-slam-abhay-chautala-for-anti-hooda-remark-274956
28-06-2021||---||All records burnt in Jhajjar tehsil office fire||Jhajjar, June 27  A fire broke out at the tehsil office in the mini-secretariat here on Sunday morning. All records except for two registers were gutted. The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained. Sources say the flames engulfed the tehsil office in the morning and the fire brigade was informed about 8.30 am. Fire tenders rushed to the spot and doused the flames. In the meantime, SDM Shikha and other officers also reached there. “An electrician was called to find out the cause of fire. He ruled short-circuit as the reason for the incident. A complaint will be lodged with the police,” said kanungo Vijay. Later, the SDM ordered an investigation into the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-records-burnt-in-jhajjar-tehsil-office-fire-274958
28-06-2021||---||Special train carries cotton yarn to Bangladesh||Ambala, June 27 The Ambala Railway Division of Northern Railway, in collaboration with MGH Group, for the first time loaded a special parcel train for Benapole in Bangladesh with cotton yarn at Ambala Cantonment railway station on Sunday.  The parcel train, consisting of 20 parcel vans, was flagged off by Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Freight, Vivek Sharma.  “Earlier, merchants in and around Punjab and Haryana were transporting these commodities by road to Bangladesh in small quantities and that was costing them too much.  “During the lockdown, they could not move this commodity by road. Then, the railway staff and officials approached the consignors and explained the facilities to transport it by rail. Accordingly, they have moved the cotton yarn by rail in bulk through goods train.  “But for moving the consignment by goods train, it is mandatory for the farmers and merchants to mobilise the quantity in bulk,” said Vivek Sharma. To resolve this problem and to facilitate the rail users to move their quantities in small consignments, up to a maximum of 500 tonnes in each trip, the Ambala Division of Northern Railway took the initiative and moved a special parcel train to Bangladesh. This has helped the merchants to market their products beyond the country’s border, he added.  The senior DCM said, “One special parcel train consisting of 20 parcel vans moved to Benapole in Bangladesh. Each van was loaded with 430 cartons, weighing around 23 tonnes. The total weight carried by the Special Parcel Express is around 468 tonnes. The cost per tonne comes out to be Rs 5,491. That is very cheap compared to road transport. This will be the first-of-its-kind traffic from Northern Railway catering to the yarn industry of North India, earning a freight of Rs 25,69,630.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-train-carries-cotton-yarn-to-bangladesh-274959
28-06-2021||---||Gurugram residents up in arms against ‘waste to wonder’ park||Gurugram, June 27The Municipal Corporation is patting its back over the “innovative” idea of converting three-decades-old HSVP park into a “waste to wonder” museum, but residents of Sectors 14 and 17 are up in arms against the proposed move.The park is one of the city’s most popular green spaces with areas earmarked for walking, jogging, exercises, yoga, karate and gymnastics. There is also a play area for children, sandpits for athletes and a badminton court.The Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of Sector 14 has already moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the MC’s move. Now, it has approached Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, alleging that the MC’s plan threatened to strip the area of its only green patch.The construction of the “waste to wonder” museum is underway, but residents want it to be stalled immediately.“The park remained shut for a long time because of the Covid restrictions. When it opened, we were shocked to find out that the MC has started a new project without taking the consent of residents. Senior citizens, who form a majority of residents in Sectors 14 and 17, come to this park for a walk. This is only park for children in the area and the MC wants to turn it into a concrete jungle,” said former RWA president HS Nanda.The residents also said the green belt was cleared because of industrial units in the vicinity, while thousands of trees were cut because of the upgrade of Atul Kataria Chowk and the forthcoming Regional Rapid Transport System (RRTS) Metro station.The park was the only green patch which acted as the lungs to the polluted area, they added.Only Park for children"The park remained shut for a long time because of the Covid restrictions. When it opened, we were shocked to find out that the MC has started a new project without taking the consent of residents. Senior citizens, who form a majority of residents in Sectors 14 and 17, come to this park for a walk. This is only park for children in the area and the MC wants to turn it into a concrete jungle."— HS Nanda, RWA ex-president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-residents-up-in-arms-against-waste-to-wonder-park-274960
28-06-2021||---||Form SIT to probe advt ‘scam’ in Gurugram MC, says Lokayukta||Chandigarh, June 27Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Aggarwal has ordered the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the alleged Rs 180-crore advertisement scam in the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG).The SIT will consist of a retired District and Sessions Judge and two retired officials of impeccable integrity from the MCG.The order came on a complaint filed by Abhay Jain, convener, Manav Awaaj. In his complaint filed in 2015, Jain had alleged that the MCG was not recovering Rs 180 crore as advertisement tax from the big mall owners and builders.Justice Aggarwal observed in the judgment that the connivance of public servants of the MCG with the advertising agencies for the embezzlement of hundreds of crores, at the relevant times ie from 2010 to 2014-15, was apparent.The Lokayukta ordered the SIT to inquire/investigate the matter (Rs 180 crore unpaid advertisement tax) and whosoever was found guilty to be punished by taking strict disciplinary/departmental action against them, besides recovering the dues from them.Jain said the MCG had replied in an RTI in 2015 that the MCG had to recover Rs180 crore from the advertising agencies. After the RTI reply, Jain filed a complaint in Lokayukta in 2015, alleging that officials of the MCG, in connivance with advertisement agencies, had embezzled hundreds of crores of rupees of the corporation.Jain alleged that the Municipal Corporation officials were deliberately not recovering Rs 180 crore from the advertisement agencies to serve their interests.In its reply, the Municipal Corporation had submitted before the Lokayukta that the corporation could not recover the amount due to the various cases pending in different courts.‘Rs180 cr not recovered’ The order came on a complaint filed by Abhay Jain, convener, Manav Awaaj. In his complaint filed in 2015, Jain had alleged that the MCG was not recovering Rs 180 crore as advertisement tax from the big mall owners and buildersList of defaulters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/form-sit-to-probe-advt-scam-in-gurugram-mc-says-lokayukta-274962
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana varsities to reopen for research scholars||The state government today decided to further relax Covid curbs by allowing universities to be reopened for research scholars. Besides, practical classes in laboratories and remedial classes on campuses can be conducted.In an order issued by the Chief Secretary today, the government also said anganwadis and creches would remain closed till July 31. Swimming pools and spas will also remain shut.All shops are allowed to open daily from 9 am to 8 pm, while malls could operate from 10 am to 8 pm.Restaurants and bars, including those in malls, will be allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity and home delivery of food is allowed till 10 pm. Sports complexes and gymnasiums can reopen for events, but no spectators will be allowed. For social gatherings except for weddings and funerals, a ceiling of 50 has been imposed.Club houses, restaurants and bars in golf courses will be allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity. Gyms can operate from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent attendance. All production units, establishments, and industries will be allowed to function but with strict adherence to the Covid protocol. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-varsities-to-reopen-for-research-scholars-274963
28-06-2021||Karnal||2 cops hurt in group clash||Miscreants allegedly attacked a police party, leading to injuries to two personnel near Nissing this afternoon. Sources said the police reached the place on getting information of a possible clash between two groups. When the police tried to avert the clash, a group attacked the police and damaged their police vehicle. The injured police personnel were rushed to hospital and later discharged. A case was registered against unidentified persons under Sections 323 and 353 of the IPC and investigation is under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-cops-hurt-in-group-clash-274964
28-06-2021||Rohtak||Haryana Boxing Sangh suspends secy||The Haryana Boxing Sangh has suspended its secretary Ashwini Sharma and cancelled the affiliation of its Panipat unit on the grounds of irregularities.The decisions were taken at a meeting of the executive committee of the sangh held here today. Sharma was suspended from the post of the secretary as well as from the primary membership of the sangh.Sangh treasurer Praveer Gahlot said sangh president Major (retd) Satyapal Sindhu had been receiving complaints regarding extortion and allurement given to players by Sharma and others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-boxing-sangh-suspends-secy-274965
28-06-2021||Bhiwani||Modi praises Bhiwani boxer Manish Kaushik in ‘Mann Ki Baat’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi today praised Bhiwani boxer Manish Kaushik in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ show today while referring to the sportsperson’s journey as a child, who helped his father in the fields, and later emerged as a talented pugilist, who is now aiming to bring laurels to the country in the Tokyo Olympics.  Kaushik, a resident of the district’s Devsar village, is one of the four pugilists from Haryana who have made the cut for the Olympics. In all, nine boxers will represent India in Tokyo. Kaushik’s brother Vipin said, “The words of praise from the Prime Minister has boosted Manish’s confidence. I hope this will inspire him to win a medal for the country at the Olympics.”  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/modi-praises-bhiwani-boxer-manish-kaushik-in-mann-ki-baat-274966
28-06-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Sewerage choked, Panipat residents  suffer||Tribune News ServicePanipat, June 27Streets full of sewage water, scarcity of potable water, non-functional streetlights, are plaguing residents of Batra Colony in the city, who are forced to live in a miserable condition. People have raised their voice several times but all in vain.The residents of outer colonies of Panipat have been living in a pitiable condition for the past many years. Batra Colony is an outer colony on Assandh road, which comes under Ward 22 of the Municipal Corporation (MC).The residents face drainage problem.The sewage in the streets has even entered people’s houses. “Our life has become miserable for the past two years. The sewage flows in the street and foul smell emanates from it. We are forced to live under such conditions,” said Amit of Batra Colony.There is no mechanism to drain out the sewage water here. Besides, heaps of garbage can be seen lying everywhere. The streets are also damaged.Krishan Kharab, a resident, said earlier, sewage water was drained into a pond near the railway lines in Gopal Colony, but now, it has been stopped as the Railways has developed a park there.We have complained about the genuine problems of the area before the higher authorities but all in vain, he added.Yogesh Dawar, husband of councillor Chanchal Dawar of Ward 22, said a tender of Rs 25 lakh had been invited to resolve the sewerage problem of the area. The issue will be discussed with the HSIDC officials to connect the sewerage system of the area with the main sewerage lines of the Old Industrial area, he asserted. Besides, two tubewells will be installed soon in the area to resolve the problem of potable water, Dawar maintained.Panipat (Urban) MLA Pramod Vij along with Commissioner, MC, and other officials had visited the colony 4-5 days ago, he added.“I along with officials of the Public Health Department visited Batra Colony and directed the officials to resolve residents’ problems on priority. The work for the cleaning of sewerage of the vicinity has started and will be completed soon. RK Singh, Commissioner, MC, said.Batra Colony on Assandh road in Ward 22||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sewerage-choked-panipat-residents-suffer-274967
28-06-2021||---||Four more welcome gates to come up in Karnal||Karnal, June 27The remaining four entry points in the city will now have welcome gates, which will increase the number of such gates to eight in the city.The new gates will be constructed by Karnal Smart City Ltd.(KSCL) under the Smart City Mission project. At present, three gates have been inaugurated, while the fourth gate is being constructed by the Karnal Municipal Corporation.“We have taken up the construction work of four welcome gates at the entry points of the city. At Chirao Mor, the gate will be named after Guru Nanak Dev, while on the Karnal-Kunjpura road, the gate will be named after Goddess Saraswati ,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is the CEO of the KSCL.The third gate will be named after astronaut Kalpana Chawla on the Karnal-Munak road and the fourth gate on the Karnal-Kachwa road will be named after Swami Vivekanand, he added.Earlier, Shrimad Bhagwada Gita gate on the Baldi bypass, Deen Dyal Upadhyaya gate at Devi Lal Chowk and Raja Karan welcome gate at Deen Bandhu Chottu Ram Chowk, known as Namestay Chowk have already been constructed, while the work on the gate named after Atam Manohar Jain Muni is going on on the Karnal-Indri road.The DC said the demarcation for the welcome gates had been done and the height of the new gates would be 22 ft and a sum of Rs 2 crore would be spent on these.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-more-welcome-gates-to-come-up-in-karnal-274968
28-06-2021||Ambala||25,000 litres alcohol seized in Ambala||The CIA-1 unit of Ambala police have seized 25,000 litres of Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA) and arrested the tanker driver. The accused has been identified as Chandan Bharti, a resident of Uttar Pradesh. He was produced before a court today which sent him to seven-day police remand. The CIA-1 unit got information that Parth Sharma, a resident of Baldev Nagar; Satbir Singh, a resident of Ghasitpur; and Satbir’s  driver Chandan Bharti brought ENA and prepare liquor. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-000-litres-alcohol-seized-in-ambala-274969
28-06-2021||---||Elevated corridor to ease traffic in Karnal||Karnal, June 27Aiming at easing the traffic congestion in the city, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar gave nod to the construction of an elevated corridor on the single-pillar technology. The 2.1 km-long two-lane flyover will come up between Haryana Nursing Home and Vikram Marag on railway road at the cost of Rs 95 lakh.The authorities are claiming that it will be the first elevated corridor on the single-pillar technology and the work is expected to start in three months. The deadline of the project will be nine months.But, traders have begun opposing the project. Krishan Lal Taneja, president Nehru Palace Market Association, said it was a decision taken in haste. The administration should have discussed the project with traders. “It is a small city and the flyover will hamper the business of the traders. Also, it will affect the prices of shops. We will call a meeting to chalk our future strategy,” he added.The project has been taken up under the Smart City Mission project. Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the Smart City project, got a traffic and transportation survey conducted of the city. In the survey, it was found that Committee Chowk was the busiest intersection in the city and commuters were delayed while travelling at the Chowk due to the high volume of traffic and congestion during the peak hour.Besides, the survey also found that around 10,000 vehicles passed through Committee Chowk from all approach roads during the peak hour. The intersection is controlled by traffic police personnel and the volume of traffic requires a grade separated solution for Committee Chowk to facilitate seamless movement of traffic.“Based on the survey and also considering the long- pending demand of the commuters to ease the congestion at the intersection, a flyover has been proposed on the railway road from Vikram Marag to Haryana Nursing Home, the KSCL has taken up the flyover project for improving city infrastructure for the betterment of the residents,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is also CEO of the KSCL.“We have brought it to the notice of the Chief Minister, who has given nod for it and also directed us to explore the feasibility of the same. A team of engineers visited the site and preliminary information was collected. Based on the availability of road space for ascending and descending ramp, the location was found suitable for a flyover,” he said.Committee Chowk busiest intersection||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elevated-corridor-to-ease-traffic-in-karnal-274970
28-06-2021||---||To save trees, NGO removes concrete layer around roots||Kurukshetra, June 27 Green Earth, a non-governmental organisation, has come out to save trees by removing concrete and paver blocks around the trees at different locations in Kurukshetra.  Naresh Bhardwaj, a member of Green Earth, said, “Concrete has been put in an unscientific manner and it is damaging the root structure of the trees. When concrete is placed over the roots, it damages the critical root structures and inhibits the tree’s ability to take in water and oxygen. That results in the tree’s death. It also leaves no space for water seepage, resulting in fall in groundwater level.” He said, “The National Green Tribunal in 2013 had ordered the authorities concerned to ensure that concrete within 1m radius of tree trunk should be removed forthwith. Precaution should be taken so that no concrete or construction or repairing work is done at least within 1m radius of the trunk of trees. But no attention is being paid anywhere and the NGT orders are being violated. Memorandums have also been given to the administration in this regard but to no avail.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-save-trees-ngo-removes-concrete-layer-around-roots-274971
28-06-2021||Hisar||Haryana Diary: Covid victims' bodies in ‘blue polythene’ dread||No ‘togetherness’ at grassrootsKurukshetra: While the BJP and JJP have just celebrated 600 days of their coalition government in Haryana, their leaders at the local level, especially those who have been eyeing posts in municipal council, are still finding it difficult to act as coalition partners. The leaders are leaving no opportunity to criticise and accuse each other of stooping low for political gains and vested interests. While the ongoing farmers’ agitation has already made things difficult for both the parties and the local bodies’ elections are posing a big challenge, they are engaged in a battle of one-upmanship to woo voters. The “celebration of togetherness” seems to mean little to the grassroots workers.Two IAS officers on one post!Chandigarh: Can two IAS officers be posted on one post and that too within a span of one week? The Chief Secretary’s Office seems to have performed this feat. It posted 2009 batch officer Sharandeep Kaur Brar and 2013 batch officer Parth Gupta as Director, Citizen Resources Information Department, exactly a week apart. The corridors of power in the Haryana Secretariat are abuzz about posting of two officers on an “unimportant” post when a number of important posts are being held as additional charges (sometimes 3-4 departments) by other officers.Slip of the tongue & thereafterKarnal: Karnal Member of Parliament Sanjay Bhatia is once again in the line of fire of Opposition leaders and this time, after a slip of tongue. At the grievances meeting held at the party office in Karnal, the MP, while meeting the members of a particular community and commenting on the farmers’ issue, used an expletive to describe the situation. When cornered by reporters, after initially denying it, he admitted that it was a slip of tongue after a video clip of the same was played out before him. The clip of the MP using abusive language went viral on social media also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-covid-victims-bodies-in-blue-polythene-dread-274974
28-06-2021||Residents moved from narrow congested mohallas to approved colonies||Vacant land filled with stagnant water||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaLow voltage harming household appliancesIN the prime location of Yamunanagar city, voltage is ranging from 110V to 190V in the morning and day time. After paying hefty electricity bills, such a situation in summer is a major cause of concern. Low voltage may be due to overloading on the network, loose connections etc. and it may cause dimming of lights frequently in our area. The voltage fluctuation is harmful for household appliances, electrical and electronic appliances. When power surges are frequent, they can burn the transformers. The authorities should look into it at the earliest.Dr MK Sehgal, YamunanagarBhiwani residents face water shortageResidents of Bawani Khera town have been suffering due to water shortage for the past one year. The residents are unable to get water supply and have to buy water from private water suppliers. We have raised the issue with officials of the Public Health Engineering Department several times but there has been solution to the problem.Jaggannath Mehta, BhiwaniIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vacant-land-filled-with-stagnant-water-274978
28-06-2021||Faridabad||Workshop on exam reforms by JC Bose University||Awareness camp concludesBhiwani: A three-day awareness camp against drug abuse organised by the red ribbon club of Adarsh College for Women concluded. The college organised the camp in the series of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking Campaign 2021, under the aegis of the Haryana State Aids Control Society. A spokesperson of the college said 305 girl students participated in the awareness campaign, who organised events on the campus and social media to spread awareness.HR conclave at JC Bose varsityFaridabad: With a view to providing platform for sharing best practices, industry experiences and bridging the gap between academia and institutes, the department of mechanical engineering of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised a one-day HR conclave-2021. Addressing the session, Vice- Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar stressed on the need of adopting new technologies and new changed environment due to the pandemic. He also highlighted the importance of such events to improve the employability of students and appreciated the initiative taken by the department of mechanical engineering.e-campus placement driveHisar: A student of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Noida-based Uflex Limited organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university, congratulated the selected student. Pratap Singh, director, placement and Dr Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director said the selected student was Ayush Kumar from B Tech Mechanical.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/workshop-on-exam-reforms-by-jc-bose-university-274979
28-06-2021||---||Withdraw FIRs against farmers for protest marches, urges Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Sonepat, June 27The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has demanded the withdrawal of the criminal cases registered against the farmers and the union leaders in Chandigarh on Saturday.The SKM leaders, in a joint statement issued on Sunday, claimed that the call by the SKM to mark the day as “Save Farming, Save Democracy” on Saturday got pan-India response — from capital cities, tehsils and district headquarters.Nearly all capital cities of major states of the country witnessed farmers’ resistance yesterday, in addition to hundreds of other locations where local protests were organised and memoranda submitted to local authorities, addressed to the President of India, the SKM leaders said.In Chandigarh, it is reported that FIRs have been registered against several SKM leaders and many other protesters under Sections 147, 148, 149, 186, 188, 332 and 353 of the IPC. It is objectionable that the entry points have been closed by the administration to begin with, after farmers had declared their intent to peacefully march till the Raj Bhawan, after which a chosen small delegation would have gone to meet the Governor to hand over a memorandum.There was absolutely no reason to have tried to prevent the farmers from going to the Governor House. After having barricaded the roads, the police also resorted to using water cannons and lathicharge on the protesters. On top of this kind of undemocratic and authoritarian behaviour, cases are now being filed against SKM leaders. SKM condemned this and demanded that the FIRs be withdrawn immediately and unconditionally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/withdraw-firs-against-farmers-for-protest-marches-urges-samyukt-kisan-morcha-274980
28-06-2021||---||Chandigarh cop among three nabbed for Mohali realtor’s murder in Pehowa||Kurukshetra, June 27The Kurukshetra police have arrested a Chandigarh Police constable and his two accomplices in connection with the murder of a Mohali resident, whose body was recovered from his car near a canal at Bodhni village in Pehowa on Thursday.The suspects have been identified as UT constable Manjeet Singh, Pradeep Kumar and Sukhpal, residents of Patiala. The deceased was identified as Sandeep Singh of Mohali. The victim was a property dealer and commission agent. He had suffered four bullet injuries.DSP Narender Singh said, “Following a complaint received from Sandeep’s wife Kuldeep Kaur, a case was registered against Manjeet Singh and the investigation was handed over to the Anti-Narcotic Cell of the Kurukshetra police. During the investigation, Manjeet, Pradeep and Sukhpal were arrested. Manjeet said he was a constable in Chandigarh and his service record was poor due to which the authorities had stopped 18 increments. Around two years ago, Manjeet came in contact with Sandeep, who assured him that he had good contacts and would get his record improved for which Sandeep reportedly took Rs10 lakh.”“Manjeet disclosed that Sandeep failed to get his record improved and was also not returning the money. He hatched a plan and asked Sandeep to meet him.On June 21, Sandeep told his wife that he was going with his friend Manjeet Singh, who needed to collect some payment. He also took his personal revolver, licence, clothes and car with him. Manjeet kept Sandeep captive at a house in Devigarh in Punjab for two days and asked him to return his money. He snatched the victim’s revolver and phone. During this period, the suspect made several rounds in Pehowa and kept Sandeep’s phone with him to show Sandeep’s location in Pehowa,” he saidThe DSP said Manjeet had disclosed that they were afraid that now the victim would get a kidnapping case registered against them following which they took Sandeep near the canal at Bodhni village in Pehowa and killed him on the intervening night of June 23 and 24. The suspects used Sandeep’s personal revolver to shoot him and also used his car. They left Sandeep’s body and other belongings, including the revolver and mobile, and then fled in another car. The suspects were produced before a court, which remanded Manjeet in four-day police custody and Pradeep and Sukhpal in three-day police custody.The triggerThe suspects have been identified as UT constable Manjeet Singh, Pradeep Kumar and Sukhpal, residents of Patiala. Manjeet told the police that his service record was poor due to which the authorities had stopped 18 increments. Sandeep assured Manjeet that he had contacts and would get his record improved and took Rs10 lakh. Manjeet said Sandeep failed to get his record improved and was also not returning the money.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chandigarh-cop-among-three-nabbed-for-mohali-realtors-murder-in-pehowa-275017
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 17 more Covid fatalities, 115 fresh cases||Haryana on Sunday reported 17 more Covid-related deaths, which took the cumulative toll to 9,385, while 115 fresh cases pushed the tally to 7,68,378 in the state, according to the health department’s daily bulletin.The latest deaths include two each from Gurugram and Hisar districts, it said.Of the fresh cases, Palwal reported 20 cases while 16 cases were from Gurugram, the bulletin said. The active cases in the state stand at 1,685.The total recoveries so far are 7,57,308, and the recovery rate is 98.56 per cent, it said.The cumulative positivity rate is 7.74 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-17-more-covid-fatalities-115-fresh-cases-274891
28-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Haryana govt extends lockdown till July 5 with some relaxations||The Haryana government on Sunday ordered the extension of lockdown in the state till July 5 with some relaxations.All shops are allowed to open from 9 am to 8 pm. Malls are allowed to open from 10 am to 8 pm.Restaurant and bars (including in hotels and malls) are allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent of the seating capacity and adopting requisite social distancing norms.Religious places are allowed to open with 50 persons at one time and following Covid-19 appropriate norms and wearing of face masks.Corporate offices are permitted to open with full attendance subject to strict observance of social distancing.Gatherings in wedding and funerals has been allowed to 50 persons subject to strict observance of Covid-19 appropriate norms.Gyms are allowed to open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity.All production units, industrial units and establishments are allowed to function.Swimming pools and spas shall remain closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-extends-lockdown-till-july-5-with-some-relaxations-274842
28-06-2021||---||Sonepat man fears for dead son’s teen widow||Chandigarh, June 26It is the heaviest weight a father can carry, his dead son’s body, but 60-year-old Om Prakash of Sonepat’s Gopalpur village has more pressing matters to deal with than the grief of losing his son -- the fate of his teenage daughter-in-law Kiran.“I can’t keep her in my house because villagers will take an offence. She has nowhere to go. Once she is out of hospital, only misery awaits her. If she succumbs to her bullet wounds, I worry who will cremate her. I can’t do that because for villagers it would mean that I accepted her as my daughter-in-law,” the father said, admitting that his hands were tied due to social pressure.Kiran, all of 19, was widowed after Vinay died of gunshot wounds on June 24 when her family members tracked them down to New Delhi’s Amberhai village in Dwarka and opened fire for marrying despite being from the same village and gotra.While the 24-year-old boy died on the spot, Kiran sustained injuries and was admitted to hospital. “She is stable, but still unfit to record her statement,” Dwarka DCP Santosh Kumar Meena said.Vinay’s body was brought to the village and cremated amid heavy police deployment. Talking to The Tribune over the phone, Om Prakash said, “I met Kiran in the hospital. When I told her that Vinay is dead, she said she didn’t want to live without him.”Om Prakash recalled the last conversation he had with Vinay. “Earlier this month, he called up from an unknown number. I told him that he had brought disgrace to the family by eloping with a girl of the same gotra. I told him he had put his life in danger and he should leave us to our fate,” the father said.He said he never expected the girl’s family to be vengeful enough to try to kill couple. “The girl’s parents had filed a kidnapping case against my son. I had snapped all ties with him, although he was in touch with his mother. In the last call he made to her, he told her how Kiran had a miscarriage but was doing fine,” the father said.Earlier, the panchayat had barred the couple from returning to the village for marrying against the social norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-man-fears-for-dead-sons-teen-widow-274460
