29-06-2021||Kurukshetra||Cop dragged for 500 metres on speeding car’s bonnet in Kurukshetra: Police||A Haryana traffic policeman was dragged on the bonnet of a car for nearly 500 metres after he signalled a jeep driver to stop at a check post here, police said on Tuesday.The incident happened on Monday evening when Constable Sanjiv Kumar was on duty at a police check post on a highway in Kurukshetra, Deputy Superintendent of Police Subhash Chander told reporters on Tuesday.Kumar had signalled a Bolero jeep to stop but its driver, who was accompanied by two others, ignored his signals and tried to run past the constable, who had to jump on to the jeep’s bonnet to save himself.The jeep driver still did not stop the vehicle and continued to drive and even increased the speed in a bid to throw off Sanjiv, forcing him to cling on to the bonnet for his life, the DySP said.The vehicle was eventually forced to stop by other policemen, including Assistant Sub-Inspector Gulab Singh, who all chased the vehicle for over half a kilometre, he said.The entire act of the driver could have very well killed the constable, the Dy SP said.The act of the accused was also filmed by the policemen, he said.As the jeep was finally forced to stop, Sanjiv Kumar fell on the ground and suffer some injuries, he added.The jeep’s driver, identified as Nurdeep alias Lovepreet, and his two accomplices have been arrested, the DySP said.The vehicle driver has been charged for an attempt to murder and other penal offences, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-dragged-for-500-metres-on-speeding-cars-bonnet-in-kurukshetra-police-275875
29-06-2021||New Delhi||Plans afoot to create country’s first urban wildlife corridor in Delhi-NCR||Forest departments of Delhi and Haryana are working on an interstate plan to build a wildlife corridor on a busy road stretch near the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary to provide safe passage to leopards and other animals, officials said on Tuesday.This will be the first such corridor for wildlife management in an urban setting in the country, an official said.The wildlife sanctuary covering 32.71 sq. km area on the Southern Delhi Ridge of Aravalli hill range lies in southern Delhi and northern parts of Faridabad and Gurugram districts of Haryana.It is part of the Northern Aravalli leopard wildlife corridor, which extends from the Sariska National Park in Rajasthan to Delhi Ridge.The Delhi forest department, which has been trying to provide an enriched habitat to leopards in Asola Bhatti, is seeking to utilise the expertise of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) in building underpasses on busy roads around the wildlife sanctuary, according to Delhi Deputy Conservator of Forests (South Division) Amit Anand.On Monday, a two-year-old female leopard was killed after being hit by a vehicle on Pali road in Faridabad.This is the second such incident within a year. In October last year, a leopard was killed in a road accident near Mangar village on Gurugram-Faridabad road, according to Divisional Forest Officer, Faridabad, Rajkumar Yadav.Bombay Natural History Society’s Delhi head Sohail Madan said around five leopards have died in the last five years on the roads passing through or abutting the wildlife sanctuary.There are three major roads with heavy traffic flow around the wildlife sanctuary—Surajkund-Faridabad road, Gurgaon-Faridabad road and Mehrauli-Badarpur road—according to officials.Another road connecting Chhatarpur in south Delhi to Mangar village in Faridabad cuts through the sanctuary.“We have had talks with officials in Haryana. We will be chalking out a proper plan for the wildlife corridor,” DCF (South) Anand said.Whenever any leopard goes towards Faridabad, it uses the same corridor—a stretch of Gurgaon-Faridabad road and Pali road south of the wildlife sanctuary—he said.“The road cuts through the leopard corridor. We have to find a solution. We will utilize the expertise of DMRC which will advise us on the matter of building an underpass on the Pali-Surajkund road,” he added.The two forest departments are looking to build several wildlife corridors in that region. It is an interstate matter, so a plan will be made and the agencies concerned will be approached, an official said.Yadav said the idea is at a nascent stage, but “we will try to build three underpasses because several such incidents have taken place in the recent past”.“The idea was mooted earlier too, but could not be implemented. This time, there is a strong recommendation and we have taken it up with senior officials,” he said.The BHNS has identified three spots on Gurgaon-Faridabad road and Pali road where animals were killed while crossing the road.“At these three places, the Gurgaon-Faridabad road and Pali road run along the wall of the sanctuary. Three leopards, who have found a habitat in the sanctuary and have been spotted in an abandoned open-pit mine, cross the Gurgaon-Faridabad road to drink water from a water body on the other side. This is where these accidents take place,” Madan said.He said the leopard that died in the road accident on Monday could be one of those three felines. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plans-afoot-to-create-countrys-first-urban-wildlife-corridor-in-delhi-ncr-275846
29-06-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Haryana to have four flying schools; heliport in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 29Out to explore aviation industry expansion in state Haryana is planning to set up four flying schools on Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis. The declaration was made by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala who also said they were mulling an aero-museum and heliport in Gurugram on the same model to boost industrial and corporate sector of district. Chautala was chairing a meeting of officials of the Civil Aviation Department.  According to the Deputy CM, tenders have been signed for running flying schools in Mahendragarh and Bhiwani on PPP basis, now the possibilities for running these schools in Karnal and Pinjore are being explored. “In addition to the establishment of an International Aviation Centre at Hisar, the existing airstrips in the state of Haryana will be revamped. The improvement of the airstrips of Bachhod and Bhiwani near Narnaul in Mahendragarh district is being undertaken.  The possibilities of developing a heliport and aero-museum in the proposed Global City along the Dwarka Expressway in Gurugram are being explored,” Chautala said. Addressing the meeting, Chautala said they were striving to make Haryana a hub of industries in the field of aerospace and defence and for this an aerospace and defence policy is being prepared. “The state is a leader in auto industry and aerospace is future so we are paying special attention to it. Right from training schools to setting up such facilities. Manufacturing units for industry we see a great opportunity and are working with state holders,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-have-four-flying-schools-heliport-in-gurugram-275834
29-06-2021||New Delhi||Centre and Haryana govt will jointly set up museum based on Mahabharata and Geeta||The Centre and the Haryana government will jointly set up a world class digital museum based on the epic Mahabharata and the Geeta at Jyotisar in Kurukshetra.This was informed on Tuesday by Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel following his meeting with Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar.Also, the Centre has approved Haryana government’s proposal for the second phase of the Krishna Circuit project in the state.Patel said that the proposed museum would be modern and expansive, and would give boost to religious tourism in the state.He lauded the state government for implementing the tourism projects promptly. “The state has undertaken several projects through its own resources,” Patel said in appreciation of the state government.After his meeting with Patel, Khattar said progress on works on other projects underway was reviewed.Some of the projects discussed during the meeting include Adi Badri, Rakhigarhi, Science City, and issues relating to adventure tourism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-and-haryana-govt-will-jointly-set-up-museum-based-on-mahabharata-and-geeta-275810
29-06-2021||New Delhi||SC junks PIL over  probe into forced conversion in Haryana's Nuh||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a PIL seeking an SIT/NIA/CBI probe into alleged forced conversion, crime against women of Hindu community and threat to life and liberty of Hindus in the Nuh area of Mewat in Haryana.“Sorry, we don’t think we can entertain this (PIL) on the basis of news reports”, a Bench led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana told senior counsel Vikas Singh, who represented the petitioners — a group of lawyers and activists — including Ranjana Agnihotri and Shishir Chaturvedi. Alleging that dominant members of the Muslim community have overpowered Hindus of the area, the PIL filed in October last year had sought the top court’s intervention for protection of fundamental rights Hindus whose population has witnessed a decline over the years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-junks-pil-over-probe-into-forced-conversion-in-haryanas-nuh-275323
29-06-2021||Kaithal||1 paediatrician for 4L children in Kaithal district||Amid anticipation of the third wave, which may affect children the most, the childcare infrastructure of Kaithal district is not sufficient. The situation can be gauged from the fact that there is only one regular paediatrician in the government-run hospitals of the district, while the estimated population of children (upto the age group 14) is around 4 lakh.The Civil Hospital does not have a paediatrics intensive care unit (PICU), which is required for the critical care of the children upto the age group of 14.As per the information gathered by The Tribune, there is a requirement of three paediatricians and four medical officers trained to handle critical paediatrics care patients.The Civil Hospital has a sick newborn care unit (SNCU), which has 18 beds. Besides, a ward of 10 beds for the newborn children care, sources said.It has seven ventilators for adult care, which can be converted into paediatrics ventilators by changing its mode. The Civil Surgeon office has sent a requirement of three paediatrics ventilators and three bubble c-pap machines to the headquarters, said the sources. The department has received 17 bi-pap machines.“We have learnt a lot from the second wave and we are making efforts to strengthen the childcare infrastructure in the district keeping in view the third wave. We are developing a PICU in the hospital. Four beds have been dedicated for this unit and its capacity can be increased if required,” said Dr Shailender Mamgain Shelly,Civil Surgeon. He said the requirement for the doctors has also been sent to the headquarters.As of now, 22 beds have been allocated in the Covid ward for the paediatrics patients, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-paediatrician-for-4l-children-in-kaithal-district-275493
29-06-2021||Gurugram||Leopard found dead on Surajkund road in Faridabad||A leopard was found dead on the Surajkund road in Faridabad on Monday morning. Though the postmortem report is awaited to ascertain the cause of death, prima facia it appears to be death by accident. The accident occurred near Pali Chowk on the Surajkund road.Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) MS Malik said, “A board of doctors has been formed to conduct the postmortem. Our priority right now is to ascertain the cause of death”. The police informed forest officials about the death. This is not the first incident but according to local wildlife activists, seven leopards have been reported dead by accident in the past three years. The Haryana Government had promised a wildlife corridor to allow safe passage to animals especially on the Faridabad road, but nothing has been done so far.A young leopard was found deadnear Pali Chowk on the Surajkund road.“The causality has occurred while the animal was trying to cross the forest road. This area is a protected land under Section 4 and 5 of PLPA — the only law which restricts non-forestry activities in Haryana. But unfortunately, the government policies have been against forest and wildlife of the Aravallis” said local wildlife activist Jatinder Bhadana.The activists accused the government of indifference. There is no solid law on wildlife protection in Haryana. Union laws are ignored in the state. The Haryana Government has recently pursued a case to open mining in the same territory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leopard-found-dead-on-surajkund-road-in-faridabad-275494
29-06-2021||Karnal||Vitiligo Day observed at KCGMC, Karnal||Summer Bonanza programmeKarnal: Pratap Public School,Jarnailly Colony, Karnal, as part of the "Summer bonanza' organised an interesting interactive session with Bhakti Sharma, sarpanch, Barkhedi Abdullah. The guest speaker motivated students by sharing her inspirational journey of becoming a sarpanch and urged them to develop leadership qualities. The young Pratapians listened to the sarpanch with rapt attention when she described how she transformed her village into a model village (adarsh gram). She motivated them to become good leaders. The director principal applauded and thanked the guest speaker for her inspirational talk.Online activities for studentsAmbala: A slew of online fun blended with learning activities were organised for the students of Classes I to XII at Lord Mahavir Jain Public School. Participation in the activities taught students many significant rules and principles of mathematics. Classes I and II pasted objects of different shapes and sizes. Classes III and IV played online tambola. Students of Classes V to XII made presentations on various concepts of mathematics and sent their videos to the panel for judgment. Students of Classes V and VI chose vedic maths and a favourite among students of Classes VII and VIII was the magic of 3D images. Classes IX and X explored the relationship of mathematics with other disciplines, the maths enthusiasts of Classes XI and XII added a creative edge to their understanding of the subject. School principal Ruchi Sharma congratulated the teachers of the mathematics department for making the event a success.Lecture series concludesKurukshetra: The department of English, Arya Kanya Mahavidyalaya, Shahabad Markanda, concluded its lecture series on the theme, "Literary responses to pandemic". Dr Manuradha Chaudhary, Centre of Russian Studies, School of Language, Literature and Culture Studies, JNU, New Delhi, familiarised students with the Russian pandemic literature and discussed how one could bring about a balance in all spheres of life. The Principal of the college, Dr Sunita Pahwa said this theme was very much relevant today and literature definitely sensitised people and offered lessons that could be learnt to make the world a better place to live in.CUH releases booklet on NEPMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) released a booklet entitled, "National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 implementation plan: Strategic action plan and goals" to follow the strategic plan and goals for the successful implementation of the policy. Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said this booklet would benefit immensely in the implementation of the policy. It also presents the institutional priorities, in which ways are mentioned for the successful implementation of the education policy, he added.Developing life skillsKurukshetra: Prof Tejinder Sharma, chairman, Department of Commerce, Kurukshetra University, said developing life skills helped everyone, especially students in finding new ways of thinking and problem solving. In the present scenario of the pandemic, it is important to learn how to live a purposeful and a happy life. He was speaking on the occasion of one-day motivational webinar on "Life transformation skills - how to live a meaningful life" organised by the Haryana Commerce and Management Association. Sudhir Dua, a motivational speaker, explained the principles of life to lead a meaningful and a happy life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vitiligo-day-observed-at-kcgmc-karnal-275497
29-06-2021||Ambala||Clerk booked for giving fake certificate to school in Ambala||The Ambala police have booked an employee of Ambala Municipal Corporation for allegedly providing a fake building safety certificate to a private school.In her complaint to the police, Kiran Banerjee, director of Saint Joseph School, stated that the building safety certificate of the school for 2021-22 was to be renewed from the PWD (B&R).Ambala Municipal Corporation’s licence clerk Navneet Kwatra, who had visited the school in February regarding an inquiry against the school related to trade licence, assured that he would get the certificate renewed through his contacts in the PWD (B&R).He took the original documents of the previous year and also the fire safety NOC. In April, Navneet provided the “building safety certificate”.Later, the school came to know that the department concerned hadn’t issued any such certificate and thatNavneet has provided a fake certificate.The director said, “Some people have been trying to tarnish the image of the school. It seems Navneet has done this work under someone’s pressure. We have given a complaint to the police and the matter is being investigated.”Denying the allegations, Navneet said that baseless allegations have been levelled against him. He said that he had only met the accountant of the school regarding a complaint against the school.A case has been registered at Baldev Nagar police station under Sections 406, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clerk-booked-for-giving-fake-certificate-to-school-in-ambala-275509
29-06-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Chased by dog, man falls from stairs, dies; FIR against owner||In a shocking incident at Sanik Colony in Faridabad, a resident died after falling from the stairs of the third floor of a colony after being chased by a German Shepherd today.Following a complaint by the victim’s family, an FIR was lodged against the dog owner at the Dabua police station.According to the complaint filed by the victim’s father, Girish Mathur, he lived with his family at the Achievers Colony in the Kalindi hills in the Sainik farms. His son, Sameer Mathur (43), also lived with him with family. It was around 11.30 am that his son was coming down the stairs. As he reached the fourth floor, the dog of a resident, Sanjeev Bhadauria, suddenly charged at him.“He was scared and ran down and reached the third floor, where he lost his balance and fell from the third floor. He was badly injured and we rushed him to hospital, where he died after some time,” said the father of the victim.An FIR was lodged against the dog owner under Section 304 (culpable homicide) of the IPC in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chased-by-dog-man-falls-from-stairs-dies-fir-against-owner-275517
29-06-2021||Kurukshetra||4 arrested for extortion calls||The CIA-II unit of the Kurukshetra police have arrested four persons in connection with three extortion cases in Kurukshetra.The accused were identified as Mohit Kumar and Arun, both brothers, Rajat and Varun, of Ismailabad. They were produced before a court, which sent prime accused Mohit to four-day police remand, while Arjun, Rajat and Varun were sent to one-day remand. DSP Narender said the accused were making extortion calls with the help of their friend Vikram Brar who was in Italy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-arrested-for-extortion-calls-275520
29-06-2021||Gurugram||2 liquor traders robbed in Gurugram||Two brothers, both liquor traders, were allegedly abducted and robbed of their car, Rs 4 lakh cash and valuables and then dumped on the roadside. An FIR has been registered.According to the complaint filed by liquor trader Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Bhoda Kalan village, he and his brother went to collect money from their liquor vends located in Bas Lambi, Jamalpur, Jodi Sampka, and Ghoshgarh on Saturday night. After that, they were headed towards Jodi Kalan in their SUV.A car at full speed hit the SUV. They stopped and more than six persons attacked them with iron rods.They first hit his brother Rajesh who was injured. Later, they abducted the brothers. The miscreants held them hostage in their car and roamed about for four hours. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-liquor-traders-robbed-in-gurugram-275523
29-06-2021||Gurugram||Parents protest as private school in Gurugram withholds exam result||Parents staged a protest outside Sector 45-based private school today for allegedly forcing them to pay annual charges by withholding results. The school management has not issued any clarification in this regardIt was this morning when parents more than 25 in number reached outside Euro international school. First, they tried to meet the school management to discuss the issue of withholding the results of their wards. When the guards denied them entry inside the school, they protested outside the school.The protesting parents Sudhir Goyal, Satpal, Anup, Rakesh and Pallavi said in the time of Covid only online classes were going on and they paid tuition fees on time, but now, the school management was demanding annual charge. The school is allegedly withholding the result of Classes X and XII students. The parents protested for two hours but the school management did not even talk to them and finally they has to return.A police team also reached the spot as a precautionary measure. The parents did not create any ruckus and returned empty handed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-protest-as-private-school-in-gurugram-withholds-exam-result-275530
29-06-2021||Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) has undertaken a project for the construction of 2- km long flyover from Vikram Marg to Haryana Nursing Home in Sector14 at an estimated cost of Rs 95 crore to decongest a large part of the city under the Smart City project. The construction of this flyover in the city will not benefit the people much. KSCL should take the elected representatives of the Municipal Corporation and residents into confidence. It will be better if multiple multi-storey parking lots were built rather than a flyover in the congested areas of the city. — Shakti Singh||Karnal Flyover will not benefit residents||Defence Colony roads cry for attentionRoads in the Defence Colony, which were dug up to lay sewerage pipelines, were not restored properly, especially in Sector D. Since the dug up area on the roads were not filled properly, it has caved in at many places or has developed potholes. This has led to bumpy ride on the stretch and commutes have tough time driving through the area It is high time the authorities take a note of it and seek accountability from the contractors. And ensure good quality work. — Colonel RD Singh (Retd), Ambala CanttRohtak stretch in pathetic conditionOver one-km long stretch on the Delhi road from the Delhi bypass to IMT Kheri Sadh has been lying damaged for over a year causing inconvenience to commuters as one side of the road remains almost closed for traffic, hence commuters prefer to drive on the other side. This has led to many mishaps, especially at night. Now, the authorities concerned have started constructing the road. The construction materials have been piled up on one side. We demand that the authorities get the work completed at the earliest so that relief is provided to commuters. — Sandeep Khatri, RohtakIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-flyover-will-not-benefit-residents-275544
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||50% Covid patients who died in Haryana in May, June had no comorbidities||More than 50 per cent of Covid victims, who died of the virus in the past two months, did not have any comorbidities, as per the official records of the state Health Department.As per the weekly status report of Covid in the state, 9,385 persons died of Covid till Sunday, of which 3,501 (37 per cent) did not have any comorbidities. As many as 5,598 persons died between April 27 and June 27 and of these 2,819 (50.38 per cent) did not have any underlying medical condition.The share of multiple comorbidities among Covid victims, which was 46 per cent of total fatalities till April 26, came down to 29 per cent till Sunday.Diabetes mellitus, considered the single largest underlying condition in Covid mortalities, remained almost unchanged during the second wave, though the percentage of deaths with this condition moved slightly up from 12 per cent on April 26 to 13 per cent on June 27.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head of the pulmonary medicine department, PGIMS-Rohtak, and state nodal officer for Covid, said he was not surprised by an increase in the deaths of non-comorbid patients during the second wave, because the fatalities depended on several factors and not on comorbidities alone, which was definitely a major factor.“The severity of the disease, virulence of the virus, time taken by a patient to get medical aid, person’s own immune response and genetic factors were equally responsible for fatalities,” said Dr Chaudhary.He said while virulence and severity were definitely higher during the second wave, it had also been observed that in many cases, while parents and their children had severe infections, their spouses did not get infection, or even if they did get, it was not that severe.“It was also observed that many patients, who were under home isolation, remained in denial mode even after their condition warranted hospitalisation and finally, when they did arrive in hospitals, it was already too late. Similarly, several others kept taking medicines, including steroid, on their own, thereby worsening their condition,” added Dr Chaudhary.Meanwhile, the weekly new cases have dipped to 960 this time while 139 persons lost their lives in the past seven days.The total number of active cases in the state has come down to 1,685 with only six districts having 100 or more active cases.Hisar has the maximum 183 active cases, followed by Panipat (162), Sirsa (160), Bhiwani (123) and Panchkula (101).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-covid-patients-who-died-in-haryana-in-may-june-had-no-comorbidities-275561
29-06-2021||Gurugram||22 nabbed partying in Gurugram despite Covid restrictions; let off on bail||A joint team of the Excise Department and district police arrested 22 men for partying at a guest house in Sector 38 here in the wee hours of today. With Covid restrictions still in place, locals violated lockdown rules.An FIR under the excise and epidemic Acts has been registered.On a tip-off, excise inspector Radhe Shyam and police officials conducted a raid at Aqua Inn guest house in Sector 38 in the wee hours of today. When the team reached the guest house, the party was in full swing and men in an inebriated condition were dancing to DJ tunes.When the team asked them to furnish a written permission for the party, they failed to produce any.The accused claimed they were celebrating the birthday of their friend and it was a routine party. Of the 22 accused, 20 are residents of Delhi. They were later let off on bail. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22-nabbed-partying-in-gurugram-despite-covid-restrictions-let-off-on-bail-275565
29-06-2021||Rohtak||Whistleblowers face dismissal from Rohtak PGIMS||The “ghost” guard scam, which came to the fore more than four years ago in the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), surfaced yet again when the Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) decided to dismiss the then security officer and assistant security officer.Ghost guard scamThe decision was taken at a meeting of the PGIMS executive council on Saturday.The two officers, who claim to be the whistleblowers in the case, face dismissal, but the security firm, which had defrauded the premier medical institute of a hefty amount, continues to evade action.On April 1, 2017, then security officer Badam Singh and assistant security officer Sanjay Sangwan had apprised the PGIMS of irregularities in the appointment of guards.Singh said: “Sangwan and I had found out that security guards provided by Orion Security Solutions, the private security agency hired by the PGIMS, were not present on duty.”Subsequently, the UHS had asked the security officers to inquire into the matter and submit a report.In their report submitted on May 25, 2017, it came to light that 103 of the 625 security guards deployed on the PGIMS campus existed only on paper. Further investigation brought out that the “missing” guards were working at the office of the Haryana Board of School Education in Bhiwani.“The authorities sat on the inquiry report for several months. Eventually, I was told to get an FIR lodged in October 2017,” said Singh.At the same time, the police had constituted an SIT to probe the matter, while the PGIMS also conducted an internal inquiry.An accountant of the security firm was arrested in connection with the case, while the two officers were indicted for their alleged role in the scam. Subsequently, they were suspended following the pendency of the inquiry.UHS Registrar Dr HK Agarwal said, “Action against the security officers has been taken after having followed the due procedure. The contract with the security firm was terminated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/whistleblowers-face-dismissal-from-rohtak-pgims-275566
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nikita Tomar murder case: Convict Tosif files appeal in Punjab and Haryana High Court||Sentenced to life imprisonment in the Nikita Tomar murder case, Tosif today moved the Punjab and Haryana HC by filing an appeal.He claimed the lower court judgment was based on conjectures and surmises. It was, as such, liable to be set aside.In his appeal placed before the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Alka Sarin, Tosif submitted the judgment was also against law and facts available on record.His counsel Sarfraj Hussain added the complaint alleging the victim’s harassment by the appellant was not lodged till the date of alleged occurrence. There were no call details to prove the appellant had ever called the victim after August 4, 2018. There is no evidence to connect the alleged country made pistol found on the spot with the appellant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-tomar-murder-case-convict-tosif-files-appeal-in-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-275571
29-06-2021||Rohtak||Now, district panels in Haryana can get Covid patients’ bills verified by CA||Now, the district-level committees will be able to avail the services of chartered accountants (CAs) for verifying medical bills of Covid patients charged by private hospitals as the state health authorities have authorised it for the same.A district-level committee has been formed in every district to monitor complaints regarding overcharging by private hospitals.The move aims at curbing the possibility of any inaccuracy while verifying medical bills as per the government-approved rates while dealing with the complaints of excess charges by private hospitals from Covid patients.Every district in the state has received complaints about excess charging by private hospitals, taking advantage of non-availability of beds and shortage of oxygen during the Covid crisis, said sources.“At present, the district-level committees verifies medical bills of Covid patients as per the government rates and asks the hospitals to refund the excess amount, if any, to the patients, but some districts were facing difficulty in verifying the bills. Hence, a provision of availing the services of CAs has now been made to resolve it,” said an officer requesting anonymity.Sources say payment to CAs would be made as per the DC rates from the Swasthya Kalyan Samiti of the district concerned. A communiqué in this respect has recently been sent to all Deputy Commissioners from the office of Director General, Health Services (DGHS).Mahendra Pal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC)-cum-head of the district-level committee, said the CA would be helpful in dealing with the complaints of overcharging. A total of eight complaints regarding overcharging by private hospitals had so far been received, he added.“Two complaints are being probed and private hospitals have been asked to refund the excess amount to the complainants in the other six cases. Both parties are called for hearing during the inquiry and the actual bill is calculated as per the government norms,” said Pal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-district-panels-in-haryana-can-get-covid-patients-bills-verified-by-ca-275577
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Departments with 80+ staff brought under online transfer policy||The BJP-JJP government is set to check the discretion of political and administrative bosses in government transfers. In a development that will instil transparency in government transfers, the state government has tweaked its flagship online transfer policy, bringing the departments with a cadre strength of 80 or more under its ambit.Govt Push for transparencyEarlier, the departments with a cadre strength of 300 or more employees were under the purview of the online transfer policy.Sources said the new policy was the offshoot of the successful implementation of the earlier online transfer policy which has yielded excellent results.“The feedback from the stakeholders, including the employees, was overwhelmingly in favour of the implementation of the online transfer policy for all departments which the current policy tries to accomplish,” a senior officer told The Tribune.The Khattar government had first successfully experimented with online transfer policy for teachers a few years back. The innovative policy was later replicated in several other government departments having a cadre strength of 500 employees and above.Taking a cue from its online policy, several state governments, including the Punjab Government, later replicated the Haryana model of online transfer policy, especially online teachers’ transfer policy in their respective states.Subsequently, the cadre strength for the implementation of the online transfer policy was reduced to 300.Meanwhile, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), demanded that the SKS, the largest representative body of state government employees, should be consulted before the implementation of the new online transfer policy to avoid any legal complications at the later stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/departments-with-80-staff-brought-under-online-transfer-policy-275588
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||New Assembly building  need of hour: Haryana Speaker||Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today batted for a new Vidhan Sabha building for Haryana to tide over the space crunch.In a letter to the Lok Sabha Sabha Speaker, copies of which were also sent to the state government, the Centre and Leader of the Opposition, Gupta said space for the proposed state-of-the-art building should be allotted from the Chandigarh Administration .Gupta noted that as per the proposed delimitation of Haryana in 2026, the state was set to have 14 parliamentary and 126 Assembly segments. In view of the space shortage in the existing building, there was no proper place for ministers, chairmen of Vidhan Sabha committees and over 350 officials and employees of the Secretariat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-assembly-building-need-of-hour-haryana-speaker-275589
29-06-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram: 4 illegal farmhouses razed near Aravallis||The district Town and Country Planning Department today carried out a major demolition drive in Gairatpur Bas village, Gurugram.An illegal farmhouse colony was being developed in the Aravalli foothills. Road network had been laid on around 20 acres and four farmhouses were under construction on 10 acres.According to the authorities, Gurugram district is an urban area and a controlled area in which permission is required to be taken from the competent authority before development of a colony.The said illegal colony was being developed for the past six months, but construction work was started recently by taking advantage of the lockdown.“In the present case, the violators were developing a colony without permission. In addition, they were planning to extend the colony on another 15 acres of adjacent land as new excavation work for laying down a road network was evident at the site. Many trees were found uprooted at the site. At least three campaigns will be run every month to take action on illegal farm houses,” said DTPE RS Bath.Four under-construction farmhouse structures, boundary walls and road network were razed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-4-illegal-farmhouses-razed-near-aravallis-275591
29-06-2021||Kurukshetra||Six-laning project from Pipli to Kurukshetra University: Contractors, officials chided for tardy work||Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha today pulled up officials of PWD (B&R) and a road contractor for the slow pace of ongoing six-laning project from Pipli to Kurukshetra University. It has become an ordeal for local residents as well as shopkeepers on this stretch. The MLA asked the officials and contractor to chalk out a strategy to complete the work at the earliest.The project started in December 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by December-end 2019. But only about 4 per cent work was done. After that, the tender was terminated and a fresh tender was allotted by PWD (B&R). The work resumed in April-end last year.The MLA today visited different locations such as Mohan Nagar, Old Bus Stand, Shrikrishna museum and Gurdwara Chhati Patshahi along with Superintending Engineer, XEN, SDO, JE of PWD (B&R) and the road contractor. Expressing displeasure at the pace of work, the MLA said the officials had been asked to chalk out a strategy and complete the project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-laning-project-from-pipli-to-kurukshetra-university-contractors-officials-chided-for-tardy-work-275592
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Triple talaq case: High Court orders protection for man’s 2nd wife||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the police to look into the threat perception of a woman married to a man who “divorced” his first wife by pronouncing “talaq talaq talaq”. The police was also directed to initiate steps, if required, after gauging the threat to the woman.Justice Arun Monga of the High Court made it clear that the direction was being given for protecting the life and liberty of the second wife, who may have been “misled” into marrying the man.The direction came after the first wife submitted that they continued to be married as the purported divorce given by the man was “not cognisable under the law”. She further submitted that the man was claiming to have divorced her by triple talaq, which was not recognised in law.Even as per the Muslim rights, it was not a legitimate divorce. She further submitted that the petition had, in fact, been filed with an oblique motive to create a defense in the criminal proceedings initiated against him following the registration of an FIR on May 26 for cheating, forgery and other offences under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 120-B of the IPC, along with the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at the women police station in Palwal.The couple, on the other hand, sought the protection of their life by invoking Article 21 of the Constitution. Among other things, the Bench was told that they had married in accordance with the Muslim rights and customs. The man had legitimately remarried after divorcing his first wife.After hearing the rival contentions, Justice Monga asserted ground to interfere in the present proceedings was not made out. It was open to the private parties to seek other appropriate remedies as may be available to them under the law.At the same time, Justice Monga in the interest of justice directed the Palwal Superintendent of Police to look into the second wife’s threat perception in accordance with her representation dated May 29. “In case there is any substance in the same, he may take appropriate steps in accordance with law for the grant of protection of life and liberty to petitioner-second wife,” Justice Monga concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/triple-talaq-case-high-court-orders-protection-for-mans-2nd-wife-275593
29-06-2021||Hisar||Former sarpanch shot at over land dispute||A former sarpanch of Madanpura villagewas shot at and seriously injured by two persons today. The victim, Ishwar Singh, was admitted to hospital with two bullet injuries. The police said the injured man alleged that his nephew Abhishek and some other persons were behind the attack. The police have registered a case of attempt to murder against Abhishek and another unknown person and started probing the matter.The complainant said he was asleep in the verandah of his house when the two persons came on a bike and one of them shot at him twice. The assailants managed to escape from the spot and his son Vijay rushed him to hospital.The complainant said he and his two other brothers jointly owned 14 acres in the village. His brothers, Mukesh and Surender, had died about five years ago. He suspected Abhishek to be behind the attack. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-sarpanch-shot-at-over-land-dispute-275594
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Date for repayment of cropo loans extended||Haryana Cooperation Minister, Dr Banwari Lal, said the state government had extended the date for the repayment of loan given to farmers by the registrar of cooperative societies through primary agricultural cooperatives.He said the date of the repayment of rabi crop, which was to be made between September 1, 2020, and February 28, 2021, and which was to be paid on or before June 30, 2021, had been extended to August 31, 2021.The Cooperation Minister said, the advance date of kharif crop 2021, which was from March 1 to August 31 had been extended to September 30. He said with this announcement, about 3.5 lakh farmers of the state were likely to get interest relief of about Rs 35 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/date-for-repayment-of-cropo-loans-extended-275597
29-06-2021||Karnal||Karnal girl gets Diana Award for social and humanitarian work||Sanjoli Banerjee (22) from the district has been honoured with the Diana Award for her social and humanitarian efforts. Established in the memory of Diana, Princess of Wales, the award is given by a charity set up in her name.She received the award by post. “It is the cooperation and trust of the family and society due to which I could work in the fields of climate change and women empowerment,” said Sanjoli while interacting with mediapersons. Sanjoli is also the founder of a free mobile school for rural children. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-girl-gets-diana-award-for-social-and-humanitarian-work-275598
29-06-2021||Rohtak||Zila Parishad wards reserved through draw in Rohtak||The district authorities today organised a draw for the reservation of wards of Zila Parishad (ZP) and Panchayat Samiti, Sampla, for different categories.Mahender Pal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), said there were 14 wards in the Zila Parishad. Ward number-3 and 14 had been reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) and ward -11 for women from the SC category. Ward number-6 had been reserved for Backward Class (BC) and Ward-12 for women from the BC category.“Ward numbers-2, 5, 7 and 9 have been reserved for women,” said the ADC.A similar draw for 18 wards of Panchayat Samiti, Sampla, was also held in presence of SDM (Sampla) Shweta Suhag.“Out of 18 wards, three wards (5, 12 and 17) have been reserved for SCs and two wards (11 and 16) for BC. Ward number- 2, 4, 7, 9, 11 and 14 have been reserved for women,” the SDM added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/zila-parishad-wards-reserved-through-draw-in-rohtak-275599
29-06-2021||Ambala||Ambala doctors treat cancer patient for free||Giving a new lease of life to a 36-year-old labourer, who was diagnosed with oral cancer (squamous cell carcinoma) over 2 months ago, two doctors associated with the Rotary Cancer Hospital in Ambala, have treated him free of cost.To help him, Dr Girdhar Gopal and Dr Surya Udai Singh agreed to treat him for free. He underwent a surgery, a couple of weeks ago, wherein the entire cancerous inner part of the right cheek, half of the lower jaw and the neck nodes were removed. The defect thus created was reconstructed with skin and muscle flap from the chest. Soon he gained near-normal functions and aesthetics of his oral cavity and face. He has now been referred by the same doctors for radiation therapy in Patiala, which too will be free of cost.Dr Surya Udai Singh said, “The labourer has been treated free of cost. Cases like these are many and regular systematic screening is the need of the hour. There are many who are unfortunate and struggle to get a proper diagnosis done. It is therefore not only our duty to stay informed, but to assist such poor persons in leading a healthy life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-doctors-treat-cancer-patient-for-free-275601
29-06-2021||Our CorrespodentGurugram||2 killed, one hurt in car crash in in Gurugram||Two private company employees were killed and their friend was critically injured after their car got smashed between a canter and a truck on the Pataudi road today. According to preliminary investigation, the car was at a high speed in the wee hours and tried to overtake the canter when the mishap took place.The deceased were identified as Jitesh Kumar (27), a resident of Gurugram, and Bindu Rana (28), a resident of Delhi. The car was damaged badly and trio were injured critically.An FIR was lodged against the canter driver under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at Sector 10 A police station in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-killed-one-hurt-in-car-crash-in-in-gurugram-275603
29-06-2021||Hisar||Ex-minister Sampat Singh refuses nomination to BJP panel||Former minister and BJP leader Prof Sampat Singh has refused to become a member of the state executive committee of the BJP.“I cannot accept this responsibility because I have been supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” he tweeted from his official Twitter handle on Monday.State BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar had proposed to nominate him on the state executive committee.Singh also tweeted the BJP should find a solution to the concerns raised by farmers. “It is impossible to carry out political activities in closed doors under police protection,” Sampat Singh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-minister-sampat-singh-refuses-nomination-to-bjp-panel-275604
29-06-2021||Rohtak||Art lovers to extend financial help to artistes across Haryana||Art lovers and well-to-do artistes across the state have decided to form a welfare association in order to extend financial support to needy artistes, who are finding it difficult to make the ends meet.A decision to this effect was taken at a state-level meeting of the artistes’ fraternity organised here on Sunday. Kailash Verma, a former station director at Akashvani, Rohtak, presided over the meeting.The artistes lamented that cultural programmes, which were their primary source of income, are not being organised amid the Covid restrictions and the state government is also not paying any heed to their demands.“A number of poor folk artistes and other stage performers are on the verge of starvation as no cultural programmes/stage shows are being organised due to the lockdown and the fear of the spread of the pandemic,” said Vishv Deepak Trikha, a local artiste.Many artistes are forced to do odd jobs such as whitewashing, manual labour, selling vegetables and grocery, hairdressing and operating autorickshaws etc to make the ends meet.“Memorandums were submitted to the top state authorities for the provision of financial help to the needy artistes, but to no avail. Hence, well-to-do artistes and art lovers have decided to contribute their mite to help their not-so-privileged brethren,” said Trikha.He rued that officials of the Haryana Kala Parishad have also failed to do anything worthwhile for the welfare and well-being of the artistes, whose survival is at stake in the prevailing situation.Budh Ram, a folk artiste from Ambala, demanded that those above 60 years of age should get old age pension and some interim relief.Dr Jaswant Singh, a Kurukshetra-based musician, appealed to the state’s artistes to join hands and come together on a common platform to get their concerns addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/art-lovers-to-extend-financial-help-to-artistes-across-haryana-275607
29-06-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Despite protection, kin of Sonepat youth fear for life||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, June 28The streets of Gopalpur, which was shook by the death of a village youth in a case of honour killing, continue to wear a deserted look. No one talks about the incident even as a PCR van keeps patrolling the area.The family members of deceased Vinay Dahiya, who was shot dead in Delhi allegedly by family members of his wife, are living in constant fear despite 24-hour police security.Om Prakash, victim’s father, said a panchayat was held after his son married Kiran of the same village and gotra. The panchayat had banned the couple’s entry into the village. “Even we had to break our relationship with them,” he said.Honour killingNone of the accused has been arrested even five days after the incident. “The police have deputed a gunman with us, but till the accused are not arrested, we cannot feel secure,” Om Prakash said, adding that it was ironical that he had to cross the accused’s house every day on his way to work.ASI Jagdish Kumar said they were regularly patrolling the area even as there was no tension in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/despite-protection-kin-of-sonepat-youth-fear-for-life-275400
29-06-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon: No rains in northwest India till July 7-8||With the northern limit of the southwest monsoon (NLM) stuck at its position for more than 10 days now, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Tuesday the seasonal rains are not expected to progress into Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana, and southern parts of Punjab for another 6-7 days. Rather, some independent forecasters believe the monsoon may continue to give the hitherto uncovered parts of the Northwest a miss till around July 10.Why it mattersAccording to Mahesh Palawat of Skymet, from Monday/Tuesday the monsoon axis is also shifting towards foothills, further leading the seasonal rains into perhaps the “longest break spell” at this time of the year. It also means that parts of central India that have been covered may also not receive rains it revives again.“Though it has happened earlier, such a long break at this time of the year is unusual. There’s no indication of rains (in Northwest) till July 7/8,” says Palawat. The IMD also adds that prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features, and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, and Punjab during next 6-­7 days.The main reason, rather the hindering factor, appears to be the prevalence of westerlies over the region, which again is “unusual” as according to Palawat by this time they generally shift into upper latitudes.“Upper-level westerlies have been persisting since June 17/18, which is unusual as generally during this time of the year they shift more north,” he says.   Notably, the IMD around July 11 said that rains will reach Delhi by June 15, which is 12 days before its usual date of June 27. Last year also the wind system had covered the entire country by June 29, seven days before the usual date of July 8. “The monsoon was really progressing well till then. Rather the low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal was expected to further boost the current, which did not happen,” meteorologists say.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-no-rains-in-northwest-india-till-july-7-8-275288
