30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana adds 87 Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths||Haryana’s Covid-19 tally increased to 7,68,639 on Wednesday with 87 fresh cases while the death toll climbed to 9,431 as 14 more people succumbed to the disease.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, among other districts, Palwal and Ambala reported 10 cases each.Hisar and Gurugram reported two deaths each, the bulletin stated.The total number of active Covid-19 cases in Haryana stands at 1,437. So far, 7,57,771 people have recovered from the disease and the state has a recovery rate of 98.59 per cent, it said.The cumulative positivity rate stands at 7.67 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-adds-87-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-276346
30-06-2021||  Chandigarh||CM launches 'Jan Sahayak-Aapka Sahayak' app, scheme for giving ownership to ULB property holders||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday launched ‘Jan Sahayak Aapka Sahayak’ mobile app for Government to Citizen (G2C) and Business to Citizen (B2C) services. He also announced a scheme for providing ownership rights to Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) property holders.  Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, the CM said that the app is a single platform for availing government services, emergency helplines and other services which included information on tenders and jobs, and payment of bills.  The helplines included 112 for emergency calls, 100 for police, 108 for ambulances, 101 for fire, 104 for health, 1091 for women, 1098 for children and 1075 for Covid.  One can file a complaint on CM Window or request for FIR or an RTI application through the app.  The CM said that there is a news section where press notes from Director Public Relations will be uploaded. The app has ‘What’s New’ section too. Even government notifications could be accessed on it. It can be operated both in Hindi and English languages.  For giving ownership rights to property holders, the CM launched ‘Mukhyamantri Shehri Nikay Swamitva Yojana’ portal. Those having houses, shops of the municipality on a lease or rent basis for the past 20 years can get ownership rights by registering on the portal. The process of inviting applications will start from July 1. The occupiers will get a maximum of up to 50 per cent discount on the present collector rate.  Khattar said, “Since the announcement of this scheme, till date, data of as many as 16,000 applicants is available with the Urban Local Bodies Department. As the process of inviting applications is beginning from July 1, this number is likely to increase. Hence a weekly plan for staggering the applications has also been made under which the process of accepting applications would automatically be blocked after 1,000 applications.”  Farmers’ agitation The CM said that those who are agitating on Haryana's borders are not farmers.  “Farmers have no objection to three farm laws. It (the agitation) is political. Punjab is going for elections. The Congress is supporting them to malign us.”  “Farmer is a sacred word,” he said and added: "Unfortunately incidents like rape, murder, and disputes with locals had taken place over giving way".  “I condemn the undemocratic way they (protestors) are operating. They are not allowing CM and ministers to visit. Their notices have challenging language. We are keeping our patience. But crossing limits is not in anyone’s interest,” he said.    Responding to a question regarding starting of tolls on national highways, the Chief Minister said that three tolls of the Haryana government have been made operational.  “Now the Centre will take cognizance in the matter of starting the toll of the Central Government,” he said.  On Khori Gaon Basti colony, he said that 1,400 families residing there are voters of Haryana.  “These families will be provided flats built in Dabua Colony at the prescribed rate.  For this, arrangements will also be made so that they can easily get a loan from the banks,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-launches-jan-sahayak-aapka-sahayak-app-scheme-for-giving-ownership-to-ulb-property-holders-276331
30-06-2021||Rohtak||New flat complex on Maharshi Dayanand University campus||'Vidyutarang 2021' beginsHisar: A three-day 'Vidyutarang 2021' began at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar. It is being organised by the department of electrical engineering. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of the university, inaugurated this online techno-cultural programme and said students got an opportunity to learn a lot from this event. Moreover, the students also develop technical and leadership skills. Highlighting the importance of electrical engineering, he said today's era was the era of electrical vehicles. In addition, the production of renewable energy and its integration with the grid was the need of the hour. He motivated the students and said they should participate in such events. Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar, said electrical engineering was one of the oldest branches of engineering.Prof Ramesh Yadav appointed VCHisar: Prof Ramesh Yadav, a retired professor of the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, who has served as the chairperson of the Haryana Kisan Ayog has recently been appointed the Vice-Chancellor of the Baba Mastnath University - a private university in Rohtak. The Chancellor of the BMU Rohtak, Mahant Balaknath Yogi who is also a BJP MP from Alwar in Rajasthan has made the appointment of Dr Yadav.Webinar on personality developmentYamunanagar: The English literary society of GNG College conducted a webinar on the "Role of personality in corporate world". The resource person of the day was Swarleen Kaur, an alumnus of GNG college. She is a personality coach, an international speaker, an author and an educator. The lecture started with Dr Rumnit Kaur, head of the department of English, welcoming director, Dr Varinder Gandhi and the resource person Swarleen Kaur.Talk on communication skillsYamunanagar: A webinar was organised on "Communication skills and personality development" by the department of English of Mukand Lal National College Yamunanagar. Dr Ritu Kumar, head of English department said Dr Sonia Malik, head and chairperson, department of psychology, MDU, Rohtak was the resource person of the programme. Dr Sonia emphasised on developing the four important skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking for effective communication. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, viewed it as an essential activity as per the demand of current times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-flat-complex-on-maharshi-dayanand-university-campus-276204
30-06-2021||In our city Rohtak||Stray animals a nuisance in Rohtak||Yashu Chahar, RohtakKarnal village pond raises stinkI want to draw the attention of the authorities towards the pond in our village (Bara Gaon), which emanates foul smell and makes life miserable for those living in the nearby areas. It's been several years since anyone paid any attention to it. It was partially dug up but soon due to the monsoon it is again full to the brim. Several efforts have been made but all in vain. People are slowly encroaching upon the pond land and also it has become a hub of diseases affecting the lives of people living around it. It can be converted into a park or a playground. I hope that the authorities will take prompt action. Sneha, KarnalHaphazardly parked vehicles on roads a bane of commutersThe development work is being carried out on the Ambala-Saha road and Alexandra road where people park their vehicles haphazardly causing inconvenience to commuters. People in the market park their vehicles on the congested roads, leaving very little space for vehicles to move around, which further lead to traffic jams. The administration should deploy traffic police and take action at once.Residents, Ambala CantonmentTake care of plants after sowing themPlantation drive is carried out by the district administration and various social outfits during the monsoon season every year to keep the environment green and healthy. Everyone participating in the drive does not forget to click their pictures while planting a sapling to post these on the social media. Many others also get their pictures published in newspapers. It is good to motivate others for the same but every person must also ensure taking care of every plant so that it can grow in to a tree but unfortunately, a majority of the plants die as they not get water. The Monsoon season is again round the corner, so everyone must care of plants after it is sown. Om Prakash, JhajjarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-animals-a-nuisance-in-rohtak-276202
30-06-2021||---||SUV drags Kurukshetra cop for 500m||Kurukshetra, June 29A head constable in traffic police, Kurukshetra, was dragged along on the bonnet of an SUV for nearly 500m on Monday evening after he tried to stop the vehicle for checking near BR International Chowk in Thanesar, Kurukshetra.The police have arrested three men, who were travelling in the car, in connection with the incident and produced them before a court which sent them to judicial custody. The accused have been identified as driver Lovepreet, Manpreet, and Kamaljeet, all residents of Kurukshetra. A case was registered under attempt-to-murder charges, voluntarily causing hurt and using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty.Head constable Sanjeev Kumar, in his complaint, stated that he was on duty near BR International Chowk when he spotted an SUV. He signalled to the driver to stop for checking. Instead of stopping the vehicle, the driver increased the speed with an intention of run him over. The head constable managed to jump on the bonnet of the vehicle, grabbed the wipers and also recorded the entire episode on his mobile phone.The driver kept driving for nearly 500m and stopped the vehicle only after a police party managed to overtake the offenders’ SUV.The head constable said that he suffered injuries as he fell on the road after the driver applied the brake suddenly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/suv-drags-kurukshetra-cop-for-500m-276100
30-06-2021||Faridabad||Drugs stored without licence recovered in Faridabad||Acting on a tip-off, the Drug Control Department today raided a store near a private hospital in Sector 10 and recovered 45 types of medicines stored without a licence.Legal action has been initiated against the store owner.District Drug Control Officer Karan Singh Godara said the samples of some medicines would be sent to a laboratory for testing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drugs-stored-without-licence-recovered-in-faridabad-276104
30-06-2021||Karnal||Two held for Karnal ‘honour killing’||Two men have been arrested in connection with the suspected case of honour killing.On June 26, the body of Ricky (25), a native of Karnal’s Amupur village, was recovered from Rohna canal in Sonepat district. His hands and legs were tied, and there was an injury mark on the head. His family suspected it to be a case of honour killing and accused a girl’s family of Chamarkhera village for it. SP Ganga Ram Punia said girl’s brother Amit Kumar and cousin Manoj Kumar of Chamarkhera village, were produced in court today and taken on police remand.Ricky’s family had alleged the girl had called Ricky to her village on June 19. He did not return home; his body was recovered from the canal later. The girl had committed suicide last week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-karnal-honour-killing-276105
30-06-2021||Ravinder Saini||Mahendragarh: Private schools up in arms against Education department||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, June 29Private schools in the district are up in arms against the Department of School Education, alleging that government schools are enrolling their students without the school leaving certificate (SLC) in violation of the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. They have threatened to file a contempt of court petition if the admissions without the SLC are not stopped.“A large number of students enrolled in private schools have taken admission in government schools without obtaining the SLC. They have shifted there with the intention to not pay the outstanding fees. As per the high court’s order, no admission can be made without the SLC, but the government schools are throwing the orders to the wind, hence the number of students in government schools has recorded a considerable rise,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools Association, a group of CBSE schools in Narnaul.He maintained that after enrolling the students, heads of government schools were also writing to private schools, asking them to issue the students the SLC. Even a government teacher had uploaded a video on social media to guide how to get admission in government schools without the SLC, he claimed.“The district authorities have been apprised of this misdeed, but to no avail. We have no option but to file contempt of court petition to protect private school owners from devastation,” Kaushik added.Sources said admissions without the SLC were being made following the pressure mounted by the state authorities over the school heads to improve the strength of students in the current academic session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahendragarh-private-schools-up-in-arms-against-education-department-276108
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||No malaria case in Nuh this year||As a result of the Malaria Mukt Mewat campaign, conducted under the Malaria Control Programme to make Nuh malaria-free in Haryana, not a single case of malaria has been reported in the district this year till June 14, showing the district has reached the malaria-free stage.An official spokesperson said before the campaign, from the year 2015 to 2018, malaria cases in Nuh district were more than one per thousand population. In 2015, it was 5.07 and in 2018 it was 1.42.In addition, areas under a total of seven primary health centres were highly affected by malaria. He said after the implementation of this programme, it was reduced to 0.68 in 2019 and 0.02 in 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-malaria-case-in-nuh-this-year-276110
30-06-2021||---||Haryana govt announces bonanza for fund-starved local bodies||Chandigarh, June 29The Khattar government has unveiled a financial bonanza for the fund-starved rural and urban local bodies from the 2021-22 fiscal.In a decision that is set to accelerate development and provide more fiscal muscle to these bodies, including civic bodies, panchayats and zila parishads, the state government has decided to transfer 2 per cent stamp duty to the local bodies.To get 2 per cent stamp dutyThe Additional Chief Secretary (Finance), in an order, asked the Revenue Department to provide details of the 2 per cent share of the stamp duty of each local body through the Haryana Land Records Information System (HALRIS) to the DCs concerned.Sources said in case of urban local bodies, 1 per cent stamp duty would be transferred to each urban local body concerned, while 1 per cent would go to the Urban Local Bodies Department.In case of Gurugram, the realty hub of the state, 2 per cent stamp duty would be shared equally between the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Urban Local Bodies Department.However, for rural areas falling in GMDA, the stamp duty share of 1 per cent each would be allocated to the gram panchayat concerned and GMDA.Meanwhile, for the rural local bodies, 1 per cent stamp duty would be transferred to the gram panchayat concerned and another 1 per cent to the Zila Parishad.A senior officer said since the matter pertained to the state Budget, the Finance Department would be in a monitoring role. “The National Informatics Centre (NIC) will enable the e-filing system for the processing of stamp duty share payments to the local bodies concerned and provide a report of funds transferred to these bodies on a monthly basis to the Finance Department,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-announces-bonanza-for-fund-starved-local-bodies-276096
30-06-2021||Deepender Deswal||In 2nd Covid wave, 15 villages of Bhiwani, Sirsa remain unaffected||Tribune News ServiceBhiwani/Sirsa, June 29As the second wave of Covid-19 raged across India in the last two months, at least 15 villages of Bhiwani and Sirsa districts successfully evaded it by following Covid appropriate norms.Health officials say there are eight villages/dhanis in Bhiwani district, which remained unaffected by Covid in the second wave. Of these, seven villages — Basirwas, Baddu Jogi, Dhani Lakshman, Ladawas, Dhani Kehra, Surji ka Baas and Jagram Baas — have not reported a single case ever since the pandemic outbreak.78 test+ve; 16 dieJyoti, a health official, said Kalali village in Siwani subdivision remained unaffected during the second wave while one case was reported during the first wave.Panchayat member Dharambir Singh said as a precautionary measure, they had set up an isolation centre at the village. Health teams also conducted random sampling in the last two months, but none of them came as positive. “We have been taking all precautions and following Covid appropriate behaviour,” he added.Civil Surgeon, Bhiwani, Dr Sapna Gahlawat, too, confirmed that no Covid case has been reported from these villages.Balawas village sarpanch Rajvir Singh said, “We have a population of 3,000, but none of us has contracted the infection so far.”In Sirsa district too, seven villages — Makha, Musli, Budhi Mari, Dhani Sadha Singh, Dogranwali, Mori and Joriyan — remained unaffected by the pandemic during the second wave.Sukhbaj Singh, sarpanch of Budhi Mari village, which is part of the Ellanabad block in Sirsa district, said strict measures were in place at their village and no one was allowed to venture out without a mask. Some families also cancelled marriage functions in view of the pandemic outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-2nd-covid-wave-15-villages-of-bhiwani-sirsa-remain-unaffected-276098
30-06-2021||---||2,435 screened in Faridabad locality||Faridabad, June 29The Rapid Response Team (RRT) of the Health Department has completed three-day screening of a locality, from where the state’s first case of the Delta plus variant was detected recently.This was necessitated after a 25-year-old man of the locality was found positive for the Delta plus variant. That was revealed in the genome sequencing test done by the ESIC Medical College and Hospital here. He had contracted Covid in May.The department has recommended genome sequencing of 12 persons of the locality who had contracted Covid in May.“The RRT screened 2,435 persons residing in 1,200 houses of the locality. All family members of the 25-year-old man and his neighbours were screened. No one was found Covid-positive during the drive, which was launched on Sunday. In all, 162 samples were collected,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Randeep Singh Poonia.He further said, “All 12 persons of the locality, who had contracted Covid in May, have recovered. The department has requested the ESIC Medical College and Hospital to conduct their genome sequencing to ensure that the virus has not spread further.”In all, 14 persons with ILI (influenza-like illness) were found, but they were Covid-negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-435-screened-in-faridabad-locality-276099
30-06-2021||Shimla||Haryana DGP calls on Himachal CM over drug menace||Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava called on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today and apprised him about the joint efforts being undertaken to check drug trafficking and organised crimes.Yadava was accompanied by Himachal DGP Sanjay Kundu. They apprised the Chief Minister about the measures taken by the police forces of the two neighbouring states for inter-state cooperation to check crime and drug trafficking. They assured the Chief Minister of a highest level of cooperation to deal strictly with anti-social activities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dgp-calls-on-himachal-cm-over-drug-menace-275982
30-06-2021||---||Panipat 9th district to get 100% household tap water||Chandigarh, June 29Panipat has become the ninth ‘Har Ghar Jal’ district of Haryana with 100 per cent functional household tap connection (FHTC). This was declared by the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India, and they also complimented the state government for this achievement.Jal Jeevan Mission launched by CentreThe Jal Jeevan Mission, a flagship initiative launched by the Government of India, aims to ensure access to sustainable drinking water through piped water connection to every rural household by 2024With this, 1,22,912 lakh rural households of Panipat district are getting clean tap water. Other districts of Haryana such as Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Rohtak, Kaithal, Faridabad and Gurugram have been declared as ‘Har Ghar Nal Se Jal districts’ having 100 per cent FHTC in rural households under the Jal Jeevan Mission. These nine districts are also among the 63 districts of the country to provide 100 per cent tap water connections to rural households under the Jal Jeevan Mission.The Jal Jeevan Mission, a flagship initiative launched by the Government of India, aims to ensure access to sustainable drinking water through piped water connection to every rural household by 2024. “Haryana is fully aligned with the Centre in this flagship programme and committed to providing functional household tap connection (FHTC) to every rural household of Haryana by November, 2022, way ahead of the national deadline of 2024,” Additional Chief Secretary, Public Health, Devender Singh said adding, Haryana has consistently been ranked among the top three states in terms of performance under the programme.Since the inception of this programme, the PHE department actively strategised the entire programme, which has provided FHTCs to more than 94 per cent rural households of the state. Currently, of the 31 lakh total rural households in the state, 29.26 lakh have tap water connections.Haryana also has the distinction of having all 22 district laboratories (for water quality monitoring) accredited with NABL, making Haryana the only state in the country with 100 per cent accreditation of all district laboratories.During the pandemic, the team at the ground level headed by the Superintending Engineer and team members and all Executive Engineers, Junior Engineers and other field staff members, took all Covid measures and kept the momentum of the project going, he added.9 districts also among 63 in country||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-9th-district-to-get-100-household-tap-water-276087
30-06-2021||---||Digital museum on Mahabharata and Gita to be set up at Jyotisar in Kurukshetra||New Delhi, June 29 Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar on Tuesday met Union Ministers to push for projects in the state which include jointly setting up a digital museum based on the Mahabharata and Gita at Jyotisar in Kurukshetra. “The Centre and the Haryana Government will jointly set up a world-class museum in Jyotisar,” Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said after his meeting with Khattar. The project will be financed by the Centre.  The Tourism Ministry approved in principle the state government’s proposal for the second phase of ‘Krishna Circuit - Phase 2’ project in Kurukshetra. It will cost Rs 99 crore. Also, it agreed to provide financial assistance to set up a heritage site project in Kurukshetra costing Rs 97 crore. The Centre also agreed in principle to help the state set up a cycle-bike track from Kalka to Kalesar. Also, the state’s proposal to extend Delhi-Panipat Rapid Rail Transit System from Panipat to Karnal has been approved.  Khattar said progress of the projects underway was reviewed. The state government’s requests for financial help from the Centre to set up adventure sports facilities at Morni and a cycle track at the Rakhigarhi archaeological site have been accepted. During his meeting with Union Housing Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Khattar pitched for speeding up the work of the Delhi-Gurugram Rapid Rail Transit System. Puri assured that the Centre would take up the issue with the government of National Capital Territory of Delhi. Khattar sought exemption from restrictions on mining of sand on the Yamuna banks from the National Capital Region Planning Board. Khattar also met Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Sadanand Gowda. Responding to a question, Khattar said the state government has sent a proposal to the Centre for setting up a new building for the Haryana Assembly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/digital-museum-on-mahabharata-and-gita-to-be-set-up-at-jyotisar-in-kurukshetra-276088
30-06-2021||---||Haryana to have four flying schools: Dushyant Chautala||Gurugram, June 29 Haryana is planning to set up four flying schools on a  public-private partnership (PPP) basis. The declaration was made by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. He also said that they were mulling an aero museum and heliport in Gurugram on the same model.  Dushyant Chautala was chairing a meeting of officials of the Civil Aviation Department. According to him, tenders have been signed for running flying schools in Mahendragarh and Bhiwani on PPP basis. Now, the possibility of running these schools in Karnal and Pinjore are being explored. “In addition to the establishment of an international aviation centre at Hisar, the existing airstrips in the state will be revamped. The improvement of the airstrips of Bachhod and Bhiwani near Narnaul in Mahendragarh district is being undertaken. The possibilities of developing a heliport and aero museum in the proposed Global City along the Dwarka Expressway in Gurugram are being explored,” he said. Addressing the meeting, Dushyant Chautala said that they were striving to make Haryana a hub of industries in the field of aerospace and defence. For this, an aerospace and defence policy is being prepared. “The state is a leader in the auto industry and aerospace is the future. So we are paying special attention to it. Right from training schools to setting up manufacturing units for industry, we see great opportunity and are working with stakeholders,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-have-four-flying-schools-dushyant-chautala-276089
30-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Gurugram: Scrap dealers kidnapped, robbed||Gurugram, June 29 Robbers allegedly kidnapped two scrap dealers, held hostage, thrashed and robbed them off their cash and mobile phones. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 37 police station.  According to the complaint filed by UP native Khurshid, who runs a scrap business along with his brother-in-law Safkat Hussain in Mohammadpur Jharsa village, that it was on June 25 when he was at their godown with nephew Javed when Jharsa resident Dhara, Subhash, Sanjay, Narender, Kalu, Vinod, Dharmi, Rajender and others came there and alleged that they were buying stolen items. They kidnapped them and took them to a vacant plot in Sector 37 on their bikes.  “They tied our hands and legs, removed our clothes and brutally thrashed us. They robbed us of our mobile phones and Rs 35,500 cash. After five hours, we somehow freed ourselves from their clutches and informed our family who rushed us to the hospital”, Khurshid told the police.  As per the complaint, an FIR has been registeredat the Sector 37 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-scrap-dealers-kidnapped-robbed-276090
30-06-2021||---||Badhra gets municipal committee status||Hisar, June 29Badhra village which is an Assembly segment represented by JJP MLA Naina Chautala in Charkhi Dadri district has been upgraded to the status of municipal committee today.Deputy Commissioner Amarjeet Singh Maan said Badhra MLA Naina Chautala had taken the initiative of elevating Badhra village to the status of urban local body, which comprises Badhra and Hansawas Khurd villages. A resolution was adopted and a final map of the proposal was submitted to the state government recently.Adampur gram panchayat also upgradedThe Adampur gram panchayat in Hisar district was also upgraded and declared a municipality on Tuesday. An official spokesperson said here that the Urban Local Bodies Department had issued a notification in this regard.The DC said the state government had approved the proposal and now the delimitation of the town for conducting the elections to form the Municipal Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/badhra-gets-municipal-committee-status-276091
30-06-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Lokayukta: Probe Rs 3 cr spent on ‘Rahagiri’ event by Gurugram MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd) has recommended a probe by the ADGP (CID) into payments of Rs 3.06 crore made under the ‘Rahagiri’ programme in Gurugram and a stern action against the guilty.The case pertains to payments made from May to August 2014 by the Gurugram Municipal Corporation, which organised ‘Rahagiri’ programme for citizens on Sunday of every month.Families used to take part in cycling, acrobatics, yoga, cultural events and dance performances.Aseem Takyar, a resident of Gurugram, had approached the Lokayukta after obtaining information under the RTI Act about the dubious payments. The Gurugram MC submitted before the Lokayukta that at the relevant time, Parveen Kumar was the Commissioner, who had retired, and admitted that certain rules were not followed.An inquiry by a Superintendent of Police (SP), Lokayukta, revealed that the MC had allotted works without issuing advertisements. Firms, which were allotted works, were set up on the basis of forged documents; financial rules were flouted.There was an allegation of favouring MDR Realcon with payments of over Rs 72 lakh, which the SP found true.There was no record of beneficiaries of items distributed. The Director, Urban Local Bodies Department, submitted that the Gurugram MC didn’t adopt the procedure of e-tendering, which was required to be done as per the instructions issued by the government for works above Rs 5 lakh.It was added that regarding the execution of works by companies formed on the basis of forged documents, an inquiry by an “independent agency” was necessary.The Lokayukta order dated June 11 said “there is no iota of doubt in my mind that the execution/implementation of the pious case has been done at least as per the report of the SP, Lokayukta, and the report of the Director, Urban Local Bodies, by adopting unfair means, that too dehors the rules”.He added that “under the garb of pious cause, public money cannot be misused for extraneous purposes”.The report said that “it does not mean under the garb of public interest, any officer in purported exercise of his limit of Rs 50 lakh can spend the amount without following the legal procedure”.Works allotted to dubious firms||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lokayukta-probe-rs-3-cr-spent-on-rahagiri-event-by-gurugram-mc-276092
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bail plea dismissed in Tikri sexual abuse case||Just over a month after an FIR was registered for the alleged sexual exploitation of an activist at the Tikri border in Bahadurgarh during her stay to participate in the farmers’ agitation, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today “dismissed” the anticipatory bail plea of an accused. In his petition placed before the Bench of Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri, accused Ankur submitted that he was being unnecessarily harassed and humiliated by the police even though his name was not mentioned at any stage by the victim or her father in the complaint. The FIR was registered on May 9 at the Bahadurgarh city police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bail-plea-dismissed-in-tikri-sexual-abuse-case-276093
30-06-2021||---||SI caught taking bribe in Hisar||Hisar, June 29 Sub-inspector (SI) of the crime branch Brijender Singh was arrested while accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000 in Hisar today. The accused had threatened Dharampal, a native of Punjab, with a criminal case for fraud and demanded Rs 2 lakh to let him off. After a bargain, Dharampal agreed to give him Rs 40,000. Meanwhile, Dharampal approached the Vigilance Bureau, which formed a team and caught the SI red handed. A corruption case was registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/si-caught-taking-bribe-in-hisar-276095
30-06-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: Deadline nears, Khori demolition drive yet to begin||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, June 29The demolition drive at Khori village is yet to be initiated even as three of the six weeks given by the Supreme Court to raze illegal structures have passed.“Notices have been issued to the residents of 6,500-odd structures, but the exact date and time of the demolition has not been worked out. The authorities want to give ample time to the residents to vacate premises on their own so that there is little resistance at the time of razing the structures,” an official said. “We want to avoid any kind of showdown with the residents at a time when we are all dealing with the pandemic. People are being given enough time to move out safely,” the official said.Pritam, a Khori resident who has shifted to a rented accommodation in Delhi, said, “We want the government to consider a rehabilitation scheme. BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni is expected to visit the area on June 30 to support our cause.” Another resident Rajesh claimed at least 60 per cent of the residents were adamant on staying.Divisional Commissioner Sanjay Joon said the apex court order would be enforced and the demolition might take place any time soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-deadline-nears-khori-demolition-drive-yet-to-begin-276081
