03-02-2021||---||Budget session LIVE: Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow||The three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre last September will once again be the focus of attention on Wednesday, which is day 4 of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament. On Tuesday, the two houses –Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha – witnessed disruptions by the Opposition over the three ‘black laws’ and were adjourned multiple times during the day before finally being adjourned till Wednesday. In Rajya Sabha, the Opposition wanted a debate on the agricultural laws but vice president Venkaiah Naidu, the chairperson of the house, dismissed their request, saying that the issue can be discussed only after it has been discussed in the Lok Sabha.Also Read | Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned for the day after witnessing multiple disruptionThe Budget session began on January 29 with President Ram Nath Kovind addressing a joint sitting of Parliament. Most Opposition parties, however, boycotted the President’s address as a mark of protest against the farm laws. The session will go on till April 8; it will be conducted in two phases. While the first phase will end on February 13 instead of February 15 as scheduled earlier, the second phase will begin on March 8. Farm laws are likely to be discussed the most, while issues like Chinese aggression in Ladakh and state of the economy etc. are also likely to be discussed prominently.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrowThe lower house of Parliament has been adjourned till tomorrow. Lok Sabha adjourned till 9pmLok Sabha adjourned till 9 pm today as the uproar by the Opposition over #FarmLaws continues in the House. pic.twitter.com/GSvO4lDIAeThe Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till 9pm as the protest by opposition parties regarding the Centre's farm laws still continues. No foreign govt has supported farmers' protest, says MEANo foreign govt has given support to farmers' agitation against 3 Bills. In Canada, UK, US & few European countries, protests by a few motivated PIOs on issues related to Farm Bills reported. Canadian PM made a comment on issues related to farmers in India: MEA in ParliamentThe external affairs ministry said on Wednesday that no foreign government had offered its support to the farmers' protest against the Centre's new farm laws and added that protests by a few Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs) were reported. Can't understand Govt's attitude in refusing discussion on farmers' protest: TharoorIf a debate were allowed to happen,MPs could voice the concerns of their constituents,the farmers, &propose solutions to the crisis. But GoI is stubbornly refusing the Opposition's request for a debate as they refused to agree to the farmer unions' demands. This is undemocratic.Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said on Wednesday that he could not understand the attitude of the Centre in refusing a debate on the farmers' protest. Taking to Twitter, he said that if a debate was allowed, Members of Parliament (MPs) could voice the concerns of their constituents, farmers and propose a solution to the crisis. Lok Sabha proceedings further adjourned till 7pmThe proceedings of the lower house further adjourned till 7pm as opposition parties continued their protests over the Centre's farm reforms. Urge opposition to not make farmers's protest another Shaheen Bagh, says BJPThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during the Rajya Sabha session had said that doors were always open for farmers to amicably resolve issue over the farm reforms. The BJP further urged opposition parties to not turn farmers' protest into another Shaheen Bagh. Lok Sabha adjourned till 5pm amid uproar over farm lawsLok Sabha adjourned till 5 pm amid uproar by the Opposition in the House, over #FarmLawsLok Sabha has been adjourned till 5pm amid uproar by the opposition parties over the Centre's farm laws. Congress MPs protest at Gandhi statueDelhi: Congress MPs protest at Gandhi Statue at the Parliament premises, demanding special package for tea workers of Kerala & Tamil Nadu. pic.twitter.com/nVsRNc16fACongress MPs protest at Gandhi Statue, demanding special package for tea workers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu.11 Opposition MPs give notices for adjournment motion in Lok Sabha11 MPs from SAD, CPI(M), TMC, IUML, BSP, Shiv Sena, RSP and Congress have given notices of adjournment motion in Lok Sabha.Rajya Sabha adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha adjourned for the day, to resume proceedings at 9am on Thursday.Budget session taking place in two phasesPhase 1 of Budget session to end on February 13. The second phase, meanwhile, will be held between March 8-April 8.Azad condemns FIRs against Shashi Tharoor, journalistsIn his speech, Azad also condemned FIRs against Shahsi Tharoor and some senior journalists for spreading 'fake news' over the death of a protester on January 26. Those booked moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday, seeking quashing of FIRs.No NIA or ED summons to those supporting farmers' stir, says MHANIA and ED have not issued summon against 40 people related with voluntary agencies, groups and individuals who are providing humanitarian support to farmers agitation: Ministry of home affairs (MHA) in Rajya SabhaForm panel to look for those who went missing after violence on R-Day: AzadAzad asks PM Modi to form committee to look for ‘people who went missing after R-Day violence.’Jan 26 violence condemnable but don't implicate those who're innocent"We condemn what happened on January 26. But please ensure innocent farmers' leaders are not implicated or it will lead to another agitation," says Ghulam Nabi Azad.Stand with you on China but please withdraw farm laws: AzadThe entire country stands with PM Modi on China but farmers are not our enemies. Request that the farm laws be withdrawn: Ghulam Nabi AzadAzad recalls farmers' agitation in Delhi by Rakesh Tikait's fatherAzad recalls farmers' agitation in Delhi's Boat club in 1988 by Mahendra Singh Tikait, father of Rakesh Tikait, one of the farmers' leaders leading the present agitation.Cong's Azad invokes Gandhi in speech on farm lawsCongress' Ghulam Nabi Azad invokes Indigo movement and Kheda satyagraha, both led by Mahatma Gandhi, while discussing farm laws in Rajya Sabha.3 AAP Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for a day"We expressed our dissent in the house, we want repeal of three farm laws because talks won't help. Three of us have been suspended for a day," says Sanjay Singh, AAP Rajya Sabha MP.Cong MP gives adjournment motion in Lok Sabha over farm lawsCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss the farmers' protest.PM's reply on debate on President's speech on February 8Prime minister Narendra Modi to reply in debate on the President's speech in Rajya Sabha on February 8.Govt-Oppn reach consensus over discussion on farm lawsGovt-Opoosition arrive at consensus to allocate 15 hours in Rajya Sabha to discuss farmers' protests against the three agricultural laws.Members should desist from such unwarranted activities: NaiduMembers should desist from such unwarranted activities inside the chamber. Such unauthorised recording of proceedings of House and its circulation on social media may lead to breach of privilege and contempt of the house: Venkaiah NaiduSome members using cell phones to record proceedings: Venkaiah NaiduThere's a restriction on usage of cellular phones within Rajya Sabha chambers. It has been observed that some members are using their mobile phones to record proceedings of house while sitting in chamber such conduct is against parliamentary etiquette: Vice president Venkaiah Naidu, Rajya Sabha chairmanProceedings begin in Rajya SabhaProceedings begin in Rajya Sabha on day four of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament.Opposition gives notice in Rajya Sabha over farmers' protestsOpposition parties, including Congress, BSP, CPI, TMC, DMK and CPI(M) give suspension of business notice in Rajya Sabha over farmers' protests.Rajya Sabha proceedings to begin at 9amRajya Sabha proceedings will commence at 9am on Wednesday, day 4 of the ongoing Budget session, and the three central agricultural laws are likely to once again be the focus of all the attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-live-updates-february-3-2021-101612320981964.html
