04-02-2021||---||Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till 4 pm on Friday||The Budget session of Parliament entered day 5 on Thursday and the ongoing protests against the three contentious farm laws are likely to once again dominate the agenda. On Wednesday, day 4 of the session, the Centre and Opposition arrived at a consensus to allot 15 hours to discussion in the Rajya Sabha on the topic of farm laws. Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, the leader of the Opposition in the House, in a speech, urged prime minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the three laws. In his speech, Azad invoked Mahatma Gandhi, and also recalled the 1988 farmers’ protest in Delhi, led by Mahendra Singh Tikait, the father of Rakesh Tikait, one of the leaders leading the current agitation.Also Read | Farm debates marked relatively smoother day of Parliament: All you need to knowThe day also witnessed three Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs, including Sanjay Singh, being suspended for a day for creating ‘ruckus’ in the House. The Opposition has thrown its weight behind the protesting farmers and demanded a repeal of the three laws. Majority of the Opposition parties also boycotted President Ram Nath Kovind’s address, which marked the commencement of the session, on Friday, to express solidarity with the farmers. The Budget session began on January 29 and will end on April 8. It will be held in two phases; the first phase will end on February 13 while the second one will begin on March 8.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 4pm FridayLok Sabha adjourned for the day. The session will resume of Friday at 4pm. Opposition chants continue amid proceedingsOpposition MPs are demanding that the government step down over the farm laws issue. Chants demanding repeal of farm laws and stepping down of the government continue as BJP MPs discuss important matters of public importances.Lok Sabha reconvenes, BJP MP Lekhi takes over proceedingsLok Sabha has reconvened amid sloganeering by opposition demanding repeal of farm laws. Opposition MPs are demanding that the government repeal the farm laws during zero hour. Lok Sabha adjourned until 8:30pmLok Sabha adjourns again, now till 8:30 pm as Opposition members continue their protests against new farm lawsOpposition members continue to raise slogans against the farm laws in Lok Sabha, leading to another adjournment of proceedings. Parliamentary affairs minister, Lok Sabha speaker and Congress floor leader hold meeting over repeated adjournmentsLok Sabha speaker Om Birla, Congress floor leader Adhir Ranjan Choudhury and Parliamentary Affairs minister Pralhad Joshi are holding a meeting over the stalemate in the parliament's session.Prime Minister Modi to reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address in Rajya Sabha on MondayPrime Minister Narendra Modi to reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, 8th February. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/hZnE99IqkmPrime Minister Modi to reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address in Upper House on Monday'Please go back to your places': Lekhi requests protesting lawmakersBJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi asks protesting MPs to vacate the Well of the House. House adjourned until 6 PM. Lok Sabha reconvenes, BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi takes over proceedingsLok Sabha reconvenes amid slogans from Opposition leaders demanding repeal of farm laws. Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 5 pmLok Sabha adjourned till 5 pm as the Opposition MPs walk to the Well of the House, sloganeer and demand that the three #FarmLaws be repealed. pic.twitter.com/YKBbdrNcH3Opposition parties entered the Well of the House demanding repeal of the farm laws following which proceedings have been adjourned. External affairs minister says Sri Lanka asked to ensure equal treatment of Sri Lankan Tamils It is in Sri Lanka’s own interest that expectations of Tamil people for equality, justice, peace& dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled. That applies equally to commitments made by Sri Lankan Govt on meaningful devolution, including 13th Amendment to Constitution:EAMExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar told the Rajya Sabha earlier that during his meeting with Sri Lankan premier Rajapaksa in January he had reiterated India's support towards the reconciliation process between the Sri Lankan govt and Sri Lankan Tamils. Jaishankar also pointed out that he told Sri Lankan president Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Sri Lankan prime minister Mahinda Rajapaksa that the process will be beneficial for the nation as well. Opposition parties boycotted President's address on January 29Most Opposition parties boycotted President Ram Nath Kovind's address on Friday, in protest against the farm laws. The Budget session commenced with the President's address on the day.Rajya Sabha adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha adjourned for the day, to resume proceedings at 9am on Friday.Have mercy and repeal three black laws: Sanjay Singh, AAPFarmers are protesting for 76 days, they are being lathi-charged, called traitors, terrorists, Khalistanis. Talks happened 11 times, all failed, govt claims to be a call away, but doesn't bother. About 165 farmers lost their lives. Have mercy and repeal three black laws: Sanjay Singh, AAP MP in Rajya SabhaFarm laws is a state subject, says Deve Gowda"Farm laws issue is a state subject, it's in concurrent list. State government's opinion also has to be taken," says Deve Gowda in Rajya Sabha.Deve Gowda condemns 'concrete walls' at protest sites"Centre's decision to put concrete walls at protest site won't help. Government must end the matter peacefully," says former PM Deve Gowda in Rajya Sabha.Govt failing people of India, says TMC's Derek O'BrienTMC's Derek O'Brien attacks govt in Rajya Sabha on a host of issues, says govt has 'failed the citizens of India.' Says Opposition stands with young reporters who are not with corporate houses.Issue of wrong map raised with WHO, govt tells Rajya Sabha"The issue of wrong depiction of map of India on World Health Organisation's website has been raised strongly with WHO including at the highest level. In response, WHO has informed Permanent Mission of India in Geneva that they've put a disclaimer on portal," says MoS (external affairs) V Muraleedharan in Rajya Sabha.Anti-social elements brought bad name to protests on R-Day: Ex-PM Deve GowdaSome anti-social elements brought bad name to protests through violence on Republic Day. They should be punished but the government should ensure that the issue is brought to an end peacefully: Ex-PM Deve Gowda in Rajya SabhaOpposition MPs arrive at Ghazipur, stopped by police15 Lok Sabha MPs arrive at Ghazipur border to meet protesting farmers, stopped by police from meeting farmers.Second wave of Covid-19 couldn't even touch India: ScindiaDue to effective decisions taken by the country's leadership, the second wave of Covid-19 couldn't touch India. We hit a hook shot on the bouncer of Covid-19: BJP MP ScindiaIndia rose from the ashes of coronavirus: BJP RS MP ScindiaCovid-19 was an invisible enemy. India rose from the ashes of Covid-19 like a phoenix, says BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia in Rajya Sabha.Govt introduces J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill 2021MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy moves J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill 2021 in Rajya Sabha. Bill seeks to amend J&K Reorganisation Act 2019.Congress MP gives adjournment motion notice in LS over farm lawsCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha on the farm laws issue.Proceedings commence in Rajya SabhaProceedings commence in Rajya Sabha on day 5 of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament.Rajya Sabha proceedings to commence at 9amProceedings in Rajya Sabha will commence at 9am. The govt and Opposition have decided to allot 15 hours to discussion on farm laws in the House.Congress, SP give notice in Rajya Sabha over 'rising unemployment'Congress MP Chhaya Verma and Samajwadi Party's Vishambhar Prasad have given short duration discussion notice in Rajya Sabha, 'over rising unemployment in the country'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-live-updates-day-5-february-4-2021-101612407001230.html
04-02-2021||---||Farmers' protest LIVE: P Chidambaram questions MEA, after Rihanna's viral tweet||As the agitation against the three contentious farm laws entered the 68th day on Wednesday, farmers continued to camp around the borders of Delhi. There was widespread outrage after Delhi Police cemented nails near barricades at Ghazipur (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) and Tikri (Delhi-Haryana) borders. Barbed wire and cement barricades were also part of the multilayered security placed by the police. One of Haryana’s prominent khaps, Kandela khap, organised a ‘Kisan mahapanchayat’ in Kandela village of Jind district on Wednesday where BKU president Rakesh Tikait and several other leaders of various farmer unions were present. The mahapanchayat demanded repeal of the three farm laws.The proceedings of Parliament on Tuesday were also affected by the farmers' protest as the opposition demanded a discussion on the agitation. Both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha faced repeated adjournments on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the government agreed to the opposition and said that the farmer protests will be discussed for 15 hours in parliament.The protest also witnessed a tremendous outpouring of support on social media as international pop star Rihanna, climate campaigner Greta Thunberg, and lawmakers from the United States and the United Kingdom tweeted about the agitation forcing the external affairs ministry to respond. A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Wednesday contended “vested interest groups” are trying to enforce their agenda on the protests to derail them and said these groups have tried to mobilise global support against India. The statement also referred to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others” but didn’t name anyone.Follow all the updates here:'Good that Rihanna and Greta Thunberg can wake up the MEA': Congress leader P ChidambaramIt is good that Rihanna and Greta Thunberg can wake up the MEA.Come on MEA, when will you realize that people concerned with issues of human rights and livelihoods do not recognize national boundaries?Congress leader P Chidambaram, in his reaction to Rihanna's viral tweet about farmers protest, tweeted "It is good that Rihanna and Greta Thunberg can wake up the MEA. Come on MEA, when will you realize that people concerned with issues of human rights and livelihoods do not recognize national boundaries?""India's sovereignty cannot be compromised," tweets TendulkarIndia’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation.#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandaLata Mangeshkar tweets with India Together, India Against Propaganda hashtags#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda pic.twitter.com/JpUKyoB4vnSKM acknowledges support of international personalities towards ongoing farmers' protest"Samyukta Kisan Morcha acknowledges the support of international personalities towards ongoing farmers' movement in India. On one hand, it's a matter of pride that eminent personalities are showing sensitivity towards the cause of farmers": Dr Darshan Pal, Samyukta Kisan MorchaBJP urges opposition parties to not make farmers protest another Shaheen BaghBJP said in RajyaSabha that doors are always open for farmers to amicably resolve issue over farm laws. The centre also urged opposition parties not to make farmers protest another Shaheen Bagh.Videos show no insult to Tricolour at Red Fort on R-Day - Shiv SenaVideos show no insult to Tricolour at Red Fort on R-Day; making hue & cry about incident that didn't happen is also insult of national flag: Shiv SenaJind mahapanchayat demands repeal of farm lawsA "mahapanchayat" attended by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday renewed the call to repeal the new farm laws, an event marred by the collapse of the stage on which the speakers had assembled. According to initial reports, nobody was hurt when the dais constructed at Kandela village in Jind district collapsed under the weight of the people gathered on it. Tikait has been mostly camping at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border since the protests over the central laws intensified, with farmers massing just outside the national capital two months ago. The large gathering at Jind’s Kandela village was attended by several khap leaders. The event was organised by the Sarv Jatiya Kandela Khap headed by Tekram Kandela.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and other farmer leaders attend Mahapanchayat in Jind, Haryana#WATCH | The stage on which Bharatiya Kisan Union (Arajnaitik) leader Rakesh Tikait & other farmer leaders were standing, collapses in Jind, Haryana.A 'Mahapanchayat' is underway in Jind. pic.twitter.com/rBwbfo0Mm1Delhi chief minister issues list of people arrested after January 26 violenceDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal issues a list of 115 people who were arrested after January 26 violence. "I hope it helps people looking for their family members who went missing after participating in Kisan Andolan on January 26"SC dismisses PIL seeking direction to not declare farmers as 'terrorists' without any evidenceSupreme Court dismisses another PIL seeking direction to the media not to declare farmers as 'terrorists' without any evidence.SC rejects petition seeking intervention in R-Day violence probeSC refuses to entertain petitions seeking Court's intervention into the tractor rally held on January 26. A three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde said, "We are sure that Government is enquiring into it and taking appropriate action. We also read the statement of PM in the press that law will take it's own course. We are confident that law will take it's own course. We don't want to interfere in this case."The Court allowed the petitioners to withdraw their petitions.SC hears pleas related to R-Day violenceSupreme Court starts hearing a batch of pleas pertaining to tractor rally violence in the national capital on Republic Day, including the one which has sought setting up of a commission headed by a retired Supreme Court judge to inquire into the incident.Vested interest groups trying to enforce their agenda: MEA"It's unfortunate to see vested interest groups trying to enforce their agenda on these protests, and derail them. This was egregiously witnessed on January 26," says Union ministry of external affairs on recent comments by foreign individuals and entities on the farmers’ protests.Farmers' agitation causing inconvenience to residents: Centre to ParliamentMinistry of home affairs inform Parliament that agitating farmers at Ghazipur, Chilla, Tikri and Singhu borders have caused inconvenience to the Delhi residents and neighbourhood states. It adds that there are financial loss incurred by people and government in any agitation.Shashi Tharoor, journalist Rajdeep Sardesai move SC against FIRCongress MP Shashi Tharoor, journalist Rajdeep Sardesai move Supreme Court against FIRs over their "misleading" tweets on violence during farmers' rally in Delhi.Police identifies person who hoisted flag at Red Fort rampartsA police officer, who wished not to be named, said Jugraj Singh from Tarn Taran in Punjab has been identified as the one who hoisted a farmers' union flag and a religious flag at the Red Fort's ramparts during the January 26 violence.Delhi Police announces ₹1 lakh rewardDelhi Police announces ₹1 lakh reward for information leading to arrest of Deep Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh in Republic Day violence. People who give information on Jajbir Singh, Buta singh, Sukhdev Singh and Iqbal Singh will get 50,000.SC to hear petitions for probe into R-Day tractor rally violence todayThe Supreme Court, on Wednesday, will hear a clutch of petitions demanding investigations into the tractor rally violence in the Capital on Republic Day. Read moreDelhi police seize 14 tractors over R-Day violenceThe Delhi Police said they have seized 14 tractors, while more than 80 tractors have been identified for allegedly being part of the farmers’ tractor rally, which had turned violent in the national capital on Republic Day. Read moreGovt has time till October: TikaitFarmer leader and spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait gives ultimatum to government. "We have given the govt time till October. If they do not listen to us, we will go on a pan-country tractor rally of 40 lakh tractors," said Tikait.Twitter restores 'withheld' accountsTwitter has restored several accounts it had “withheld” after the government had asked it to take action against 250 handles which had posted “false and provocative content” related to the ongoing farmers' agitation, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-february-3-2021-101612315366121.html
