05-02-2021||---||Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned until Monday||The Budget session of Parliament entered day 6 on Friday, with the three contentious farm laws set to once again be the focus of attention. Later in the day, prime minister Narendra Modi is expected to reply to Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s address, in Lok Sabha; he will do likewise in Rajya Sabha on Monday.On Thursday, day 5 of the session, proceedings went on smoothly in Rajya Sabha; on Wednesday, the Centre and Opposition had reached a consensus to allot 15 hours to discussion in the House on the subject of farm laws. Lok Sabha, on the other hand, continued to witness multiple disruptions. This led to Speaker Om Birla calling parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Leader of the Opposition in the House, for a meeting. Earlier in the day, a delegation of more than a dozen Lok Sabha MPs visited Ghazipur border, one of the three protest sites against the farm laws in Delhi, but were stopped by the police from meeting the farmers.The Budget session began with the President’s address on January 29 and the Union Budget was presented on February 1. Phase 1 of the session will end on February 13, while the second and final phase will be conducted between March 8-April 8.Follow all the updates here:Govt to hold discussions over farm laws with opposition lawmakersGovernment agrees to hold a discussion on farmers' issue after the participation of Opposition in discussions on Presidential Address and Union Budget, and consideration of four Ordinances in the Parliament: Government SourcesGovernment has decided that it will discuss issues concerning farm laws and protests' staged by farmers' unions representatives once the session reconvenes, news agency ANI reported. Tomar urges opposition to find flaws in farm lawsAs far as #FarmLaws are concerned, I was in Rajya Sabha today & I noticed that no one is ready to say what is black in the 'black laws'. If you are protesting against the law, then discussion should be held on its provisions. Unfortunately, this is not happening: Agri Minister pic.twitter.com/geT2L04UdMUnion minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar said that in Rajya Sabha opposition lawmakers failed to point out the flaws in the newly passed farm laws and reiterated his commitment towards holding discussions with all stakeholders to resolve the deadlock. Lok Sabha adjourned for the day, to reconvene on MondayAmid slogans demanding repeal of farm laws, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla adjourned the session. The session will reconvene again on Monday. Congress lawmakers says farm laws may have been drafted in MumbaiTwo Ministers held talks with farmers- One of them Narendra Singh Tomar ji is good person but he doesn't know anything about farming. And Piyush Goyal is spokesperson of corporate sector. I think farm laws were drafted in Mumbai & not in Delhi: Congress leader Digvijaya Singh pic.twitter.com/ccSQF6T5oxCongress leader Digvijaya Singh said that the Centre may have drafted the farm laws in Mumbai. He said that the agriculture minister may be a good person but he may not know much about agriculture.Opposition gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over farm lawsCongress, Shiv Sena, TMC, RSP give respective amendment motions in Lok Sabha over various issues related to the farmer laws.PM Modi committed towards welfare of farmers, says Tomar"Our efforts are that farmers' incomes are doubled and contribution of agriculture to GDP increases rapidly. These agriculture laws are also an important step in this direction. I want to tell his House and farmers that PM Modi is committed towards welfare of farmers," says Narendra Singh Tomar.Offer to amend laws doesn't mean there's problem in farm laws: Narendra TomarI made it clear that if govt is ready to make amendments, it doesn't mean there is any problem in farm laws. People in a particular state are misinformed: Narendra TomarProviding MSP 50% higher than production cost: Narendra TomarWe have started to provide MSP, 50% more than the production cost. Also, ₹1 lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund has been given under Atmanirbhar package. We have tried to ensure the requisite investment reaches the agriculture sector: Narendra TomarFarmers have been instigated to think their lands would be snatched, says TomarFarmers have been misled into thinking that under these laws, their land would be snatched away from them, says minister Tomar.Kept asking farmers' leaders what's 'black' about laws: Narendra TomarFor last two months, I've been asking farmers' leaders what's 'black' about farm laws; they didn't answer, says agriculture minister Tomar.Govt will spend ₹2.8 lakh crore through gram panchayats: Agriculture minister Tomar15th Finance Commission has recommended for providing ₹2.36 lakh crores to gram panchayats, which has been accepted by the Cabinet. Around ₹43,000 crore have been sanctioned for healthcare in rural areas. ₹2.8 lakh crores will be spent via gram panchayats in five years: Narendra Singh Tomar, Union health ministerConstitutionality of laws should be immediately decided: Anand Sharma"I appeal from this floor that the constitutionality of laws whether is it CAA or the farm laws must be decided immediately. Parliament should take note of this," says SharmaSC keeps constitutional matters pending: Anand SharmaIt is a matter of concern that the Supreme Court keeps constitutional matter pending for a long time. When constitutional matters demand urgent hearing and decision, long delays and kicking of the bucket down the road by the judiciary creates conflict, tension and distrust: Anand SharmaExpress sympathies for police personnel, says Sharma"We express sympathies for police personnel and officers who were injured during the Jan 26 violence. No one has the right to attack those who are discharging their duties. The Red Fort incident has sent shockwaves across the nation and it should be investigated," says Anand Sharma.Govt responsible for situation, says Congress MP Anand SharmaFarmers were forced to fight for their rights and to get justice. Government of India is responsible for the situation that has arisen. I want to pay tributes to the 194 farmers who died during the protests: Anand Sharma, Congress MP in Rajya SabhaRS MPs give notice of amendments to Motion of Thanks on President's addressNotice of amendments to Motion of Thanks on President’s address given by Digvijay Singh, KK Ragesh, T Siva, M Shanmugam, KC Venugopal, V Vijaysai Reddy, Deepender Hooda, Vishambhar Prasad Yadav, Chhaya Verma, and Elamaram Kareem in Rajya Sabha.Congress gives adjournment motion in Lok Sabha over bodies of Tamil Nadu fishermenCongress MP and Whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore has given adjournment motion notice over 'bodies of four fishermen from Tamil Nadu found in Palk Strait.'Annadatas being called nation's enemy, says BSP's Mishra"Nails have been fixed near the protest sites. I think govt would not have made this kind of preparation at Pakistan border as it is doing at Delhi borders. Annadatas are being called the enemy of the nation. I urge you to shun ego and repeal the three laws," says BSP MP Mishra'Human rights violation': BSP MP on govt action on farm protestsYou (govt) have dug up trenches to suppress farmers' stir. You've not done it for them, but for yourself. You snapped their water & electricity supplies and even removed toilets, without thinking that women are also there. This is a human rights violation: BSP MP Satish Mishra in Rajya SabhaBJP issues 3-line whip to its MPsBJP has issued a three-line whip to its Rajya Sabha MPs to be present in the House from Feb 8 to Feb 12 to support government's stand.Rajya Sabha proceedings commenceRajya Sabha proceedings commence on day 6 of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-live-updates-february-5-2021-101612496015947.html
05-02-2021||---||LIVE: Delhi Police registers FIR against unknown persons for sharing toolkit in social media||As the farmers' protest against the three contentious farm bills entered day 71 on Thurday, a delegation of opposition leaders who were visiting the Ghazipur borders, one of the three epicentres of the ongoing agitation, to meet the protesting farmers, were stopped by the police. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the kin of Navreet Singh- who had died during the tractor rally in the national capital on Republic Day.The Delhi Police on Wednesday started acting against alleged fake social media posts related to the violence that erupted during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day in the national capital. The Police registered four cases and also instructed social media platforms to remove posts related to “malicious social media propaganda undertaken by vested interests”.Read more: ‘Peaceful protests hallmark of thriving democracy’: US amid row over farm stirOn Wednesday, the protest witnessed a tremendous outpouring of support on social media as international pop star Rihanna, climate campaigner Greta Thunberg, and lawmakers from the United States and the United Kingdom tweeted about the agitation forcing the external affairs ministry to respond. A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Wednesday contended “vested interest groups” are trying to enforce their agenda on the protests to derail them and said these groups have tried to mobilise global support against India. The statement also referred to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others” but didn’t name anyone.Follow all the updates here:'Atmosphere at Ghazipur border not in interest of nation': Supriya Sule"MPs from 10 parties visited Ghazipur border today. The things we saw there were worrying. We were there just to meet farmers but we were not allowed. The atmosphere there is not in the interest of the nation. It'll be our effort to see that a solution comes out. The condition in which they (farmers) are sitting there (Delhi borders) is not right. A solution needs to be brought out with discussions": Supriya Sule, NCPDelhi Police registers FIR against unknown persons for sharing toolkit in social mediaDelhi Police registered FIR against unknown persons for sharing toolkit in social media aiming to spread ‘disaffection against govt of India’Haryana government extends suspension of mobile internet services in 7 districts"Suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), bulk SMS services & all dongle services provided on mobile networks except voice calls in Kaithal, Panipat, Jind, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat & Jhajjar districts extended till 5 pm tomorrow": Haryana GovtAAP will continue to support protesting farmers: Sanjay SinghAam Aadmi Party Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh on Thursday said the party will continue to support protesting farmers and asked the government to take back the new farm laws. Participating in a discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the Budget Session, he said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has been helping farmers who are protesting against the laws and would continue to do so in the future."This government works just for the benefit of their four corporate friends. This is a government of these four corporates from whom they take offerings to fight elections," Singh said in Rajya Sabha.'3 hour-long chakka jaam on Feb 6': Rakesh Tikait, BKU"There'll be a three-hour-long 'chakka jaam' on 6th Feb. It won't take place in Delhi but everywhere outside Delhi. The people that will be stuck in it will be given food and water. We will tell them what is the Govt doing with us": Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union'The movement shows the pain of our farmers," Priyanka Gandhi after she met family of farmer who died during Jan 26 violence"Family members of the deceased want judicial inquiry. We are with the farmers and their families. Our govt is yet to identify this movement as real struggle. There is no politics behind it. This is pain of our farmers": Congress' Priyanka Gandhi Vadra'Apprised them of alternate route': Police after oppn MPswere intially denied entry into Ghazipur borderMembers of Parliament wanted to go to the protest site (Ghazipur border). We informed them that movement was not possible as we've barricaded the road in view of law & order situation. We apprised them of alternate route & proposed to escort them: Jt Commissioner of Delhi Police https://t.co/jsgganYP6R pic.twitter.com/wUG7gSUymUAs a delegation of opposition members of Parliament (MPs) was initially barred from entering the Ghazipur protest site, the Delhi Police said on Thursday that MPs were informed that movement was not possible as the road was barricaded in view of the law and order situation."Members of Parliament wanted to go to the protest site (Ghazipur border). We informed them that movement was not possible as we've barricaded the road in view of law & order situation. We apprised them of alternate route & proposed to escort them," Alok Kumar, the Joint Commissioner of Delhi Police said.Priyanka Gandhi meets family of farmer who died during Jan 26 violenceRampur: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra meets the family members of the farmer who lost his life during the tractor rally on 26th January in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/of2HTDKox6Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the kin of Navreet Singh- who had died during the tractor rally in the national capital on Republic Day. Singh had died after his tractor overturned at the ITO area last Tuesday. The protesting farmers have alleged that Singh had died after the cops shot at his tractor.I stand in solidarity with the farmers who lost their lives: Derek O'BrienTrinamool Congress MP Derek O'Brien said on Thursday that the Centre had failed to uphold Parliament's sanctity due to its arrogance. He pointed out that seven Members of Parliament (MPs) who supported the farmers movement were suspended last year. The TMC MP further condemned the farmers who have died.CRPF deployment extended for two more weeks in Delhi-NCR in view of protestThe deployment of 31 companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) including 16 Rapid action force companies in Delhi-NCR has been extended for two more weeks in view of the ongoing agitation against the Centre's three new farm laws.Nails being removed from Ghazipur borderDelhi: Nails that were fixed near barricades at Ghazipur border are being removed. pic.twitter.com/63Xfr6XwbzNails which were initially fixed at the Ghazipur border protest site are now being removed, according to news agency ANI.Police stop Oppn leaders from meeting farmers at Delhi's Ghazipur borderDelhi: Opposition leaders who have reached Ghazipur border to meet the protesting farmers have been stopped by Police. pic.twitter.com/SDsZNJNPvFA delegation of opposition leaders that arrived at the Ghazipur border in Delhi was being stopped by the Police to meet the protesting farmers. Earlier, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule- who is a part of the delegation- told news agency ANI,"We are on the way to meet farmers. We all support farmers, we request the government to hold talks with farmers and justice is done to them."Singhu, Saboli borders in Delhi remain closed for traffic movementThe Delhi Traffic Police said on Thursday that border points in the national capital such as Singhu, Saboli, Piau Maniyari etc continued to remain closed for traffic movement."Singhu, Piau Maniyari, Saboli, Auchandi Borders are closed. Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders are open. Please follow alternate route. Traffic is heavy & diverted from NH-44. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44," the Police updated the commuters through Twitter.Priyanka Gandhi to visit farmer who died during Republic Day tractor rallyWe've come to know that a farmer Navneet ji who came from Canada & was participating in protest peacefully, was shot at by Police & lost his life, during tractor rally. Priyanka Gandhi ji will meet his family at his residence in Rampur today: UP Congress president Ajay Kr Lallu https://t.co/uFx7bRjs52 pic.twitter.com/wLrYb7qE6MCongress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will meet the family of late Navreet Singh- who reportedly died in an accident during the tractor rally taken out in the national capital on Republic Day.Delhi govt asks DTC to return buses which were provided as special hire to PoliceThe Delhi government's transport department ordered the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) to return a total of 576 buses which were provided to the Delhi Police amid the ongoing farmers' agitation at border points in the national capital. An official had told news agency ANI that several of these buses were damaged during the Republic Day (January 26) tractor rally violence.Kejriwal threatens legal action against Punjab CM over doctored videoDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday had threatened legal action against his Punjab counterpart Captain Amarinder Singh for allegedly sharing a video that showed Kejriwal purportedly backing the Centre's three farm laws."It is shocking that Captain Amarinder has resorted to such dirty politics for political survival. I urge the media to refrain from publishing or using this video. If Captain Amarinder does not withdraw this video immediately and apologize, I will take legal action against him," the Delhi CM was quoted in a statment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-february-4-2021-101612403026245.html
