07-02-2021||---||U'khand floods LIVE: Scientists to be airlifted to affected areas, says IAF||Wreaking widespread destruction in Indian Himalayan state, a glacial broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli District of Uttarakhand on Sunday leading to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda Rivers. In the spate of loss, hundreds of houses have been damaged and the nearby Rishi Ganga power project has also suffered damage after it came in the way of gushing water.Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had said that seven bodies have been recovered and at least 125 people went missing in the floods. Also, the NTPC hydel project at the Dhauli Ganga river in Tapovan has been extensively damaged.Indian army has deployed 400 personnel and two medical teams to aid in the rescue efforts. It has also set up a control room in Joshimath area and deployed an engineering task force in the Ringi village.Leaders from India and many other countries have expressed their condolences to the people affected by the floods.People requiring assistance can contact the following emergency numbers - 1070, 1905 and 9557444486.Follow all the updates here:Uttar Pradesh on high alert after massive floods in UttarakhandThe Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday put on high alert the authorities in all districts on the banks of the Ganga and asked them to continuously monitor the water levels in the river after a glacier broke off at Joshimath in neighbouring Uttarakhand's Chamoli, triggering a massive flood there.Scientists to be airlifted to affected areas, says IAFA team of scientists from Delhi have reached Dehradun and they will take aerial reconnaissance in areas affected by the glacier burst in Chamoli district of Uttarkhand, Indian Air Force Public Relation Officer Wing Commander Indranil Nandi on Sunday."All the specialised personnel who were airlifted from Delhi have reached Dehradun. The airlifting of these personnel from Dehradun onwards to the affected areas will start at 6:45 am tomorrow," Nandi said while briefing media about the ongoing rescue operation led by the IAF in the state.Pakistan wishes for early rescue of people missing in Uttarakhand floodsSaddened over loss of precious lives due to flash floods caused by glacier break-off in Uttarakhand. Our thoughts are with the families of the victims. We pray for the safety and early rescue and recovery of those missing.Pakistan's foreign ministry spokesperson expressed the country's wishes for the safety and early rescue of the people who are missing after the Uttarakhand floods.IAF says scientists with specialised equipment to visit flood affected areas for aerial reconaissanceScientists with specialised equipment will also be taken to the areas for aerial reconnaissance. We will ensure that maximum bases are available to support the operations: Indian Air Force PRO Wing Commander Indranil Nandi #Uttarakhandflood https://t.co/XdNtjkuXbqIndian Air Force PRO Wing Commander Indranil Nandi said that scientists with specialised equipment would visit flood affected areas for aerial reconnaissance, reports ANI.Uttarakhand CM says PM Modi called four times to receive updatesआदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने अभी-अभी फ़ोन कर तपोवन आपदा के बारे में जानकारी ली।प्रधानमंत्री जी ने सभी ज़रूरी मदद का आश्वासन दिया एवं राहत कार्यों में कोई भी कसर ना छोड़ने की हिदायत दी। प्रधानमंत्री जी का उत्तराखंड के प्रति स्नेह ही है कि आज यह उनका चौथा कॉल था।Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat tweeted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called him four times today to inquire about the flood situation in the state.'Expect clear picture on missing people's identities by Monday morning': Uttarakhand DGP Ashok KumarWe were able to dig 150 mtrs. of the tunnel but after a rise in water level had to halt the work. Most missing persons were working at the two projects. We expect to get a clear picture on their identities by Monday morning.-@Ashokkumarips@ndmaindia @uttarakhandcops @PIB_IndiaUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that a clear picture on the identities of the missing people working in the two tunnels could be expected by Monday morning, report PIB.Uttarakhand DGP says rescue work at NTPC Tapovan tunnel halted due to rise in water level#Uttarakhand DGP @Ashokkumarips said rescue work at the NTPC's 900-metre long #TapovanTunnel had to be halted due to rise in water level.@ndmaindia @ntpclimited @uttarakhandcops @PIB_IndiaUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that the rescue work at the NTPC's 900-metre-long Tapovan tunnel had to be halted because of rising water level, reports PIB.US State Department expresses condolences, wishes for speedy recovery of injuredOur deepest condolences to those affected by the glacier burst and landslide in India. We grieve with the family and friends of the deceased and extend our hopes for a speedy and full recovery for the injured.US State Department has expressed its deepest condolences and wished for the speedy recovery of those injured in the Uttarakhand floods.Click here to read moreBorder Roads Organization reopens Rishikesh-Joshimath-Mana road after floodsThe Rishikesh-Joshimath-Mana road which was blocked at Hathipahad due to flash flood in Dhauli Ganga was reopened for traffic by Border Roads Organisation by late afternoon today after road clearance operation. Several BRO teams are in the area for relief operations: BRO pic.twitter.com/pEZ25fR3l8The Rishikesh-Joshimath-Mana road which was blocked at Hathipahad due to flash flood in Dhauli Ganga was reopened for traffic by Border Roads Organisation by late afternoon today, reports ANI.Around 30 people trapped in tunnel number one, night operations to continue, says ITBPNow we are focusing on second tunnel, that is tunnel number one, we've learnt that around 30 people are trapped there. We will be carrying out night operations also. Our teams are already on the job & we hope that we'll be able to resue them: Vivek Pandey, ITBP PRO #Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/l9r9trN2T1ITBP says efforts to rescue around 30 people trapped in another tunnel, the tunnel number one, is underway and also confirmed that the night operations would continue.EU's ambassador to India expresses solidarity after Uttarakhand floodsTerrible news from Uttarakhand! Our deepest sympathy and solidarity. Our hearts go out to the families of the victims.European Union's ambassador to India Ugo Astuto has expressed solidarity after the Uttarakhand floods.Shashi Tharoor expresses condolences, urges government to take preventive measures before next disasterCongress leader Shashi Tharoor expressed his condolences to the people affected by the Uttrakhand floods and urged the government to take preventive measures before the next disaster.Tharoor tweeted "Saddened at the tragic news of flooding&destruction in #Uttarakhand, another reminder of the dangers of #climatechange in the fragile Himalayan ecology. Condolences &prayers for all affected. Aside from urgent relief, Govt must take preventive measures before the next disaster."Watch | IAF's C130J Super Hercules lands at Jolly Grant with rescue teams#WATCH: As part of IAF disaster relief Task Force, a C130J Super Hercules transport aircraft landed at the Jolly Grant airport in Dehradun with rescue teams and other heavy equipment on board. pic.twitter.com/4D9Eg2NvmTA IAF C130J Super Hercules transport aircraft carrying rescue teams and other heavy equipment on board, landed at the Jolly Grant airport in Dehradun, reported by ANI.French President Emmanuel Macron expresses full solidarity with India after Uttarakhand floodFrance expresses its full solidarity with India, after a glacier burst in the Uttarakhand province, leading to the disappearance of over 100 people. Our thoughts are with them and their families.French president Emmanuel Macron has expressed the country's full solidarity with India after the Uttarakhand floods. He tweeted his message in reply to PM Modi, saying "Our thoughts are with them and their families."Three IAF Mi-17 helicopters to airlift NDRF teams from JollyGrant to JoshimathSixty @NDRFHQ personnel moved with 5 ton load from Hindon to JollyGrant Airport in IAF C130.One more C130 and one AN 32 ready at Hindon for additional NDRF teams.Three IAF Mi-17 positioned at JollyGrant to airlift NDRF teams to Joshimath.Defence minister's office tweeted that three IAF Mi-17 helicopters have been positioned at JollyGrant to airlift NDRF teams to Joshimath.Army establishes control room in Joshimath, teams deployed to assist rescue operationsThe Indian Armed Forces have swung into action to assist the agencies in rescue ops. Two columns of GARHWAL Scouts frm Joshimath 2 colns of 22 GRENADIERS from Auli have been deployed. Two columns of 11 MADRAS are on standby. Control Room has been established at Joshimath.Defence minister's office has said that an army control room has been established in Joshimath and various teams have been deployed to assist the agencies that are undertaking rescue works in Uttarakhand.Indian army deploys four columns, two medical teams for rescue efforts#Uttarakhandflood Army deploys four columns, two medical teams for the rescue of people affected by massive flood in Dhauli Ganga river: OfficialsIndian army deploys four columns, two medical teams for rescue efforts in Uttarakhand, reports PTI.'Sincere condolences to the families of the deceased': Rajasthan CM Ashok GehlotDeeply saddened at the loss of lives in the calamity in #Uttarakhand. My sincere condolences to the families of the deceased. May they find strength. Prayers for those still missing. Hope they can be rescued. Wish speedy recovery to the injured.Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot expressed his condolences to the families of those people who lost their lives in the Uttarakhand flood.5 shepherds with 180 sheep, goats swept away in floods, 125 or more people missing: CM RawatFive locals including shepherds with their 180 sheep & goats swept away in the flash flood. We are assuming that around 125 people are missing. The number can be higher: Chief Minister Trivendra Singh RawatChief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that 5 shepherds and 180 sheep and goats have been swept away by the flash floods and 125 or more people are also missing, reports ANI.PM Modi announces ex-gratia: ₹2 lakh to dead, ₹50,000 to seriously injuredPM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic avalanche caused by a Glacier breach in Chamoli, Uttrakhand. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced ₹2 lakh ex-gratia to the family of people who have lost their lives in the flood and ₹50,000 to those who have been seriously injured, the PMO tweeted.Chief minister Rawat announces ₹4 lakh cash to family of those dead in floodsState government to give financial assistance of ₹4 lakhs each to the kin of the deceased: Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. pic.twitter.com/Qr8EBo1BKvUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announces ₹4 lakh cash as financial assistance to family of those dead in floods.LIVE | Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat press meet about latest updatesLIVE : चमोली में आई प्राकृतिक आपदा को लेकर प्रेसवार्ता। https://t.co/jprXHgW28xUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat addresses the media about the latest situation in the state after his visit to the flood affected sites.ITBP personnel rescue 16 people trapped in Tapovan tunnelITBP has shared pictures of the rescue operations at Tapovan tunnel where 16 people trapped have been rescued.Watch | ITBP personnel rescue person trapped in Tapovan tunnel#WATCH | Uttarakhand: ITBP personnel rescue one person who was trapped in the tunnel near Tapovan dam in Chamoli.Rescue operation underway.(Video Source: ITBP) pic.twitter.com/RO91YhIdyoVideo of a person trapped inside the Tapovan tunnel being rescued by ITBP personnel, reported by ANI.Congress president Sonia Gandhi expresses concern, asks party workers to help in relief effortsI pray for the safety of all & request Congress workers & volunteers to help the people & the authorities in their relief & rescue efforts. The Indian National Congress stands with the people of Uttarakhand in this hour of tragedy and crisis: Congress President Sonia GandhiCongress president Sonia Gandhi said she was concerned about the 'disturbing news' of glacier break and the flooding in Uttarakhand. She had also requested Congress workers and volunteers in the region to assist in the relief efforts, reports ANI.ITBP rescues all 16 people trapped in Tapovan tunnel#UPDATE: ITBP rescues all 16 people who were trapped in the tunnel near Tapovan, Chamoli. #Uttarakhand https://t.co/vi2ZbTyB9NITBP rescues all 16 people trapped in Tapovan tunnel, reports ANI.IMD says dry weather likely over Uttarakhand on February 7,8PRESS RELEASE : WEATHER FORECAST FOR UTTARAKHANDDry weather is likely to prevail over Uttarakhand on 7 & 8 Feb. However, under the influence of a Western Disturbance, light rainfall/ snowfall is likely over northern part of Uttarakhand during evening of 9th to forenoon of 10th.India Meteorological Department had said that dry weather is likely to prevail over Uttarakhand on February 7 and 8.NTPC confirms damage to under construction hydropower project in TapovanAn avalanche near Tapovan in Uttarakhand has damaged a part of our under construction hydropower project in the region. While rescue operation is on, situation is being monitored continuously with the help of district administration and police.NTPC limited confirmed damages to a part of under construction hydropower project in Tapovan region.President Kovind 'confident' of relief works undertaken after Uttarakhand floodsDeeply worried about the glacier burst near Joshimath, Uttarakhand, that caused destruction in the region. Praying for well being and safety of people. Am confident that rescue and relief operations on ground are progressing well.President Ram Nath Kovind has expressed confidence that the relief works undertaken at the Uttarakhand flood sites are progressing well.Uttarakhand DGP says 16 people trapped in Tapovan dam being shifted to safer placesUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar says 16 people, who were trapped in Tapovan Dam, are being shifted to safer places by the police, reports ANI.Uttarakhand CM reaches Reni village to assess situationUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat reaches near Reni village in Tapovan area of Chamoli; takes stock of the situation. pic.twitter.com/Slw1Vn2Qx9Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat reached Reni village in Tapovan area to assess the situation, reports ANI.ITBP personnel digging open Tapovan tunnel blocked by debrisITBP says its personnel are digging open the Tapovan tunnel which has been blocked due to the debris caused by the flood. Many people are feared to be trapped inside the tunnel.Three bodies recovered at NTPC in Tapovan: ITBP#UPDATE | Three bodies recovered at NTPC site in Tapovan area of Chamoli in Uttarakhand, says ITBPITBP says three bodies have been recovered at NTPC site in Tapovan area of Chamoli.About 50-100 people missing. 2 bodies have been recovered: Uttarakhand DGPAbout 50-100 people missing. 2 bodies have been recovered, some injured rescued: Uttarakhand DGP Ashok KumarUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar says that about 50-100 people are currently missing, two bodies have been recovered and some people injured in the floods have also been rescued, reports PTI.Glacial burst in UttarakhandA massive flood was reported in the Dhauliganga river near a village in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. Hundreds of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel have been rushed to carry out rescue operations at the site.Watch the full video for more.Uttarakhand CM Trivender Singh Rawat assures of help for people stranded in affected area#Uttarakhand: If you are stuck in the affected area, if you need any kind of help, please contact 1070 or 9557444486. Please do not spread rumors.All necessary steps have been taken to deal with the situation: CM of Uttarakhand Trivender Singh RawatUttarakhand CM Trivender Singh Rawat urges people not to spread rumors about the situation and also asked them to contact the helpline numbers for emergency.He also assured that all necessary steps have been taken to handle the situation.Home ministry has assured all possible help: Uttarakhand CM Trivender Singh Rawat"I have spoken to Union Home Secretary and I will speak to Home minister soon. They have assured all possible help," said Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, reports ANI.Indian army deploys choppers, troops for rescue and relief work, reports ANIIndian Army has deployed choppers and troops for supporting Uttarakhand govt and NDRF to tackle the flood. Military station near Rishikesh actively involved in coordination of rescue and relief operations with local administration. Army headquarters monitoring the situation, said Army, reports ANI.Home minister has assured every help to Uttarakhand govt: Sitharaman on Chamoli tragedyIt is a kind of tragedy which is very shocking. It's a natural disaster. Home Minister has assured that every help the Uttarakhand government would need will be extended. There shall not be any hesitation on that: Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, reports ANI3 choppers stationed at Dehradun, more to be deployed for rescue work, reports ANIThree choppers including two Mi-17 and one ALH Dhruv chopper of Air Force stationed in Dehradun and nearby areas for helping in rescue operations in flood-affected areas. More aircraft will be deployed as per the requirement on ground, ANI quoted IAF officials as saying.Over 200 jawans deployed for rescue work, reports ANIOver 200 jawans are on the job and working in collaboration with local administration. One team is on the spot to assess the situation. Another team is deployed near Joshimath to raise awareness and evacuate people. The situation is under control, said Vivek Pandey, ITBP Spokesperson, reports ANI.Meeting scheduled at Cabinet Secretariat for relief operations in Chamoli, reports ANIA meeting is scheduled at Cabinet Secretariat on relief operations in Uttarakhand's Chamoli. DGs and Home Ministry officials will join the meeting, reports ANI.PM Modi speaks to Uttarakhand CM, takes stock of rescue work at Chamoli flood sitePM Modi while in Assam, reviewed the situation in Uttarakhand. The Prime Minister spoke to chief minister and other top officials. PM Modi took stock of the rescue and relief work underway. Authorities are working to provide all possible support to the affected.100-150 casualties feared dead in Uttarakhand flood, reports ANI100-150 casualties feared in the flash flood in Chamoli district, said Uttarakhand Chief Secretary OM Prakash to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-floods-live-updates-over-100-casualties-feared-due-to-glacial-burst-says-uttarakhand-chief-secy-reports-101612685031158.html
