08-02-2021||---||U'khand flood live updates: Disaster Management Centre says 197 people missing||Three more bodies were recovered in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on Monday morning, taking the total death count so far to 10 in the glacier burst that damaged two dams, Rishi Ganga and Dhauli Ganga. About 153 people are still feared missing, said officials. The rescue operations continued overnight though the rise in water level partially halted the rescue operations at NTPC's 900-metre long Tapovan tunnel on Sunday evening. Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF, Uttarakhand's State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, Indian Army have been pressed into the rescue operations. Specialised teams of Indian Air Force, Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) have reached the spot for surveillance, special reconnaissance. Navy's diving teams have been kept on standby for flash flood relief operations.Follow all the updates here:ITBP team to work overnight at Taovan tunnelThe ITBP team will carry on overnight rescue work at the Taovan tunnel, Joshimath. The work to take out debris and slush from the tunnel to continue overnight. CM Rawat holds meeting with agencies involved in rescue effortsUttarakhand: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat holds meeting with ITBP, NDRF, SDRF, Uttarakhand Police & other agencies in Joshimath on rescue efforts in Tapovan. He says, "All four forces are working in coordination. Rescue operation is underway." pic.twitter.com/PpnedympDtUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said "All four forces are working in coordination. Rescue operation is underway," as he holds meeting with ITBP, NDRF, SDRF, Police and other agencies involved in rescue efforts, reports ANI.Uttarakhand disaster management centre says 197 people missingUttarakhand Disaster Management Centre says 197 people are still missing in the state after the floods, reports ANI.Police confirm 24 bodies have been recovered from different placesUttarakhand police have confirmed that a total of 24 bodies have been recovered from different places in the state, reports ANI.Rescue workers inside the tunnel at dam site to rescue 35 workers trapped inside'Hope the missing people will be rescued at an early date': China expresses condolences to flood victimsChina has expressed its condolences to the the victims of the flood."We have noted that northern India had a massive flood. We want to express our condolences to the victims and sympathy to the bereaved families and the injured," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said. “We hope the missing people will be rescued at an early date," he added, reports PTI.Watch | Rescue team inside Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli#WATCH | Uttarakhand: A joint team of ITBP, Army, SDRF, and NDRF inside the Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli for rescue operation. pic.twitter.com/VZ3SfCchK3A joint team of ITBP, Army, SDRF, and NDRF inside the Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli for rescue operation, reported by ANI.BRO chief engineer requests state government to install manual trolley at Reni village, JoshimathUttarakhand | A bridge was washed away here y'day. We're trying to restore road connectivity in the area. We've requested state govt to install a manual trolley here: AS Rathore, Chief Engineer, Shivalik BRO on relief operation at glacier burst affected Reni village, Joshimath pic.twitter.com/iltJO5FkioBRO chief engineer AS Rathore requested the state government to install a manual trolley at Reni village, Joshimath, to restore a washed away bridge and road connectivity, reports ANI.PM Modi assures full support, scientific study to minimise losses due to disaster to Uttarakhand MPsGoing forward, scientific studies will be conducted to understand cycle of natural calamities in this natural disaster prone state and best practices to be adopted to minimise loss of life and property due to these calamities, PM Modi's message to Uttarakhand MPs: SourcesPM Modi has assured the full support of the central government institutions to Uttarakhand. He also said that scientific studies would be conducted to adopt best practices to minimise damages caused by natural disasters, reports ANI, citing sources.'Had lost hope but ITBP saved us': Tapovan tunnel survivor shares experienceWere inside the tunnel when someone shouted 'move out'. Before we could leave, water entered tunnel at high speed and we got stuck. Held tunnel crown until water level subsided. Had lost hope but ITBP saved us: One of the people rescued from Tapovan tunnel yesterday #Uttarakhand https://t.co/DY5jHifCgZ pic.twitter.com/8a73nSDM5BA person rescued from the Tapovan tunnel said "Were inside the tunnel when someone shouted 'move out'. Before we could leave, water entered tunnel at high speed and we got stuck. Held tunnel crown until water level subsided. Had lost hope but ITBP saved us," reports ANI.CM Rawat to meet people at affected areas on Tuesday, assures relief efforts continuing in 'full swing'I am leaving for Joshimath and will be spending night there. Tomorrow I plan to visit the affected areas and will also meet people. Our relief and rescue operations are continuing in full swing and we are doing best to save lives. #Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/zGyEY2BzjyUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said he would meet with the people in affected areas on Tuesday and assured that the relief and rescue operations would continue in full swing.PM Modi, Home minister Amit Shah, JP Naddan discuss relief efforts with Uttarakhand MPs"Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP President JP Nadda, Home Minister Amit Shah interact with Uttarakhand MPs, discuss relief efforts and future course of action over Uttarakhand glacier disaster," reports ANI.Uttarakhand CM Rawat releases ₹20 crores from state disaster response fund for relief operationUttarkhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat conducts review meeting on disaster relief operation following glacier burst in Chamoli; releases ₹20 crores from State Disaster Response Fund for relief and rescue operation: CMO pic.twitter.com/kteHQRqoVLUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat has released ₹20 crores from State Disaster Response Fund for relief and rescue operations, reports ANI.Helpline numbers for Jharkhand people stranded at Chamoli, UttarakhandJharkhand government shared helpline numbers for the people of the state stranded in Chamoli, Uttarakhand. Chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted a picture of the official announcement.Machines clearing heavy slush for Recce party to enter tunnel: ITBPITBP says "Recce party with victim locating camera and sniffer dog tried to enter but due to slush, but after 100 meters it was not possible to proceed ahead. Machines are now clearing the heavy slush ahead."Rescue ops intensified in Chamoli’s bigger tunnelWatch | SDRF's rescue operations at flash flood site in Chamoli#WATCH | Uttarakhand: State Disaster Management Force (SDRF) carries out rescue operation at the flash flood site in Chamoli. pic.twitter.com/1X0oqeArkKSDRF carries out rescue operations in flood affected sites, reported by ANI.Watch | ITBP provides relief materials to villages cut off by floods#WATCH | Uttarakhand: ITBP personnel provide support to the villages that have been cut off due to the flash floods in Chamoli. Five sorties carrying relief material have been sent.Visuals from Lata Helipad. pic.twitter.com/0GI4YjQKhsITBP provides support and relief material to villages cut off by the floods in Chamoli. Five sorties carrying relief material have been sent, reports ANI.ITBP arranges rations for locals8th Battalion Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) team is arranging rations to be moved to the designated places through the teams which has contacted the locals of all villages and set up a control room there for future assistance.'Rishiganga project at Raini completely washed away': Uttarakhand chief minister Rawat"Rishiganga project at Raini completely washed away. 5 kms from there is under construction Tapovan project. As of now, around 203 people missing, 11 bodies found. There was a subsidiary company at Tapovan with 24-25 people, no info on them till yesterday": Uttarakhand chief minister RawatRescue ops underway; more NDRF teams rushed l Latest UpdatesITBP deploys sniffer dogs at the Tapovan tunnel for rescue operationsUpdate on clearing of tunnels90 meters of stretch of debris in the tunnel cleared till now. Another 100 mtrs believed to be left to be cleared.Update on rescue operations in UttarakhandStarting from 0645 hrs today morning, 6 Mi 17 sorties, 1 ALH sortie and 01 Chinook sortie have been carried out till now. Transportation of required load from Dehradun to Joshimath, which includes 122 personnel, around 5T of load and 06 rescue canines, has been completed. An ALH was tasked for the reconnaissance of the affected area by 6 scientists of DRDO along with their specialised equipment. Further requirements are being coordinated with relevant authorities. ITBP deploys sniffer dogs at the Tapovan tunnel for rescue operations.Rescue operation by ITBP under progressDue to the large amount of debris inside the tunnel, the rescue operation is tougher for the ITBP personnel. Approximately 80 meters inside the tunnel is cleared and accessible but it appears that approximately 100 meters debris inside the tunnel yet to be cleared.'Very difficult situation, expect positive results by afternoon': Union minister Pokhriyal Nishank in Uttarakhand"It's a very difficult situation, but ITBP successfully rescued people from 1st tunnel & now they're working on 2nd tunnel which is approx 3 km long. NDRF & military are also on it. By afternoon we can expect some positive results": Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in Uttarakhand||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/u-khand-glacier-burst-live-updates-hindustan-times-february-8-101612761173325.html
08-02-2021||---||LIVE: Tewari appeals for discussion on Chinese aggression at Ladakh in Lok Sabha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday replied to the Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s address, in the Rajya Sabha, day seven of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament. Usually, Prime Ministers speak in both the Houses of Parliament – Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha. However, with the Opposition protesting refusing to end protests in the Lok Sabha over the contentious farm laws, the PM’s reply, only in the Rajya Sabha, marked a departure from the norm.Also Read | PM Modi expected to reply to President's address on MondayIn a collective show of strength, more than a dozen Opposition parties had boycotted the President’s address on January 29, which marks the commencement of the Budget session. While debate on Motion of Thanks happened rather smoothly in the Rajya Sabha, with the Centre and the Opposition agreeing to discuss the issue in the Upper House for a total of 15 hours, no discussion could take place in the Lok Sabha or the Lower House. According to an official statement, the first six sittings of the Rajya Sabha in the ongoing session were productive, registering a productivity of 82.10%.The first half of the Budget session will end on February 13. The second and final half will take place from March 8-April 8.Follow all the updates here:Independent MLA Navneet Rana raises issue of sanitiser being given during vaccinationIndependent MLA Navneet Rana said that the Maharashtra government has not taken steps to ensure children get adequate medical treatment in rural areas. She raised the issue of 2 kids who were administered hand sanitiser drops instead of oral polio vaccine drops at a Primary Health Centre at Kapsi-Kopari, an interior village, under Ghatanji tehsil of Maharashtra's Yavatmal districtUday Pratap Singh says there are ploy to disturb national peaceThe Madhya Pradesh lawmaker says that middlemen and people engaged in corruption in mandis are against the farm laws. He said people who protested in JNU against CAA and NRC and participated in Shaheen Bagh protests are the ones who have hijacked agitation against farm laws. Hoshangabad's MP Uday Pratap Singh says govt has taken definitive steps to curb spread of CovidBJP MP Uday P Singh also said that the PM under his governance ensured people were lifted from poverty and implemented developmental projects to ensure rural as well as urban development across the nation. Apni Party MP Anupriya Patel praises govt for handling of Covid crisisThe Mirzapur lawmaker said that the government under PM Modi ensured quick development of two vaccines and used the Covid-19 crisis as an opportunity to develop the medical infrastructure sector of the country. Tewari urges to hold discussions on Galwan Valley clashesCongress MP Manish Tewari says that the government should hold discussions regarding the clashes in East Ladakh. He said that previously whenever there was any attack on India's sovereignty parties in power as well as in Opposition have held extensive discussions in the parliament regarding solving the crisis. Tewari also urged the PM to hold discussions regarding the Galwan Valley clashes. Congress MP Manish Tewari says treatment of farmers shows state of nationCongress MP Manish Tewari says farmers have been mistreated and the treatment of farmers reflects a lot of the state of the nation.BJD MP says govt should implement recommendations of Swaminathan commissionBJD MP Pinaki Mishra said the Central govt should implement recommendations of the Swaminathan commission and resume talks with farmers. He also said that the concertina wires and barricades might not help the discussion process but at the same time also criticised unruly elements which created unrest during the Jan 26 tractor rally.BJD MP Pinaki Mishra says ministers should get vaccinatedBJD MP Pinaki Mishra said that in every nation heads of states have gotten themselves vaccinated against Covid-19. He said US President Joe Biden, UK PM Boris Johnson had gotten themselves vaccinated and urged top ministers to get vaccinated. Farmers' protests being staged by middlemen, show flaw in laws, says Rajiv Ranjan SinghRajiv Ranjan Singh says farmers protest is being staged by middlemen and people who run the mandis, and he dared opposition MPs to show flaw in laws.JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh says PM Modi took tough decision to implement Covid-19 lockdownThe JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh said that PM Modi took a tough decision to implement lockdown. He also said that several opposition MPs whose names he did not want to take, did not even try to help stranded labourers. He said opposition MPs should understand that amid pandemic all should stand together despite political leanings.'Why government missing deadlines to notify citizenship rules ?' asks TMC MP Mahua MoitraCitizenship Amendment Act was passed in 2019 in this House on the pretext of granting citizenship to persecuted Hindus & other minorities in neighbouring countries: Mahua Moitra, TMC MP in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/bblPdpjvoHTMC MP Mahua Moitra says "Citizenship Amendment Act was passed in 2019 in this House on the pretext of granting citizenship to persecuted Hindus & other minorities in neighbouring countries. At the same time, it threw into abusive insecurity millions of Indians who had been living in this land for generations. But the rules by which this act will be implemented were not yet prepared by December 2020, according to the Ministry of Home Affairs. The deadline has yet again been extended till April 2021. If indeed this govt cared so much for those persecuted in the neighbouring countries, why does it miss the deadline to notify these rules?" reports ANI.Shiv Sena MP says even during lockdown farmers ensured we do not sleep hungryShiv Sena MP Prataprao Jadhav said that farmers are the soul of the nation. They have made sure that during lockdown we do not sleep hungry. He said there should be investigation into violence during the Jan 26 tractor rally. He said the national flag should be respected but farmers should not be treated (or called) terrorists.BJP MP Locket Chatterjee says TMC govt mishandling Central govt schemesThe BJP MP from Bengal says that the Trinamool Congress politicians change the names of central schemes and do not credit the Central government for extending these schemes to the people of Bengal. She also alleged that the Trinamool Congress govt is mismanaging the funds sent by Centre. BJP MP Locket Chatterjee says there was no political reason behind the awarding Bharat Ratna to former president Pranab MukherjeeBJP MP Locket Chatterjee while extending her condolences towards those who lost their lives in pandemic also extended her condolences towards former president of India Pranab Mukherjee. She also said that there was no political reason behind awarding Bharat Ratna to Pranab Mukherjee. She highlighted that PM Modi and the former president had deep respect for each other and democratic institutions.Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Choudhury demands standalone discussion on farm lawsThe Congress leader from Bengal said that discussions on the President's Motion of Thanks would entail discussions on several topics concerning the nation. Choudhury expressed concerns that this would not allow for a detailed discussion on the farmers' agitation. He said that it is hard for opposition MPs to remain silent when farmers' are agitating amid cold wave conditions. Singh urges parliamentarians to uphold democratic processesDefence minister Rajnath Singh says every political party should uphold democratic processes. He was speaking in connection to the repeated sloganeering by the opposition politicians demanding repeal of farm laws. Lok Sabha has reconvened. You've been sent here to help the people of your constituencies: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla before adjourning sessionLok Sabha adjourned till 5 pm amid ruckus by Opposition in the House. https://t.co/DYyUAvmZMXA visibly disappointed Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla was seen requesting opposition parliamentarians to stop sloganeering and use the valuable time of the parliament to ask questions about govt policies rather than continuing with protests. The Lok Sabha speaker has adjourned the proceedings till 5pm.Union minister Prakash Javadekar says despite pandemic students were not affected due to availability of online materialUnion minister Prakash Javadekar said that despite the pandemic students were still able to access study materials over the internet. He also said that Tata Sky, YouTube, JioTV and many other websites and TV channels helped students continue with their studies despite the challenges presented by the pandemic.Lok Sabha reconvenesLok Sabha has reconvened amid slogans demanding withdrawal of farm laws from opposition MPs. BJP MP gives notice in LS on 'poor condition' of NH-19BJP MP Sushil Kumar Singh has given Zero hour notice in Lok Sabha over, 'poor condition of NH-19 (National Highway).'RS passes J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, adjournedRajya Sabha passes the Jammu and Kashmir reorganisation (Amendment) Bill 2021, adjourned till tomorrow.Congress, CPM gives notice in Lok Sabha on farm lawsCongress MPs Manish Tewari, Jasbir Gill and CPM MP AM Arif give adjournment Motion Notice in Lok Sabha and demand the repealing of three farm laws.Existence of land almost negligent in J&K: AzadExistence of land is almost negligent in Jammu and Kashmir, that's why Maharaja Hari Singh added that provision for land: Azad in Rajya Sabha.Have not been able to buy land in J&K, says Cong's AzadMost areas in Jammu and Kashmir are forests and mountains. When it was made UT, many MPs said they'll buy land there. I said I've not been able to do so and asked them if they know cost of land in Jammu and Srinagar. Price of land in these cities is ₹40-50 crore per acre: Ghulam Nabi Azad, CongressTMC MPs walked out as PM Modi began his addressTMC MPs walked out as PM Modi began his reply in Rajya Sabha to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address.'Modi hai, Mauka lijiye,' PM concludes speech in Rajya SabhaPM Modi concludes his speech in Rajya Sabha; says, "Modi hai, mauka lijiye."India needs to be wary of new FDI or 'Foreign Destructive Interference': PM Modi‘India needs to beware of new FDI or Foreign Destructive Ideology’, says PM Modi in Rajya Sabha.New class of people, called 'Aandolankari' coming up, says PM ModiPM takes dig at people seen in every agitation; says that a new class of people is coming up. This class, he says, is 'Anadolankari,' and everyone needs to be expose such people.Country extremely proud of our Sikh brothers: PM ModiCountry is extremely proud of our Sikh brothers. What have they not done for the country? People trying to mislead them should realise doing this will not benefit anyone: PM ModiMSP tha, hai aur rahega: PM Modi in Rajya SabhaOn MSP, PM Modi again assures farmers that it will stay. 'MSP tha, hai aur rahega, says PM Modi in Rajya Sabha.Need to explain to farmers that farm laws benefit them, says PM ModiWe need to collectively convince the farmers that the farm laws will be beneficial to them. I'm doing this, you do this as well. Let all abuses come my way, you can take credit for good things: PM ModiNeed to improve the lives of small farmers: PM ModiNDA's other schemes also help farmers. For example- the PMGSY. When the road connectivity improves, it enables the produce of the farmers to reach distant places. There are efforts like Kisan Rail too. The need of the hour is to improve the lives of the small farmers: PM ModiInitiated changes in agriculture to empower farmers: PM ModiSince 2014, we have initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering the farmer. The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in. We are working for the small farmers: PM ModiThank ex-PM Deve Gowda for discussions related to agriculture: PM ModiI would like to appreciate the contribution of Shri HD Devegowda ji on the discussions relating to agriculture in the house. His words have added great perspective to the debate. He himself has a strong association with the agriculture sector: PM ModiNeed to defeat poverty if we have to progress, says PM Modi"We will have to rid ourselves of poverty if we have to progress. We will have to do a lot more besides what we’ve already done. Once a poor person gets confidence, he will himself be empowered to do this," says PM Modi.India has seen days when there was a large threat of polio, small pox: PM ModiIndia has seen days when there was a large threat of polio, small pox. Nobody knew whether India will get a vaccine or how many people will get it: PM Modi in Rajya Sabha.Covid-19 period strengthened our federal structure: PM ModiCovid-19 period has added new strength to our federal structure and the spirit of cooperative federalism: PM Modi in Rajya SabhaSome people mocked those who lit lamps during Covid-19: PM Modi"You might've seen on social media-an old woman sitting outside her hut on footpath, with a lit earthen lamp, praying for welfare of India. We're mocking her! If somebody who never went to school thinks they can serve India by lighting lamps, they can do it. It's being mocked," says PM Modi.'Third world countries' developing vaccines for humanity: PM ModiNations labelled as 'third world countries' are developing vaccines for humanity. Largest vaccination drive against Covid-19 underway in India. World proudly says it has received vaccines from India: PM ModiCredit of winning war against Covid-19 goes to India, says PM ModiCredit of winning war against Covid-19 goes not to the govt or individual, but to India: PM Modi in Rajya SabhaPresident's address was still delivered, says PM ModiIn a dig at Opposition parties which boycotted President's address, PM Modi says that the message was 'still delivered.'50 MPs expressed their views for more than 13 hours: PM ModiIn Rajya Sabha, over 50 MPs expressed their views for over 13 hours, they expressed their invaluable views. So, I express my gratitude to all the MPs: PM ModiIndia is a land of opportunities: PM Modi"India is a land of opportunities in real sense, opportunities are waiting for us. India can't afford to miss opportunities," says PM Modi.PM Modi responds to Motion of thanks in Rajya SabhaWhole world is witnessing a severe crisis (Covid-19), who would’ve thought humanity will have to go through something like this: PM Narendra Modi in Rajya Sabha.Congress' Tagore gives notice in Lok Sabha on UttarakhandCongress MP Manickam Tagore has given adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over flash floods in Uttarakhand.India will get all its Rafale aircraft from France by April 2022: Rajnath Singh11 Rafale aircraft have arrived in India. By this March, India will have 17 Rafale aircraft. By April 2022, all Rafale aircraft (the entire batch) will come to India: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in Rajya SabhaBJD MP gives Zero Hour notice in Rajya SabhaBJD MP Prashanta Nanda gives Zero Hour Notice in Rajya Sabha and demanded to provide mobile connectivity in villages and left-wing extremism (LWE) areas in Odisha.Will ask HM for details on Uttarakhand tragedy, says RS chairmanVice President Venkaiah Naidu, the Rajya Sabha chairman, says that he will ask home minister Amit Shah for details on Uttarakhand disaster once the home ministry has full report.Shiv Sena gives notice to discuss TRP scamShiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi gives suspension of business notice under rule 267 in Rajya Sabha to discuss the investigation of TRP scam.PM to respond in Rajya Sabha at around 10:30 am, says PMOAt around 10:30 AM today in the Rajya Sabha, PM Narendra Modi will reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address: Prime Minister's Office (PMO)CPI gives notice over Uttarakhand flash floodsCPI MP Binoy Viswam has given suspension of business notice under rule 267 in Rajya Sabha over the flash floods in Chamoli, Uttrakhand.PM Modi likely to speak at 10:30 am in Rajya SabhaPrime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to reply to the debate on Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s address, in the Rajya Sabha at 10:30 am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-live-updates-february-8-2021-101612752147781.html
08-02-2021||---||LIVE: Delhi records 125 new cases of Covid-19, 3 deaths||India’s count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at 10,838,194 after the Union health ministry on Sunday said that the country logged 11,831 new infections in the preceding 24 hours. India’s Covid-19 caseload is the second-highest in the world, behind that of the United States of America. According to Johns Hopkins University, the US’ caseload is at over 26.9 million, while its death toll is at over 463,000. Brazil, meanwhile, has the third-highest caseload globally. The US, Brazil and Mexico, in that order, have recorded the highest number of deaths due to the disease, with India at fourth.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn India, the respective tallies of Maharashtra and Kerala, the states with the highest Covid-19 caseloads, stand at over 20 million and 962,000. At 67,795, Kerala has the highest number of active cases in the country, followed by Maharashtra at 36,192; all other states and Union territories have less than 6,000 active cases – Karnataka, which has the third-highest Covid-19 caseload, has 5,987 active cases. The largest vaccination drive against the pandemic is currently underway in India, with healthcare workers being vaccinated. The drive began on January 16 and healthcare workers will be given their second vaccine shots from February 13. 30 million healthcare workers will be inoculated in the first phase.Follow all the updates here:Madhya Pradesh records 193 new cases of Covid-19, 3 fatalities Madhya Pradesh on Monday recorded 193 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally to 2,56,591. 3 fatalities were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll currently stands at 3,823, according to news agency PTI.Representative Ron Wright becomes first member of US Congress to succumb to Covid-19A Republican Representative to the US Congress became the first individual in the Congress to succumb to Covid-19 after being diagnosed last month, reported Reuters. Delhi records 125 new cases of Covid-19, 3 deathsDelhi reports 125 new COVID-19 cases, 138 discharges, and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Delhi Health DepartmentTotal cases: 6,36,160Total discharges: 6,24,182Active cases: 1,096Death toll: 10,882 pic.twitter.com/BGqR17YWhb278 BSF jawans inoculated against Covid-19 in Gurugram278 Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were successfully inoculated against Covid-19 at 95 BN BSF Campus in Gurugram's Bhondsi. reported news agency ANI.China's CanSino Biologics Inc's Covid-19 vaccine has an efficacy of 65.7%, says PakistanPakistan's health minister said on Monday that Chinese vaccine produced by CanSino Biologics has an efficacy of 65.7%, reported Reuters. The CanSinoBIO vaccine, jointly developed by a research institute affiliated with the Chinese military, is currently being tested in Pakistan, Mexico, Russia, Argentina, and Chile,India vaccinated 6 million beneficiaries the fastest, says health ministryManohar Agnani, additional secretary, Union health ministry, said on Monday, that India has achieved the feat of vaccinating 6 million individuals the fastest in just 24 days. Adding that the US took 26 days to reach this mark and the UK 46 days.Maharashtra records 2,216 new cases of Covid-19, 15 fatalitiesMaharashtra reports 2,216 new COVID-19 cases, 3,423 recoveries, and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 20,46,287Total recoveries: 19,58,971Active cases: 34,720Death toll: 51,325 pic.twitter.com/v7m6dUk0BH60,35,660, individuals have been vaccinated so far, says health ministryManohar Agnani, additional secretary, Union health ministry, said on Monday that 60,35,660, individuals have been vaccinated so far in the country. Out of which 54,12,270 are healthcare workers and 6,23,390 are frontline workers, reported news agency ANI. He added that a total of 23 individuals have died following vaccination. Jammu and Kashmir logs 43 new Covid-19 casesJammu and Kashmir recorded 43 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the infection tally to 1,24,952, officials said, reports PTI.Argentina reports first cases of Brazilian coronavirus variantsArgentina has detected the first cases of two Brazilian variants of the coronavirus in travelers from the neighboring nation, the government said on Monday, reports Reuters.South Africa in talks with J&J to get 20 million more Covid vaccine dosesSouth Africa is in talks with Johnson & Johnson to buy an additional 20 million doses of the company’s Covid-19 vaccine and has been offered supplies of Russia’s Sputnik V shot, according to a presentation the health ministry made to the cabinet, reports Bloomberg.Hyderabad Police Commissioner takes first dose of Covid vaccineHyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Monday took the first jab of Covid-19 vaccine along with several other senior police officers, reports ANI.Vietnam records 49 new Covid-19 casesVietnam reported 49 more Covid-19 cases on Monday, most in the economic hub Ho Chi Minh City, reports Reuters.Months after first wave of Covid-19 Spanish medics suffer mental traumaIt has been eight months since he last treated a patient with Covid-19, but Spanish nurse Ricardo Belmonte still feels anxious when he recalls the first wave of the pandemic at the intensive care unit of Barcelona's Vall d'Hebron Hospital, reports Reuters.Ukraine hopes to receive Covid vaccines from other EU statesUkraine, which hopes to vaccinate half of its population against coronavirus by early 2022, is in talks with other countries including Poland about receiving some of their coronavirus vaccines, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Monday, reports Reuters.South Korea to give free Covid tests to petsSouth Korea's capital says it will give pet dogs and cats free coronavirus tests if they come into contact with infected humans and show symptoms, reports AP.Russia reports less than 15,000 new Covid cases after over 3 monthsRussia's single-day increase in Covid-19 cases fell below 16,000 for the first time since October 22, as 15,916 new cases were confirmed in the past 24 hours (down from 16,048 the day before), the response center said on Monday, reports ANI/Sputnik.Odisha reports 72 new Covid cases, one deathOdisha's Covid-19 tally mounted to 3,35,692 on Monday as 72 more people tested positive for the infection, while one fresh fatality pushed the death toll to 1,910, a health department official said, reports PTI.UK says AstraZeneca's Covid shot prevents deathThere is no evidence that the Astrazeneca vaccine does not prevent death or serious illness, and South Africa has only imposed a temporary halt on using the vaccine, a British junior health minister said on Monday, reports Reuters.Covid tally in Mizoram reaches 4383 after state logs 1 new caseOne more person has tested positive for Covid-19 in Mizoram, taking the tally in the northeastern state to 4,383, a health department official said on Monday, reports PTI.Kerala: 192 students, 72 staff test Covid positive at 2 schools192 students and 72 staff test positive for Covid-19 at two schools of Malappuram: District Health Authority, reports ANI.Arunachal logs no new Covid-19 caseArunachal Pradesh did not report any Covid-19 case on Monday, with the tally remaining unchanged at 16,830, a health department official said, reports PTI.Telangana reports 101 new Covid cases, lowest in 8 monthsThe fresh Covid-19 cases in Telangana continued to dwindle further with 101 people testing positive for the infection, the lowest in the last eight months, the state government said on Monday, reports PTI.Schools in Odisha open for classes 9,11 with Covid precautionsSchools reopen for classes 9 &11 in Odisha with COVID-19 precautions. "I'm happy to resume school after 10 months. All doubts can be cleared face-to-face now. At home, it was difficult to manage due to internet issues", says class 9 student of a school in Bhubaneshwar pic.twitter.com/99zHwoqHbXGermany reports 4,535 new Covid casesThe number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 4,535 to 2,288,545, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Monday, reports Reuters.Australia reassures of AstraZeneca's Covid vaccine after South Africa suspends useAustralia on Monday moved to reassure its citizens over the efficacy of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine after South Africa suspended use of the shot because data showed it offered limited protection against a new strain of the virus, reports Reuters.India records 11,831 new Covid-19 cases and 84 deathsIndia's Covid-19 tally reaches 10,838,194 with 11,831 fresh infections. Death toll tops 155,000; at 155,080 with 84 more fatalities.201,900,614 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMR201,9,00614 samples tested for #COVID19 up to 7th February. Of these, 532,236 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Covid-19 deaths near 79,000 mark in FranceFrance records 171 new Covid-19 deaths as toll reaches 78,965. National tally at 3,337,048 with 19,715 new infections.Mexico's Covid-19 death toll tops 166,000Mexico records 414 new Covid-19 deaths as toll reaches 166,200. This is the third-highest death toll globally, after those of the US and Brazil, respectively.1 new Covid-19 case in MizoramMizoram registers 1 new case of Covid-19 as tally reaches 4,383. 4,350 discharges, 24 active cases and nine deaths here thus far.Over 41.2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in US, says CDCOver 59.3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been distributed in the US, of which more than 41.2 million doses have been administered, as per the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-8-2021-101612748889531.html
08-02-2021||---||Farmers' stir LIVE: Farmers ask govt to pick date for talks after PM's address||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait while addressing the attendees of a kisan mahapanchayat in Haryana on Sunday said, "There will be no 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands are met. This is a people's movement, it will not fail." He added that the farmers’ protests, which have been going on for more than 70 days, were going strong. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November 26, demanding a rollback of the three farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.In symbolic protest on Saturday, farmers staged a 'chakka jam' for three hours, nationwide during which farmers blocked major state and national highways. The protest was largely peaceful and the farmers said that they are ready to resume talks with the government, reiterating their demand for repeal of the three contentious laws.Follow all the updates here:Delhi police withdraws additional security personnel at bordersThe Delhi police have withdrawn additional security personnel at the city's borders. As per ANI, the additional forces to go back to their respective units and districts. Rakesh Tikait slams PM for not addressing law on MSP demandBKU leadder Rakesh Tikait slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not mentioning anything about a law on MSP> Tikait said that while the PM might have said that MSP was there to stay, he did not mention anything about a law.Can't remain silent when lakhs of farmers are sitting at border: AR ChowdhuryCongress leader AR Chowdhury said that the Parliament culd not remain silent when lakhs of farmers were protesting at the Delhi border, in the Lok Sabha. He said that over 206 farmers had passed away and the police had set up nails to prevent them from entering the capital. Chowdhury also said that all they asked for was a discussion on the farmers' issue.Farmers ask govt to pick date for talks after PM's addressFarmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue.State intelligence department to conduct probe into celebrities' tweets on farmers' protests: Maha Home MinisterMaharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that the state intelligence department would conduct a probe into allegations that some celebrities were pressured to tweet about the farmers' protests.Farm protests: Indo-Canadians get ‘threat calls’ for supporting India’s stanceFrom the Greater Toronto Area to Metro Vancouver and Calgary and across Canada, members of the Indo-Canadian community are being targeted with intimidating calls including threats of sexual violence against family members. Their crime? Questioning the rationale behind the ongoing farmers’ protests in India and opposing the Khalistani involvement in the movement. Read more'Want law to be formed on MSP', farmer leader Rakesh Tikait"When did we say that MSP is ending? We said that a law be formed on MSP. If such a law is formed, all the farmers of the country will be benefitted. Right now, there is no law on MSP and the farmers are looted by traders": Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union‘Working for small farmers’, says PM Modi in Parliament amid farm stirPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the government is working to empower small farmers and amid the ongoing farm stir reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. Read more'MSP will continue, mandis will be modernised,' says PM Modi amid farmers' protests over agri lawsOn MSP, PM Modi again assured farmers that it will stay. 'MSP tha, hai aur rahega, said PM Modi in Rajya Sabha. "We need to collectively convince the farmers that the farm laws will be beneficial to them. I'm doing this, you do this as well. Let all abuses come my way, you can take credit for good things", he added.Amid impasse, govt asks Twitter to take down 1,178 accountsAmid the impasse between the government and Twitter over the demand to block 257 accounts with posts related to the farmers’ protests, the ministry of electronics and information technology has asked the company to take down over 1,178 accounts that may “foment trouble”. Read moreHow farmers at Delhi borders worked their way around internet shutdownsA day after farmers organised a nationwide “chakka jam” for three hours on national highways demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws and protesting the arrests of farmers, frequent internet shutdowns and barricading at the agitation spots, farmers at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur said network connectivity had improved on Sunday. Read moreGovt ready to resume talks, says Union minister Piyush GoyalUnion minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the government is ready to resume talks with the farmers protesting the new farm laws but asserted that despite repeated proposals, the protesters have not come up with any "concrete suggestions" so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-live-updates-live-februrary-8-farmers-protest-101612745687917.html
08-02-2021||---||LIVE: France begins distribution of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine||India reported 12,059 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 78 related deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the country’s tally to over 1,08,26,363, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed on Sunday morning. The encouraging figures come at a time when the nation has successfully vaccinated more than 5.6 million health and frontline workers within 22 days of the launch of the immunisation drive. The states, however, have been advised to to improve the vaccination coverage, beneficiary turn-out per session and minimise vaccine wastage, according to a statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The global Covid-19 tally has crossed the 105 million mark. The United States continues to be the worst affected country, followed by India and Brazil.Follow all the updates here:France begins distribution of AstraZeneca vaccine amid growing concerns of UK Covid-19 variantFrench government started distributing AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine as epidemiologist Arnaud Fontanet warned the UK coronavirus variant B117 could become dominant in the country by March, reports ANI.West Bengal reports 193 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deathsWest Bengal's COVID-19 tally rises to 5,71,371 after 193 more people test positive for the infection, five new fatalities push death toll to 10,207: Health bulletinWith 193 new infections and 5 deaths, West Bengal's Covid-19 tally reached 5,71,371 cases and 10,207 deaths, reports PTI.Italy logs 11,641 new Covid-19 cases, 270 deathsItaly reported 11,641 new Covid-19 infections and 270 new fatalities on Sunday, down from 13,442 cases and 385 deaths reported yesterday, according to the health ministry's data.The country has recorded 91,273 overall deaths, since the beginning of the pandemic, the second highest in Europe only after the United Kingdom, reports Reuters.UK government says over 12 million people vaccinated with first Covid-19 doseUK government said that 12,014,288 people have have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Britain reported 15,845 new Covid-19 cases and 373 deaths within 28 days of a positive coronavirus test, according to official data, reports Reuters.Haryana reports 67 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deathsWith 67 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, Haryana's tally reached 2,68,431 cases and 3,029 deaths, according to the state health department.The state currently has 883 active cases and 2,64,519 patients have recovered, reports PTI.Karnataka reports 487 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 9,42,518 casesKarnataka reports 487 new #COVID19 cases, 493 recoveries and 3 deaths today.Total cases 9,42,518Total recoveries 9,24,304Death toll 12,236Active cases 5,959 pic.twitter.com/y7cZTVv625Karnataka recorded 487 new Covid-19 cases, 493 recoveries and 3 deaths on Sunday, reports ANI.Half-million Covid-19 vaccine doses from India arrive at Kabul, says Indian embassyA half-million doses of COVID vaccines gifted by India to Afghanistan arrived at Kabul today. Acting Minister of Public Health of Afghanistan Waheed Majroh received the vaccine consignment from Charge d'Affaires Raghuram S at Hamid Karzai Int'l Airport: Embassy of India in KabulIndia's consignment of half-million Covid-19 vaccine doses arrive at Kabul, Afghanistan, as confirmed by the Indian embassy, reports ANI.More than 58 lakh healthcare workers inoculated for Covid-19 in India: Health ministry#LargestVaccineDriveMore than 58 lakh Healthcare and Frontline Workers Vaccinated for #COVID19 across the country.28,059 beneficiaries vaccinated till 6:40 pm today.No AEFI reported today.https://t.co/WfFk8gdAjx pic.twitter.com/ONVFpBy97XThe ministry of health and family welfare has said that till 6:40pm today, 58,03,617 healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated for Covid-19.Union health ministry shares pictures of vaccination drive in Manipur#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCoronaFrontline workers inoculated in Manipur. pic.twitter.com/ko4PGjeBSzThe ministry of health and family welfare shared pictures of frontline workers getting Covid-19 vaccine in Manipur.Manipur reports 9 new Covid-19 cases, 18 recoveriesManipur reports 9 new #COVID19 cases and 18 recoveries today. Total cases: 29,126Total recoveries: 28,654Death toll: 373Active cases: 99 pic.twitter.com/pCMdBc3GRgWith 9 new Covid-19 cases, Manipur's tally reached 29,126 cases and 373 deaths. A total of 28,654 patients have recovered in the state so far, reports ANI.UK won't issue 'immunity' Covid-19 passportsA British official says the country is not considering issuing so-called “immunity passports” for those who have been given the coronavirus vaccine but they could ask their doctor for written proof of their vaccine status if they need to travel. Vaccines Minister Nadhim Zahawi said Sunday that vaccine passports would be discriminatory and officials did not want getting vaccinated to be “made in some way mandatory through a passport.”Maldives vaccinates over 6,000 people against Covid-19The Maldives has vaccinated over 6,000 people against the Covid-19 pandemic in the first six days of its vaccination program, local media citing the Health Protection Agency (HPA) reported here Sunday. Data from the HPA showed that 2,575 people were vaccinated on Saturday, bringing the total number of vaccinated up to 6,854. Among those vaccinated people, 5,588 are from the capital region of Greater Male while the remaining 1,266 are from the atolls.UAE temporarily restricts Covid-19 vaccines to elderly, those with chronic diseasesThe United Arab Emirates will temporarily only vaccinate residents and citizens who are elderly or who have certain health conditions, state media said on Sunday. The temporary policy change was made following a spike in infections over the past weeks "to ensure acquired community immunity and contain the disease", state news agency WAM said, quoting the health ministry. Read moreVietnam reports 20 Covid-19 cases, total infections pass 2,000Vietnam has reported 2,001 Covid-19 infections since the coronavirus pandemic first hit the country more than a year ago, the Ministry of Health said on Sunday. More than 1,100 of the cases are locally transmitted, while the rest are imported, the ministry said in a statement. It recorded 20 new cases on Sunday, all linked to a new outbreak that began on Jan. 27 in the northern province of Hai Duong and has spread to at least 12 cities and provinces.Nepal concludes first phase of Covid-19 vaccination driveAfter receiving one million doses of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccine, Nepal has completed the first phase of its vaccination drive with as many as 184,857 persons receiving the first dose of the vaccine in the country. According to Himalayan Times, the first phase of the vaccination drive conducted from 201 booths in 77 districts concluded on Saturday. Frontline workers including health and sanitation workers were given priority in inoculations.Coronavirus vaccines from China arrive in CambodiaThe first 600,000 doses of coronavirus vaccines donated by China to Cambodia arrived in Phnom Penh on Sunday by special plane, with the doses earmarked to vaccinate health workers and the military. The Southeast Asian nation of about 16 million people is one of the least impacted by the coronavirus, with just 474 infections and no deaths. But it saw a rare cluster of cases in November. One of Asia's poorest countries, Cambodia has been an important ally to China in recent years. Beijing has said it will send 1 million Sinopharm vaccines to Cambodia, which will be used to inoculate 500,000 people.Ecuador registers 1,703 new Covid-19 cases, with 257,115 in totalEcuador registered 1,703 cases of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, bringing the total to 257,115, the Ministry of Public Health reported on Saturday. According to the ministry, the country also reported 21 more deaths, bringing the death toll to 10,311, along with 4,693 "probable" deaths from the disease. The province of Pichincha, which has been the most affected by the pandemic, exceeded 90,000 cases, with most infections concentrated in the capital city of Quito, the current epicenter of the pandemic in Ecuador. The capital city's health system has almost reached full capacity due to the high levels of critically ill patients.Bangladesh starts country-wide Covid-19 vaccination driveBangladesh on Sunday launched its nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign, reported Dhaka Tribune. Health Minister Zahid Maleque rolled out the campaign at a virtual event at the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) in Dhaka on Sunday morning. Maleque also urged all not to spread propaganda against the vaccine as it is safe and has no side effects, reported Dhaka Tribune. "The vaccine campaign will continue throughout the year. There is another process to get the jab other than online registration. People can be able to take the shots immediately after registering themselves at the vaccine centres," he added. Later on, he took coronavirus vaccine jab at Sheikh Russel National Gastroliver Institute and Hospital around 11:25 am (local time). Other ministers along with justices and distinguished persons followed the suit and took the jab on Sunday at different hospitals in Dhaka.Philippines logs 1,790 new Covid-19 cases, total tops 537,000The Department of Health (DOH) of the Philippines reported on Sunday 1,790 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the Southeast Asian country to 537,310. The death toll climbed to 11,179 after 70 more patients died from the viral disease, the DOH said, adding that 11,388 more patients recovered, raising the total number of recoveries to 499,798.The Philippines, which has about 110 million population, has tested over 7.58 million people since the disease emerged in January last year.Russia reports 16,048 new coronavirus cases, 432 deathsRussia reported 16,048 new Covid-19 cases across the country on Sunday, including 2,028 in Moscow, taking the national tally to 3,967,281 since the pandemic began. Authorities confirmed 432 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the official death toll to 76,661.Telangana logs less than 200 cases for 15th day in a rowThe number of new Covid-19 cases continued to remain under the 200 mark for the 15th day in a row in Telananga as the total infection count rose to over 2.95 lakh, the government said on Sunday. Two fatalities pushed the toll to 1,610, a health department bulletin said. Of the 150 fresh cases reported till 8 pm on Saturday, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the maximum with 25, followed by Rangareddy and Medchal Malkajgiri with 10 and 9 respectively, a health department bulletin said. The total number of cases stood at2,95,581 while recoveries were at 2,92,032.Ethiopia reports 570 new Covid-19 casesThe Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Health on Saturday reported 570 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, taking the national count to 141,453. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 2,145 after nine new fatalities were recorded, the ministry said. With 290 more recoveries registered, the nationwide count amounted to 125,531, it added. Ethiopia, Africa's second-most populous nation, is one of the countries hardest hit by the pandemic in Africa, after South Africa, Morocco, Tunisia, and Egypt. The country has so far reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the East African region.Odisha starts second phase of vaccination drive against Covid-19Odisha on Saturday began its second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Bhubaneshwar. Additional Commissioner of Police (ACP), Odisha, Rekha Lohani, "The second phase of vaccination drive has started today in Bhubaneshwar at three places; CP Headquarters, Reserve Parade Ground, and in the 7th Batallion premises.""We have all taken the first shots. We are all feeling absolutely fine. This drive will go on till February 15. And after a gap of 21 days, the second shots will be given," she added. 1200 personnel per day will be taking their first jab, she said. The second phase of the inoculation drive is to see the vaccination of frontline workers, including police and sanitation workers.Turkey confirms 7,897 new Covid-19 casesTurkey confirmed 7,897 new Covid-19 cases, including 618 symptomatic patients, as the total number of positive cases in the country reached 2,524,786, according to its health ministry. The death toll from the virus in Turkey rose by 108 to 26,685, while the total recoveries climbed to 2,412,505 after 8,089 more cases recovered in the last 24 hours. A total of 137,649 tests were conducted over the past day, with the overall number of tests in Turkey reaching 30,486,691.South Korea reports 372 more COVID-19 cases, 80,896 in totalSouth Korea reported 372 more cases of Covid-19 as of midnight Saturday compared to 24 hours ago, pushing the total number of infections to 80,896, according to ANI. The daily caseload has remained below 400 for three straight days.Brazil's Covid-19 death toll surpasses 231,000Brazil registered 978 new Covid-19 deaths taking the death toll to 231,012, the ministry of health said on Saturday, according to ANI. Additionally, another 50,630 new Covid-19 cases were recorded, taking the nationwide tally to 9,497,795.282 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra's Thane district, 4 more deathsThe Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra's Thane district has gone up to 2,55,491 with the addition of 282 new cases of the infection, an official told PTI on Sunday.Apart from these cases reported on Saturday, four more people also succumbed to the viral infection, taking the death toll in the district to 6,178, he said.59.3 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines distributed: US CDCThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it had distributed 59,304,600 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the United States and that 39,037,964 doses had been administered as of Saturday morning, Reuters reported.Mainland China reports 11 new Covid-19 casesMainland China reported 11 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which is the lowest daily increase since December 16, the national health authority was quoted as saying by Reuters on Sunday.Mexico's confirmed coronavirus death toll rises to 165,786Mexico's health ministry on Saturday reported 1,496 new confirmed deaths from Covid-19, bringing the country's total to 165,786, according to news agency Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-7-2021-101612667124185.html
08-02-2021||---||Highlights: Govt ready to resume talks with farmers, says Piyush Goyal||In symbolic protest on Saturday, farmers staged a 'chakka jam' for three hours in the country. During the strike, farmers blocked major state and national highways. Amid concerns over untoward incident, the protest took place without any violence, authorities have said. The agitation against the new farm laws which began in the last week of November is continuing for more than 70 days now.Farmers also said that they ready to resume talks with the government, but asked it to come up with a fresh proposal as the existing offer to put the three farm laws on hold for 12-18 months is not acceptable to them. However, the union asserted again that they would not settle for anything less than a repeal of the agriculture legislation.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws.Follow all the updates here:Govt ready to resume talks, says Union minister Piyush GoyalUnion Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the government is ready to resume talks with the farmers protesting the new farm laws but asserted that despite repeated proposals, the protesters have not come up with any "concrete suggestion" so far, reports PTI.'Tractor kranti' creating buzz as protesting farmers oppose NGT's ban on old diesel vehiclesFarmers protesting against the Centre's new agricultural laws are rallying behind the call for a 'tractor revolution', while expressing disappointment over a 2014 NGT order banning diesel vehicles, including tractors, older than 10 years in Delhi-NCR, reports PTI.No 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands met, says BKU's TikaitAsserting that the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws is a people’s movement that will not fail, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said there will be no "ghar wapsi" till protesting farmers' demands are met.Ghazipur, Singhu border closed; Delhi traffic police asks to follow alternate routesGazipur border is closed both carriage way Traffic going Ghaziabad through Murga mandi and Gazipur R/A, Road no. 56, Vikas marg, Anand Vihar IP Extention, NH 24, informed Delhi Traffic Police. Singhu, Piau Maniyari,Saboli, Mungeshpur borders are closed. Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders are open. Pls follow alternate route, said the traffic police.Govt has time to withdraw bills and make laws on MSP: BKU's TikaitYouth here has asked for repealing of (farm) laws for now, what will happen if they asked to leave their posts? Govt has time to withdraw bill and make law on MSP. We will not tolerate how our people were deceitfully taken to Red Fort, said BKU's Rakesh Tikait at mahapanchayat in Haryana, reports ANI.Farmers' protest limited to certain areas, says TomarUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said the ongoing farmers' protest against the Centre's three new farm laws is limited to a certain area, and expressed hope to break the deadlock over the issue soon, reports PTI.Indo-Canadian groups rally to protest alleged Khalistani role in farmer protestIndo-Canadian organisations are stepping up their effort to counter the narrative related to the ongoing farmers’ protests in India, as they believe that the agenda has largely been hijacked by pro-Khalistan elements in Canada. Read moreHeavy security continues at Tikri borderBKU's Tikait to address second mahapanchayat todayBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait to address second mahapanchayat in Charkhi Dadri, today.Tikait’s decision to not have chakka jam in UP, Uttarakhand 'hasty': SKM leaderSenior farmer leader Darshan Pal Saturday said the decision by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to not hold 'chakka jam' in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand was taken in "a hasty manner" and it would have been better had he first discussed his plan with the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha.Intervention from PM may resolve farm bills issues: Sharad PawarNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said that the highest level intervention from the Central government may help in resolving the deadlock between the Centre and farmers organisation over contentious farm bills which has resulted in over 70-day long protest, by the agrarian community. Read moreRahul Gandhi to visit RajasthanCongress' Rahul Gandhi will visit Rajasthan next to extend support to the farmers agitating against the farm laws. He will be in Rajasthan on February 12 and February 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-farm-laws-live-updates-february-7-2021-101612661517888.html
