10-02-2021||---||Parliament LIVE: Lok Sabha proceedings extend till midnight||The budget session of Parliament started from January 29 and is being held in two parts amid strict coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday replied to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in the Lok Sabha. Modi spoke about the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) disease pandemic, the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws- the two issues which have been dominating this session- apart from other topics. The Prime Minister lauded the country’s fight against the Covid-19 crisis and said that India had to emerge as a strong player in the post coronavirus world. Shifting focus towards the farmers’ movement, Modi said that the Centre respected the sentiments of all the protesters adding that senior ministers had held talks with farmer leaders even when the protest was limited to Punjab. Hitting back at Congress party which has criticised the farm laws, he said that the party only made noise about the laws but never discussed its content.Leaders of opposition parties such as the Congress and the Trinamool Congress were seen leaving the lower house during the PM’s address. Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury said that he and other leaders of the party walked out as Modi didn’t address concerns over the farmers’ death. “He (Modi) agreed that amendments are required in #FarmLaws, some states will be benefitted & some' won't. Why do you have to bring laws that won't be benefitting everyone?” Chowdhury added.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha proceedings extend till midnightThe Lower House proceedings extended till mid-night to accommodate members' participation in the Budget discussion. Defence minister to issue statement on situation in Eastern Ladakh in Rajya Sabha tomorrowRaksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will make a statement in Rajya Sabha tomorrow regarding ‘Present Situation in Eastern Ladakh’.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh would issue a statement regarding the present situation in Eastern Ladakh in Rajya Sabha tomorrow, according to the defence minister's office.Govt didn't impose lockdown at appropriate time, says TMC MP Saugata RoyTrinamool Congress (TMC) MP Saugata Roy said on Wednesday that the Centre had not imposed the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 at an appropriate time.Unfortunate that PM Modi said nothing about the protesting farmers who died: Harsimrat Kaur BadalShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal hit out at PM Modi's address in the Rajya Sabha regarding the farmers' movement by saying that he spoke nothing about the protesters who lost their lives. "Where would the ministers have gone in Punjab when they couldn't go to the borders of Delhi in the last 75 days?," Badal added. Govt failed to constructively engage with the farmers: Shashi TharoorAmid the ongoing farmers agitation against the Centre's three new farm laws, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said on Wednesday that the government failed to constructively engage with the farmers. Prime Minister Modi had earlier said that the Centre respected the sentiments of the agitating farmers and talks were being held with them when the movement was limited to Punjab. Cong MP Shashi Tharoor slams Centre over Union BudgetCongress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday targeted the Central government over this year's Union budget in the areas of health, agriculture, defence and fiscal stimulus. TMC MPs walk out of Lok Sabha during PM Modi's addressTrinamool Congress MPs were seen going out of the Lok Sabha during Prime Minister Modi's address. This comes after leaders of the Congress party had walked out of the lower house. Need to work towards making farmers self-reliant, says PM Modi in Lok SabhaPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that work had to be done towards making the country's farmers' self reliant, giving them freedom to sell their produce . Congress is confused, divided party, says PM Modi as its leaders walk out in Lok SabhaAs leaders of the Congress party started walking out of the Lower House during PM Modi's address, the Prime Minister said that such a divided and confused party could neither help itself nor think about the country's welfare. "The Congress, which ruled this country for nearly six decades, is in such a state that its leaders in the Rajya Sabha go in one direction, and those in Lok Sabha go in a different direction," he added. India is a democracy which empowers its citizens, says PM in Lok Sabhaमांगने के लिए मजबूर करने वाली सोच लोकतंत्र की सोच नहीं हो सकती है: PM @narendramodiLaw against triple talaq made keeping in mind India's progress: PM ModiSpeaking about the laws passed by the Centre against triple talaq and dowry, Prime Minister Modi said no one in the country had asked for these laws but they were introduced keeping in mind the country's progress. Uproar in parl, noise over farm laws part of well-thought-out strategy: PM ModiThose who are disrupting the House are doing so as per a well-planned strategy. They are unable to digest that people are seeing through the truth. Through their games, the trust of the people can never be won: PM @narendramodi #PMInLokSabhaFurther sharpening his attack on opposition parties regarding the Centre's three new farm laws, PM Modi said that the current uproar in the House and the noise over these laws is a part of a well-though strategy. Our ministers have been speaking to farmers with utmost respect: PM Modi"This House and this government respects the sentiments of the agitating farmers. This is why senior ministers have been holding talks with the farm leaders even when it was still limited to Punjab. We agree that if there is a flaw in the law, then it will be fixed. We are still waiting if they cite a specific point, and it is convincing, we will not hesitate to make changes," PM Modi said.Cong made noise about farm laws, but never discussed its content: PM ModiHitting back at Congress party which has criticised the farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the party only made noise about the laws but never discussed its content. The Prime Minister added that if there were any flaws in the laws, there is nothing wrong in amending them but the farmers would have to come up with convincing points.Today we can hear 'Vocal for Local' in every corner of the country: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that the Centre's call of 'Vocal for Local' was being heard in every corner of the country. "People look for local. This sense of self-respect is working a lot for Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Modi added. India can be a global leader in post Covid-19 world; being self-reliant can help, says PM ModiThe post-COVID world is turning out to be very different. In such times, remaining isolated from global trends will be counter-productive. We'll have to emerge as a strong player. That is why, India is working towards building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat: PM Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/fb04wwhL1ODuring his address in Lok Sabha, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the post Covid-19 world was turning out to be very different adding that India would have to emerge as a strong player.The way India handled, helped itself during Covid was a turning point: PM Modi in Lok SabhaPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the way India handled and helped itself and the world during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis was a turning point.Prez's speech showcased India's 'Sankalp Shakti: PM Modi in Lok SabhaThe speech by President showcased India's 'Sankalp Shakti.' His words have boosted the spirit of confidence among the people of India: PM Narendra Modi replies in Lok Sabha to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address pic.twitter.com/OWLxV70ec9Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that President Ram Nath Kovind's address showcased the country's 'Sankalp Shakti'. He added that Kovind's words also boosted the spirit of confidence among Indian citizens. PM Modi replies to Motion of Thanks on the Prez's address in Lok SabhaKerala remains a critical Covid-19 hotspot, says Cong MPCongress MP Kodikunnil Suresh said on Wednesday that Kerala along with Maharashtra continued to remain critical coronavirus (Covid-19) hotspots and further urged the Centre to take this issue seriously. Suresh further alleged that Communist Party of India (Marxist)- led government led in Kerala didn't handle the pandemic properlyUnion home minister provided all updates regarding U'khand floods: BJP MP Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Tirath Singh Rawat said on Wednesday that Union home minister Amit Shah had provided all updates on the flash floods in Uttarakhand. Defence minister Rajnath Singh arrives in ParliamentDelhi: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh arrives at the Parliament. Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, in Lok Sabha shortly. pic.twitter.com/KU4bzLkHGQUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh arrived in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. In moments from now, Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be replying to the motion of thanks on the President's address in Lok Sabha. AAP MP Sanjay Singh gives Zero Hour Notice in RS regarding U'khand flash floodsAam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Sanjay Singh gave a Zero Hour Notice in the Rajya Sabha for tomorrow, raising the issue of provision of financial aid to the flash floods affected victims of Uttarakhand, reports ANI. Ports bill will encourage good competition, says Union ministerUnion Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday that the Major Ports Authorities Bill, 2020 would encourage good competition among major and private ports adding it would also boost port land usage and amplify competition in port tariffs. The bill was passed through ballot votes with 84 in favour and 44 against it in the Rajya Sabha.'Police', 'Public Order' are state subjects: MHA in Rajya SabhaRegarding whether the Centre would issue instructions to all the states and Union Territories to investigate all cases of custodial death and encounter, the Union home ministry quoted the Constitution's seventh schedule which says that Police and Public Order are state subjects. The MHA added that it is for states and UTs to see that provisions of law are followed in letter and spirit.Govt spending ₹1,053 crore on CAPFs, says MHAFor CAPF, namely Assam Rifles, BSF, CISF, CRPF, ITBP, SSB and NSG the govt has been implementing Modernisation Plan-III since 2018 with the total outlay of ₹1053 Crores: MHA in Rajya Sabha1,948 persons arrested under UAPA in 2019: MHA in Rajya SabhaAs per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2019, 1,948 persons were arrested under UAPA that year. Total number of persons arrested and persons convicted in 2016 and 2019 under UAPA are 5,922 and 132 respectively: MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy in a written reply in Rajya SabhaPM Modi to speak in Lok Sabha at around 4pm: PMOAt around 4 PM today in the Lok Sabha, Prime Minister @narendramodi will reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address.At around 4 today in the Lok Sabha, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address: Prime Minister's Office (PMO)Rajya Sabha begins general discussion on Union BudgetRajya Sabha begins general discussion on Union Budget 2021. FM Nirmala Sitharaman presented the Budget on February 1, day 2 of the ongoing Budget session.Rajya Sabha passes Major Port Authorities Bill 2020The Major Port Authorities Bill 2020 passed in Rajya Sabha.Cong MP gives notice over rise in Covid-19 in KeralaCongress' K Suresh gives adjournment motion in Lok Sabha to discuss the 'alarming rise in Covid-19 in Kerala.'Infiltration on India-Bangladesh border reduced in 2020: Nityanand RaiThere were 420 cases & 884 people arrested in 2018. 500 cases & 1,109 arrested in 2019. While in 2020, there were 489 cases & 955 arrested: MoS Home Nityanand Rai in a written reply in Rajya Sabha on cross border infiltration cases along India-Bangladesh border2/2Number of cross-border infiltration cases reported along India-Bangladesh border reduced in 2020 viz-a-viz 2016, says MoS (Home) Rai in Rajya Sabha.Cong MP gives notice over situation on China borderCongress MP Manickam Tagore has given an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the 'abnormal situation on the China border.'Pilot project for new Indo-Pak border fencing completed last March, says govtPilot project for new design modular fencing on Indo-Pak border in Punjab has been completed in March 2020: MoS (Home) Nityanand Rai in Rajya SabhaCAA rules under preparation, govt says in Rajya SabhaCAA rules are under preparation. The Committee on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have granted an extension up to 9th April 2021 and 9th July 20201 respectively: MoS (Home) Nityanand Rai in Rajya SabhaCong MP gives notice in Lok Sabha over VK Singh's statementCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over BJP leader and former army chief VK Singh's statement on LAC transgression.Some airline carriers want us to open 100%, says civil aviation minister PuriOn one hand, some of the carriers want us to open 100% while others would like us to take it slow. Our decision to raise it beyond 80% will depend on the behaviour of the virus: Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri in Rajya SabhaBJP issues 3-line whip to its Lok Sabha MPs for todayThe BJP has issued a three-line whip to its Lok Sabha MPs to be present in the House today as PM Modi is expected to reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address.Increase time for discussion on Budget, says Cong MP RameshThere is a lot of interest among the members in discussing the Budget. I suggest that the time to debate the Budget be increased from 10 hours to 12 hours: Congress MP Jairam Ramesh in Rajya SabhaRajya Sabha proceedings commence for the dayProceedings begin in Rajya Sabha on day 9 of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament.BJP MP gives notice in RS over Uttarakhand glacier burstBJP MP Anil Baluni gives notice in Rajya Sabha to discuss the need for a mechanism to study glaciers to manage and prevent disasters such as the recent glacier burst in Chamoli, Uttrakhand.Discussion on Budget in Rajya Sabha and Lok SabhaThe discussion on Budget is listed after consideration of Major Ports Bill in Rajya Sabha, today. In Lok Sabha, it is listed after the ongoing discussion on Motion of Thanks on the President's address.Gandhi likely to initiate discussion on Congress' behalf on BudgetRahul Gandhi is likely to initiate the debate on the Union Budget on behalf of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, as per party's leader in the House, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.PM Modi to reply on Motion of Thanks to President's addressPM Modi will reply on Motion of Thanks to President Ram Nath Kovind's address. On Monday, he replied in the Rajya Sabha to the President's address.PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi likely to speak in Lok Sabha todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi are likely to speak in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, the ninth day of the ongoing Budget session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-live-updates-narendra-modi-rahul-gandhi-february-10-2021-101612924420400.html
10-02-2021||---||Highlights: Actor Deep Sidhu, key accused in Jan 26 violence case, arrested by Delhi Police||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday in his reply to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Rajya Sabha said that the government is working towards empowering small farmers. He also reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. “MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain there in the future,” PM Modi said. After the speech, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait responded by saying that a law was needed on MSP. "Prime Minister said 'MSP hai, tha aur rahega' today but he did not say that a law will be formed on MSP... the country does not run on trust. It runs on the constitution and law," said Tikait.In a symbolic protest on Saturday, farmers staged a 'chakka jam' for three hours, nationwide, during which farmers blocked major state and national highways. The protest was largely peaceful and the farmers said that they are ready to resume talks with the government, reiterating their demand for repeal of the three contentious laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November 26, demanding a rollback of the three farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Follow all the updates here:Harsimrat Kaur Badal accuses Centre of passing farm laws without consultationHarsimrat Kaur Badal said that the Centre did not listen to the opposition, or their own allies regarding the implementation of the farm laws.Harsimrat Kaur Badal slams use of tear gas, water cannons against farmersHarsimrat Kaur Badal said that protesting was a basic human right but tear gas, water cannons were used to break down farmers protests by the government was not. "No politician expressed remorse for the death of the 150 farmers, no speech expressed any regret," she added.Akhilesh Yadav questions govt's decision to not rollback farm lawsSP leader Akhilesh Yadav questioned why the Centre was not withdrawing the farm laws if the farmers were not accepting them. "If Govt says that laws are for farmers, why is it not taking it back, if farmers aren't accepting it? People, for whom it has been formed, don't want it. Who is stopping Govt? Are allegations that you rolled out carpet for corporates & brought these laws not right?" he asked.Deep Sidhu remanded to seven day police custodyBreaking: Delhi Court remands Deep Sidhu to 7 days police custody in connection to the violence and flag hoisting at Red Fort on R- Day. @htTweetsDelhi Court remands Deep Sidhu to 7 days police custody in connection to the violence and flag hoisting at Red Fort on R- Day.Defense counsel says that Sidhu is not running awayDefense counsel says that Sidhu is not running away. He is not evading the process. He just happened to be at the wrong place and the wrong time. Sidhu got to know from the media that the flag is hoisted. @htTweetsDefense counsel says that Sidhu is not running away. He is not evading the process. He just happened to be at the wrong place and the wrong time. Sidhu got to know from the media that the flag is hoisted.Sidhu seen entering with swords, sticks, flags: PolicePolice say he was seen entering in a video with swords, sticks and flags. He provoked the people and gave speeches with a loud hailer thus inciting violence. Defense counsel opposes the remand application and says that police should not require such a long remand. @htTweetsPolice say he was seen entering in a video with swords, sticks and flags. He provoked the people and gave speeches with a loud hailer thus inciting violence. Defense counsel opposes the remand application and says that police should not require such a long remand.Police say 140 personnel were injuredPolice also tells that 140 policemen were injured and the protestors breached the security and they deviated from the actual route which was assigned for the Tractors' Rally during R- Day. @htTweetsPolice also tells that 140 policemen were injured and the protestors breached the security and they deviated from the actual route which was assigned for the Tractors' Rally during R- Day.Sidhu's permanent address in Nagpur: PolicePolice says that his permanent address is in Nagpur and they have to also visit Punjab and Haryana to ascertain the links. Says that he congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort and also did a Facebook Live from the spot. @htTweetsPolice says that his permanent address is in Nagpur and they have to also visit Punjab and Haryana to ascertain the links. Says that he congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort and also did a Facebook Live from the spot.Delhi Police inform court that Sidhu was main instigator of R-Day violenceDelhi Police inform city Court that actor Deep Sidhu was the main rioter and instigator in the R- Day violence. Police alleges that Sidhu instigated the protestors, destroyed public property. Seeks 10 days remand saying that his social media has to be searched. @htTweetsDelhi Police inform city Court that actor Deep Sidhu was the main rioter and instigator in the R- Day violence. Police alleges that Sidhu instigated the protestors, destroyed public property. Seeks 10 days remand saying that his social media has to be searched.Delhi police seeks ten-day custody of Deep SidhuThe Delhi police has sought a ten-day custody of Deep Sidhu after the former actor was produced before a metropolitan Magistrate at Tis Hazari Court for his role in the violence that unfurled during the tractor rally on Republic Day.SC stays arrest of Shashi Tharoor, journalistsSupreme Court stays arrest of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, & senior journalists, while hearing the petition challenging registration of multiple FIRs against them for allegedly sharing certain unconfirmed news on death of a protester, during the tractor rally on Republic Day.Deep Sidhu, an accused in January 26 violence case, arrested: Delhi PolicePunjabi actor-turned-activist ctor Deep Sidhu, who was allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, was arrested by Delhi Police's special cell late on Monday night, officials said on Tuesday. Read moreAdditional deployment at Delhi borders withdrawnAdditional deployment of Delhi Police personnel at the three borders points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, where farmers are camping for over two months to protest against the three farm laws,was withdrawn from Monday evening. The security arrangements in these places will now be taken care of by personnel belonging to the police districts concerned, senior police officers privy to the development said. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-live-farmer-protest-updates-february-9-hindustan-times-101612837803279.html
10-02-2021||---||LIVE: Vaccine hesitancy is a personal issue not a population level issue, says Union health ministry||India on Tuesday registered 9,110 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 84 more related deaths which pushed the overall tally to over 10.8 million, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The active cases have further declined to 143,625 while 10,548,521 people have recovered till now. This is the fifth time that the country’s daily death count went below the 100-mark. The toll stands at 155,158.The Union health ministry had said on Monday that 17 states and Union Territories (UTs) did not add any death in the last 24 hours including Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Tripura among others. While five states amounted for 81 per cent of the country’s active caseload. Maharashtra and Kerala together contribute for 70 per cent of the total active cases, the ministry added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed India’s fight against the pandemic in Rajya Sabha and said that the credit for this went to the country and not to the Centre. He added that the world recognised that India had played a crucial role in saving humanity.Meanwhile, the global coronavirus disease tally stood at 106,996,618 of which 2,335,623 died and 78,835,652 have recovered, according to worldometers.info figures.Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) director general said on Monday that the emergence of new Covid-19 variants has raised questions about whether or not existing vaccines will work. He further called for manufacturers to be ready to quickly adapt their vaccines so that they would remain effective, according to news agency APFollow all the updates here:Karnataka records 366 new cases of Covid-19, 2 fatalitiesKarnataka reports 366 new #COVID19 cases, 513 discharges and 2 deaths today.Total cases 9,43,212Total discharges 9,25,167Death toll 12,241Active cases 5,785 pic.twitter.com/lnJhl9onQqGoa proposes to administer first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to all healthcare workers by Feb 12Goa aims to inoculate all healthcare workers by February 12, the state government said on Tuesday, reported news agency ANI.Manipur records 7 new cases of Covid-19, zero fatalitiesManipur reports 7 new #COVID19 cases and 15 recoveries today. Total cases: 29,137Total recoveries: 28,687Death toll: 373Active cases: 77Recovery Rate: 98.45% pic.twitter.com/HjeabqrILQMaharashtra records 2515 new cases of Covid-19, 35 deathsMaharashtra reports 2,515 new COVID-19 cases, 2,554 recoveries, and 35 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 20,48,802Total recoveries: 19,61,525Active cases: 34,640Death toll: 51,360 pic.twitter.com/9rGc4q1gLpMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 2515 new cases of Covid-19, taking the country wide tally to 20,48,802. In the last 24 hours 35 deaths were also reported, the death toll currently stands at 51,360, reported news agency ANI.Andhra Pradesh records 70 new cases of Covid-19Andhra Pradesh reports 70 new #COVID19 cases and 115 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Total cases 8,88,555Total recoveries 8,80,478Death toll 7,160Active cases 917 pic.twitter.com/hhH8q4TAaVUK health minister says passengers arriving in UK will be quarantined in hotels for 10 days or longerUK health minister Matt Hancock told Reuters that international passengers arriving in UK will be escorted to hotels and quarantined for 10 days or longer. He also said that the country is in the process of ramping up testing facilities for international passengers.Delhi records 100 new cases of Covid-19, no fatalitiesDelhi reports 100 new #COVID19 cases and 144 recoveries in the last 24 hours, no deaths reported.Total cases 6,36,260Total recoveries 6,24,326Death toll 10,882Active cases 1052 pic.twitter.com/wlAZq3bzLnVaccine hesitancy is a personal issue not a population level issue: Union health ministryThe Union health ministry during a press briefing on Tuesday said citing data that 6.3 million people have embraced the vaccine, adding that if so many people take the vaccine in a country then vaccine hesitancy is not a population level issue but rather a personal one. The ministry also said that the goal of 100 percent satisfaction rate has been achieved.Deaths following inoculation not related to vaccination, says health ministryThe Union health ministry said on Tuesday that the meeting of the national AEFI committee took place in February 5, two cases were diagnosed as anaphylaxes. Deaths were found to be not related to vaccination. The histopathology and chemical analysis reports have been sought from the concerned state governments. A template is being built on this which will be put into the public domain as soon as possible.Healthcare workers to be given mop-up rounds for inoculationThe Union health ministry says healthcare workers who could not come for the scheduled vaccination sessions should be given a mop-up round to get vaccinated by March 6. States and UTs have been advised to be scheduled for vaccinated at least once by March 2021. Those who do not appear for the mop-up rounds will have to be relegated to the age appropriate rounds.Ethiopia has secured 9 million doses of Covid-19 vaccineThe Ethiopian health minister told news agency Reuters that the country has secured 9 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine till April. Adding that he hopes it would be enough to inoculate at least a fifth of total population of 110 million by the end of 2021.Indian Army training dogs to detect Covid-19 from sweat and urine samplesIndian Army dogs trained to detect COVID19 using sweat & urine samples. Labradors & indigenous breed Chippiparai being trained on urine samples & Cocker Spaniels on sweat samples. Based on samples' data tested till now, sensitivity is over 95%: Colonel Surender Saini (trainer) pic.twitter.com/jficT6fNhEIndian Army is training dogs like labradors, Chippiparai, and Cocker Spaniels to detect Covid-19 through urine and sweat samples, reported news agency ANI. Colonel Surender Saini told the agency that based on the samples tested till date the sensitivity levels of the canines is as high as 95 per cent.No provision of insurance for Covid vaccine recipients: MoS for healthThere is no provision of insurance for recipients of Covid-19 vaccine against any kind of side effects or medical complications that may arise due to the inoculation, Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday, reports PTI.Russia logs 15,019 new Covid-19 casesRussia reported 15,019 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, including 1,584 in Moscow, taking the national tally to 3,998,216 since the pandemic began, reports Reuters.Govt orders 10 million more doses of Covid vaccine from Serum InstituteIndia's government has ordered 10 million more doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine from the Serum Institute of India, a company spokesman told Reuters on Tuesday, reports Reuters.New case in Arunachal takes Covid tally to 16,831One more person tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, pushing the total caseload in the state to 16,831, a senior health department official said on Tuesday, reports PTI.China's CanSino Covid vaccine shows 65.7% efficacyCanSino Biologics Inc.’s experimental coronavirus vaccine has an efficacy rate of 65.7% at preventing symptomatic cases based on an analysis from late-stage trials, adding a one-shot candidate to the world’s growing arsenal against Covid-19, reports Bloomberg.First batch of AstraZeneca Covid vaccine arrives in GreeceGreece has received the first batch of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and will begin vaccinations on February 15, the country's Health Ministry Secretary General for Primary Health Care Marios Themistokleous said at a ministry briefing, reports ANI.Maharashtra: Thane logs 200 fresh Covid-19 casesThane has reported 200 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 2,55,949,an official said on Tuesday, reports PTI.Germany reports 3,379 fresh Covid casesThe number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 3,379 to 2,291,924, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Tuesday, reports Reuters.Mizoram reports 3 new Covid casesMizoram's Covid-19 tally rose to 4,386 on Tuesday as three more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said, reports PTIIndia adds 9,110 new Covid-19 cases, daily deaths further fall to 78India on Tuesday registered 9,110 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 78 more related deaths which pushed the overall tally to over 10.8 million, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The active cases have further declined to 143,625 while 10,548,521 people have recovered till now. This is the fifth time that the country’s daily death count went below the 100-mark.Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally nearing 120,000; 38 new cases addedJharkhand added 38 fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases on Tuesday which pushed the overall tally to 119,055. No fresh deaths were reported today, a health official told news agency PTI adding that 123,754 health workers have been administered Covid-19 vaccines doses till now.US transport secretary Pete Buttigieg after security detail gets infected with Covid-19United States transportation secretary Pete Buttigieg will quarantine for 14 days after a member of his security detail tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The agent had been “in close contact” with Buttigieg, including Monday morning prior to the agent's positive result, the Transportation Department said in a statement, reports AP.Manipur adds three new Covid-19 cases, tally nearing 4,4003 new #COVID19 case reported in Mizoram in the last 24 hours, as per state government. Total cases: 4,386Active cases: 27Discharges: 4,353Deaths: 9 pic.twitter.com/k1lZ52c1hwManipur reported three coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours which pushed the tally to 4,386. A total of 4,353 people have been discharged while there are 27 active cases.Dutch govt will extend coronavirus curfew until March 3The Dutch government announced on Monday that it would extend the nationwide curfew to curb the spread of Covid-19 till March 3 adding that this was being done in order to slow the spread of the new variant of the virus which was first detected in Britain. The previous curfew was to be expired on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-9-2021-101612834412410.html
10-02-2021||---||Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till Wednesday 4pm||The budget session of Parliament started from January 29 and is being held in two parts amid strict coronavirus disease (Covid-19) norms--January 29 to February 15 and March 8 to April 8 and will have 33 sittings in total. Both the house will meet in shifts of five hours each. The Rajya Sabha will meet from 9am to 2pm and the Lok Sabha would meet from 3pm to 8pm.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to reply to the motion of thanks to President Ram Nath Kovind’s address in the Lok Sabha on February 10. The Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till 4pm today.On Tuesday morning, the Rajya Sabha bid farewell to Leader of Opposition (LoP) and Congress party veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad and three other members- all from Jammu and Kashmir, who would be retiring. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said that the Upper House benefited from Azad's contributions and he has been in the house since few decades.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the next person who would replace Azad as the next LoP would face difficulties as he was not only concerned about his party but also placed emphasis towards the Upper House and the country.Modi got emotional when he spoke about an unfortunate incident from the past when some people from Gujarat were stuck in Jammu and Kashmir due to a terror attack. The Prime Minister further spoke that how Azad offered assistance during that time.Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah provided an update on the Uttarakhand glacier disaster where he said that central and state government agencies were monitoring the situation. "450 jawans of ITBP, 5 teams of NDRF, 8 teams of Indian Army, a Navy team and 5 IAF helicopters are engaged in search and rescue operation," he added.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjournedThe lower house of Parliament adjourned till Wednesday 4pm.BJP's Arvind Sharma says farmers' laws will benefit farmers, should be analysed carefullyArvind Sharma of BJP says during farmers protest Punjab farmers said Haryana is like their younger brother. If Haryana is being considered as a younger brother by Punjab, then I request the elder brother to discuss the contentious Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal issue. He also urged farmers' union representatives to analyse the reformatory laws carefully before taking any decisionsUnion minister Kailash Chaudhary says farmers have been extended several benefits under PM Modi's leadershipChaudhary says Centre has brought extensive reforms in the agriculture sector and blamed the opposition for misleading farmers. He said that cash transfer under DBT benefitted farmers and said that election manifesto of Congress in 2019 also promised similar reforms.Beeseetti Satyavathi says caution should be exercised before promoting homeopathyThe YSRCP lawmaker said that allopathy has cured people and is a much scientifically approved medicinal practice compared to homeopathy.Congress MP Karti Chidambaram says that President's speech should have reflected on farmers' protestsCongress MP Karti Chidambaram says that he is worried about what has not been said in the President's speech rather than what has been said. He said that the speech should have reflected on the protests by farmers. He said that the contents of the speech could have been found in any government release.JMM MP Hansdak warns against privatisationJharkhand Mukti Morcha MP Vijay Kumar Hansdak says that privatisation will affect employment generation and said that it will also affect the upliftment of people belonging to lower socioeconomic strata.BJP leader SP Singh Baghel says fear of loss in 2024 visible in 2021BJP leader SP Singh Baghel criticised Asaduddin Owaisi and said that politics of division has been denied by the citizens of the nation. He also said that the fear of electoral loss in 2024 is visible in 2021.Congress MP Rahul Gandhi might address the Parliament tomorrowCongress MP Rahul Gandhi could begin the opening remarks for his party on the debate on the Union budget tomorrow.Bittu says farmers should have consulted before framing lawsCongress MP Ranveer Singh Bittu says farmers have been suffering for the last two months and should have been consulted before framing of laws. Bittu also said that farmers are not enemies of the nation and they also want to help the country develop.Nishikant Dubey refutes Chazhikadan's comments on Stan Swamy's arrestKerala MP Thomas Chazhikadan says 83-year-old Stan Swamy has been arrested unjustly and MP Nishikant Dubey refutes these claims saying Swamy is responsible for providing arms to Maoists.Kerala's rubber producers not adequately benefitted: Kerala MPMP Thomas Chazhikadan says Kerala's rubber producers are not getting benefited adequately. He also asks the government to fix the minimum support price of rubber at ₹200.Government rattled by random tweets: Owaisi"If a random person has tweeted, why did the government get rattled" asks Asaduddin Owaisi.'Farm laws biggest black mark' says OwaisiAsaduddin Owaisi says farm laws are the biggest black mark. He also asks "Is not understanding the farm laws come under the ambit of the state govt ?"Owaisi asks PM to clarify India's position on the Galwan valley issueAIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi asks PM Narendra Modi to clarify India's position on the Galwan issue with China. He also reiterates that "We are all andolanjeevi.""Instead of taking measures against China, government doing it at Singhu, Tikri borders," he says.'BJP government not fit to rule, experience shows us this' says K SubbarayanCPI MP K Subbarayan asks what kind of democratic government drills nails against people (referring to preventive measures taken by Delhi police during farmers protest).CPI MP Subbarayan questions government's about various movesCPI's K Subbarayan says new Parliament building is not a national emergency. The post of Governor has been transformed by this government to further their own political agenda and the post should be lawfully removed. Tamil Nadu governor's reaction to the release of the seven people arrested for Rajiv Gandhi's murder is an example.Chairman intervenes and says such comments should not be made.Meenakshi Lekhi says enmity shouldn't go beyond certain extentMeenakshi Lekhi says "We can be enemies, but we can be friends so enmity should not go to such an extent that we are ashamed to be friends tomorrow."'When I was in NDA I felt this is a government for Jawan and Kisan, but that was not followed' says Hanuman BeniwalRashtriya Loktantrik Party's Hanuman Beniwal says "When I was in NDA I felt this is a government for Jawan and Kisan, but that was not followed.""The blood that flows through the veins of the farmers protesting in the streets flows through my veins. That's why I left NDA," he says.'Why call them Khalistanis ? Farmers sow crops, not AK-47' says Harsimrat Kaur BadalHarsimrat Kaur Badal asks 'Farmers sow crops and not AK-47. Why are they being called Khalistanis ?'Centre didn't listen to anyone regarding farm laws implementationThe central government did not listen to opposition, did not even bother to listen to their own allies regarding the implementation of the farm laws, says Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Protest basic human right, tear gas, water cannons used against protestors: Harsimrat Kaur BadalHarsimrat Kaur Badal says protest is a basic human right but tear gas, water cannons were used to break down farmers protests by the government. "No politician expressed remorse for the death of the 150 farmers, no speech expressed any regret," she added.Privatisation will affect jobs, discriminates against people, says Danish AliDanish Ali says privatisation will affect jobs, discriminate against people from SC/ST background and also says farm laws is such an attempt at the agricultural sector. 'We are here for building nation despite opposition criticism': Rita Bahuguna JoshiRita Bahuguna says Oppn can continue remaining stuck in a mentality that the govt is working against the people. "I would urge them to keep on with that kind of attitude. We are here for building the nation and we will continue despite criticism."Parliament workers struggle to reach home if session proceeds until midnight: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury says Parliament should consider the issue that several parliment workers will not be able to go home if session goes until midnight, speakers says will consider his plea/demand.MP Dilip Saikia says everyone in Assam benefited after BJP government came to powerAssam MP Dilip Saikia says after BJP came to power, even in Muslim-dominated areas in Assam, Ujjwala schemes have been implemented. People have benefitted from Centre's schemes.Previous governments have given up when North East faced Chinese aggression, but the present government has bolstered defense, he added. 'If farmers don't want the law why implement it ?' asks Akilesh YadavAkilesh Yadav asks if the people (farmers) for whom the law was made don't want it, then why is the government not repealing it ? He also replied to PM's 'Andolanjeevi' comment saying this country attained freedom from protests.'China gave virus, India gave vaccine' says Sunita DuggalBJP MP Sunita Duggal lauded PM Narendra Modi for implementation of the Covid-19 lockdown. She also lauded MP Navneet Rana for taking precautions even before the pandemic. "China gave the virus, India gave the vaccine," she added.Government should make up for losses caused by Covid-19 pandemic: Farooq AbdullahIt is essential for the govt to make up for the losses caused due to #COVID19 & lockdown. Tourism sector, industries, shopkeepers in my state suffered, there is rampant poverty. Promises were made that 50,000 jobs would be provided - not even one job given: NC MP Farooq Abdullah pic.twitter.com/UookQ5iN9nFarooq Abdullah says the government should make up for the losses caused by Covid-19 pandemic, reports ANI. Farooq Abdullah congratulates Serum Institute of India for Covid-19 vaccineOur numbers are less than US, UK & others. Still we reported many deaths. Our medical services aren't that good that cause of deaths can be ascertained in villages. Still, vaccines have been developed for which I congratulate those in Pune (SII): NC MP Farooq Abdullah, in LS pic.twitter.com/uETw2Cp9ZzMP Farooq Abdullah congratulates the Serum Institute of India in Pune for their Covid-19 vaccine, reports ANI.'I did not sit in Rabindranath Tagore's chair' says Amit Shah Amit Shah says he did not sit in Rabindranath Tagore’s chair. He also added that he wanted to clarify in the Lok Sabha that he did not intend to hurt any sentiments.Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury draws house's attention to China's reply to VK SinghAdhir Ranjan Chowdhury demands government's comments on China's reply to V K Singh's comments. Indian minister VK Singh’s statement that India has transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) more times than China is an “unwitting confession”, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday. Click here to read moreAmit Shah briefs Lok Sabha on rescue efforts in UttarakhandHome minister Amit Shah says Army has setup a control room in Joshimath. He has also said that in affected areas 2 columns of army and medical teams have been deployed. Sahastra Seema Bhal (SSB) team has also reached the state.Punjab Congress MPs to move private members' bill seeking repeal of farm lawsCongress MPs from Punjab to move private members' bill in Lok Sabha seeking to repeal three farm laws, reports PTI.Rajya Sabha passes bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in DelhiRajya Sabha passes bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi, reports PTI.Members of Rajya Sabha pay tributes to U'khand flash flood victimsMembers of Rajya Sabha pay tribute to victims of Uttarakhand glacier disaster pic.twitter.com/bpu8HofVr9All members of the Rajya Sabha paid tributes to the victims of the Uttarakhand flash floods. At least 31 people have lost their lives. All govt agencies are monitoring situation: Shah on U'Khand flash floodsAll concerned agencies of Centre and State are monitoring the situation: Union Home Minister on avalanche in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, in Rajya Sabha pic.twitter.com/ylg4vHS7igUnion home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday that all concerned agencies of the central and state government were monitoring the situation in Uttarakhand.Proud to be an Indian Muslim, says Ghulam Nabi Azad during farewell speechCongress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad during his farewell speech in Rajya Sabha said that he was among those fortunate people who never went to Pakistan. "When I read about circumstances in Pakistan, I feel proud to be a Hindustani Muslim," he added. J-K needs development, appeal to PM to pay special attention towards it: PDP leader Nazir Ahmed LawayPeoples Democratic Party leader Nazir Ahmed Laway said on Tuesday that Jammu and Kashmir needed development and further appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to pay special attention towards it.If Cong doesn't bring you back, then we are ready to do it: Union minister Athawale to Ghulam Nabi AzadYou should return to the House. If the Congress doesn't bring you back, then, we are ready to do it. This House needs you: Union Minister and RPI leader Ramdas Athawale during farewell to retiring Congress Rajya Sabha MP Ghulam Nabi Azad pic.twitter.com/ITNxRuLISTUnion minister and Republican Party of India (RPI) chief Ramdas Athawale said on Tuesday that the Rajya Sabha needed Ghulam Nabi Azad and added that if the Congress doesn't bring him back, 'we are ready to do it'.He is J-K's 'Gulab': Sanjay Raut bids farewell to Ghulam Nabi AzadShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut during his farewell to Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said that he is a Gulab (Rose) of Jammu and Kashmir. Will never forget Azad's efforts when people from Gujarat were stuck in J-K due to a terror attack: ModiWith tears in his eyes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembered an unfortunate incident from the past when some people from Gujarat were stuck in Jammu and Kashmir due to a terror attack. He further spoke about how Ghulam Nabi Azad offered assistance during that time. "I will never forget Shri Azad’s efforts and Shri Pranab Mukherjee’s efforts when people from Gujarat were stuck in Kashmir due to a terror attack. Ghulam Nabi Ji was constantly following up, he sounded as concerned as if those stuck were his own family member," Modi said.PM Modi praises Ghulam Nabi Azad during Rajya Sabha sessionThe person who will replace Ghulam Nabi ji (as Leader of Opposition) will have difficulty matching his work because he was not only concerned about his party but also about the country and the House: PM Modi during farewell to retiring members in Rajya Sabha pic.twitter.com/bVE3Cnddl2While bidding farewell to Leader of Opposition (LoP) Ghulam Nabi Azad- who will retire, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the person who would replace Azad as the next LoP would face difficulties as he was not only concerned about his party but also placed emphasis towards the Upper House and the country. Rajya Sabha bids farewell to Ghulam Nabi Azad, three other retiring membersThe Rajya Sabha on Tuesday bid farewell to Leader of Opposition and Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad and three other members of the house who will retire soon. Centre followed 'whole of society' approach amid Covid, says health ministerDuring the Rajya Sabha session, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday that amid the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Centre followed a 'whole of society' approach adding that everything related to the crisis such as provision of N-95 masks, ventilators, PPE kits etc was provided to all the states and Union territories.BJP MP gives Zero Hour notice in notice over use of Hindi, other languages in SC, other high courtsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Harnath Singh Yadav has given Zero Hour notice in Rajya Sabha regarding the use of Hindi and other languages in Supreme Court and High Courts.4 Oppn parties give Suspension of Business Notice in Rajya SabhaFour opposition parties- DMK, CPI, AAP and Shiv Sena have given Suspension of Business Notice in Rajya Sabha under rule 267 over 'the plight of protesting farmers in Delhi'.PM Modi likely to reply to Prez address in Lok Sabha tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to reply to the motion of thanks to President Ram Nath Kovind’s address in the Lok Sabha tomorrow. The Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till 4pm today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-live-updates-february-9-2021-101612833992345.html
