20-02-2021||---||Live: Italy witnesses slight decrease in daily death toll||India’s Covid-19 trajectory has been witnessing an upward trend for the past few days with Maharashtra and Kerala continuing to report a fresh spike in cases of the coronavirus disease. On Friday, the western state added more than 6,000 cases of the coronavirus disease while the southern state reported 4,584 new infections.The nation’s infection tally stands at 10,977,387, according to data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday morning. The active Covid-19 caseload has again gone up to 143,127, which accounts for 1.30% of the total positive cases in the country.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to healthcare and frontline workers has reached 10,449,942. Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Odisha, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh have recorded the highest number of vaccinations so far.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereFollow all the updates here:MP records 257 new coronavirus cases, 4 deathsMadhya Pradesh on Saturday reported 257 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state wide tally to 2,59,128. Four fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,850, reported PTI.Italy witnesses slight decrease in daily death tollItaly on Saturday reported 251 Covid-19 deaths, marking a light decrease from the previous day's toll of 353. The daily number of cases too witnessed a decline falling from 15,479 to 14,931 on Saturday, reported Reuters.Delhi records 152 new cases of Covid-19, 1 fatality Delhi reported 152 new COVID-19 cases, 179 recoveries, and one death, as per Delhi Health Department Total cases: 6,37,755Total recoveries: 6,25,832Death toll: 10,898Active cases: 1,025Mumbai records 897 new cases of Covid-19 taking Maha tally to 2,093,913Maharashtra recorded 6,281 new cases of Covid-19, taking the country wide tally of total cases to 2,093,913. The capital city of Mumbai recorded 897 new cases of Covid-19, taking the city-wide tally to 318,207. 40 fatalities were also registered in the state, 3 of which were recorded in Mumbai, the current death toll stands at 51,753.1,08,38,323 doses of Covid-19 vaccination administered till Feb 20: Health Min1,08,38,323 total #COVID vaccination conducted till Feb 20, 6pm. Of which, vaccination of the healthcare workers is 72,26,653. The first dose has been given to 63,52,713 and the second dose has been given to 8,73,940 beneficiaries: Union Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/SHPalU7vmhIndia gives 100,000 additional doses of Covid-19 vaccine to MaldivesFrom the people of India to the people of Maldives.Handed over 100,000 additional doses of COVID vaccine to FM @abdulla_shahid and Health Minister @KerafaNaseem. pic.twitter.com/AtM662To3HExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday handed over 100,000 additional doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to Maldives, in the presence of the their foreign and health minister.Karnataka makes RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from MaharashtraKarnataka government issues a circular in view of rising cases of COVID-19 in neighbouring Maharashtra. "A negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours shall be compulsory for those arriving by flights/ buses/trains/personal transport," it reads. pic.twitter.com/ByAovm8YeBBMC seals 1305 buildings in MumbaiA total of 1305 buildings have been sealed in Mumbai so far. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation took this step after 2749 Covid-19 cases were reported. from 71,838 households residing in these sealed buildings, reported ANI>Philippines records 2,240 new Covid-19 cases, 239 more deathsPhilippines reported 2,240 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 559,288.239 more patients succumbed to the infection too, the death toll currently stands at 12,068, reported ANI.After Kerala, Maharashtra, other states report rise in Covid-19 casesKerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have recorded an "upsurge" in daily new cases of Covid-19, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday, reports PTI.Puducherry reports 29 new Covid-19 casesTwenty nine fresh Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory of Puducherry on Saturday took the tally to 39,569, while the fatalities remained at 662 with no deaths being reported, the health department said, reports PTI.Russia approves third Covid-19 vaccineRussia on Saturday approved a third coronavirus vaccine for domestic use, Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said on state TV, though large-scale clinical trials of the shot, labelled CoviVac and produced by the Chumakov Centre, have yet to begin, reports Reuters.Russia to produce 88 million Covid vaccine doses till first half of 2021Russia will produce 88 million vaccine doses in the first half of this year, including 83 million doses of its Sputnik V shot, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Tatiana Golikova said on state TV on Saturday, reports Reuters.South Korea reports 446 new Covid-19 casesSouth Korea reported 446 more cases of Covid-19 as of midnight Friday compared to 24 hours ago, raising the total number of infections to 86,574, reports ANI.Telangana reports 157 new Covid-19 casesTelangana recorded 157 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total positives to over 2.97 lakh, while no deaths saw the toll remain at 1,623, the government said on Saturday, reports PTI.Taiwan approves AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency useTaiwan's government on Saturday granted emergency use authorisation for AstraZeneca Plc's Covid-19 vaccine, with shots expected to be administered at soon as within seven days of arrival, reports Reuters.No new Covid-19 case in Arunachal PradeshArunachal Pradesh did not report any fresh Covid-19 case in the last 24 hours, a senior health department official said here on Saturday. The total coronavirus caseload in the state remained at 16,836, state surveillance officer Dr Lobsang Jampa told news agency PTI.India’s reports India’s reports 13,993 fresh Covid-19 casesWith 13,993 fresh Covid-19 cases, India's infection tally on Saturday crossed 10.97 million. After witnessing a declining through the initial days of the month, the country's active caseload has again gone up to 143,127. The active cases, which witnessed a jumped of 3,585 in the last 24 hours, account for 1.30% of the total positive cases in the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Come forward to take the vaccine: Health minister tells frontline workersUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday appealed to all the doctors, nurses, paramedic workers, and the frontline workers to come forward to take the vaccine. "Let us all work together to fight against Covid-19. The world is not free of the disease. It is only with our collective effort that we shall overcome this public health challenge,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-20-2021-101613792864346.html
20-02-2021||---||LIVE: Police releases photos of 20 more people in connection with R-Day violence||Farmers protests against the three farm bills have entered its 85th day on Saturday. The protests which began in November have shown signs of easing as farmers’ union representatives and Centre’s discussions have not yielded any results.The farmers who have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 have demanded a total repeal of the laws which were passed last September. They have also wanted a legal guarantee over the practice of procurement of yields under the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system.Several opposition leaders have held Kisan Mahapanchayat extending their support to the farmers. Congress leader Sachin Pilot held a Kisan Mahapanchayat on Friday and Priyanka Gandhi is scheduled to hold another Kisan Mahapanchayat on February 23.Follow LIVE updates from the farmers’ protest:Follow all the updates here:Farmers suffering due to increased fuel prices: Samyukta Kisan MorchaThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions, Saturday said that farmers as well as ordinary citizens were incurring huge losses due to the rising fuel prices.Delhi Police releases photos of 20 more people in connection with R-Day violenceThe Delhi Police on Saturday released the photographs of 20 people who were allegedly involved in the violence that broke out at the Red Fort on Republic Day during the farmers' tractor parade, officials said.Delhi court to pronounce verdict on TuesdayAfter hearing argument from both sides, the Patiala House court reserves the order on Disha Ravi's bail. It will pronounce the verdict on Tuesday'Disha Ravi not a rebel without a cause'Disha Ravi not a rebel without a cause; There’s a cause of environment, of agriculture and interlink between them, her counsel to court on bail plea. The toolkit says that people should join the march of R- day. Police gave the permission for the march and if I calll people to join the march, then can I be called seditious, her counsels asks during the bail plea hearing."There is no call for violence or for incitement of violence," he added.Judge asks about incriminating material collected against Disha RaviJudge asks police: What is the incriminating material that you have collected against her. Additional solicitor general SV Raju says the toolkit has emails and links which were deleted. It is clear evident that Ravi was aware of it.Judge asks about relation between toolkit and R-Day violenceDuring the bail hearing, judge asked about the evidence collected today to connect the link between toolkit and violence of Republic Day. "The toolkit instructs to do various and several things. There are links in the toolkit which are instigating people and asking them to come on streets thus resulting in public disorder," says SV Raju in response.Delhi Police, opposing Disha Ravi's bail, says toolkit part of 'sinister design'A Delhi court is hearing a bail application moved by climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested on February 13 for allegedly creating an online "toolkit" intended to help farmers protesting against government's three farm laws. Read more'Disha Ravi hid the truth'Ravi shared the toolkit with Greta who accidently posted on social media. That's how we got to know that even she is involved. Ravi, when first examined denied having any whatsApp group. She hid the truth. She lied about not knowing anything about the toolkit. She was forced to admit that she has deleted vital information after confronted with evidence by the police, additional solicitor general SV Raju,appearing for Delhi police argue. Hearing underway in Disha Ravi bail plea caseHearing underway in Disha Ravi bail plea case. The climate activist Ravi had right to edit the toolkit and later she deleted. This is working of an guilty mind. Deleted everything, argues police in the court.Delhi court to hear Disha Ravi's bail plea shortlyA Delhi Court will soon start hearing argument on Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi's bail plea. The woman who is in her early-20s was arrested for disseminating a 'toolkit' on social media which the police believes was aimed to fomenting 'ill-will and disaffection against the state of India.'Kejriwal to meet farm leaders on SundayDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold a meeting with farmer leaders tomorrow at the Vidhan Sabha. Farm laws and other issues related to the farmers to be taken up in the meeting.Kejriwal will hold a meeting with farmer leader at the legislative assembly on Sunday.Tikait announces dates for Mahapanchayat.आगामी दिनों की प्रस्तावित किसान महापंचायत में मेरे कार्यक्रम22 फरवरी 12 बजे अनाज मंडी खरखौदा हरियाणा22 फरवरी नोहर,,जिला हनुमानगढ़ राजस्थान23 फरवरी सरदारशहर चूरू राजस्थान 23 फरवरी सीकर राजस्थान25 फरवरी करीरी टोडाभीम ज़िला करौली 26 फरवरी पदमपुर मंडी ,जिला गंगानगर 12 से 2The farmer leader says he will hold 6 Mahapanchayats to rally support against the farm laws.Another farmer passes amid agitationFarmer named Shamsher Singh has passed away at Tikri Border due to heart attack. 69yr old farmer was part of the movement since day one. This takes the total number of farmer deaths to 208*. #FarmersProtests pic.twitter.com/nfgl1zZhJuThe Bharatiya Kisan Union in a post shared picture of Shamsher Singh who passed away at Tikri. Singh, 69, was part of the protest since Day 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bku-kisan-protests-farm-laws-agitation-feb-20-2021-rakesh-tikait-narendra-modi-tomar-disha-ravi-bjp-rahul-gandhi-samyukta-kisan-morcha-101613788512447.html
20-02-2021||---||LIVE: Police release photos of 200 people in connection with Jan 26 violence||The farmers’ unions representatives have continued with their protests against the farm laws . The protests against the three laws have been going on for almost three months at Delhi’s borders and the farmers have said that they will not withdraw their agitation until the government withdraws the three laws and bring a law guaranteeing MSP.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella organization which represents the farm unions, had called a four-hour nationwide rail blockade. After holding the Rail Roko for four hours, the SKM asked the government to repeal the farm laws saying that the "anger among farmers is intensifying" in the country.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Friday reiterated the protesters point of not withdrawing the agitation till demands are met by saying that the protest would continue even if the farmers are forced to sacrifice their crops. "Centre should not be under any misconception that farmers will go back for crop harvesting. If they insisted, then we will burn our crops," Tikait added.Meanwhile, a Delhi court on Friday sent 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi to a judicial custody for three days. Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police on February 13 in connection with the toolkit case. She was earlier sent to five-day police custody, which ended today.Follow all the updates here:Police release photos of 200 people in connection with Jan 26 violenceThe Delhi Police on Friday released photos of 200 people of who were allegedly involved in the violence that erupted during the tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi. "We have released the pictures and the process of identification (of the people) has been started," a senior police official told PTI. Opposition spreading false propaganda about laws: SitharamanUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday accused opposition parties of spreading false propaganda about the farm laws and added that they were protesting only to benefit middlemen. Greta Thunberg breaks silence on Disha Ravi, backs freedom of speech and right to peaceful protestFreedom of speech and the right to peaceful protest and assembly are non-negotiable human rights. These must be a fundamental part of any democracy. #StandWithDishaRavi https://t.co/fhM4Cf1jf1With activist Disha Ravi sent to three-day judicial custody in connection with the toolkit case, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg said on Friday that freedom of speech and the right to peaceful protest and assembly are non-negotiable human rights and must be a fundamental party of any democracy. Oppn walks out from UP Assembly over farm lawsAs opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh walked out of the state assembly session on Friday over the farmers protest against the three new farm laws, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that only the "brokers" who had betrayed farmers were unhappy with these laws. Delhi court sends Disha Ravi to judicial custody for 3 daysA Delhi court on Friday sent 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi to judicial custody for three days. Ravi will also be questioned by the Police. Disha Ravi produced in Delhi court as 5-day police custody endsOn behalf of Delhi Police, public prosecutor tells the court that Disha Ravi has been in giving replies, says co-accused Shantanu will join the probe on Feb 22. The public prosecutor says Ravi has shifted the blame on Nikita & Shantanu.Climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested from Bengaluru on Feb 13 in connection with toolkit row, produced in a court in Delhi as her five-day judicial custody ends today.Farmers held 4-hour peaceful rail roko on ThursdayProtesting farmers held a peaceful four-hour nationwide rail blockade on Thursday, in a bid to put further pressure on the Centre to repeal the three laws.BKU chief says ready to sacrifice cropsFarmers have been indulging in farming of loss for last 70 yrs. They'll have to sacrifice one crop & they're ready. Even if they have to take help of more workers to harvest crops, they'll do it. They'll keep it at their home but agitation will not be weakened: Rakesh Tikait, BKU https://t.co/8f6cmv2c73 pic.twitter.com/F6Ji737F2gBKU's Rakesh Tikait says the agitation will go on even if the farmers are forced to sacrifice their crops.Delhi HC highlights three points during Disha Ravi's plea hearingDelhi HC says that these three points should be always taken into account while highlighting that regulations of content has been a very contested issue across the world and india is not exception -Delhi HC asks media to exercise due diligence while coverage of incidentsDelhi HC has instructed media houses that information, which is sensitive, should be handled with caution and exercise proper editorial control so that dissemination of information does not hamper the investigation.Delhi HC says police can address the press but has to adhere to rulesDelhi HC directs Delhi police to stick to their affidavit that they haven't leaked anything and also asked them to adhere to the office memorandum of 2010 on its press briefing. The high court also observed that the police is entitled to hold press briefing but strictly following the rules.Proceedings of the UP Legislative Assembly budget session haltedProceedings of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly budget session has been halted for a brief period as leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary demanded immediate discussion on the issue of the ongoing protest against farm bills. Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit has adjourned the proceedings for half an hour.Delhi police say no data regarding toolkit case shared with mediaToolkit matter: Delhi Police in a detailed affidavit states that the allegation made by the petitioner against it is false. Police has not leaked and shared any input and data with the mediaDelhi police said that no investigation material regarding the toolkit case has been shared, reports ANI.BKU Ekta Ugrahan releases pictures of rail blockade rally@Bkuektaugrahan द्वारा रेल रोको अभियान में उमड़ा जनसैलाब#FarmersProtest#ReleaseDetainedFarmers pic.twitter.com/w5jeAGT0xuBKU Ugrahan wing's Twitter handle shared pictures of people gathering at Rail Blockade protests.Delhi HC begins hearing in Disha Ravi's pleaToolkit matter: Hearing begins in Delhi HC on Disha Ravi's plea seeking direction to Delhi Police not to leak any investigation material in relation to the FIR filed against her to any third party including the media. Senior Advocate Akhil Sibbal is appearing for Disha RaviThe Delhi High Court is listening to the Bengaluru-based climate activist's plea where seeking direction to Delhi Police against leaking any material relation the investigation in FIR filed against her to any third party, news agency ANI reported.Congress leader Sachin Pilot to address MahapanchayatChaksu MLA and Pilot loyalist Ved Prakash will be organising a kisan mahapanchayat on Friday where Congress leader Sachin Pilot is scheduled to address the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-farm-laws-samyukt-kisan-morcha-february-19-tikait-disha-ravi-bku-modi-rahul-gandhi-yogendra-yadav-narendra-tomar-101613699405230.html
