25-02-2021||---||Highlights: Tikait had lauded farm laws, says Union minister Kailash Choudhary||The farmers’ protest entered its third month on Thursday. The protest led by farmers’ unions representatives began on November 25 after several farmers from across Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh began their march towards the Capital following the passage of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 during the monsoon session in September.Farmers have camped across Delhi’s border since then demanding a total repeal of the three laws. After 12 rounds of discussions with the Centre, the deadlock still remains. The protests also took a violent turn during a planned rally on January 26 which led to injuries to more than 300 Delhi Police officials. One farmer also died during the tractor rally on that day. Miscreants had deviated from the agreed path of the protests leading to a scuffle with farmers. The protests were also marred after Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana gave provocative speeches and led to widespread destruction of public property at the Red Fort.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait earlier on Wednesday said that the farmers’ unions will take out a tractor rally demanding a total repeal of the laws. He said that 40 lakh tractors will join the protests. He is scheduled to hold a rally at Todabhim district later today.Follow LIVE updates here:Follow all the updates here:PM Modi says farmers 'feel suffocated due to middlemen' at BJP rallyPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said his government has focused most on small businessmen and farmers who felt 'suffocated by middlemen' by underlining his governments commitment to farmers and their prosperity. Ready to talk to farmers anytime, says agri ministerUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told news agency ANI on Thursday that the government is ready to talk to farmers anytime. He added that the new farm laws cannot be implemented since the matter is with the Supreme Court. BKU leader arrives at Kariri, Todabhim in Rajasthan for Kisan Maha panchayatकरीरी टोडाभीम महापंचायत से स्वागत का दृश्य pic.twitter.com/0Aemaitks8Govt should not delay addressing farmers' demand: BSPSupporting the ongoing farmer agitation, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria on Thursday warned the central government not to further delay in addressing the demands of farmers anymore, reports ANI.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait addresses Maha panchayat in Karauliकिसान नेता @RakeshTikaitBKU जी, का हमारे करौली की धरती पर स्वागत व अभिनंदन करता हूँ। लड़ेंगे। जीतेंगे। किसान एकता ज़िंदाबाद। #FarmerLivesMatter pic.twitter.com/KlYRt8dLzqDelhi court adjourns hearing in the anticipatory bail plea of Shantanu Muluk after police assures no coercive steps to be taken against himDelhi Police seeks more time to file a detailed and comprehensive reply on anticipatory bail plea of Shantanu Muluk in Delhi court; police directed not to take any coercive action against him, the hearing on his plea adjourned for March 9.Tikait asks people to attend Kisan Mahapanchayatआज 12 बजे करीरी टोडाभीम करौली राजस्थान में किसान पंचायत में शामिल रहूंगा।आपको भी आना है आंदोलन को बढ़ाना है।#FarmersProtestDelhi2020Tikait, who is holding his third Kisan Mahapanchayat in Rajasthan, in a tweet asked people to attend today's gathering in Todabhim, Karoli. He said that every single attendee is important in protest against the farm laws. Farmers say govt's newly passed laws will empower corporatesFarms are developed, managed and maintained by farmers.Indian Farmers won't just give farms under control of few corporates as Modi Govt wants to. #FarmsAreNotStadiumsKisan Ekta Morcha on Wednesday said that it will protest against the farm laws and will not allow corporates to gain control of the agricultural sector. Plays and skits keep farmers entertained at Delhi's bordersA play “Ayen kiwe kho lenge saadiya Zameena” at Gardari Gulab Kaur Nagar.Tikri Border, Delhi2020Stage - @Bkuektaugrahan#FarmsAreNotStadiums pic.twitter.com/bvOsAsHr6vBKU's Ugrahan-wing shared images of people participating in plays at Tikri border. The plays are intended to garner support for total repeal of the farm laws. Rakesh Tikait to address Kisan Rally in Rajasthan.आगामी दिनों की प्रस्तावित किसान महापंचायत में मेरे कार्यक्रम22 फरवरी 12 बजे अनाज मंडी खरखौदा हरियाणा22 फरवरी नोहर,,जिला हनुमानगढ़ राजस्थान23 फरवरी सरदारशहर चूरू राजस्थान 23 फरवरी सीकर राजस्थान25 फरवरी करीरी टोडाभीम ज़िला करौली 26 फरवरी पदमपुर मंडी ,जिला गंगानगर 12 से 2The farmer union leader from BKU has been addressing multiple rallies in Rajasthan in the last few days. He is scheduled to address a rally later today at Todabhim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protests-latest-updates-live-tikri-ghazipur-border-rakesh-tikait-narendra-tomar-disha-ravi-rahul-gandhi-pm-modi-feb-25-2021-punjab-haryana-101614218275705.html
25-02-2021||---||Highlights: False narrative that farmers will lose land: Union minister||The farmers' protest against the Centre's three new farm laws is continuing at Delhi's border as the deadlock between the protesting farmer unions and the government continues over the repeal of the laws.Rakesh Tikait, leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said on Tuesday that the protesting farmers would gherao Parliament, if the Central government does not repeal the three laws, during his address to a Kisan Panchayat in Sikar, Rajasthan. Earlier on Tuesday, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, too, addressed a similar panchayat in Sikar.Meanwhile, the political battles in poll-bound states have been centred largely around the farm laws and the farmers' protests. Union minister Prahlad Joshi of the BJP attacked Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday saying that Gandhi is an "actor on tractor." The remarks came a day after Gandhi held a tractor rally in his constituency in Kerala supporting the protesting farmers. Gandhi too had been attacking the Centre in his political rallies, saying that the government wants to take away the agriculture business from farmers and "and give the entire business to two or three friends of PM Modi".In other developments around the issue, climate activist Disha Ravi had been released from the Tihar jail on Tuesday after a Delhi court granted bail to her on grounds of "scanty and sketchy" evidence. She was earlier arrested in connection with the 'toolkit' case. Also, Lakha Sidhana, one of the accused in the tractor rally clashes during the republic day, addressed a farmers' rally in Mehraj, Bathinda, calling for the protests to be intensified.Follow all the updates here:False narrative that farmers will lose land, won't get MSP: Union minister BalyanBJP leader and Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan on Wednesday said the the protest against Centre's three new farm laws has become "emotional" and acknowledged that his party and the government might not have been able to explain the benefits of the laws to farmers. "Farmers are facing problems today and no one can deny that. They are vulnerable and need protection from the government," Balyan told news agency PTI. The Union minister however pointed out that a false narrative has been created that with the implementation of these laws, farmers would lose their land and wouldn't get support price for their crops. Govt extends paramilitary force deployment on Haryana border till Feb 28The Centre has extended period of paramilitary forces' deployment in Haryana till February 28 for law and order duties during farmers' agitationNarendra Singh Tomar says Government ready for discussions with farmers, after Tikait's parliament march commentGoI is committed to double farmers' income & work towards agriculture's welfare. Discussions have been held many times, if they've a point to raise even now, we're ready to discuss: Agriculture Minister NS Tomar when asked about Rakesh Tikait's remark about 40 lakh tractors march pic.twitter.com/J54uTeFWQ5Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said that the government is ready to discuss the problems of farmers in the farm laws, reports ANI.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to address Kisan Panchayat in Agraअभी कुछ समय पश्चात् ग्रामीण मिनी स्टेडियम मौनी बाबा आश्रम किरावली आगरा में आयोजित किसान पंचायत को संबोधित करुंगा।@RakeshTikaitBKU @OfficialBKUBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait had said that he would address a Kisan Panchayat in Agra.Maharashtra youth Congress leader says government has given no relief measures for farmersFarmers Protesting from last 2 months.More than 250 farmers lost their lives during protest.Pm Modi maintains silence & his govt has no relief measures 4 farmers demands.Still BJP trends #KisanKaSammanPMKisan shame!Ppl of India will not be fooled.#ModiIgnoringFarmersDeaths pic.twitter.com/lVzIVF8dW9Maharashtra Youth Congress vice president Brijkishore Dutt has said that the central government has not provided any relief measures to the farmers.'Justice has been done' says Disha Ravi's father after bail in toolkit caseJustice has been done. My daughter had done nothing wrong. We believe in our country's judiciary: Ravi Annappa, Disha Ravi's father on her bail in the toolkit case pic.twitter.com/wKm31gLWY1Disha Ravi's father said that "Justice has been done. My daughter had done nothing wrong. We believe in our country's judiciary," reports ANI.Delhi court seeks police response on Shantanu Muluk bail plea, adjourns matter for ThursdayA Delhi court seeks a response from Delhi Police on anticipatory bail moved by Shantanu Muluk, co-accused in the ongoing 'Toolkit'. Court adjourns the matter for tomorrow. Court also noted the public prosecutor's submission that Shantanu has interim protection till 26th FebruaryA Delhi court sought response from the Delhi police on the anticipatory bail plea by Shantanu Muluk in the 'toolkit' case, reports ANI.Posters only precautionary, no action against farmers: Delhi police clarifyA poster warning of action was put at Delhi borders on 26th January. Similarly, other posters were also put 8-10 days ago as a precautionary measure. No action is being taken against the farmers: Delhi Police pic.twitter.com/Q3Lr7vGd8JDelhi police has said that the posters at Delhi borders were put up only as a precautionary measure and no action is being taken against farmers, reports ANI.Punjab Ekta Party president urges PM Modi to repeal farm lawsFarmers have been suffering from almost three months outside Delhi. All they want is to live with dignity, not under any crony corporations pressure. Land is mother of every farmer, Modi ji do not make them suffer more. Repeal Farm Laws. #ModiDontSellFarmersPunjab Ekta Party (PEP) president and Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira has called for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws against which the farmers have been protesting.Farmers’ protest: Multiple Delhi borders remain closed for trafficSeveral borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for vehicular movement on Wednesday because of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws.Click here to read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protests-live-feb-24-2021-rakesh-tikait-disha-ravi-singhu-border-kisan-panchayat-bharatiya-kisan-union-congress-bjp-narendra-singh-tomar-rahul-gandhi-tractor-rally-farmers-protest-delhi-border-101614136332151.html
25-02-2021||---||Highlights: Covid variants risk third virus wave, says German chancellor Merkel||India has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases starting from February after following a declining trend. On Tuesday, the country recorded 10,584 new coronavirus cases with 13,255 recoveries and 78 deaths, as per the data provided by the Union health ministry.Six states in the country have been contributing to more than 84 per cent of the coronavirus caseload with Maharashtra and Kerala at the top. With the rise in the cases, many states are reinstating curbs to contain the spread of the deadly virus. While the Maharashtra government will decide whether to impose statewide restrictions again in a few days, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has restricted public gatherings from March 1; Madhya Pradesh has also decided to ban protests and public gatherings.The coronavirus caseload of the country stands at more than 11 million.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Globally, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has affected more than 112 million people, as per the John Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker. In the wake of the rising spread of the coronavirus mutant, the UK has banned non-essential travel to and from the country till May 17. In the US where the deaths from the disease have crossed over 500,000, the Biden administration has decided to announce a program to send masks to disadvantaged sections of the US community to curb the spread of the virus.Follow all the updates here:Covid variants risk third virus wave, says German chancellor MerkelGerman chancellor Angela Merkel said on Wednesday that the new variants of coronavirus (Covid-19) risk a third wave of cases in the country and one must proceed with caution so that a fresh nationwide lockdown does not become necessary. "Because of (variants), we are entering a new phase of the pandemic, from which a third wave may emerge," Merkel told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, reports Reuters. Chhattisgarh records 247 new Covid-19 cases, four more deathsChhattisgarh on Wednesday added 247 new coronavirus disease cases and four fresh deaths which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 311,680 and 3,813 respectively. The active cases in the state are nearing 3,000 while 304,956 people have recovered till now. WB makes RT-PCR tests mandatory for Kerala, Maha, K'taka, TelanganaWest Bengal on Wednesday made RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from Kerala, Maharashtra, Telangana, and Karnataka, owing to the high number of cases in some of the states.1,167 new Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, 8,807 in Maharashtra in 24 hoursMumbai recorded 1,167 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, after two days of fall in the number of daily cases. The state of Maharashtra too witnessed a huge spike, after it reported 8,807 new cases in the span of 24 hours.Read MoreOdisha govt issues guidelines for vaccinating senior citizens and people with co-morbiditiesOdisha government issues guidelines regarding operational strategy for initiating vaccination of the elderly population and persons with co-morbidities. pic.twitter.com/R1xzh6DcOoGhana is the first country to receive vaccines through COVAXGhana has become the first country in the world to receive free vaccinations through the UN backed COVAX alliance. 600,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India landed at the country on Wednesday.Cabinet has decided to start second phase of Covid-19 vaccination from MondayCitizens above 60 and 45 years of age with co-morbidities will be vaccinated in government and private hospitals from Monday, the Cabinet has decided. Those opting for government clinics will be vaccinated for free.France getting enough Covid-19 vaccines to achieve target: MinisterFrance is receiving enough doses of Covid-19 vaccine to reach the government's target of vaccinating 15 million people by the end of June, Industry Minister Agnes Pannier-Runacher told LCI television on Wednesday, reports Reuters.Poland to announce new regional Covid-19 curbsPoland will announce new regional coronavirus restrictions on Wednesday, Health Minister Adam Niedzielski said, as daily infections rise steeply, reports Reuters.SEC to discuss Dr. Reddy's application for emergency use approval of Sputnik V Covid vaccineThe Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation's (CDSCO) Subject Expert Committee (SEC) is going to meet on Wednesday afternoon to discuss Dr Reddy's Laboratories application seeking emergency use approval (EUA) for SputnikV, a Russian Vaccine, reports ANI.Thailand secures first doses of Sinovac Covid-19 vaccineThailand received on Wednesday its first 200,000 doses of Sinovac Biotech's CoronaVac, the country's first batch of coronavirus vaccines, with inoculations set to begin in a few days, reports Reuters.Some states in Australia ease curbs after weeks of no Covid-19 casesTwo Australian states will loosen restrictions on dancing at indoor venues and ease other curbs from Friday after several weeks of no Covid-19 cases, reports Reuters.Andaman reports one new case of Covid-19The coronavirus tally in Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 5,016 as one more person has tested positive for the disease in the union territory, a health department official said on Wednesday, reports PTI.India reports 13,742 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia reports 13,742 new Covid-19 cases and 104 deaths in last 24 hours. Active coronavirus caseload stands at 1.46 lakh, as per Union health ministry.Cambodia reports 40 new Covid-19 casesCambodia reported 40 new cases as infections continue to climb in the Southeast Asian country, reports Bloomberg.South Korea reports 440 new Covid-19 casesSouth Korea reported 440 more cases of Covid-19 as of midnight Tuesday compared to 24 hours ago, raising the total number of infections to 88,120, reports ANI.China reports 11 new Covid-19 casesMainland China reported 11 new Covid-19 cases on Feb 23, up from 10 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Wednesday, reports Reuters.Mexico doing better than US on Covid-19: Mexican PresidentMexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador said Tuesday that his country is doing better than the United States in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, even though Mexico’s per capita death rate is probably higher and the country has vaccinated less than 1% of its population, reports AP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-negative-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-entry-in-west-bengal-for-passengers-from-maharashtra-3-other-states-from-feb-27-101614125207177.html
