16-05-2020||Divya Prabhakar ||Results of Class 9, 11 in Delhi government schools delayed; to be announced next week||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 16Students of Class IX and XI, studying in various government schools in Delhi, and their parents are in utter confusion because of the delay in the declaration of annual results.The teachers claim that uncertainty had led to anxiety and poor focus among students. The results of Class IX and XI, however, would be announced by next week, informed a senior official of the state Education Department.Currently, students are being sent interactive activities on mobile phones of parents, who are enrolled in mathematics classes in collaboration with Khan Academy.Anoop Kumar, a student of Class IX, said: “I am eagerly waiting for my final results. I have borrowed Class X books from my friend. I take out time to study. There is a lot of uncertainty in my mind.”In certain schools, brilliant students have already been added to a group of Class X.Another student Rajneesh said: “I am in a dilemma. I attend two classes online for both classes. Results must be declared as soon as possible. I do not feel like studying my old class syllabus anymore.”Woes of students do not end here. Teachers, too, are left with constant nagging by parents.“A majority of them do not have mobile phones or access to the internet. We do not have any feedback mechanisms. Students are confused about the status of their classes. Hence, they are not being able to focus on their studies,” said Akhilesh Diwedi, a school teacher.“We have been receiving calls from parents and students regarding the declaration of results. There is no clarity on the status of the results,” said Sant Ram, district secretary (West), Government School Teachers’ Association.Shailendra Sharma, the principal adviser to education director, said: “None of the activities is class aligned. Students have been given interactive assignments. This anxiety among students is understandable. However, the results will be declared by next week.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/results-of-class-9-11-in-delhi-government-schools-delayed-to-be-announced-next-week-85632
16-05-2020||New Delhi||15 inmates, staffer test positive for COVID-19 at Delhi’s Rohini jail||Days after a 28-year-old inmate of Rohini jail tested positive for coronavirus, 15 others who shared a barrack with him and one head warden have also tested positive for the infection, officials said.The Delhi Prison Department had tested for coronavirus 19 inmates from the barrack of the prisoner whose reports came back positive for the infection on Wednesday, they said.All inmates and the staffer are asymptomatic so far.“We had conducted COVID-19 tests for 19 inmates of Rohini jail who were sharing the barrack with one inmate Kuldeep who had tested positive earlier at DDU Hospital where he had gone for (treatment of) some other ailment,” Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.Their test results have come and 15 out of these 19 inmates have tested positive. Five staff members were also tested. Among them, one head warden has tested positive for COVID-19, he said.So far, Goel said, all these people are asymptomatic. The inmates who have tested positive have been separated from others. They have been kept in isolation in quarantine barrack.The head warden has been sent to home quarantine. Some other staff members have also been sent to home quarantine, he added.“Regular medical screening of all inmates is already being done and it will continue. The sanitisation process is also being carried out and all necessary action as per medical protocol is being taken,” the DG said.The 28-year-old inmate’s case was the first coronavirus infection to be reported from a Delhi prison.He underwent intestine surgery at Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital on Sunday. Doctors took his samples for a COVID-19 test the next day. The inmate did not show any coronavirus symptoms.He was later admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/15-inmates-staffer-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-delhis-rohini-jail-85624
16-05-2020||---||COVID-19 death toll in Delhi rises to 129; 438 fresh cases take tally to 9,333||New Delhi, May 16With 438 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in New Delhi on Saturday, the tally of total cases now stands at 9,333.Of the total cases, 5,278 are active cases and as many as 3,926 patients have been recovered. Six people have reportedly died due to the deadly virus in the past 24 hours as per the official health bulletin of the Delhi government.New Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases on Thursday with 472 new cases.Meanwhile, Health Minister Satyendra Jain held a meeting to review the COVID-19 status. An empowered group-meeting was also held to check the preparedness and implementation of COVID-19 safety measures.Of the total number of deceased patients, 62 were aged 60 and above, accounting for over 50 per cent of the fatalities here.Thirty-five of them were aged between 50-59 years and 26 were less than 50 years, the bulletin said.Facing criticism for “under reporting” COVID-19 deaths, the Delhi government, on Sunday, issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals and other health facilities in the city on reporting fatalities due to COVID-19.Meanwhile, two more private hospitals have been declared as COVID hospitals for admitting positive or suspected cases of coronavirus infection on a payment basis.The two hospitals are Batra Hospital and Research Centre, Tughlakabad (50 isolation beds), and Cygnus Orthocare Hospital, Safdarjung Development Area (40 isolation beds), according to an order issued on Saturday by the Delhi Health Department.A total of 1,30,845 COVID-19 tests have been conducted to date.The total number of COVID-19 patients under home isolation stands at 1,983, the bulletin said.According to the Delhi Health Department bulletin, of the total 9,333 cases recorded so far, at least 1,758 were admitted at various hospitals, namely LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and the AIIMS Jhajjhar, adding 155 of them were in the ICU and 26 on ventilators.The number of containment zones in Delhi has been reduced to 76. — With inputs from PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-death-toll-in-delhi-rises-to-129-438-fresh-cases-take-tally-to-9-333-85609
