01-09-2021||Amritsar||Online faculty induction programme ends at GNDU, Amritsar||Prof Manoj Kumar, Controller of Examinations, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), on Tuesday advised the young faculty participating in an induction workshop to continue learning process and encourage creativity.Addressing the culmination ceremony of the month-long faculty induction programme of GNDU, Prof Kumar said, “Teaching is a very noble profession and teachers must be very careful in their conduct since they are nurturing young impressionable minds who eventually shape up a country’s future.”The programme concluded at the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre of Guru Nanak Dev University. As many as 36 teachers participated in the programme, apprising themselves of the latest advancements in teaching.The Director, HRDC, Professor Sudha, said HRDC-GNDU was working hard to conduct various training programmes for teachers and research scholars. The course had several eminent speakers, including Prof Ved Prakash, former Chairman UGC, Padma Shri Prof GD Yadav, former vice-chancellor, ICT, Mumbai, Prof SK Mehta, vice-chancellor, University of Ladakh, Prof Umesh Kulshrestha, Dean, School of Environment Sciences, JNU, Prof Brijesh Dubey, IIT-Kharagpur, Prof RK Pradhan, IIT-Kharagpur, and many others, besides GNDU faculty.Applications are invited for various faculty induction programme 06, refresher course in Liberal Arts, Basic & Applied Sciences and short-term courses as approved by the UGC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-faculty-induction-programme-ends-at-gndu-amritsar-304781
01-09-2021||---||Minor girl raped, 1 booked in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 31A youth was on Monday booked for allegedly raping a minor girl who works at a brick kiln at Kiampur village falling under the jurisdiction of Ajnala police station. The incident occurred on August 25 while a case was registered on August 30.The accused has been identified as Gurpreet Singh of Bhoewali village, who also works at the same brick kiln.The 17-year-old complainant told the police that on August 25 she did not go to work and Gurpreet came to her house. She alleged that the accused said he had some work in Amritsar and on the way, he would collect her wage.She alleged that the accused took her to a hotel near the Golden Temple and raped her. The victim said the accused left her at Khatrai Khurd village and fled away. She said she narrated the entire incident to her family.The police have registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Further investigation was under progress and raids were on to nab Gurpreet.Man ends life; wife, paramour bookedFour days after a man identified Harpreet Singh (45) ended his life, the Mattewal police have booked his wife and her paramour on charges of abetment to suicide. Harpreet had hanged himself with a ceiling fan on August 26.Charanjit Kaur, sister of the vicitm, alleged that Harpreet got married to Amandeep Kaur around 15 years ago. She said on August 26, Harpreet ended his life by hanging with the ceiling fan.She said they came to know that Amandeep, who works as a nurse at a hospital, had illicit relations with Malkeet Singh, a resident of Sathiala village. She said Harpreet learned about this and he was deeply upset. The Mattewal police have registered a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC against Amandeep and Malkeet in this connection while no arrest has been made so far.Cops said investigation was under way and the accused would be arrested soon.Servant attempts suicide with shop owner’s revolverTarn Taran: Shamsher Singh (23), working at a chemist shop in Kang village, attempted suicide with the revolver of the shop owner on Tuesday. He was admitted to a local private hospital, where his condition is still critical.Preetinder Singh, DSP, Goindawal Sahib, said Gurwinder Singh, proprietor of Randhwan Medical Store, had gone to his house for some work in the afternoon, when Shamsher shot himself with his revolver.The DSP said doctors have not declared Shamsher fit for recording his statement. He said further action would be initiated according to the spot evidence after he recovers and becomes fit to record his statement. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girl-raped-1-booked-in-amritsar-304782
01-09-2021||---||8,500 get cheques under double pension scheme in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 31About 1 lakh 80 thousand pensioners in the district would get the benefit of double pension from today (Tuesday) as the government has started the implementation process. The government agencies had started dispensing double pension to beneficiaries across the state since July 2021. On Tuesday, the District Social Services Office distributed pension cheques to 8,500 beneficiaries in the district.Asisinder Singh, District Social Security OfficerThis way, the elderly people are spared the ordeal of going to the office concerned for pension. Pension cheques were also distributed to 50 beneficiaries at a function held at the District Administrative Complex.The Punjab Government has increased the pension of beneficiaries of various pension schemes, including old age pension, widow pension, dependent children and disabled persons, from Rs 750 per month to Rs 1,500 per month. The government has also increased the amount under Ashirwad scheme to be given as marriage and Shagun scheme from Rs 31,000 to Rs 51,000.District Social Security Officer Asisinder Singh said the remaining beneficiaries would be sent the increased pension in their bank accounts on September 1. He said on the first day of every month, the pension amount was credited directly to the accounts of the beneficiaries in the district. “In this way, elderly people are spared the ordeal of going to the office concerned for pension. Pension cheques were also distributed to 50 beneficiaries at a function held at the District Administrative Complex,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-500-get-cheques-under-double-pension-scheme-in-amritsar-304783
01-09-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: Three test +ve in Amritsar district, 8 recover||Devotee robbed, two bookedAmritsar: A devotee was robbed by two unknown persons near Gole Bagh on August 28. The victim has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Muktsar. He said after appearing for a jail warden exam in Jalandhar on August 27, he came to pay obeisance, at the Golden Temple. He said next day as he was walking towards the railway station and reached near Gole Bagh, two unidentified persons came on a scooter, and snatched Rs 5,000 from him. The Division D police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC against unknown persons. TNSTwo arrested for molestationAmritsar: The city police have arrested two youngsters for allegedly molesting a Government Medical College student on the college campus on late Monday evening. They have been identified as Bhupan Kapur of NRI Colony on Loharka Road and Kunal Seth of the Gopal Nagar area. They were booked under Sections 354 and 34 of the IPC, the police said. The victim told the police that she was an MBBS student and around 9 pm, she along with her friends went to the market on the Circular Road to buy fruits on a scooter. She said while returning, the accused who were in a car PB-02-CV-6556 came and stopped them. She alleged that the accused caught her arm and tried to push her. She alleged that the accused touched her inappropriately. She said she and her friend confronted the accused, following which they fled leaving their car behind. During investigation, the accused were identified and nabbed, the police said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-three-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-8-recover-304785
01-09-2021||---||Expressing their mind, breaking shackles||Amritsar, August 31Talking about what it means to be a woman author in India and freedom of expression, a panel of eminent writers, including Mani Rao, Jahnavi Barua, Madhavi Mahadevan and Shinie Antony, spoke at the Majha House’s last virtual event of August.The session was moderated by Anupama Bijur and centred around the reader responses and writing conditions as experienced by these women.Talking about the role and play of gender in the process of writing, Barua, author of critically acclaimed book, ‘Next Door’, said gender does not really enter her mind while she’s writing. “I do not necessarily or consciously think of myself as a woman, but you cannot escape the gender you are born with. People label you as a woman just as things are flower pots for them. And being a woman also brings baggage of being expected to write on ‘certain’ subjects. I don’t let myself be saddled with these expectations. I have written many stories where I was absolutely determined to give strong and authentic voices to male characters,” she said.Mahadevan, author of ‘Doppleganger’ and ‘The Kaunteyas’ said, “Women are traditionally brought up to look after family. Somehow, writing is not considered a serious profession for women. If a man writes, he is given respect and the space he needs, but with women, it is like a hobby or pastime. However, things are changing now. Men are now primary caregivers. Women writers are finally being accorded the respect and seriousness they deserve.”She said, “Writing is a very personal experience. Once your work is out in the public space, its open for comments and reviews. You do not have any kind of control over the kind of comments your work will garner. Since I explore mythology, giving voice to the relatively quiet women therein, I have been told that what I am writing are not stories, but history, and I should not tamper with history.”Antony, a short-fiction writer, said people also base their opinions and comments depending upon the name and religion of a writer. ‘In India, the reader response is not objective, but extremely subjective. Given that my surname is Antony, I guess I am allowed a certain leeway in what and how I write, which might not be extended to others with more Indian names. Unintentionally, I am conforming to a western stereotype.”Poet Rao talked about the process of writing. “I have to be completely isolated when I am writing. I cannot function as a writer if someone is hovering around me and looking at the screen. I lock my door and shut myself in order to write satisfactorily,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expressing-their-mind-breaking-shackles-304774
01-09-2021||---||For the love of books, all they want is a library||Amritsar, August 31Local academicians and literary personalities demanded to enact the Punjab Library Act in the next Assembly session to promote book culture.Punjabi Writers’ Cooperative Society Limited president Bikram Singh Ghumman and managing director Charanjit Singh Gumtala have written letters to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Higher Education Minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa in this regard. The writers said all states have passed the Library Act and opened libraries in villages, towns and cities, but Punjab is the only state which has no law in this regard.Charanjit Singh Gumtala, MD, Punjabi Writers' Cooperative Society LtdLibraries can make a valuable contribution in making Punjab drug-free and creating intellectual consciousness in Punjabis. The Act will be very useful for youngsters, besides encouraging writers to continue their passion.“The state of Madras passed a bill in this regard in 1948 and our neighboring Haryana in 1989 and opened libraries in villages and cities. The SAD-BJP government drafted the ‘Shabad Prakash Punjab Public Library and Information Services Bill-2011’ to lay the ground network for libraries in Punjab, which could not take legal form even after 10 years,” said Gumtala.“In reply to the letters written by the Punjabi Writers’ Cooperative Society, the assistant director (colleges) on July 6, 2018, had informed that the draft of the Library Act was sent to the Punjab Government on June 4, 2018. Therefore, the matter was under consideration. The activists of the society urged the government to present the draft in the forthcoming Assembly session and pass it. “It will help to set 12,282 village-level libraries in the state,” said Ghumman.“Libraries can make a valuable contribution in making Punjab drug-free and creating intellectual consciousness in Punjabis. The Act will be very useful for youngsters, besides encouraging writers to continue their passion for writing,” said Gumtala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-the-love-of-books-all-they-want-is-a-library-304771
01-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar police nab two more from J&K in 16.87-kg heroin seizure case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 31In a major breakthrough in the 16.87-kg heroin seizure case, the Amritsar rural police have reportedly nabbed two more persons from Jammu and Kashmir.Though police officials were tight-lipped about their arrest, sources confirmed the development. Those arrested have been identified as Jafar and Sikander. They are likely to be brought to Amritsar tomorrow. The sources said their links with Pakistan-based terrorist groups or ISI could not be ruled out, though investigation was still under progress.Their names had figured during investigation in the case. Their contact numbers were found in the mobile phone recovered from Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, who was lodged in Faridkot jail and had ordered the contraband. It turned out to be a narco-gangster racket as the police also nominated Malkeet Singh, a gangster, arrested in the Tarn Taran double murder case in which a gangster was killed recently.It may be recalled that the Amritsar rural police had arrested Ranjit Singh, alias Sonu, a cabbie from Madhopur in Pathankot area, on Thursday. During the search of his vehicle, the police had confiscated 16.87-kg heroin hidden in special cavities created beneath the vehicle (Innova).During Sonu’s interrogation, it was found that he had picked up and delivered two drug consignments of similar quantity from Jammu and Kashmir. He had visited the Kashmir valley around three times in as many months, raising a question mark on the functioning of intelligence agencies.The police were also investigating whether today’s seizure of 20-kg heroin by Jalandhar police from a truck was the handiwork of some cartel as the modus operandi was almost same. The contraband was concealed in the special cavities created in the truck in Jalandhar.Earlier, the police had arrested a Zira resident, identified as Harminder Singh, who created special cavities in the vehicles used for smuggling of drugs. His name had figured during Sonu’s interrogation. Sonu had brought the drug consignment from Naushehra area in Jammu and Kashmir on the instructions of Ranjit Singh Rana and Malkeet Sing.According to the sources, the police had found two cars from Sonu, both Innova taxies, wherein he had created the cavities. Sonu had met Harminder through Ranjit Singh Rana. The police were now trying to find out whether he had made cavities in other vehicles. Though Harminder was claiming that he had created the cavities in these two vehicles alone, the police were still verifying his claims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-nab-two-more-from-jk-in-16-87-kg-heroin-seizure-case-304775
01-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar Civic body sterilising 15 dogs a day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 31The Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre has finally become operational and 15 dogs are being sterilised every day.Veterinary officers of the Municipal Corporation (MC) said over 500 dogs have been sterilised after the inauguration of the ABC Centre.The MC inaugurated the ABC Centre at Gumanpura Gaushala in the Chheharta area on August 10.The civic body has spent Rs28.42 lakh on the centre and a private veterinary firm has been hired to sterilise 5,000 stray dogs.In a recently released animal census, the Animal Husbandry Department reported that there were 17,062 stray canines in the city in 2020. As per the population of dogs, the MC would take three-and-a-half years to sterilise all dogs in the city.Dr Darshan Kashyap, in-charge, MC’s veterinary wing, said: “We are catching stray dogs as per ward-wise schedule. After sterilising all dogs in a ward, we will inform the area councillor and get his written statement about the completion of the project. We overlook the ward-wise schedule only in case of any complaint. The operations are being conducted as per the guidelines of the Animal Welfare Board. We keep the male dog for five days and the female dog for seven days after conducting the operation. Then we leave the dog in the same territory after the anti-rabies vaccine. The project is running successfully.”After the failure of several dog-sterilisation attempts, the MC had initiated the drive for 5,000 dogs in February and sanctioned Rs45 lakh in this regard. But the project did not become operational in the absence of required infrastructure. Last month, the MC completed the building of the Animal Birth Control Centre and started its functioning on August 10. A veterinary firm headed by Dr Ankit Narang is conducting operations and vaccinating the dogs.Sterilisation drive started in Feb this year||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-sterilising-15-dogs-a-day-304776
01-09-2021||---||Karnal lathicharge: Farmers to head for Delhi in hordes||Amritsar, August 31In an apparent reaction to the recent incident of lathicharge on farmers in Haryana, the farmers’ associations have now announced to increase the participation of farmers in the ongoing protest at the Delhi borders.Taking the lead, Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC) has announced to send two large groups to the Delhi border on September 5 and September 15.KSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said: “During the last few days, we have held meetings in around 300 villages of the district to mobilise farmers for the Delhi protest. We will be covering the remaining villages in the next few days.”He said Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and other BJP leaders were making politically motivated statements by holding Punjab farmers responsible for the protests in Haryana.“Haryana CM is accusing the Punjab Government and the Punjab Government is blaming the Haryana Government. This all is politics aimed at diverting the public attention from the main issue,” he said. He said duties have been assigned to village units of the committee to prepare the roster of farmers, who would be joining the protest. Pandher said the government was trying to frighten farmers with violence. He said the state-level protest in Punjab would be initiated from September 28.Pandher said the Punjab Government claims that all arrangements for the procurement of paddy crop have been made and farmers would not have to face any problem. “We want Capt Amarinder Singh to clarify whether he has accepted the conditions laid down by the Centre for procurement, especially regarding ‘fard’ or not,” he said, adding that other stricter conditions, too, were against farmers and would pose problem at the time of procurement.The KSC leaders said lowering the permissible limit for moisture, discoloration and broken grains were too harsh a condition and impossible to achieve. “The government by putting in tough conditions for procurement is trying to run away from procurement and is leaving the market open for private players,” he said.AAP burns effigies of PM modi & Haryana CMAmritsar: Members of Aam Aadmi Party burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday to protest against the lathicharge of peacefully protesting farmers at Karnal. AAP city president Jeevan Jot Kaur said citizens have the right to protest peacefully and the Haryana Government’s action is clear violation of the rights of citizens. She said Haryana CM and Prime Minister are directly responsible for the violence on fathers, after which a farmer had succumbed to his injuries and died. Lok Sabha constituency in-charge Iqbal Singh Bhullar said the government’s attitude was dictatorial and it was using unfair means to muzzle the voices of dissent. He said AAP supports farmers’ cause and would stand with them in every situation. He said action should be taken against officials who tried to please their political bosses by unleashing violence on farmers, so that such incidents do not arise in future. Party workers gathered outside the Hall Gate also and raised slogans against the Centre and demanded that three agriculture laws be repealed. Party leaders also demanded that the SDM and police officials responsible for the violence on farmers should be dismissed and strict action should be initiated against them. District general secretary Prabhbir Singh Brar, Amritsar Rural president Harwant Singh Umranangal, Seema Sodhi, state joint secretary Ashok Talwar and others also addressed the protesters.Protest held in Tarn Taran tooHundreds of Aam Admi Party volunteers (pic below) lodged their strong protest against the brutal cane-charging on farmers by the Haryana Police. The protesting AAP volunteers burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Party’s district president Gurwinder Singh Baharwal led the protesters, while leaders of the party from different parts of the district addressed on the occasion. The leaders condemned the Union Government for not resolving farmers’ issue. The leaders called the police and the Haryana Government a dictatorial act and demanded apology from CM Khattar and adequate compensation to the families of the deceased families. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/karnal-lathicharge-farmers-to-head-for-delhi-in-hordes-304772
01-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 31One and a half years after Jallianwala Bagh was reopened, the entire interior has been revamped. This has evoked sharp reactions not just from tourists but also from experts and research scholars of international repute.Also read:‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul GAndhi on Jallianwala remakeBritish historian Kim A Wagner, who has penned the book ‘Jallianwala Bagh: An Empire of Fear and the Making of A Massacre’, tweeted: “Devastated to hear that Jallianwala Bagh, site of the Amritsar massacre of 1919, has been revamped, which means that the last traces of the event have effectively been erased. This is what I wrote of the memorial in my book, describing a space that has now itself become history.” He even tweeted a pair of old and new pictures of the narrow street, from where the British Indian troops led by General Dyer had gained access to the Bagh on April 13, 1919. ‘Beautification, not conservation’Historian Irfan Habib and conservationist Gurmeet Rai defined the recent works in the Bagh as beautification and not conservation or restoration. Netizens are also voicing their concerns over the “modernisation” of the historic Bagh.Endorsing her view, MP from UK Preet Kaur Gill tweeted, “Our history being erased! Why?” Noted historian Irfan Habib and conservationist Gurmeet Rai also defined the recent works in the Bagh as beautification and not conservation or restoration. Netizens are also voicing their concerns over the “modernisation” of the historic Bagh.Sunil Kapoor, whose great-grandfather Vasu Mal Kapoor was killed in the Bagh, expressed his astonishment at repeated beautification drives involving crores of rupees. Pointing at the well, he said its façade has been redone with small bricks. Its erstwhile crown-like structure was built with the donation collected from the families of martyrs, he said, adding that he had heard from his grandmother that the martyrs’ families had themselves contributed Re 1 and Rs 2, as per one’s financial capacity, to construct its exterior.He demanded that the antiquity of the historic place be maintained and money should be spent for the betterment of the families of martyrs. Photographs of five martyrs, including that of his grandfather, used to be displayed in the martyrs’ gallery, but these were no longer there, he said.Kamal Poddar, whose 34-year old grandfather Lakshmi Chand was killed in the massacre, said the present government had a lot of resources and was lavishly spending on enhancing its beauty. “But when it comes to giving anything to the family members of the martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh, it has nothing to offer, except felicitations.”A visitor from Lucknow, Lajwanti, whose grandparents had migrated from Sindh during the Partition, said she was surprised to see a beautified park. “It is entirely different from the one I had seen during my previous visit in 1973. That park was more earthy and simple. The present oneis swanky,” she said.Another tourist Neha Dariyani said the beautified park gave the impression of one being in a garden with aesthetic environment where costly stones have been used on pedestrian paths and walls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-facelift-has-erased-massacre-memories-say-historians-304701
01-09-2021||---||FCI gets court rap for ‘illegal, unjust’ denial of paddy to mill||Chandigarh, August 31The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for “illegal, arbitrary, unjust, irrational and capricious” action after holding that a mill could not have been debarred from allotment of paddy for milling.The caseThe respondent-mill, vide letter dated September 30, 2020, issued by the Amritsar FCI Divisional Manager, was directed not to be allotted paddy on the grounds that its name appeared in a CBI report regarding misappropriation of foodgrain stock.The Bench of Justices Augustine George Masih and Ashok Kumar Verma also admonished the FCI for acting in “sheer violation of the principles of natural justice” after observing that the mill was condemned unheard.The Bench was told that the respondent-mill was established in 1970 and had milling capacity of 3.5 tonne. It was allotted paddy for milling every year for the past two decades. The respondent-mill, vide letter dated September 30, 2020, issued by the Amritsar FCI Divisional Manager, was “surprisingly” directed not to be allotted paddy for milling on the ground that its name appeared in a CBI report regarding misappropriation of foodgrain stock dispatched from FCI godowns in Punjab to Jammu and Kashmir. The respondent-mill refuted the allegations.After hearing rival contentions, the Bench asserted it found nothing on record to show at the current stage that the respondent-mill was involved in the CBI case and it could not be debarred from allotment of paddy in the absence of cogent and convincing evidence and any incriminating material.The Bench added the FCI also acted in utter violation of its own policy. A clause in the Punjab Custom Milling Policy for Kharif 2020-21 clearly stipulated that all orders under any of its provisions would be passed after the miller had been given a written notice of the proposed action and an opportunity of personal hearing before proceeding against him.In the present case, the FCI straightaway passed a punitive order dated September 30, 2020, stopping the respondent-mill from allotment of paddy for government milling without any show-cause notice and an opportunity of personal hearing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fci-gets-court-rap-for-illegal-unjust-denial-of-paddy-to-mill-304703
01-09-2021||Amritsar||Man held with grenades in Tarn Taran, cops say attack averted||The Punjab Police on Tuesday claimed to have averted likely terror attack with the arrest of a ‘highly radicalised’ suspect, Saroop Singh, from the Tarn Taran area. Police sources said the suspect had links with Gurpatwant Singh Pannu-led ‘Sikhs for Justice’, a banned radical organisation.Foreign outfit linkThe police recovered two China-made hand grenades, a mobile phone with two SIM cards and some documents from his bike. Saroop, a resident of Johal Dhai Wala, was allegedly linked to foreign-based terror groups. “He was held at a checkpoint on the Amritsar-Harike road along with two P-86 hand grenades,” said DGP Dinkar Gupta.Preliminary probe suggested Saroop had come in contact with foreign-based terror handlers through the social media. They motivated him to carry out terror acts in the border state with an aim to disrupt peace and revive militancy.“Saroop disclosed that his handlers had arranged a consignment of two hand grenades for him,” said the DGP, adding the suspect had already recced a few sensitive targets in Amritsar and Ludhiana. This is the fifth hand grenade seizure in the past one month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-grenades-in-tarn-taran-cops-say-attack-averted-304707
