02-09-2021||The Animal Husbandry Department has been totally paralysed in the district. Tarn Taran has 4.5 lakh animals||Tarn Taran Diary: All Veterinary institutes in district in a shambles||Vocational training for farmers at boohKrishi Vigyan Kendra, Booh, Tarn Taran, has been organiaing vocational training programmes for farmers and other sections to make them self-sufficient. Dr Balwinder Singh, Associate Director (Training), KVK, said recently farmers were provided training regarding dairy farming. He said for successful and sustainable dairy farming, farmers should adopt scientific techniques, for rearing farm animals. He said farmers should have the knowledge about breeding, feeding and management, in the livestock. He said round the year quality fodder production and silage making is necessary. Farmers are guided about importance of vaccination and techniques to developed curd, cheese and meat recipes.A budding athleteThere is much to learn from Harman Kaur, a Class VII student of Government High School, in Dadehar Sahib. Harman belongs to a Dalit family and her parents are labourers. She won a gold medal (600m) in the state-level primary school games held in Sangrur in 2019. She won a bronze medal (1600m) in the state-level school games held in Sangur in July 2021. She is taking coaching from her schoolteacher Gurwinder Singh. Harman joined Baba Wisakha Singh Ji Sports and Welfare Club in 2018. Her gold medal of 2019 was results of her work of just one year. Gurwinder said Harman practices daily for two hours without break. As many as 40 boys and girls from Thatha, Ratta Gudda and Sarhali practice daily, said the coach. Angrej Singh, chief, Baba Wisakha Singh Ji Sports and Welfare Club, said coaching and refreshment is provided free of cost to budding players.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-all-veterinary-institutes-in-district-in-a-shambles-305204
02-09-2021||Amritsar||Girl student of Khalsa College, Amritsar, selected as Flying Officer||Interview for post of instructorsGNDU’s Department of Lifelong learning has scheduled the interview to recruit candidates for post of instructors for various certificate and diploma courses on September 10. The department had invited applications for the posts of instructors till August 31 and have announced the date of interviews. The Department of Lifelong Learning has introduced vocational and skill oriented courses, in a push towards self-employment.Conference on healthcare deliverySri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences in association with North Zone Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (NZIAPSM) organised a two-day conference “The Great Gatsby in Healthcare - Bridging the Gap” from August 28-29. The conference was successfully conducted with more than 600 registrations, 80 papers and 55 posters, accredited six hours by the Punjab Medical Council, stated Dr Priyanka Devgun, Prof and Head, Department of Community Medicine. Dr Devgan was also elected president of NZIAPSM for the year 2021-22. Dr GB Singh, Director, Health Services, who presided over the event said conference provided a platform for professionals and academicians to share experiences and to discuss policy, practice and research apart from challenges and lessons learned in developing primary healthcare. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-student-of-khalsa-college-amritsar-selected-as-flying-officer-305212
02-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Guest lecture at Khadoor Sahib||Colonel Satvinder Singh Cheema, Sena Medal (retd) (in pic) delivered a guest lecture on self experience in Indo-Pak war 1971 near Basanter River in Samba area at Nishan–E - Sikhi Preparatory Institute, Khadoor Sahib on Tuesday.Colonel Cheema has the honour of being part of the Indian Army operation to capture the objective and beat the Pak counter attack in which Maj Hoshiar Singh and 2/Lt Khetarpal were awarded Param Vir Chakra. He also highlighted the lessons drawn from this operation relevant to the NDA aspirants like courage, overcoming fear of death, leadership, winning the confidence of troops under command, implementing operational instructions even at the risk of own life and faith in the Almighty. The Institution is running under the guidance of International Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of Kar Sewa Sect Khadoor Sahib. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guest-lecture-at-khadoor-sahib-305205
02-09-2021||---||Bridge sans railing, commuters at risk in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 1A narrow bridge without railing is posing a threat to commuters on Fatehgarh Churian-Amritsar Road at Nawanpind village. The situation is so bad that locals need to place bushes and hang red clothes along the bridge so that commuters can navigate easily and no untoward incident takes place.I commute on this road daily. Earlier, there was a brick railing, which crumbled during desilting. The bridge is facing apathy of authorities. Lives of commuters are at stake due to the absence of railing Naveen Sharma, a resident of ChhehartaResidents said this particular stretch connects Gurdaspur with Amritsar district and even Kartarpur Corridor in Dera Baba Nanak.It is very difficult to differentiate between the canal and road, especially at night. Why are the authorities not installing railing on the bridge? The administration should put barricades near the bridge as shrubs are not a proper solution. Karanjeet Singh Fathegarh Churian residentNaveen Sharma, a resident of Chheharta, said, “I commute on this road daily. Earlier, there was a brick railing, which crumbled during desilting. The bridge is facing apathy of authorities. Lives of commuters are at stake due to the absence of railing.”The road is in a dilapidated condition. Poor recarpeting of Fatehgarh Churian-Amritsar Road is forcing commuters to find alternate routes to reach their destinations. Iqbal Singh, a resident of Veela villageKaranjeet Singh of Fathegarh Churian said, “It is very difficult to differentiate between the canal and road, especially at night. Why are the authorities not installing railing on the bridge?”He said, “The administration should put barricades near the bridge as shrubs are not a proper solution.”Iqbal Singh, a resident of Veela village, said, “The road is in a dilapidated condition. Poor recarpeting of Fatehgarh Churian-Amritsar road is forcing commuters to find alternate routes to reach their destinations.”As schools have reopened, locals said the railing should be installed at the earliest. Many incidents have taken place in the past wherein school buses have fallen in drains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bridge-sans-railing-commuters-at-risk-in-amritsar-305207
02-09-2021||---||Impression matters: Amritsar Municipal Corporation gets three floor-scrubber machines||Amritsar, September 1The Amritsar Municipal Corporation got three floor-scrubber-dryer machines to clean floors on Wednesday.Following the instructions of the government to provide quality services to residents, the MC initiated training programme of its employees.Karamjit Singh Rintu, Mayor The main building should shine so that residents get good impression about civic body. We are committed to providing first class sanitation and hygienic services in the city. Mechanical and manual sweeping is being conducted regularly. We will also adopt better technology when it comes to sanitation.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi said state-of-the-art floor scrubber machines have been provided at civic body’ head office to make the cleaning system high-tech. Out of these three machines, two machines have been provided at the head office and one at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Panorama.“The main building should shine so that residents get good impression about civic body. We are committed to providing first class sanitation and hygienic services in the city. Mechanical and manual sweeping is being conducted regularly. We will also adopt better technology when it comes to sanitation,” said the Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/impression-matters-amritsar-municipal-corporation-gets-three-floor-scrubber-machines-305206
02-09-2021||Amritsar||Heroin seized in Amritsar||Bike snatchedAmritsar: Miscreants snatched a bike from a person in Gawal Mandi area on Tuesday. Balbir Singh said he was heading towards Gawal Mandi Chowk on his bike around 10.30 am. He said when he reached near Shimla market, three persons intercepted him and started thrashing him. They took his bike and fled. The Cantonment police have registered a case under Sections 379-B, 341 and 34 of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heroin-seized-in-amritsar-305208
02-09-2021||---||Six challaned for violation of COTPA in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 1A team of the Health Department issued challans to six cigarette shops in the Lawrence road area for violations of norms under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003.The Nodal Officer for National Tobacco Control Programme, Dr Jagan Jot, said shopkeepers have been warned against selling loose cigarettes as it has been prohibited under the law.The deputy mass media officer, who led the team, said selling tobacco products to minors, smoking at public places and selling cigarette packets which do not have pictorial warnings as specified by the government are punishable offences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-challaned-for-violation-of-cotpa-in-amritsar-305209
02-09-2021||---||Five booked for attempt to murder in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 1The police have booked five persons for attempt to murder and opening fire in Maqboolpura.The accused have been identified as Bikram Singh, alias Bhao, a resident of Baba Sangat Singh Nagar Mehta Road; Rashpal Singh, alias Tida, of Baba Sangat Singh Nagar Mehta Road; Ranjit Singh, alias Jimmy, a resident of Maqboolpura; Ramandeep Singh, alias Romi, and Akash, alias Mour, both residents of Maqboolpura Mehta Road.The victim, Rahul Singh, told the police that on August 30 he went to pay obeisance at Gau Shala Mandir around 10 pm.The victim said as he was heading home he met his friends Dharamvir Singh, alias Haddi, and Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, on the way.He said a white car driven by Bikram reached the spot and he asked his accomplices to get hold of Dharamvir.The victim said the accused attacked me and my friends and fired shots in the air. Rahul said a bullet hit Shamsher on the head and then they attacked Dharamvir with an intention to kill him, but he received bullet injury on his right leg. The victim said the accused attacked Dharamvir with sharp-edged weapons. As Rahul raised an alarm, all the accused fled away from the spot. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital.Cops said a few days ago, Dharamvir had a spat with accused Ramandeep.A case under Sections 307, 324, 323,148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at Maqboolpura police station.Assistant Sub-Inspector Baldev Singh (Investigating Officer) said the accused were on the run and would be nabbed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-in-amritsar-305210
02-09-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Are women safe in public places? Well, they say — NO!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 1In light of two incidents reported in the city on Tuesday, in which drunk hooligans misbehaved with women at public places, women expressed that reported incidents are a tip of an iceberg and most of them try to ignore such incidents as filing a report with the police, confronting perpetrators or even reporting the incident to the family means trouble or restrictions on the complainant.Dr Simarpreet Sandhu, Professor, Oral and Maxillofacial PathologyWithout doubt, at the heart of harassment lies deep disrespect or disregard for women as equals and deeply entrenched patriarchy with widespread misogyny that needs urgent attention. To make women feel more accepted and secure, deep-rooted changes in social attitudes should be aimed at by partnering with policy makers, law-enforcement agencies, non-profit organisations and institutions.In the first case, two men harassed a medical student and tried touching her inappropriately. In the second case, three drunk miscreants smashed the windows of a woman’s car after an altercation following a minor traffic accident.The women in the city expressed that lack of evidence to support the complaint in most cases and ‘what-would-people-say’ attitude and being blamed for attracting attention of miscreants are a few of the reasons why most women prefer staying silent.The girls said in most cases reporting an eve-teasing case even to parents, would result in restrictions on their mobility and family tension.Rupinder Kaur, Associate Professor of Medical and Surgical Nursing at SGRD CollegeMost men at public places respect privacy but still there are many who don’t. Apart from stricter laws, there is a need for change in societal behaviour. Women tend to ignore minor harassment and file complaints only if it becomes unbearable.“Most of the time, women ignore staring, stalking and passing of comments, as it is not worth confronting but sometimes, it emboldens the perpetrator and things escalate,” said Deepti Sharma. She said apart from teaching girls how to defend them, parents and schools should also teach boys about appropriate and acceptable behaviour.Rupinder Kaur, Associate Professor of medical and surgical nursing at SGRD College, said: “Most men at public places respect privacy but still there are many who don’t. Apart from stricter laws, there is a need for change in societal behaviour.” She, too, added that women tend to ignore minor harassment and file complaints only if it becomes unbearable.A Women Cell has been created at all police stations that deals with such complaints. All complaints received are taken seriously and women are encouraged to report such incidents. Parminder Bhandal, DCP Law and Order Dr Simarpreet Sandhu, Professor, oral and maxillofacial pathology, said: “Without doubt at the heart of the harassment lies deep disrespect or disregard for women as equals and deeply entrenched patriarchy with widespread misogyny that needs urgent attention.” She said to make women feel more accepted and secure, deep-rooted changes in social attitudes should be aimed at by partnering with policy makers, law-enforcement agencies, non-profit organisations and institutions.Only 26 cases reported in 8 months As per the figures procured from the police officials, only three cases under Section 509 (insulting by taunting, commenting, gestures) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and only 23 cases under Section 354 (molestation) of the IPC has been registered this year in the areas under the Police Commissionerate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/are-women-safe-in-public-places-well-they-say-%E2%80%94-no-305211
02-09-2021||---||Teachers ‘overworked’ due to National Achievement Survey||Amritsar, September 1Over the last few days, members of the Joint Teachers’ Front have been holding multiple protests against the Education Department and Education Secretary, per say, calling out the latter for his dictatorial attitude towards teachers and disrupting classroom learning through the National Achievement Survey (NAS) preparations.On Wednesday, teachers of government schools, on the call of Joint Teachers’ Front, burnt the effigy of Education Secretary in front of the office of the District Education Officer (DEO).The Education Department in the district has been running training workshops with a teams of mentors to prepare students for NAS, which will be conducted in November.Recently, the Education Department had also constituted various committees at district, block, cluster and school level to ensure smooth preparation for NAS. Meanwhile, teachers are raising concerns over the hype being given to NAS over classroom learning. “For the last few days, the only word being uttered by the authorities is NAS. The National Achievement Survey, which estimates the level of education in states, through evaluating learning outcome of students, is being used as a tool to sideline classroom learning. Education Secretary is weaving a net of false statistics through an unconstitutional framework, taking into account the essence of real school education and the curriculum. However, the education of the children for one-and-a-half years has already lagged far behind due to the lockdown and schools remaining shut. To prepare for this survey, teachers are being harassed and overburdened, while students, too, are feeling the pressure,” said Vikram Dev Singh, state president, Democratic Teachers’ Front.Several teachers, who were part of different teachers’ unions, have openly spoken against the lapses in online education throughout the pandemic. “There were huge shortcomings in accessing all students through online classes. Despite the state government distributing smartphones to students of Class XII, many students from junior classes and middle classes failed to have access to uninterrupted education. We are not against NAS, but it should not be made the only parameter to judge the performance of a student,” said Ashwini Awasthi, a teacher and district convenor, Joint Teachers’ Front.The protesters said teachers were being pressured to perform academic and non-academic duties as well. “Online education cannot be a compulsory alternative to real school education. Online papers of children are being sent despite the opening of schools and pressure is being exerted to ensure 100 per cent participation in projects to advance in the race of statistics,” said Ashwini.Meanwhile, DEO Satinderbir Singh said the NAS is conducted every three years and doesn’t require a separate syllabus.“It is an MCQ-based test that requires knowledge of regular classroom learning. Teachers have been constituted under committees for training students, by preparing mock test papers and sharing these with students. We have been trying to change the methodology of classroom teaching to enhance learning outcome. Whether it’s the issue of being overworked or pay upgrade, the matter is between the state government and teachers.”Slam Edu Dept policies Tarn Taran: Government schoolteachers under the banner of Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha organised a protest in Tarn Taran on Wednesday against the policies of the Education Department. The protesting teachers burnt an effigy of the department and sought the removal of the Education Secretary. The protesters said the teachers would hold parallel functions on Teacher’s Day (September 5) to expose the department. The leaders said the officials were forcing teachers to present report based on lies. They also condemned the anti-teacher recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-overworked-due-to-national-achievement-survey-305213
02-09-2021||---||Amritsar: Mini-bus operators suspend protest after Gurjit Singh Aujla’s assurance||Amritsar, September 1Members of the Mini-Bus Operators’ Association had threatened to set a bus on fire in front of the house of MP Gurjit Singh Aujla here on Wednesday in case their demands were not met, but after the intervention of the MP, they suspended the stir.A Metro bus was started between Gheo Mandi to the Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport which miffed them and they held a protest on August 20, which was later lifted on the assurance of the district administration, who said their problems would be resolved.For now, the MP has also suspended the Metro bus from Thursday. He has assured the association that he will arrange their meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh so that their demand for the renewal of permit of their vehicles can be resolved.Baldev Singh Babbu, president of the association, said they were constrained to hold the protest as the income of 60 mini-buses plying on the 24-km stretch between Amritsar and Guru Ka Bagh was affected. He said the government was violating its own law that the transportation means — buses and autos — for urban areas could not be plied beyond Meerankot Chowk, where the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation (MC) ends.Earlier, the road blockade impeded the traffic flow on the Airport Road and commuters felt harassed as it was quite warm and humid on Wednesday. They were forced to take alternate, long and arduous routes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mini-bus-operators-suspend-protest-after-gurjit-singh-aujlas-assurance-305214
02-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Farmers sit on chain hunger strike, seek compensation||Tarn Taran, September 1An 11-member jatha of the Zamhoori Kisan Sabha sat on a chain hunger strike in front of the local SDM office on Wednesday demanding compensation and other benefits for the family of a farmer who lost his life while participating in farmers’ protest in Delhi.Addressing farmers, Daljit Singh Dialpura, district president, condemned the district administration and particularly local SDM, Rajnish Arora, who was harassing Sarabjit Kaur, widow of farmer Surjit Singh (32) of Cheema Khurad, for denying the compensation and other benefits announced by the state government.Daljit Singh said representatives had met the Deputy Commissioner in this regard, but the SDM was ignoring all instruction issued by higher ups. Leaders of the organisation said the hunger strike would continue till justice was not met to the aggrieved family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-farmers-sit-on-chain-hunger-strike-seek-compensation-305215
02-09-2021||---||Covid-19: Three test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 1With three positive cases on Wednesday, the district tally increased to 47,235. The new cases are influenza-like illness cases. The district Health Department has also reported recovery of seven patients, with which the recovery count increased to 45,628. The district, at present, has a total of 18 active cases.In the ongoing vaccination drive for Covid-19, total 12,989 residents were inoculated on Wednesday. The district health authorities said of these, 9,768 received the first dose of the vaccine and 3,221 received the second dose.All well in Tarn TaranNeither any positive case nor any death due to Covid was reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 377 persons have lost their lives to the pandemic so far. The Health Department teams collected 1,339 samples to be tested for Covid infection and the report of 1,042 were yet to be received. A total number of 3,39,514 persons have been given 4,21,845 jabs so far. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 3,828 persons were vaccinated at different centres on Wednesday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-three-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-305198
