03-09-2021||Amritsar||CBSE award for teachers of Bhavan’s SL Public School, Amritsar||Drive to identify TB patients beginsAmritsar: The district Health Department launched a month-long campaign to identify tuberculosis (TB) cases on Thursday. The Active TB Case Finding Campaign will continue till October 1, said Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh. Next month, the health teams will visit door to door to raise awareness about the symptoms, causes and treatment available at government hospital. The teams will also identify suspected TB patients so that they can be tested and brought under the TB treatment programme run by the government. District TB Officer Dr Naresh Chawla said prolonged cough, weight loss, fever and continous fatigue are symptoms associated with the disease. He said the disease is communicable and early detection helps in fast recovery besides checking the spread of the disease. Dr Chawla said apart from free treatment, the government also provide Rs500 per month to patients, so that they can take healthy diet. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbse-award-for-teachers-of-bhavans-sl-public-school-amritsar-305926
03-09-2021||Renovation of the historic Jallianwala Bagh has residents and the Centre in the cross hairs. Tribune correspondent PK Jaiswar and lensman Sunil Kumar give a glimpse of the renovated memorial where reportedly 1||Jallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?||Historians allege that the original character of a memorial built in memory of the martyrs of the ghastly massacre has been massively tampered with.Earlier, too, renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh had sparked protests. A decade ago, an open air theatre was developed and light and sound show was started, which featured a voiceover of Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan.Also read: Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakePeople from different walks of life had gathered to protest against the arrest of Dr Saifudin Kitchlew and Dr Satyapal, who were agitating against the Rowlatt Act, at the Jallianwala Bagh on the day of Baisakhi on April 13, 1919.Dozens of troops led by Brigadier General Reginald Edward Harry Dyer mercilessly had gunned down the protesters by blocking the only entry and exit point of the Jallianwala Bagh.Following renovation of one-and-a-half years, the Jallianwala Bagh was virtually thrown open on August 28 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also a Chairman of the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Trust. Four new galleries have come up, besides a salvation ground.Also read: Martyrs’ memorabilia to be kept at Jallianwala BaghNow, separate entry and exit points have been developed at the Jallianwala Bagh. Earlier, there was only one entry and exit point.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-history-massacred-or-restored-305925
03-09-2021||Neha Saini||Spring Dale Educational Society, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy welcome players of Indian hockey team||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 2Members of the Spring Dale Educational Society and Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy welcomed players of the Indian hockey team who participated in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.The delegation included three alumnis of Spring Dale — Dilpreet Singh, Olympian Shamsher Singh and Olympian Ramandeep Singh. Captain Manpreet Singh, remembering his early days, said: “I used to play hockey with sticks and it was my dream to win an Olympic medal. I am glad that I was able to fulfil the dream for my nation.From Mithapur in Jalandhar, Manpreet said the bronze medal at Tokyo Olympics, would definitely encourage youngsters to take up hockey. “I will say, choose sports. Do not hesitate from playing your favourite game. Always hope to win a medal for your country. I played hockey throughout my life with pride and never regretted small sacrifices.”Dilpreet (20), who hails from Butala, said, “The moment we won the bronze is frozen in my memory.” Dilpreet had scored a goal against Great Britain. Crediting his father for his success, he said he stayed away from social media and other distractions. “It is important to focus on your game. I stayed away from phone, social media and TV,” he said.He said, “Media attention and hype post the Olympics is short-lived, but playing hockey is his only goal.”Gurjit Kaur, a dragflicker of Indian Women’s hockey team, said: “The ultimate aim of every player is to perform and give their best. We felt bad after our loss. All talk surrounding a player on and off field, should not affect performance. We failed to win the medal, but we definitely have encouraged young girls to live their dreams.”Both Manpreet and Gurjit said the next goal for their respective teams would be the upcoming championships, including Hockey World Cup, which will be held in India. “Qualification for the Paris Olympics will based on our performance in the Asia Cup,” said Manpreet.Presented with gold khanda (symbol of Sikhism)Olympian Balwinder Singh Shammi was among those present at the felicitation ceremony for hockey players at Spring Dale school. He along with Sahiljit Singh Sandu, who is chief of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy, announced that a state-of-the-art- AstroTurf will be laid in Amritsar to promote the game. “Netherland has over 1,500 hockey stadiums, while we have around 20-25 stadiums in the state. Extra efforts are needed to support players and the game,” said Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spring-dale-educational-society-maharaja-ranjit-singh-hockey-academy-welcome-players-of-indian-hockey-team-305924
03-09-2021||---||Mob kills man, hurts 3 in Ajnala||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 2A man was killed and three others injured when around 20 persons attacked them at Mehar Bukhari village, under the Ajnala police station, here on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Pappu Masih (40) and the injured as Jaspal Masih, Bittu Masih and Lakha Masih.Those booked for murder include David Masih, his son Karan Masih, Saajan Masih, Happy Masih, Babba Masih, Sona Masih, Sarvan Masih, Salu Masih, Sunny Masih (son of Gukha Masih), Sunny Masih, Bobby Masih, Sona Masih and Pamma Masih, all residents of Bohlia village, and Saba Masih of Bhakha Tara Singh village and six unidentified persons.Jaspal Masih (50), a junk dealer, said he ran a shop at Mehar Bukhari village. He said the accused suspected Pappu of creating troubles in the marriage of Happy. He said on Wednesday some elderly of the village intervened and brokered a compromise between them. He said later they went to his shop where Bittu and Lakha also came.He said around 7pm, the accused equipped with sharp-edged weapons came to their shop and started shouting to teach them a lesson for creating hurdles in the marriage. He said they damaged the goods carrier of Lakha and later Happy hit him with a sharp weapon. He said Karan attacked Bittu while David stabbed Pappu in the chest leaving him critically injured. He said the accused, Babba and Sona, assaulted him when he tried to intervene. When people started gathering, the accused fled. He said his uncle Manzoor Masih rushed them to the Ajnala Civil Hospital where doctors declared Pappu dead. A case was registered and raids were on to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mob-kills-man-hurts-3-in-ajnala-305923
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||The case of eating fallen mango takes a twist||Tarn Taran, September 2The controversy regarding thrashing a Dalit minor boy in Doburji village took a different turn on Wednesday, when the family members of the victim, who belonged to the Scheduled Caste community, were booked by the local police for attacking the farmer’s family with dreaded arms at their house.The incident had occurred a month ago, when the members of a farmer’s family thrashed the minor boy who had eaten a fallen mango from their fields. A video was posted on social media too. The issue was also taken up by the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO), who after recording the statement of the victim’s family, sent the report to the SSP for further action.On the inquiry conducted by DSP Sucha Singh Bal, the members of the farmer’s family were booked under different sections of the IPC and the SC/ST Act.The incident occurred on July 29 against which the case was registered on August 28 on the complaint by Satnam Singh, father of the victim. Gurdev Singh, Gurmeet Singh and others were nominated as the accused in the case.Before this, Gurdev Singh and other members of the farmer’s family had filed a complaint with the city police on August 22 blaming Satnam Singh and his 10 other associates for forcibly trespassing their residence and opening fire at him. The case was finally registered by the city police under Sections 307, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25,27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act on Wednesday.The police said none of the accused from any side have been arrested so far.The development has created a rift between Dalits and farmers in the village. Satnam Singh said it was one more case of atrocity on the Scheduled Castes in the district by the police, which may lead to some serious repercussion.Meanwhile, Gurdev Singh said he went to the family of the boy to pacify and begged pardon, too, but to no avail. He said following this, he approached the leaders of the ruling Congress party to get the case registered against the boy’s family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-case-of-eating-fallen-mango-takes-a-twist-305922
03-09-2021||Amritsar||Two test +ve for Covid in Amritsar district||With two positive cases reported on Thursday, the district tally increased to 47,237. The new cases include one influenza-like illness case and one contact of a positive patient.The Health Department has reported the recovery of two patients, with which the recovery count increased to 45,630. The district at present has a total of 18 active cases. Meanwhile, 27,075 residents were given the jabs on Thursday. Of these, 19,913 received the first dose, while 7,162 received the second dose.1 dies, 3 +ve in Tarn TaranThree positive cases and a death was reported in the district on Thursday. The toll is 378 and there are 11 active cases, of which nine have been isolated at their homes. DC Kulwant Singh said 17,482 persons were given jabs and 4,39,327 doses have been given to 3,53,834 persons so far. The Health Department teams collected 1,239 samples. The reports of 1,056 are awaited. — TNS/ OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-test-ve-for-covid-in-amritsar-district-305921
03-09-2021||---||Defacements curbed, says Amritsar MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 2With the implementation of the advertisement policy of the state government, the advertisement wing of the MC has started collecting a good amount of revenue. Moreover, it has claimed to have succeeded in curbing defacements in the city.The advertisement wing has failed to achieve its recovery target for the last several years. During 2020-21, the advertisement wing had collected Rs 1.62 crore only. After implementing the policy, it collected Rs 1.40 crore from April 1 to August 31.Sushant Bhatia, in-charge, advertisement wing, said, “I joined the department on March 12 and found that only Rs1.16 crore was collected during the fiscal. I believe there is a lot of potential of earning revenue in the advertisement wing. I focused on advertisement firms, which were not paying the tax. We started collecting third party tax and pressurised multinational brands to pay for the advertisements. During the last five months, we collected around Rs1.40 crore. We collected a major portion of the revenue from violators. However, the contracts of unipoles and another advertisement infrastructure are yet to be finalised. We hope that more revenue will be collected during the next few months.”As per the Punjab Municipal Outdoor Advertisement Policy, 2018, hoardings, billboards, unipoles and other advertisements are not allowed on rooftops of any building. Earlier, there was no check on violations of the advertisement policy at several city malls, shopping complexes and markets. Illegal advertisements of mobile companies, educational institutes, private hospitals and other commercials are being displayed without any check.Bhatia served notices on malls and private commercial firms to pay the advertisement tax. Several firms paid tax in the past and some are still reluctant.Meanwhile, the advertisement wing initiated a special drive to remove illegal advertisements in view of the upcoming festival season. A large number of hoardings were on Thursday removed from Rani Ka Bag, Ranjit Avenue Civil Lines area here. Some firms paid outdoor media display fees for displaying advertisements. The drive would continue, said Bhatia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defacements-curbed-says-amritsar-mc-305920
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Farmers’ meeting with SDM unproductive||Tarn Taran, September 2The meeting of agitating farmers who had been fighting to get compensation from the government for the family of the farmer who died while taking part in the Delhi morcha with the SDM was unproductive on Thursday.The Jamhoor Kisan Sabha sat on a chain hunger strike in front of the SDM office on Wednesday, which entered its second day on Thursday.The 11-member farmers’ jatha led by farmer leader Kewal Singh sat on strike.Daljit Singh Dialpura, district president of the organisation, Jaspal Singh Chabal, Nirvail Singh Dalake, Inderjit Singh Kot Budha, Devinder Sohal, Chaman Lal Darajke and other representatives of different organisations were among other leaders, who addressed on the occasion.The leaders condemned the local administration for allegedly harassing Sarabjit Kaur, the widow of farmer Surjit Singh (32) of Cheema Khurad, in releasing the compensation and other benefits announced by the state government. Surjit Singh, who was a marginal farmer, died seven months ago in Delhi while participating in the morcha.Daljit said in the meeting called by SDM Rajnish Arora, he appealed to farmers to lift the strike and assured them that the compensation would be released in a week. But the leaders denied to oblige saying the officer had assured them a month ago as well that the compensation would be released within 10 days, which had not been fulfilled so far. The organisation affiliated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has called a joint meeting on Monday to chalk out the next plan of action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-farmers-meeting-with-sdm-unproductive-305919
03-09-2021||---||Surge in dengue cases keeps Health Department on toes in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 2With the district reporting 102 dengue cases in the current season, the Health Department has sprung into action and started issuing challans to those houses where they find dengue larvae again. They have also asked people to take precautions to keep the disease at bay.Except for three positive cases reported in the month of March, the rest cases were reported in the months of June, July and August. The district Health Department teams constituted under dengue control programme have issued challans to 380 people at whose residences dengue larvae were detected during inspection.Sources in the Health Department stated that a majority of (86) cases were reported in August. A senior official of the department said, “People are so careless that teams found dengue larvae again in some houses during the follow-up visit, though challans were issued to them during the first visit.”The official said private hospitals had been asked to notify the Health Department in case they have a dengue patient. He said the dengue larvae mostly breed in flower pots, junk kept in the open, etc.The Health Department has advised general public to keep such items clean and empty, which can hold water once in a week and change water in air coolers frequently. Experts have also advised people to use precautions such as apply mosquito repellent creams or cover body properly during the daytime to avoid mosquito bites.The symptoms of disease include high grade fever above 102°F , headache, pain in eyes, general body pains, vomiting, skin rashes, which must be monitored for seven to 10 days by medical experts. The medical practitioners say that there is no particular medicine for dengue and the patient is treated symptomatically. However, prevention is the best option to avoid the disease.The residents can pour burnt mobile oil or insecticides in ponds or vacant plots near their homes where rainwater gets accumulated and becomes a breeding-ground for mosquitoes.The Health Department states that the Mac-Elisa test for dengue is recognised by the government for confirming a dengue case. It is conducted free of cost at the Government Medical College laboratory.SymptomsThe symptoms of the disease include high grade fever above 102°F, headache, pain in eyes, general body pains, vomiting, skin rashes, which must be monitored for 7 to 10 days by medical expertsDosDon’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/surge-in-dengue-cases-keeps-health-department-on-toes-in-amritsar-district-305918
03-09-2021||---||Afghanistan Sikhs, Hindus seek evacuation||Amritsar, September 2Around 180 Afghan-origin Sikhs and Hindus are looking to the Union Government for their safe evacuation from the trouble-torn country.Vikramjit Singh Sahney, international president of the World Punjabi Organisation, who had earlier arranged chartered flights for their safe passage to New Delhi, said the evacuation plan was being chalked out in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Indian Air Force (IAF).In touch with MEAWe are in touch with the MEA and the remaining Sikhs and Hindus stuckin Afghanistan. The evacuation plan may be executed in the next 10 days or so. An IAF plane is being arranged. —VS Sahney, World punjabi organisation“We are in touch with the MEA and the remaining Afghan Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan. The evacuation plan can be a possibility in the next 10 days or so. An IAF plane is being arranged,” he said. Sahney also offered to engage a private flight if the IAF plane could not be arranged due to some reason.After a dialogue between Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal and chief of Taliban’ s political office in Doha Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, the Taliban representatives in Kabul have assured Afghanistan Sikhs that they would be allowed to visit India on pilgrimage as soon as the Kabul International Airport gets operational.An Afghan Sikh who teaches in Kabul said that they had expressed desire to visit Gurdwara Sri Guru Arjan Dev in New Mahavir Nagar, New Delhi in a ‘jatha’ to attend the occasion of 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur and the Taliban leaders had assured them of a safe passage to India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/afghanistan-sikhs-hindus-seek-evacuation-305613
03-09-2021||Amritsar||Drugs found hidden near border fence||The BSF has seized around 1 kg of heroin from the India-Pakistan border falling in the Amritsar sector.A BSF official said that yesterday, BSF troops thwarted the attempt to smuggle three packets of the contraband, suspected to be heroin, in the area under the 144th Bn BSF. The contraband was concealed near the border fencing in an Indian field near the zero line. “Anti-national elements are trying hard to smuggle drugs by adopting various modus operandi, but the attempts are being foiled by vigilant BSF men,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drugs-found-hidden-near-border-fence-305614
03-09-2021||---||4-kg heroin seized from peddler’s cab||Amritsar, September 2Following the interrogation of drug peddler Ranjit Singh, alias Sonu, a cabbie, the Amritsar rural police have confiscated 4-kg heroin from his vehicle.A senior police official said the contraband was concealed in the cavities of the widows of the same vehicle from where the police had seized 16.87-kg heroin earlier.The police arrested notorious drug peddler Sukhdev Singh, alias Kalu Jathaul, in the case. Kalu had several cases of drug peddling against him, police sources said. With his arrest, the police have nabbed around seven persons in the case till now.The police had earlier arrested Ranjit Singh Rana, Malkeet Singh, Jaffar and Sikander Singh. It had also arrested Harminder Singh from Zira for allegedly creating special cavities in the two taxies of Ranjit Sonu.The sources revealed following their interrogation, the police had zeroed in on several residents allegedly involved in cross-border drug smuggling in Rajatal and Dauke border villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-kg-heroin-seized-from-peddlers-cab-305615
03-09-2021||---||Martyrs’ memorabilia to be kept at Jallianwala Bagh||New Delhi, September 2Memorabilia associated with martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre collected from members of their families as well as audio tapes of how the family members remember the massacre will be added among the exhibits kept at the renovated Jallianwala Bagh Memorial.Also read: Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historiansJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?A top Ministry of Culture official said two new galleries had been at the memorial for showcasing artefacts related to the massacre. The galleries are dedicated to the 1919 massacre, protests against the massacre in India and abroad, original footage related to the incident and history of Punjab.The official said 31 family members of victims of the massacre were present at the ground during the inauguration of the renovated memorial on August 28. All were quite happy with the restoration work, the official said, adding minute attention had been paid to the historicity of the massacre while carrying out the renovation work.Also read: ‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeThe official said the “Sound and Light Show” introduced in the memorial is quite moving.Asked whether they were contemplating removal of the murals at the entrance, since it was attracting a lot of criticism, the official said, “this is not a life and death question”.Panel to visit memorial tomorrowJalandhar: Following the renovation of Jallianwala Bagh memorial, Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee members would visit the site on September 4. In 2008, the committee was at the forefront of the agitation against the changes at the site. The members have threatened an agitation if the alterations are found to be objectionable. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrs-memorabilia-to-be-kept-at-jallianwala-bagh-305606
