04-09-2021||Amritsar||40-day theatre workshop begins tomorrow in Amritsar||Theatre will take a front seat at the 40-day workshop, which will commence on September 5.The Dastak Theatre Group has been actively involved in grooming and promoting theatre activities under the aegis of Rajinder Singh, an alumni of National School of Drama, and a renowned theatre director. This would be the first post pandemic theatre workshop in collaboration with the NSD in the city.Rajinder and his wife Amita would be conducting training sessions along with other eminent theatre personalities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/40-day-theatre-workshop-begins-tomorrow-in-amritsar-306571
04-09-2021||In Gurdaspur||MP Partap Singh Bajwa: The ‘Return of the Native’||No welcome for MajithiaSenior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia had a tough time dealing with farmers on his recent visit to Sri Hargobindpur. He was shown black flags as he made his way to the residence of former MC chief Bawa Harjit Singh Bhalla. The Akali leader blamed the local Congress leadership for having instigated the farmers to come on to the streets. “I know all this is the handiwork of some disgruntled Congressmen. The farmers are not to be blamed. I have tangible evidence that the sitting Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi had planned and executed the protests. I repeat, the farmers are not involved in any way whatsoever,” he said. On their part, the Batala police had made elaborate arrangements to ensure no untoward incident took place. SSP Ashwani Kapur was a relieved man once Majithia and his cavalcade left the city.Kejriwal’s visit lifts spirits of AAP workersAAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal surely lifted the spirits of AAP workers when he paid a visit to SAD ex-minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan’s house. Sri Hargobindpur halqa in-charge Amarpal Singh Kishenkot, who bagged an impressive 25,000 votes in the 2017 Assembly polls while contesting on an AAP ticket, said no leader can generate the kind of euphoria Kejriwal does. All Punjab AAP MLAs were present on the occasion. Actually, they had reached Amritsar to welcome Kejriwal at the airport and remained with him till he left for Delhi. MP Bhagwant Mann too was there at Sekhwan village and regaled his colleagues with some witty anecdotes. For the record, Sekhwan’s son, Jagrup Singh Sekhwan is all set to contest the polls on the party ticket from Qadian.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-partap-singh-bajwa-the-return-of-the-native-306050
04-09-2021||Amritsar||Remembering Bhag Singh Ankhi, a messiah of orphans||A meeting conducted by the office-bearers of Chief Khalsa Diwan today decided that a memorial statue of late CKD member Bhag Singh Ankhi will be erected at the Chief Khalsa Central Orphanage. Chief Khalsa Diwan President Nirmal Singh chaired a meeting to mourn the demise of Ankhi and recalled services rendered by him for Chief Khalsa Diwan. “During his tenure, he played a special role in the establishment, development of many new schools of the Chief Khalsa Diwan and the smooth running of the Central Khalsa Orphanage.Their main goal was to make orphans, especially the blind, literate self-employed,” said Nirmal Singh. Ankhi was at the forefront in establishing Bhai Vir Singh Gurmat College (where many famous ragis, narrators, preachers of the Panth were trained), Tantisaj Museum, National Martyr Udham Singh Memorial Room, establishment of Sports Stadium and many other development works at the orphanage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remembering-bhag-singh-ankhi-a-messiah-of-orphans-306040
04-09-2021||---||Workshop on video production techniques at DAV college in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 3A three-day workshop on video production was organised at DAV College’s Department of Computers and Mass Communication and Video Production invited Sushant Sharma, a video blogger as speaker. The programme was organised under the Star College Scheme. Speaking about the video quality production for social media platforms with rising trend of blogging, Sushant said popularity of short-video format will continue in the future as well.“The video apps will affect the way people eat, dress, have fun and shop. With most businesses going digital and the internet flooded with users to consume content, videos will play an important role in building awareness or connecting people with the brand. Now, you can create very exciting and interesting videos and share them on social media. If you are using Instagram and YouTube channel, then you can also increase the circle of your followers,” said Sushant.He added that mobile is being used for watching videos on YouTube. “Around 92% of mobile viewers share videos. Optimising one’s videos for the smaller screen is essential and need of the hour,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workshop-on-video-production-techniques-at-dav-college-in-amritsar-306037
04-09-2021||---||Induction programme culminates at GNDU in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 3The Department of Hotel Management and Tourism of the Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) organised a two day induction programme today for their newly-admitted students. In the programme, the students of the Bachelor of Hotel Management and Catering Technology (BHMCT) and Bachelor of Tourism and Travel management (BTTM) participated. With new set of challenges being thrown at the hospitality sector, during pandemic, the purpose of the induction programme was to familiarise students with new normal for tourism and hotel industry, while making them aware of the changes in organisation and functioning.Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean, Academic Affairs, GNDU, presided over the programme, where he talked about upgraded skill set to meet the post pandemic work culture demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/induction-programme-culminates-at-gndu-in-amritsar-306033
04-09-2021||---||Ex-BJP councillor booked for assault in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 3Former BJP councillor Meenu Sehgal, her son and more than 15 persons, allegedly thrashed a man and women of her family in Mahindra Colony in Rani Ka Bagh area yesterday. The victim, Gurkarandeep Singh, claimed that they had a property dispute with his uncle. Former BJP councillor Meenu Sehgal, her son and several others attacked them in the support of his uncle to vacate the house forcefully.In his complaint at the Civil Lines police station, Gurkarandeep said over 15 persons led by Meenu Sehgal and her son Bhagya Sehgal reached their home and threatened them. Singh tried to pacify them but the supporters of Sehgal attacked on him and tossed his turban. Then Meenu Sehgal attacked his mother with a hockey stick. She torn cloths of Gurkarandeep’s mother and some attackers reportedly misbehaved with her.The victim complained that accused persons broken the CCTV cameras installed in home and also searched their home to get some documents. Singh claimed that some passerby and neighbour gathered and accused fled away by threating them.On the compliant of Gurkarandeep, the police have registered a case against Meenu her son and others under relevant sections. No arrest has been made so far.While, Meenu Sehgal claimed that they had gone to sort out a dispute of a party worker. She and her son were first attacked by the complainant’s family.Property dispute||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-bjp-councillor-booked-for-assault-in-amritsar-306039
04-09-2021||---||Major tragedy averted as trains whizz past open railway crossing||Amritsar, September 3The memories of Dasehra train tragedy flashed before the local residents on Tuesday evening when the gateman of Jaura Phatak (twin railway crossing) allegedly failed to shut the gates. A probe has started into the incident.According to information, three trains, including a goods train, passed through the railway crossing without the gates being put down. There was panic among the passerbys who shouted and tried to move from the rail tracks.However, the gateman had told the media persons that the gates could not be pulled down as a car abruptly stopped in the middle due to some technical snag that led to the traffic jam between the railway crossings. The gateman along with his other persons allegedly manhandled the media and snatched the mobile from one of cameraman on the spot when he was recording the video.Eyewitnesses alleged that it was the negligence of gateman which led to the incident. They said it was the alertness of people that a mishap was avoided. Railway authorities was also holding a probe into the incident.A complaint was lodged in this connection and further investigations were under progress.Balbir Singh, SHO, GRP, said a car got technical snag due to which traffic got halted and led to the chaos though he added further investigations were under progress. He said railway authorities were also holding a probe into the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/major-tragedy-averted-as-trains-whizz-past-open-railway-crossing-306044
04-09-2021||Amritsar||Two nabbed with illegal weapons in Amritsar||SAD (Samyukt) flays attack on farmersAmritsar: Shiromani Akali Dal (Samyukt) patron Ranjit Singh Brahmpura targeted SAD (Badal) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, the BJP government in Haryana and Congress in Punjab for inhumane treatment meted out to farmers in Karnal and Moga. After holding meeting with party workers, he said, "When the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had made it clear that no political party will be allowed to hold rallies in the state, then why is Sukhbir was deliberately spoiling the atmosphere in Punjab? Badals have done a huge loss to the Sikh community", he said. During the peaceful protest of the farmers in Moga in previous days, the police and the administration had beaten up the farmers with sticks, pushed them and turban were tossed. TNSFirst state-level teachers’ fair endsAmritsar: The first state teachers’ fair concluded on Friday. The two-day event saw participation of 60 teachers from various districts and were engaged in innovative and modern techniques of teaching in government school. Jaspal Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, GNDU, said the university was launching a course for special educators and announced that 300 students from government schools have been selected for special training in the field of sports and education under ‘Khelo India’. District Education Officer Satinder Bir Singh said the initiative taken by the department aims at improving the quality of education and growth of teachers. TNS31 drug peddlers declared POsAmritsar: The police have booked as many as 31 drug peddlers following the orders of a judge after they failed to appear before the court. According to police, all the accused were declared proclaimed offenders by the court. The police have registered separate cases under Section 229-A of the IPC against the accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-illegal-weapons-in-amritsar-306047
04-09-2021||---||Covid-19: Three more test positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 3With three new positive cases reported on Friday, the district tally of Covid-19 infection has increased to 47,240.The Health Department has reported the recovery of three patients in the district today.With this, the recovery count has reached 45,633. At present, the district has a total of 18 active cases.The health authorities informed that a total of 17,407 persons were vaccinated on Friday, out of which, 17,345 were inoculated at the government hospitals while 62 were vaccinated at private hospitals. Out of the total vaccinated, 10,670 got their first dose and 6,737 received their second jab today.No case, death in Tarn TaranNo fresh Covid case was reported from Tarn Taran district on Friday. The toll stood at 378 as no Covid-19 related death was recorded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-three-more-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-306048
04-09-2021||---||ASI sent to Police Lines for thrashing sanitation workers in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 3An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of Amritsar Police was sent to the Police Lines for thrashing two sanitation workers at the bus stand here on Friday. The ASI has been identified as Sewa Singh, who had beaten up Ranjit Singh and Baljinder Singh.The action was taken following the decision taken by Punjab Safai Karamchari Commission member Inderjeet Singh, who listened to the sanitation workers and police officers during a hearing at the bus stand.Inderjeet Singh visited the bus stand regarding the sanitation workers’ complaint. The statements of Ranjit Singh, Baljinder Singh and ASI Seva Singh were recorded on the spot. After a thorough investigation by the Safai Karamchari Commission, it was found that Seva Singh had misused his position.Inderjeet Singh asked Assistant Commissioner of Police Jaspreet Singh to send Sewa Singh to the Police Lines. Acting on which, the ACP sent Seva Singh to the Police Lines.Inderjeet said such incidents should not happen in future and no police officer should misuse his power. “The police officers should be made aware of the use of their powers so that such incidents do not happen in future. The Safai Karamchari Commission would not tolerate any harassment caused to sanitation workers,” said Inderjeet Singh.ACP Jaspreet Singh, Naib Tehsildar Hirdepal Singh, Labour Commissioner Santokh Singh, GM (Roadways) Harbinder Singh Gill, bus stand chowki in-charge Kapil Dev and Safai Karamchari Union (Punjab) president Vinor Kumar Bitta were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-sent-to-police-lines-for-thrashing-sanitation-workers-in-amritsar-306045
04-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Dug-up streets a cause for concern for Kot Baba Deep Singh residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 3A number of streets in Kot Baba Deep Singh, near Gurdwara Shaheedan, were dug up to upgrade the sewer and water supply lines a few months ago but have not been recarpeted till date, said area residents.The elderly persons in the locality are facing inconvenience while walking and driving two-wheelers as streets are filled with debris. Residents claimed that narrow streets were being blocked with heaps of debris.Ironically, there is no one to hear the complaints of residents. Violating norms, the area councillor and contractor did not even display any board about the project details. Even the contractor or councillor did not display their contact number to listen to the grievances.Mohan Singh, a resident of the area, said: “As per the rule, there should be a board installed in the area, where all details should be mentioned. Not only the details of the project, the cost, time of completion, name of executive officer, name of firm or contractor along with their contact number should also be mentioned so that residents can express their grievances. Ironically, the public representatives and MC officials don’t visit the project site to hear public issues.”“It seems the work on water and sewer lines has been completed but the recarpeting of streets is being delayed. We are waiting for some executive officer of the MC to visit the area, but no one visited in the last six months. There is no check on the quality of work, as there is no supervision of authorities. Residents have been facing inconvenience for the past several months,” said another resident.When contacted, Councillor Manjit Kaur said: “There were 40-year-old water supply and sewerage line in the area. We made an effort and provided solution to the problems of residents. Every development work takes time. We are going to inaugurate the recarpeting of streets in Kot Baba Deep Singh area this coming Sunday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dug-up-streets-a-cause-for-concern-for-kot-baba-deep-singh-residents-306046
04-09-2021||---||Metro bus from Gheo Mandi to airport stopped after 2 weeks||Amritsar, September 3Two weeks after inaugurating the new route of Metro bus under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) from Gheo Mandi to Airport, the authorities have stopped the service on this route from Friday.Mini-bus operators had been protesting all this while against the administration and had blocked traffic heading towards the airport, thus causing hardship to commuters.For the convenience of tourists and passengers, the BRTS had extended the Metro bus service to Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport on August 16. MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, accompanied by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, had flagged off the bus. MLA (north) Sunil Dutti had made efforts for extension of this particular route.The Metro bus route was planned from the Golden Temple to the airport. The BRTS had plied eight buses on this route and was getting a good response.According to information, 1,000 to 1,500 passengers used to commute on the Metro bus from Gheo Mandi to the airport daily. The mini-bus operators had blocked this route on August 20. On September 1, MP Aujla intervened in the matter after the Mini-bus Operators’ Association demonstrated outside his house.On September 2, the BRTS had decided to reduce the number of buses from eight to four on this route, but the mini-bus operators were not satisfied with the decision.The BRTS officials said they do not have any conflict with the mini-bus operators as they pick up passengers only for the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/metro-bus-from-gheo-mandi-to-airport-stopped-after-2-weeks-306049
04-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Robberies, snatchings the order of the day in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 3Two robbery incidents in different parts of Tarn Taran during the last 24 hours give a real picture of the deteriorating law and order situation in the district. On the intervening night of Wednesday-Thursday, four armed robbers trespassed a farmhouse of NRI Ranjit Singh, in Chhichhrewal village.Ranjit told the Chabal police that miscreants robbed his family members at gunpoint. He said the miscreants looted Rs 55,000, gold ornaments, wrist watches, ATM cards and other valuables. He said the accused remained at the farmhouse for more than two hours.Inspector Gurcharan Singh refused to comment on the incident.The Chabal police have registered a case under Sections 394, 506 and 34 of the IPC and under relevant sections of the Arms Act.In another incident, two persons robbed a brick-kiln owner in broad daylight on Thursday, near Kaler village on Tarn Taran-Khadoor Sahib Road. The victim, Arunjit Singh, a resident of Bugha, was heading towards his brick-kiln situated at Kaler village, on his motorcycle on Thursday. Two-bike borne persons stopped him and attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. Miscreants robbed his wallet, which containend Rs 15,300, and other important documents. The victim was admitted to the Civil Hospital.The Sadar police have registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC.Such type of incidents make it hard to believe the tall claims of authorities, including night patrolling and installation of CCTV cameras, to keep a tab on activities of the anti-social elements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robberies-snatchings-the-order-of-the-day-in-tarn-taran-306042
04-09-2021||Amritsar||Digital mapping to nail miscreants||Concerned over the rising instances of robberies and snatchings, the city police have launched a one-of-its- kind initiative for mapping activities of miscreants in the holy city. The police have identified as many as 6,400 criminals involved in the different cases, including robberies, drug peddling and other heinous crimes. “Man to man marking has been done for monitoring daily activities of these criminals,” said Amritsar Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal.The police had identified 1,000 cops (field level officers) who were tasked to monitor around seven to eight criminals each. They would be supervised by around 20 senior police officials, he added.The police have also created social media groups for these field officers. This includes collection of photo identities and biometrics of criminals digitally. A database of criminals would be prepared on the basis of their modus operandi as well areas of operation and residence, said the Police Commissioner. This initiative will ensuresafety and security of residents. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/digital-mapping-to-nail-miscreants-306034
04-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Robberies, snatchings the order of the day in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 3Robberies and snatchings have become the order of the day in urban as well as in the rural belt of the holy city. Residents, especially traders and women, are feeling insecure as miscreants are now equipped with country- made weapons, which are easily available.Though the police have initiated several measures in order to nail suspects and attained success in some cases, but repeated occurrence of these incidents, has instilled a sense of fear and insecurity among residents.On August 27, robbers had looted gold jewellery worth Rs 25 lakhs from a jeweller, on Fatehgarh Churian Road and the police have failed to make any breakthrough in the case so far.Similarly, unidentified persons had robbed a car from a local, near Celebration mall on August 27. On the same day, car-borne persons had snatched a scooter, near Guru Nanak Dev University.On August 25, five armed persons had looted a grocery store near Daburji, while another store was looted on Tarn Taran Road on August 24.Amritsar Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said in order to nab miscreants, the police have launched a special drive. He said preventive action was taken against 22 persons under the Criminal Procedure Code. He said he has directed the SHOs to keep a tab on activities of anti-social elements and history-sheeters who had recently come out on bail.“The police have cracked many cases, which took place recently. We have arrested the perpetrators. There are a couple of cases in which we have clues and the accused will be arrested soon,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robberies-snatchings-the-order-of-the-day-in-amritsar-306032
04-09-2021||Amritsar||Don’t politicise facelift of Jallianwala Bagh: Bitta||Differing from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, All-India Anti-Terrorist Front chairman Maninderjit Singh Bitta today appreciated the newly renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Amritsar.Also read: Jallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Showing gratitude towards the Centre’s endeavour to facelift the historical site, the former Indian Youth Congress president opined that instead of criticising it for political gains, the renovation work should be appreciated. “The Centre has done a wonderful job by renovating it and enhancing the public utility services which were in a shambles before. Those who have been criticising it are doing politics, overlooking the contribution of martyrs who brought a turning point in the freedom struggle. I believe that the renovation has been done keeping in view the convenience for next 20 years,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dont-politicise-facelift-of-jallianwala-bagh-bitta-306117
