05-09-2021||---||Rejuvenation of auto-rickshaws: Amritsar ranks 2nd in country||Amritsar, September 4The Rejuvenation of auto-rickshaws in Amritsar through Holistic Intervention (RAAHI) project has been ranked second (maturation phase) in the country. The administration aims to improve public transport and reduce pollution through this project.Amritsar Municipal Corporation Commissioner-cum-CEO Smart City Malwinder Singh Jaggi was recently honoured by Kunal Kumar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Development and Director of Smart City Mission, in New Delhi.The RAAHI project is a part of City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain (CITIIS) programme run by the of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, French Development Agency (AFD), European Union and the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA).The RAAHI project was selected from 67 projects in 37 cities across India in 2019. A total of 12 cities were selected under the CITIIS.Chennai stood first, Amritsar second and Surat third for successfully completing the maturation phase.It’s worth mentioning that under the RAAHI project, old diesel autos would be replaced with e-autos, for which financial subsidy and loans at minimal interest rates would be provided to auto-drivers. Along with this, charging stations would also be set up in the city to charge e-vehicles.The Smart City CEO said, “Amritsar will be the first city in the country where e-autos will be made a part of public transport system at a large scale. Along with financial subsidy to drivers under the Smart City Mission, loans will also be provided to them at easy rates. Due to e-autos, air and noise pollution, will reduce. This will help in keeping the environment clean.”He said, “Earnings of rickshaw drivers will increase as rising oil prices have raised the operational cost. Diesel autos cost more than Rs 4 per km while e-autos will cost only 0.68 paise per km. The project will be formally launched.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rejuvenation-of-auto-rickshaws-amritsar-ranks-2nd-in-country-306820
05-09-2021||---||Flesh trade: Spa owner booked, manager arrested||Amritsar, September 4The city police have nabbed the manager of a spa centre and booked its owner for allegedly running a flesh trade racket in the garb of the spa centre located on Lawrence Road here late last evening.While the manager was identified as Azad Ali, the owner of the spa centre was Rahul Kumar Choudhry, a resident of Delhi. The police said teams were sent to Delhi for his arrest.Shivdarshan Singh, SHO, Civil Lines police station, said the police got a tip-off that some spa and massage centres were involved in flesh trade, following which a decoy customer was sent to this spa centre on the first floor of a building on Lawrence Road. He said after confirming the tip-off, a raid was conducted and four girls were arrested from the centre. Some objectionable things were also seized confirming that a flesh trade racket was being run there.A case under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956, was registered against Azad and the owner Rahul Choudhry. Further probe was under way and raids were on to nab the owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flesh-trade-spa-owner-booked-manager-arrested-306821
05-09-2021||---||Gangster Preet Sekhon held in Amrtisar's Ranjit Avenue||Amritsar, September 4The Ranjit Avenue police have arrested notorious gangster Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon, in connection with the murder of Jagroop Singh, a bouncer who was gunned down in October 10 last year.He was arrested after being brought on production warrant from jail. Sekhon along with his two accomplices were earlier arrested by the Amritsar rural police along with organised crime control unit on July 28 from Chamiayari village under Ajnala police station here.Preet Sekhon had over a dozen criminal cases against him. He along with his accomplices Sukhjinder, alias Sukha Datar, and Gurjinder Singh, alias Sonu, had killed Jagroop Singh, a resident of Nangli Batha village, when he was returning home from his duty as a bouncer at a restaurant in Ranjit Avenue area. Sekhon had claimed the responsibility of the murder.Robin Hans, SHO, Ranjit Avenue police station, said with his arrest, the police had nabbed all three suspects in the case. Sukha Datar and Sonu were arrested earlier by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-preet-sekhon-held-in-amrtisars-ranjit-avenue-306822
05-09-2021||Neha Saini||Bright spot in Covid times —  Teachers turn pro in computing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 4Ask a teacher what they have learnt in the last one-and-a-half years, quick comes a reply — computing skills.Sukhpreet Kaur, a primary teacher at Bhavan’s SL School and recipient of the CBSE Teachers Award 2021, said, “Teachers are not scared of computer anymore.”Sukhpreet, who has been teaching primary classes for more than a decade, said one of the biggest challenges of teachers during the pandemic was to impart lessons online.“This was probably the quickest crash course. In third or fourth week of the lockdown, teachers were thrown into a frenzy as teaching shifted online. In a matter of days, we had to learn about applications, integration of concepts from offline to online. We had to ensure that no student was left behind,” she said.With online education got normalised, Sukhpreet said teachers had to innovate rapidly and effectively to engage not just kids, but parents as well. “A lot of stakeholders were involved for digital learning, especially upper primary kids. In my case, I had to innovate with alternative learning methods, including poetry, storytelling and organising weekly competitions.”Now that offline teaching might be back, Sukhpreet said teachers as well as students were well equipped to continue with blended mode of learning.Her colleague and another winner of the CBSE Teachers’ Award, Harpreet Kaur said digital shift has given teachers an edge. “When the shift happened, students were more techno-savvy than teachers. So many of us had to become a student first to understand the new mode of teaching,” she said.Harpreet, who teaches chemistry, helped create a digital library for students to organise study material.“In order to deliver study content to those who faced connectivity or other problems, we created a digital library, which can be accesed with QR codes (subject and class specific). Anyone scan these codes and find relevant study material online. I took the augmented reality courses offered by the CBSE in blended learning to improve my online teaching skills,” she said.Amid the entire digitalisation of education and learning, Harpreet said basics of a teacher-student relationship remained same. “I still believe that being approachable and open to my students is what makes me a better teacher. My students can call me at 3 am for an query,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bright-spot-in-covid-times-%E2%80%94-teachers-turn-pro-in-computing-306823
05-09-2021||---||Estate wing swings into action||Amritsar, September 4Highly populated traditional markets in the city have started witnessing a huge footfall ahead of the festival season. Residents have already been complaining of inconvenience due to the rampant encroachments by shopkeepers.Swinging into action, a team of the Municipal Corporation (MC) led by Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh visited New Friendz Dhaba at Gheo Mandi Chowk, where some persons had illegally occupied government land and footpath by installing pillars on both sides. The roof was under construction to occupy the land permanently. The estate wing team removed the pillars and seized the building material and equipment.Residents are urged not to occupy the government land, footpaths and space in front of the shops illegally by displaying goods. If any person is found occupying government land or encroaching upon city roads, legal action will be taken against him immediately. —Dharminderjit Singh, Estate Officer “On Friday afternoon, we got an information that someone had encroached upon the government land and footpath near Gheo Mandi Chowk. On the directions of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi, we reached the spot and removed the pillars installed to encroach the land. We will not tolerate any such violation and immediate action will also be taken,” said Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh.Apart from this, anti-encroachment drive was conducted in the areas including Rambagh Chowk, Gheo Mandi, Heritage Street, Railway Station Link Road, Putlighar, Khandwala Chheharta. A number of vends and goods displayed by the shopkeepers outside the shops were also seized.“Residents are urged not to occupy the government land, footpaths and space in front of the shops illegally by displaying goods. If any person is found occupying government land or encroaching upon city roads, legal action will be taken against him immediately,” the Estate Officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/estate-wing-swings-into-action-306824
05-09-2021||---||Need to rise collectively from catastrophes: Sudeep Sen||Amritsar, September 4Sudeep Sen, one of the most critically acclaimed English poets, spoke about finding inspiration for his latest book, “Anthropocene : Climate change, Contagion, Consolation”, amid the pandemic.In a conversation with renowned and multiple-award winning poet Ravi Shankar during an online session organised by the Majha House, Sen said solitude he found during the pandemic resulted in penning “Anthropocene”.“The pandemic had us all living in seclusion. People get depressed because of this forced isolation. We must make the most of it. I relish my solitude. Some days, I just don’t want to step out of my room and stay locked with my thoughts to organise and create poems out of them,” he said.The pandemic had us all living in seclusion. People get depressed because of this forced isolation. We must make the most of it. I relish my solitude. Some days, I just don't want to step out of my room and stay locked with my thoughts to organise and create poems out of them. —Sudeep Sen, One of the most critically acclaimed English poetSen has given a commentary on sky in a section of his book titled “Skyscapes”, that gives readers a hint of how the pandemic inspired the poet in him. “There was nothing to do during the lockdown except write, read or take photographs. So, I wrote and took photographs. Thankfully, we had access to terrace. I tried to capture different moods and colours of the day in my photographs like Claude Monet,” he said.His book talks about climate change. “Promoters are the biggest culprits. They have the largest carbon footprints. Countries like America have a separate set of rules for all the other countries, but a completely different for themselves. Capitalist societies promote pollution and all the undesirable things. Because of this idea of global citizenship, my poems deal with the world, and not just India. What happens in one country affects all of us globally. Our problems are common and we have to work towards common solutions. That is why I am talking about climate change and the pandemic. There’s even a haiku about Donald Trump,” he said.Sen stressed that even though the book is about troubled times, it ends on a note of hope. “For me Sun is a symbol of hope. No matter what happens, no matter how long and dark the night, it always rises. We all must draw inspiration from it. We must rise collectively from catastrophes,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-rise-collectively-from-catastrophes-sudeep-sen-306826
05-09-2021||---||Robbers strike at Bhilowal village||Amritsar, September 4Around six unidentified armed persons entered a house by jumping over the wall in Bhilowal village in the intervening night of September 2 and 3 and looted owner Harbhajan Singh after hitting him with sharp weapons. They decamped with Rs42,000 cash and gold ornaments from the house.The police have registered a case under Sections 382, 450 and 323 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act in his regard and further investigations were on.Harbhajan Singh told the police that his two sons and daughter lives in Pathankot due to their jobs. Yesterday, his wife also went to Pathankot to meet them. He said around 1 am when he was asleep in his room, around six unidentified persons entered the house and woke him up by hitting him with some sharp weapon. They threatened to kill him and asked to handover whatever cash or gold he had.He said he got afraid and handed over the keys of the almirah, adding that the accused took away all gold jewellery and Rs42,000 cash. He said in the morning, he informed the sarpanch and a complaint was lodged with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-strike-at-bhilowal-village-306827
05-09-2021||---||Record 57,688 residents inoculated in single day||Amritsar, September 4The district Health Department inoculated a record 57,688 residents against Covid-19 in a single day during the ongoing vaccination drive here on Saturday. The Health Department stated that 39,958 residents were given the first dose of the vaccine and 17,730 residents received the second dose.Earlier, the district Health Department had inoculated 47,000 residents in a single day. The Health Department officials stated that 47 pregnant women and 112 lactating mothers were also given injections on Saturday. So far, the district has given injections to 862 pregnant women and 680 lactating mothers.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the injection was completely safe for residents and it was in their own interest to get vaccinated at the earliest. He added that the department had achieved the target of 100 per cent vaccination in 54 villages of the district.Meanwhile, the district reported three positive cases on Saturday with which the total count has increased to 47,240. The new cases are influenza like illness cases. The department has also reported the recovery of three patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,633. The district, at present, has a total of 18 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/record-57-688-residents-inoculated-in-single-day-306828
05-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Former Indian envoy to UAE, Iran KC Singh visits Khadoor Sahib||Tarn Taran, September 4Former Indian ambassador to UAE and Iran KC Singh and five members of his newly formed organisation, Sanjha-Sunehra Punjab Manch, visited the Nishan-E-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib, here on Saturday.A delegation met Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib. KC Singh addressed the students of NDA preparatory academy of Nishan-E-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib. “All our development is the product of farmers and soldiers. They are solid stones of our social set-up,” he said.Former Air Marshal and founding member of the Sanjha-Sunehra , Punjab, PS Gill also addressed the students and gave an inspirational lecture. He said to lead a successful life, one must have a dream, vision and hard work to realise the goal. He said to achieve the dreams you should concentrate on your priorities. The members also met the players of the Nishan-E-Sikhi hockey academy and gave them some valuable pieces of advice.Sewa Singh narrated the story of development by Kar Sewa. He shared with them the tale of the evolution of different individual institutions of various disciplines. The former ambassador expressed satisfaction over the works done by Baba Sewa Singh. Baba Baldev Singh, secretary, Nishan-E-Sikhi, Avtar Singh, director of the hockey academy, and principals of all schools and colleges were presented on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-indian-envoy-to-uae-iran-kc-singh-visits-khadoor-sahib-306829
05-09-2021||---||Conference on manufacturing excellence held||Amritsar, September 4Opportunities and challenges being faced by the manufacturing sector of the region besides the production-linked incentive schemes (PLI) were discussed during the CII, Punjab, organised fifth edition of “Conference on achieving excellence in manufacturing” through a virtual mode on Friday.Bhavdeep Sardana, Chairman, CII Punjab State, said: “For the Industry to become future-ready in the current and post pandemic scenario, greater participation from government and industry is necessary. Exposing the companies to the emerging opportunities but also making them aware of the stringent performance expectations necessary to succeed.”Deepak Jain, Chairman, CII, NR Committee on Manufacturing, said, “Economy needs a strong manufacturing push. The country has a huge untapped potential to become a global manufacturing hub.Amit Thapar, Vice Chairman, CII, Punjab, said, “A long-term perspective and joint approach to addressing many current problems like skilled manpower unavailability, quality power, poor infrastructure etc. is the need of the hour.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/conference-on-manufacturing-excellence-held-306830
05-09-2021||Amritsar||Fit India Freedom Run organised in 35 villages||The Nehru Youth Center in collaboration with the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India, on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence organised a Fit India Freedom Run in several villages of the district today.  The local NSS volunteers and Youth Club officials will be organising the run in 75 towns and villages of different blocks in Amritsar district alone, out of which 35 villages were covered till today. The first run in the series was held on August 13 from Jallianwala Bagh to Company Bagh.  On Saturday, villages, including Kotla Doom, Rayya village, Khilchian, Bhorachi Brahmana, Ratangarh, Tangra, Tarasika, among others hosted the run where people from all age groups took part.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fit-india-freedom-run-organised-in-35-villages-306831
05-09-2021||Amritsar||Terror-hit victims demand relief package from government||The Punjab Terrorist Victim (migrants) Sangharsh Samiti alleged that the Punjab Government had failed to safeguard the rights and interests of people who lost their bread-earners and near and dear ones during the peak of militancy in Punjab.“The government failed to save us at that time and now by not providing any relief package to victims and their kin who have been struggling for the same for the last over three decades,” said Dr BR Hastir, chairman of the association.The samiti has forwarded a memorandum to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and put forth their demands, including a relief package for victims who were still struggling. It pointed out that as many as 10,636 persons were killed and 795 injured during the militancy in the state. Besides, 16,957 persons had migrated to cities or outside Punjab for their safety.In 2006, the then Punjab Chief Minister forwarded a proposal for the compensation to the Ministry of Home Affairs and subsequent DOs were sent in 2009, 2011 and 2014 to the Prime Minister for the relief package to the terrorism-hit families in Punjab on the pattern of anti-Sikh riot victims. The Centre later accepted the proposal which is pending with the Home Ministry.The association has demanded Rs8.50 lakh compensation per person killed by militants in Punjab in a family on the pattern of riot-hit victims, besides Rs5 lakh for those families who migrated from their native places due to terrorism. Similarly, they demanded Rs2.50 lakh relief to the injured by terrorists and increment in pension from Rs5,000 to Rs10,000 per month for the victims’ families. The government has also promised to provide residential plots or houses to victims. The association also sought waiver of power bills up to 300 units. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/terror-hit-victims-demand-relief-package-from-government-306832
05-09-2021||---||Property worth Rs 90L attached||Amritsar, September 4The Amritsar city police have attached property worth Rs 90 lakh reportedly belonging to a drug smuggler identified as Jagjit Singh, a resident of Harkrishan Nagar. He originally hailed from Hawelian village falling under the jurisdiction of Sarai Amanat Khan police station in Tarn Taran district. Amritsar Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said Jagjit had two residential properties in Harkrishan Nagar and one at Paradise colony in Chheharta, which he had allegedly accumulated from ill-conceived drug money. He said Jaggi had four cases of drug peddling against him. He said details of his property were sent to the Office of Competent Authority and Administrator in New Delhi, which ordered the seizure under Section 68-F of the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-worth-rs-90l-attached-306833
05-09-2021||---||Man kills self , lawyer among 2 booked||Amritsar, September 4Beas police have booked the manager of a gurdwara and a lawyer on the charge of abetment to suicide after a man ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in Baba Bakala Sahib.The deceased has been identified as Chanchal Singh and the accused have been identified as Satinder Singh, gurdwara manager, and Dalbir Singh Bedi, the lawyer. Complainant Harpreet Kaur told the police that she had come to see her sister-in-law in a hospital in Beas when she got a call from her husband Daljinder Singh, informing that her father Chanchal Singh had committed suicide.She said he was rushed to the Baba Bakala Civil Hospital where his body was kept. She found a suicide note from the pocket of the victim’s clothes in which he wrote that the two accused were harassing him and due to this he was ending his life.On the basis of the suicide note, the police booked Satinder and Dalbir under Section 306 of the IPC, but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-kills-self-lawyer-among-2-booked-306834
05-09-2021||Amritsar||Ensure nutrition in diet: Experts||The District Health Department organised an event to mark National Nutrition Week being observed in the country from September 1-7 to create awareness about the importance of a balanced diet.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said diet should contain sufficient quantities of vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates and proteins. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ensure-nutrition-in-diet-experts-306835
05-09-2021||Tarn Taran||30-yr-old dies of drug overdose||AAP to take up traders’ issuesAmritsar: Aam Adami Party (AAP) has assured the businessmen and traders to take up their needs and demands if they manage to from the government. Manish Aggarwal, president of the AAP’s Trade and Industry wing, stated this here today. He said he recently met AAP state President Bhagwant Mann and raised the problems being faced by entrepreneurs. Aggarwal said special schemes would be floated in order to support and encourage the industry in the state. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-yr-old-dies-of-drug-overdose-306837
05-09-2021||Amritsar||Teacher’s day celebrations||SGHPS teachers take a pledgeA plethora of activities were organised by students of SGHPS to mark teacher’s day. A poster making competition on importance of teachers was also organised for Class X. Students of Class VIII prepared PPTs thanking their teachers for the pivotal role they play in their lives. Principal, Dr Dharam Veer Singh felicitated the teachers for their hard work and dedication towards their profession even during the most demanding times of the pandemic. The day ended with the pledge by the teachers that they will try to make a difference in the life of their students by imparting them quality education both online and offline. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-day-celebrations-306838
05-09-2021||Tarn Taran||To dear teachers, with love||On the eve of Teacher’s Day, educational institutions organised functions in honour of teachers.Teachers of Baljit Memorial Senior Secondary School, Kahlwan, extended their best wishes to their students and said they feel proud when a student progresses in his/her life. Principal Sukhjinder Singh and Director Amarjit Singh too addressed the students and teachers on the occasion.Know the dayTejinder Singh, Managing Director, Mata Sahib Kaur Modern Senior Secondary School, Bharowal, said to mark the day, students addressed the morning assembly and appreciated the role of teachers to build a progressive society.Jatinderpal Singh, Director, Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, said students presented poems, speeches, songs etc. in the honour of teachers on the occasion. Manisha Sood, School Principal, said keeping in view the hard work put in by teachers, a formal luncheon was organised by the management committee for teachers. Various events were organised for the entertainment of the teachers. Teachers were honoured with gifts by the managing committee.Khushwinder Singh, Head Master, Government Middle School, Chutala, honoured all teachers of the school with mementos. He called student to follow their teachers to make progress in life.The managing committee of Shah Harbans International Public School, Raniwallah, organised an open gathering on Saturday in which the teachers, students and the area elders participated. The teachers were given much time to express their views regarding their personal problems and any other issues.Gurwinder Singh, Director, and Navdeep Kaur, Principal of the school, presented gifts to the teachers to honour them. The elders appreciated the staff of the school the teachers.Jaswant Singh Khalsa, Director, Dashmesh Privar International School, Aima Kalan, said under the guidance of Principal Charu Singh Pannu said competitions were organised to celebrate Teacher’s Day in which students presented their views and first three position holders were given time to read their views on the stage.Function was also organised on the eve of the Teacher’s Day in Howard Lane Senior School, Thatha. Rajbir Kaur Randhawa, Director, and Manjinder Singh Virk, School Principal, said a teacher is like a candle that consumes itself to light the way for others.Urminder Kaur, Principal, Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, congratulated the teachers on the occasion. Students and teachers presented cultural items on the function organised on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/to-dear-teachers-with-love-306839
05-09-2021||---||Make Batala district: Rebel ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa||Chandigarh, September 4Rebel ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today demanded creation of Batala as the 24th district of Punjab to honour the wishes of the people and ensure overall development of the area.In a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the ministers said the historical town had not received the focus it deserved. They also sought the creation of Fatehgarh Churian and Sri Hargobindpur (Ghuman) towns as subdivisions in the new district.Rich heritageThe senior ministers pointed out that Batala had rich historical, religious, social and literary heritage. Founded in 1465, Batala was the oldest city of Punjab after Bathinda and the eighth largest in the state in terms of population where a municipal corporation was formed last year.Underscoring the historical importance of Batala, the ministers said: “Guru Nanak Dev was married to Mata Sulakhni in this city on July 8, 1487. Gurdwara Dera Sahib and Gurdwara Kandh Sahib are adorned in his memory. Guru Hargobind, the sixth master, also came to Batala to marry his son Baba Gurditta and in his memory Gurdwara Sat Kartaria is adorned in the middle of the city.”After Lahore and Amritsar, Batala was also an important city of the Sikh Empire, during Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s reign, they asserted.They said apart from Kali Dwara Mandir and Sati Lakshmi Devi Samadh, the historical site of Achal Sahib was located near the city. Achaleshwar Dham is dedicated to Lord Shiva’s son Kartikeya. Guru Nanak Dev also interacted with Sidhs at this historical place, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/make-batala-district-rebel-ministers-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-tript-rajinder-singh-bajwa-306733
05-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Panel visits Jallianwala Bagh, says heritage trivialised||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 4A delegation of members of the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee (DBYC) today raised objections to some alterations at the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in Amritsar after the recent renovations.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeThe committee members said they would send a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Jallianwala Bagh Trust representatives, demanding to restore the historical look and ambience of the Bagh. They also declared an agitation would be launched if need be.The committee said: “In the name of beautification and modernisation, the meddling with the authenticity of the historical facts of the national historical heritage of the Jallianwala Bagh is bound to evoke sorrow and criticism from every serious historian.”The primary objections raised by the committee were: Changes made to the main entrance reduced its tragic effect; addition of a queue of modern machines at the entrance suggested fee might be charged in future; replacing the high platform from where shots were fired with a smaller memorial on the floor; and ‘Amar Jyoti’ moved back from the original spot.The committee delegation included president Ajmer Singh, general secretary Gurmeet Singh and cultural wing convener Amolak Singh. The other objections raised by the committee were the influence of the narrow main entrance and its horrifying spectacle had been replaced with statues of a laughing and dancing crowd going to visit Baisakhi Mela; the marks of gun shots on the walls had been preserved but the historic look of the walls had been changed; ‘Shaheed’ was not written under the portraits of Bhagat Singh, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Udham Singh, etc; Ghadar Party stalwart Prof Barkatullah and freedom fighter Dr Hafiz Mohammed Bashir’s names had not been mentioned. “At least 62 of the list of 406 martyrs released by the British government were from Muslim families, but after an analysis of the light and sound show, one questions why Muslim brotherhood has been sidelined,” they said.Amolak Singh said: “We object to the trivialisation of the heritage commemorating this huge massacre. We will send a memorandum to the PM and Jallianwala Bagh Trust representatives after a meeting at 9.30 am tomorrow.”Objections raisedThe primary objections raised by the committee were: Changes made to the main entrance reduced its tragic effect; addition of a series of modern machines at the entrance suggested fee might be charged in future; replacing the high platform from where shots were fired with a smaller memorial on the floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panel-visits-jallianwala-bagh-says-heritage-trivialised-306736
05-09-2021||---||BSF fires at drone in Tarn Taran||Amritsar/Ferozepur, Sept 4A drone was sighted by Border Security Force personnel at Rajoke village in Tarn Taran area of Ferozepur sector around 2 am today. On hearing the humming sound, the personnel belonging to 103 Battalion followed the standard operating procedure and opened fire targeting the drone, forcing it to return to the Pakistan side.The area was cordoned off and a massive search operation was carried out in the morning, which continued for hours. However, nothing suspicious was recovered.BSF officials said as per their coordinated drill, other security agencies were informed about the incident and further investigations were being carried out.Pak hand?In a press release, it said: “A special search operation was carried out. Nothing suspicious was recovered from the area.”DIG Surendra Mehta said the BSF personnel were on alert and were keeping an eye on any suspicious activity along the border. He said coordinated efforts were being made to counter the drone menace in the sector.Cross-border drone movement has become a major challenge for the security agencies. Anti-national forces in Pakistan along with the ISI have been using drones to smuggle arms and ammunition besides contraband.The BSF and Punjab Police have already been on high alert following seizure of hand grenades and two tiffin bombs in the recent past.A BSF spokesperson said it was difficult to spot drones at night, therefore jawans fired in the direction of the humming sound of drones.Two years ago, the Punjab Police had busted a terror module using drones for supply of weapons and ammunition to operatives with seizures at Rajoke village. The police had arrested several persons and recovered five AK-47 rifles, 16 magazines, four China-made pistols and a huge quantity of ammunition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-fires-at-drone-in-tarn-taran-306741
