06-09-2021||Amritsar||28-yr-old tailor commits suicide||Rs45,000 cash, mobile lootedTarn Taran: A group of eight robbers armed with sharp weapons robbed a farmer of Jeobala village of Rs45,000, a motorcycle and two mobiles on Sunday. The victim, Satnam Singh Satta, told the Sadar police that he was coming to his village on his bike after selling a buffalo at nearby Gaggobua village on Sunday. Suddenly, a group of eight bike-borne robbers armed with sharp weapons blocked him and looted Rs45,000, his bike and two mobile sets. The police have started probe. OCTwo arrested on rape chargeTarn Taran: Two persons of Mallhia village have been arrested by the local city police on rape charge. The accused have been identified as Satpal Singh Ladi and Kuldeep Singh Babblu of the same village. The victim had been living with her brother after separating with her husband and had delivered a baby a week ago. When her brother inquired about the baby, she alleged that the accused had raped her and threatened her of dire consequences if she disclosed it to anybody. ASI Gajjan Singh, Investigation Officer (IO), said the accused have been arrested after being booked under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC. OCOne held with 260-gm heroinTarn Taran: A resident of Patti town was arrested with 260 gram of heroin on Saturday. Accused Kulwinder Singh, alias Nona, was riding his Platina motorcycle (PB-46U 5916) when the police party intercepted him and seized 260 gram of heroin was seized from the accused. The accused was facing six criminal cases under heinous criminal sections previously. OC2 mobile phones seized from jailAmritsar: The authorities at Amritsar Central Jail on Saturday seized two mobile phones and a power bank from an inmate from the premises. The prisoner has been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, a resident of Khadoor Sahib. Ajmer Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said that during the checking of Chakki No.2, the jail staff recovered two mobile phones and a power bank from the accused. ASI Avtar Singh, Fatahpur police post, stated that a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of Prisons Act had been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/28-yr-old-tailor-commits-suicide-307402
06-09-2021||Open House||Prioritise vaccination, enforce Covid norms to stay safe||We must not repeat the same mistakesThe third wave is already manifesting itself in Kerala and Maharashtra where cases of the Delta plus have increased. The National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) report on third wave preparedness is quite worrying, but the biggest concern is for the children as they are unvaccinated. The report also refers to specific general projections, such as the one that India can witness 6 lakh cases per day, compared to the peak of around 1 lakh in the first wave and around 4 lakh in the second wave. The report also reminds the second wave that blew up into massive shortages of hospital beds, medical oxygen and therapeutic drugs in many parts of the country. Not repeating these mistakes is critical. Advance preparation on multiple fronts, from masking and social distancing to oxygen and medicines can make all the difference when the expected third wave infections surge again. ‘Those who learn from history are doomed to repeat it’, the NIDM report has rightly reminded. If we do things rightly the direst warnings for September-October will not come to pass, so let us do things right. Also the reality to be faced is that there are and will be too many people unmasked in public spaces, especially in the coming festive season. As such there is no real alternative to rapid vaccination to stay ahead of virus resurgence in the third Covid-19 wave. It is also crucial that the Centre and state/district administration play a coordinating role to ensure interstate movements of medically needed goods aren’t affected.LJ SinghAnnounce lockdown on time to curb spread The third wave of the Covid will hit the country between September and October as predicted by an expert panel. The third wave will be more harmful as it will coincide with the festive season. According to an estimate, the third wave is considered to be more dangerous as compared to previous two wavesThe government has appealed to people to stay at home in view of the pandemic. According to the government, if one follows the lockdown rules in spirit, then the damage inflicted by the disease can be reduced. But most of the people don’t adhere to those guidelinesDuring the festive season, people throng markets which can increase caseload. Therefore, the government can announce lockdown in India during the third wave. It is also our responsibility to follow government guidelines and stay at our home. Akshar Kumar SinglaQUESTIONConsidering that citizens are already battling a spate of respiratory diseases amid the pandemic, what should the government do to stop farmers from burning stubble and further aggravating the situation this winter?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 9)Ramp up vaccination pace to defeat virusTo defeat the impending threat of third wave of Covid-19, the central government should accelerate the vaccination programme. The latest data shows we have given 62.6 crore doses, whereas only 14.2 crore people have been fully vaccinated, which forms just 10.4 percent of our total population. On the other hand China has fully vaccinated 88.9 crore and the US 17.3 crore of their citizens. The UK is preparing itself to vaccinate kids between age group of 12-15 years. Now, the threat of Covid is a permanent feature and only preventive measure is to have vaccination, which is not under the control of district administration but it is for central government to do the needful.Harsh JoharOpen markets in a phased mannerThere is no doubt that experts panel of epidemiologists have warned about the third Covid-19 wave in the coming months. But the same people have also expressed opinion that impending wave would be less lethal than the previous one. Still the district administration and the public have to be careful and take due precautions to prevent the spread of the coming wave. First of all, the administration would have to be strict about avoiding large gatherings and asking people to put on masks and frequent hand washing or using sanitisers. The markets and bazaars should be opened in a phased manner to avoid crowding in the markets. Also the vaccination drive should be expedited so that more and more people get the jabs. So, it's imperative that the school teachers should be vaccinated at the earliest.JS WadhwaPoliticians should lead by exampleAs per the report of expert’s panel, third wave of Covid-19 is expected to hit the country in September-October, which is a peak festival period. You asked for the steps to be taken by district administration to make the people aware of it. People are aware of it but our political bosses are not aware of it. This is a pandemic taken whole of the world in its grip since almost two years. How it could be dealt with at local level? It is the responsibility of the central government to find amicable solution to the problem created by the by implementing farms acts without any discussion with the concerned parties thereby compelling the farmers to start agitation. They are holding dharnas and rallies attended by thousands since last nine months thus throwing to winds all norms for prevention of corona. Central government should attend to their genuine demands so as to stop such huge gatherings during this critical period. Similarly state government employees are always on agitation mode due to non- payment of their salaries or related issues. Though state assembly elections are due early next year but political rallies of different parties are a regular feature these days thus attracting thousands of their supporters. To stop the third wave of Covid-19, it is for our political leadership to take the preventive measures. John C. Maxwell rightly said” A leader is who knows the way, goes the way and show the way”.Naresh JoharUse media judiciously to raise awarenessThe ravages of Covid-19 on human health, economy and other aspects of life are no longer a mystery to the masses. Since its outbreak in late 2019, the virus has registered alternating episodes of peaks and valleys and dangerous mutations that have claimed several lives the world over, forcing people to go into hibernation and wear face masks. Repeated episodes of lockdowns and the social distancing enforced to curtail its spread, have only made the humans yearn for freedom from masks and the liberty to roam around and mingle sans any curbs, which is evident from the way in which they can be seen thronging public places whenever Covid-19 cases start abating. With the festive season around the bend, the Covid-19 norms are quite likely to be tossed to the winds this year as a majority of Indians are raring to celebrate these festivals with traditional fervor, after keeping these observances through the virtual modes for almost two years. With health experts anticipating a possible third Covid-19 wave in September and October, it’s high time the district administration acted in advance to make people aware of this impending threat through various media and social networking sites, holding door-to-door campaigns, street plays and rallies in educational institutions, public places and locales that have little to no access to technology, besides ensuring that they are duly vaccinated ahead of the festival season.Shaheen Parshadresidents should cooperate with govtPrediction of Covid-19 wave hitting the country anytime between September and October has scared most of the population of the country. The festival season is also coinciding with the third wave. This will make the condition worse as many people have to step out of the house to shop for the festive season. This would make a very huge rush at several places. Hence, the district administration should make arrangements beforehand. Compulsion should be made for wearing of masks and maintaining the allotted distances when stepping out of the house. The violators must be fined heavily in order to maintain discipline during this festive season. It’s not only the duty of the government or the district administration to maintain peace and security especially during these times of pandemic but it is also the duty of the citizens. So far I have heard about the third wave is that it will affect the children. Since people are very worried about their child’s health, the people should be more careful. Concluding, citizens must also cooperate with government and obey the orders.Izleen ChoudharyPeople must follow regulations sincerelyWe have seen how fatal complacency can be during the second wave of Covid-19. Since there are predictions that the third wave is just around the corner, both the citizens and the authorities must be well prepared to deal with the situation. The authorities must initiate mass awareness campaigns to sensitise the people about the do’s and don’ts to deal with the pandemic. People, on the other hand, must follow the regulations sincerely and cooperate with the officials to save themselves and others from Covid-19.Jatinderpal Singh BatthCoordinated efforts hold the keyThe diverse festivals and customs of every part of the Indian subcontinent are the very soul and spirit of the country. Nothing is celebrated more in the country other than festivals and traditions. With a never-ending list of festivals, India’s identity being synonymous with festivals is well justified. Knowing that the third wave is inevitable and is coinciding with not only the festival season but the festive spirit of the people, to make sure everything goes smoothly will be a daunting task for the government as well as the people for sure. Considering how deleterious the second wave was, the third wave should definitely not be taken lightly in any sense again both by the people as well as the government. I believe the government would require a very clear thought-out strategy in order to tackle this arduous storm to minimise the damage from the imminent third wave. First of all, the public needs to be made aware of the gravity of the situation at hand and how ghastly it could turn out if measures are not taken. Secondly, the government needs to enforce strict rules and policies regarding public gatherings and festive shopping, not to mention how we need a strict no firework policy considering the increase in patients with respiratory problems due to Covid. Places with high footfall must be kept under safety regulations and masks need to be compulsory more than ever. Collective and coordinated effort is the key.Gurbhej SinghPeople must be told about lurking dangerJabbing almost a crore doses daily is a big achievement. The availability of the vaccine is also now abundant. The total population of vaccinated in the country is also not less. An average Indian is now well-informed of the do’s and don’ts to counter the virus. However, the fears of a third wave of Covid-19 hitting north India are not a figment of imagination. It is a possibility, particularly when viewed in the context of looming super spreaders in the form of the forthcoming festival season and the customary festivities associated with marriages mostly planned in October to March. Moreover, the imminent Assembly elections in Punjab, Uttarkhand and the likelihood political rallies like those held in West Bengal before elections is a challenge. Panic is no solution. No doubt, new cases involving this infection are now minuscule and many people go about their daily routines without masks and places of worship are now back to normal. However, it is time people are cautioned about the lurking danger. Almost all countries faced the same situation. The maximum attention however should be given to observe physical distance.Prof Mohan SinghEnsure adequate vaccinationThe best that the local district administration can do is to make sure that everyone who is eligible for the vaccination has been vaccinated. They can take the help of local councillors because the councillors know of almost everyone who is living in their ward and they will be able to ensure that no one is left without a vaccination shot. The second thing that the district administration should do is propagate this message of protecting themselves against the virus through the help of mass media. This will help sensitise the residents. Last but not the least, the government should stock up on the essentially required items during a Covid pandemic wave such as medicines, masks, gloves, oxygen and so on.Sukhamrit Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prioritise-vaccination-enforce-covid-norms-to-stay-safe-307401
06-09-2021||---||‘Sri Hargobindpur MC turning a blind eye to encroachments’||Sri Hargobindpur, September 5A cross-section of residents, led by Bawa Harjit Singh Bhalla, former chief of the Sri Hargobindpur Municipal Council (MC) and his son and ex-councillor Sandeep Bhalla, have claimed in a written statement that a local Congressman was trying to encroach upon prime land which, on a conservative estimate, was worth Rs50 lakh.The Bhallas said the Congressman was close to some middle-rung employees of the MC. “These employees are facilitating illegal encroachment upon half-an-acre land lying vacant behind the bus stand and near the main market. This Congressman owns a showroom in the vicinity of the site, where the land was being encroached upon. We have sent a petition to Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq and Batala SSP Ashwani Kapur in this regard,” said Sandeep Bhalla.The DC said he would look into the matter and act accordingly. “Let me first check the facts and only then will I act,” he said.‘Cobbler threatened to vacate shop’Meanwhile, there are reports that a cobbler, Ashwani Kumar, was threatened by some Congressmen to vacate his shop near the bus stand “or face the music.”The Bhallas said the only fault of Ashwani was that he attended Thursday’s function, where former SAD Cabinet Minister Bikram Singh Majithia was present. “Majithia was in town on Thursday to induct us into the SAD fold. Ashwani’s only fault was that he had attended the proceedings. While he was openly threatened by Congressmen to vacate his shop, there are several others who are facing similar threats but who are not coming forward for obvious reasons. We request the SSP to intervene and save the livelihood of Ashwani from being snatched,” Sandeep Bhalla said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sri-hargobindpur-mc-turning-a-blind-eye-to-encroachments-307400
06-09-2021||---||RTI activist cries foul, alleges wheat bungling||Amritsar, September 5RTI activist Varun Sareen has accused the Department of Food and Civil Supplies of bungling wheat after he allegedly found two trucks laden with wheat coming out of a godown from Ram Tirath Road without measuring the weight of grains.He said he got several complaints that bags of wheat being distributed under the Atta-Dal Scheme weighed two-three kg less in comparison with their original weight. He said the ration depot holders blamed the food and civil supply officials for the same. He also said today two trucks were intercepted on Ram Tirath Road and gate pass was issued to both the trucks without measuring the weight of the grains which is bound to elicit suspicion and reeks of corrupt practice. He said it was being done with the connivance of the concerned officials of the department.“The truck drivers could not produce the measuring (kanda) slips issued after weighing the grains,” Sareen alleged. When he insisted on showing the slip to him, a truck driver sped away.The authorities of the godown passed the buck on the ration depot holder, while he said the authorities did not ask him for the same.Sareen pointed out that it was mandatory for weighing the grains before issuing a gate pass before leaving the godown. However, this norm was being flouted in a brazen manner.Authorities could not be reached out despite repeated attempts, while Abhinav Trikha, director, Food Civil Supplies, said the matter would be investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rti-activist-cries-foul-alleges-wheat-bungling-307399
06-09-2021||---||First-ever International Symposium on Sikh Architecture tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5To commemorate the Prakash Utsav of Guru Granth Sahib, Saakaar Foundation, Chandigarh would be organising first-ever virtual International Symposium on Sikh Architecture on September 7, 14 and 21.This symposium is aimed at bringing experts from across the world to share their views, documentation and knowledge on ‘Sikh Architecture’.Surinder Bahga, chairman of the foundation, said: “It is estimated that about 1,000 architects and other professionals from the world will attend this symposium. Eight architecture schools and universities of north India are collaborating in this noble cause, besides some national-level organisations such as The Sikh Chamber of Commerce, Indian Institute of Architects, Chandigarh and Punjab Chapters, Fire and Security Association of India, ASSOCHAM GEM and Ashray among others.”It will have three technical sessions. The first session will include lectures by eminent academicians and architects. The second session on “Historical Perspectives” will be held on September 14. The concluding session will be on Contemporary Sikh Architecture on September 21, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/first-ever-international-symposium-on-sikh-architecture-tomorrow-307398
06-09-2021||Tarn Taran||1 killed, 5 hurt in road mishaps||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-killed-5-hurt-in-road-mishaps-307397
06-09-2021||---||Amritsar MC slaps Rs 10-lakh penalty on solid waste management firm||Amritsar, September 5The Municipal Corporation (MC), Amritsar, imposed a penalty of Rs 10 lakh on Amritsar Municipal Solid Waste (AMSW), a solid waste management company, as workers of company found adding sand in the garbage to increase weight on Thursday. Apart from the penalty, the MC will pay only for the half of the garbage weight for Thursday.The solid waste management company, AMSW, hired by the MC for waste disposal had come under scanner when its employees were spotted adding sand to the garbage to enhance its weight on Thursday. A local Congress leader Sarabjit Singh Latti had recorded a video of company employees and sent it to MC officials and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu. Latti claimed that the company employees were adding sand in the garbage near the dairy complex on Jhabal Road. The workers reportedly claimed that they are doing this on the directions of higher officials of the firm to enhance the weight of garbage.Mayor Karamajit Singh Rintu issued a notice to the company and also ordered an inquiry in this regard. The company was yet to submit its response.The company was collecting garbage door-to-door from 75 wards of the city. According to information, the firm collects around 400 MT garbage daily and the MC pays them Rs 1,350 per tonne of waste.The solid waste management was already under scanner for regular fire at the Bhagtanwala dumping site. The residents of Bhagtanwala alleged that the company set the garbage on fire instead of bioremediation as it is a costly process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-slaps-rs-10-lakh-penalty-on-solid-waste-management-firm-307396
06-09-2021||---||Accident victim succumbs to injuries||Amritsar, September 5A vegetable seller, who was injured during a road accident on Friday at the Vallah bypass, died while undergoing treatment here on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Ram Karan, a resident of Garden Enclave.The complainant, Shiv Magan, said he works as vegetable seller. On Friday, around 9 am after getting vegetables from Sabji Mandi Vallah he reached near Khande wala Chowk. His Nephew, Ram Karan, along with his daughter Gudia (6), was going toward home at Garden Enclave. When they reached the chowk, a rashly-driven truck hit his nephew Ram Karan’s motorcycle. Due to which Ram Karan got a serious injury on head. He was admitted to Guru Ram Dass Hospital Wallah, where he died while undergoing treatment. The police has registered a case against unidentified truck driver under sections 304-A, 279,337,427 IPC at Maqboolpura police station in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/accident-victim-succumbs-to-injuries-307395
06-09-2021||---||Amritsar: Mandi Board procurement ready?||Amritsar, September 5The district Mandi Board expects the arrival of approximately 5-lakh metric tonne paddy produce during the upcoming procurement season, for which preparations are underway.After taking stock of the arrangements being made, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira instructed the officials to keep a strict vigil on bogus billing and arrival of paddy from other states.The government has fixed a minimum support price of Rs1,960 per quintal this season. The district administration would make arrangement for procurement at 57 permanent markets and 39 temporary markets in the district, said Khaira.He instructed the officials to ensure the repair of roads leading to grain markets before the procurement season begins. He said control rooms would be set up at district administrative complex and Food and Civil Supplies office so that farmers do not face any problem in selling their produce.Raj Rishi, an official from the District Food and Civil Supplies, said different procurement agencies have set their targets for the season, as per which Pungrain would procure 34 per cent of the total produce, Markfed 26 per cent of the produce, Punsup 22 per cent, Punjab Warehouse 13 per cent and Food Corporation of India 5 per cent.The DC said farmers should bring fully ripened crop to markets only so that they do not have to face any trouble. He said as procurement agencies would not buy grains with moisture more than the permissible limit, farmers would face inconvenience. Khiara said procurement season would begin on October 1 and continue till November 5.While the procurement for paddy varieties covered under the Public Distribution System (PDS) would begin from October 1, the early sown basmati varieties would be harvested early. These varieties are purchased by private players and officials expect that harvesting would begin within the next fortnight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mandi-board-procurement-ready-307377
06-09-2021||Amritsar||Six test positive for Covid in Amritsar district||The district case tally increased to 47,250 after six persons tested positive on Sunday. The new cases include one influenza-like illness case and five contacts of positive patients. The health authorities have also reported the recovery of six patients, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,645. The district, at present, has a total of 16 active cases.Meanwhile, 3,643 residents were inoculated for Covid 19 on Sunday. Of these, 2,367 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 1,276 received the second dose. The health officials said 2,58,176 residents in the district have been completely vaccinated.No case, death in Tarn TaranNo positive case or death was reported in the district on Sunday. The Health Department team collected 730 samples from different places on Sunday for Covid test. The administration was yet to collect reports of 505 samples. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 2,744 residents were given the jabs on Sunday. Total 3,72,399 residents have been given 4,62,205 dozes of Covid vaccine so far. — TNS/ OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-test-positive-for-covid-in-amritsar-district-307376
06-09-2021||Four teachers of the district were felicitated with State Award this Teacher’s Day. During the felicitation ceremony held at the District Administrative Complex here on Sunday||Four Amritsar teachers get State Award||Narinder SinghA Science Master at Government High School, Kakkar village, he is teaching for the last 16 years. He is also district science mentor. It was only a year ago that he was promoted as Headmaster (direct recruitment) by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC). He was instrumental in increasing new admission to the school by 25 per cent, indoor sports room, maths park-cum-open classroom, displaying all geometrical signs around the green board, a well-furnished and fully equipped science lab. Being a border village, a large number of children work at brick kilns. Bringing them back to school was his main aim. So, he kicked off an anti-child labour campaign with the help of his colleagues. He said the online shift of education in the wake of Covid-19 brought in unimaginable challenges.Gurinder KaurShe has been a teacher for the past nearly 25 years. Before joining the government school as Headmistress in 2006, she taught as science teacher at Spring Dales for 10 years. She was promoted as Principal in 2014. During the pandemic, she ensured that students coming from impoverished families at Government School, Talwandi Dasaundha Singh, got uninterrupted education. So, she arranged for transmission of two channels on education in the e-vidya lab set up at her school. All teachers pooled money to own a van, which was used to motivate parents to send their wards to school.Adarsh SharmaShe has been teaching English for the last 27 years. "Teaching is my passion. So, whenever my school and students need me, I leave behind all other work without caring for holidays," she said. She established an English lab with modern gadgets such as listening aid, audio-video aids, hand-made charts, models and games, funding all of these from her own pocket. The National University of Planning and Administration, New Delhi, also selected her for a programme. She has attended 21 national-level seminars organised by the NCERT, National University of Planning and Administration and Council for Cultural Research and Training. She is the nodal officer for all kinds of literary competitions being organised to mark the 400th Gurpurb of Guru Teg Bahadur and 75th Independence Day celebrations in the district.Gurjit KaurA Punjabi teacher at Government High School, Putlighar, she has been in the teaching profession for the last 24 years. She developed Bhai Veer Singh Punjabi Park in the school, in which students learn grammar — that too all out of her own savings. She has also set up a Punjabi Kala Bhawan, in which she has displayed models of teaching-learning material related to her subject — Punjabi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-amritsar-teachers-get-state-award-307375
06-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Teacher’s Day: A special educator||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5What started as a saga of an individual to take care of her son with special needs turned into a movement for setting up an NGO and a school for such children.Nearly two decades ago, Prerna Khanna had gone to the national capital to provide treatment to her two-year-old ward and charted out an altogether new career in her life. A commerce graduate with diploma in software programming, she did her BEd from the Indian Final Injuries Center, Delhi, in 2008.Now, she is a reputed teacher for students with special needs and teaches and guides special students from Amritsar and neighbouring districts. Acknowledging her accomplishments, Khalsa College is all set to felicitate her with Punjab Teachers Award 2020 on the campus on September 7. Her struggle to find a space for her son in mainstream schools led to opening of a window of opportunity for the students with special needs. Her initial struggle to provide proper treatment to her son in Delhi led her family to opening of a centre in the holy city.Way back in 2001, Prerna and her husband Gaurav had got to know about their one-year-old child that he was suffering from cerebral palsy. Next year (2002), she along with her two-year-old son shifted to Delhi to provide her son the best available treatment. She had taken a house on rent and stayed there for two years. During the stay, her son was given occupational and speech therapies, besides hyperbaric oxygen and special education at a rehabilitation centre. When the elder one was four years old she was blessed with another son.Recollecting those days, she said that was an extremely tough phase of life. During her stay over there, she had a chance to listen to a lecture by an expert who had insisted on parents, especially mothers, to learn special education to take care of their wards with special needs which had prompted her to do BEd.“As I had to stay with my son for eight to nine hours at the rehabilitation centre every day during my stay in Delhi, my father-in-law Arun Khanna shared an idea to open a centre at their old abandoned house,” she said. The idea worked and they set up an NGO – Global Institute For Childhood Disability — where she had first started voluntarily teaching as a special educator. Soon the centre was brimming with students with special needs who thronged it not only from Amritsar but also from neighbouring districts.As time passed, her younger son Rehann started going to Spring Dales School. Anecdotes of his school prompted her younger son to press for his admission in the same school. Then she approached different mainstream schools to get him admitted. However, the truth dawned that no school has any arrangement for imparting education to students with special needs. She then approached the district administration with the same request. Then Deputy Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal convened a meeting of the city’s private schools.Of them, Spring Dale offered to open the centre provided they got the special educators. At that point of time, she came forward and continues to teach at the same school. Now her 21-year-old son studies in Class X.A memo soaked in teachers’ bloodAmritsar: Members of the B Ed Berozgar Sanjha Morcha, Punjab, and B Ed, TET-Pass Union carried out a protest march by holding placards and raising slogans against the government. Unemployed teachers hailing from Amritsar, Pathankot, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur handed over a bottle of their blood and memorandum to MP Gurjit Singh Aujla here on Sunday. They want that B Ed and TET-qualified people be recruited in government schools on a priority. Aujla assured them that he would take up their demands with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Jagroop Singh, member of the B Ed, TET-Pass Union, said the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi initiated drive to recruit 842 Punjabi teachers. On the other hand, the Punjab Government recruited only 62 teachers of Punjabi this year. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-day-a-special-educator-307374
06-09-2021||---||Review ban on articles of faith in exam: Akal Takht to Haryana||Amritsar, September 5Giani Harpreet Singh, acting Jathedar of Akal Takht, has asked the Haryana Government to reconsider its decision to ban Sikhs from wearing articles of faith in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) examination.The HPSC conducts the exams for government jobs in Haryana. The candidates have been informed through letters that they should not come wearing Sikh symbols to take the exam. The Jathedar said for Amritdhari Sikhs, the articles of faith held more significance. He said the Constitution provided religious freedom to people of the country and the move was an attack on it.He questioned whether these orders were issued under a conspiracy of the Haryana Government against the Sikhs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/review-ban-on-articles-of-faith-in-exam-akal-takht-to-haryana-307188
06-09-2021||GS Paul||Automated barriers at Jallianwala Bagh: Martyrs’ kin against entry fee||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5Will there be a paid entrance to the Jallianwala Bagh? The authorities have denied it. Yet, automated entry barriers have been installed, which point towards the possibility of charging an entrance fee. Also, a room-like structure, supposedly a ticket counter, is already erected at the main entrance of the Bagh.An official, on the condition of anonymity, said originally, a proposal was mooted to have a paid entrance to the Jallianwala Bagh on the lines of other monuments like the Taj Mahal in Agra and Jantar Mantar or Qutab Minar in Delhi.“During a meeting held earlier, it was observed that to prevent ‘non-serious’ elements who sit in the Bagh all day or locals who could use the place as a picnic spot, a nominal entrance fee could be charged. That’s how the e-ticketing concept was included in the plan,” he said.Former MP Tarlochan Singh, who is one of the members of the PM-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, denied it. “The access to the historical site will be totally free,” he said. On maintenance, he said it was a project undertaken by the Union Ministry of Culture.Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee chief Ajmer Singh and general secretary Gurmeet Singh, who visited the Bagh, lodged their protest on the installation of ‘ticket counters’ and the e-ticketing equipment at the entrance.Sunil Kapoor, whose great-grandfather Lala Vasu Mal Kapoor was shot dead during the massacre, said, “What’s painful than the authorities seeking money in the name of martyrs. We oppose the move.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/automated-barriers-at-jallianwala-bagh-martyrs-kin-against-entry-fee-307200
