07-09-2021||Amritsar||Seminar on sustainable habitat ends||Skill Vigyan Kendra trainingDAV College, Amritsar, added another feather in its cap when its 12 students got selected for three months skill training programme started by Skill Vigyan Centre, Punjab. The centre was set up by the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST), Chandigarh, in collaboration with 10 technical partners and knowledge institutes. The programme has been started with the support of the DBT, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, and is aimed at building a mechanism to generate skilled workforce to meet industrial and technical requirements for better employability and professional development. College Principal, Dr Rajesh Kumar, congratulated students and appreciated efforts of the programme convener, Dr Rajni Khanna, head, Department of Zoology, and other heads of the science departments. Nine hundred students participated in the competition. Out of 12 students of the college, who qualified the test, Prabhjot Singh scored 96/100 and Savleen Kaur and Japneesh Kaur 92/100 marks each, respectively. TNSTeacher’s day event at SRA SchoolFormer Indian diplomat, Navdeep Suri, Director, Centre for New Economic Diplomacy at the Observer Research Foundation and Co-Chairman, FICCI National Committee, chaired a Teacher’s Day event at Shri Ram Ashram School. Lauding efforts of teachers during the Covid-19 pandemic Suri said teaching was one of the noblest professions. “Teachers are the guiding spirits, who create human beings and instil care, values, respect and love in them. The most important thing we must follow is to revere and value our teachers,” Suri added. Students also showcased their gratitude towards teachers through virtual platform. To make the day special and fun filled games were organised for teachers during celebrations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seminar-on-sustainable-habitat-ends-307734
07-09-2021||Amritsar||Dealers apprised of monitoring system||National Fertilisers Limited (NFL) organised an awareness camp for dealers at Krishi Vighyan Kendra, Nag Kalan, here to acquaint them with the new Mobile Fertiliser Monitoring System (MFMS) on Monday. Shopkeepers were asked to sell fertilizers as per the government guidelines.Speaking on the occasion, Chief Agriculture Officer, Dr Kuljit Singh Saini, asked shopkeepers to make all purchases with POS machines after physical verification of the stock. He also asked them to keep a record of the DAP purchased by farmers, including their name and quantity purchased.State Manager NFL, Tarsem Taya said this was necessary to ensure supply as per demand and rule out chances of hoarding and black marketing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dealers-apprised-of-monitoring-system-307732
07-09-2021||Amritsar||AAP demands ban on hiring retired patwaris||Members the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) local unit handed over a memorandum, addressed to the state government, to the district administration demanding ban on the reappointment of retired patwaris and appointment of qualified youth in the Revenue Department.A delegation of activists, including Jiwan Jyot Kaur, president, AAP (Urban) and Seema Sodhi, president, AAP (Rural) said every day qualified youth were holding public protests in different parts of the state to get employment.Iqbal Singh Bhullar, AAP in-charge, Amritsar, said, “The government advertised 1,090 posts of patwari recently. The government also announced to reappoint 1,766 retired patwaris, which is akin to robbing youngsters of job opportunities.”As Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khehra was not present in the office, the AAP delegation, which included many retired government officials, handed over the memorandum to the ADC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-demands-ban-on-hiring-retired-patwaris-307730
07-09-2021||---||Vegetable growers rue shortage of DAP fertiliser||Amritsar, September 6Vegetable growers have demanded from the government to ensure the availability of DAP fertiliser. Earlier, the Agriculture Department had assured farmers that they would not face any shortage of DAP (fertilizer).They said due to shortage there was black-marketing of the DAP fertilizer in the market. They complained that assurances of the stated government were for the wheat growers, who would required DAP fertilizer after a month, but vegetable producers, who need it immediately were facing problems.The DAP is required for vegetables, especially potato crop. The farmers at present are facing shortage as shopkeepers are claiming that they do not have the stocks. Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, president, Vegetable Growers OrganisationLakhbir Singh Nizampura, president, Vegetable Growers Organisation, said, “The DAP ferilizer is required for vegetables, especially potato crop. The farmers at present are facing shortage as shopkeepers are claiming that they do not have the stocks.”Vegetable growers said most of the state government policies regarding agriculture focused on farmers, who grow paddy. Farmers, who had diversified into other crops, were often left out the loop, vegetable growers added.Even the power supply to tubewells is made available according to the requirement of paddy and wheat crops. If the state government wants farmers to diversify, then it should also make its policies as per their needs. Nirmal Singh, Another farmer Another farmer Nirmal Singh said even the power supply to tubewells was available according to the requirement of paddy and wheat crops. He said if the state government wants farmers to diversify then it should also make policies as per their needs.Vegetable growers at their meeting at Nwa Pind village, near here, also demanded a compensation of Rs25 lakh for the farmer, who had died after sustaining injuries during the lathicharge by police in Karnal recently.Farmer leaders stated that the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, whose video ordering lathicharge had gone viral on the social media and other police officials responsible for the incident, should be booked for murder and arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vegetable-growers-rue-shortage-of-dap-fertiliser-307725
07-09-2021||---||Teachers honoured by club for shaping lives||Amritsar, September 6The Rotary Club, Amritsar West, organised an event to confer Nation Builder Award on selected teachers from the city here on Sunday evening.Those who were honoured include Dr Vinodita, Principal, Ram Ashram School, Dr Manmeet Sodhi, head, department of paediatrics at Government Medical College, Dr Harpreet Soch, head, department of computer science at Government Polytechnic College, Rumita Batra from English department at DAV College, and Ramesh Kumar from singing department at Springdale School.Rotary Club president Dr Sarika Kapila and secretary Dr Shallu Aggarwal said a teacher’s influence on a student never ceases throughout life. “The teachers selected for the awards have shaped many lives in their long careers at schools and colleges in the city,” said Dr Shallu Aggarwal, adding that the Rotary Club feels honoured while felicitating these teachers.Chief guest Dr Rajiv Devgan, Principal, Government Medical College, said teachers who keep themselves apprised of the latest teaching techniques should be encouraged in the present times. He said a teacher must strive to be a mentor and not the one who is bothered more about completing the prescribed syllabus.Prominent teachers from the city, Dr Ramandeep Singh Bhullar, Dean (Academics), Sri Guru Ram Das Dental College, Dr Sandeep Aggarwal from the department of paediatrics, GMC, and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-honoured-by-club-for-shaping-lives-307726
07-09-2021||---||BBK DAV College wins GNDU overall Championship||Amritsar, September 6BBK DAV College has won GNDU Overall General Sports Championship (2019-20) consecutively for the ninth time. The college has also bagged second runners-up Shaheed-E-Azam Bhagat Singh Overall General Sports Championship Trophy 2019-20 in men and women combined section.The trophy was presented to college Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia today by the Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Prof Jaspal Sandhu, here today.Thirty four outstanding players of the college were awarded with the cash prize of Rs12 lakh at the ceremony organised by the Department of Sports, GNDU.Sushikala Durgaprasad Agashe, a gold medalist at the Track Asia Cup and international cyclist from the college, won cash prize of Rs1,27,000 and Rishika Khajuria, national fencing player, won the cash prize of Rs 60,000.Dr Walia said the impetus of the college in promoting sports for the past few years had reaped good results. “Out of 30 competitions organised by Guru Nanak Dev University, BBKDAV College has won championships in 12 competitions of boxing, basketball, track cycling, pistol shooting, wrestling, judo, football, karate pencak silat, canoeing, kayaking and wushu,” she added.“The college has won first runners up position in nine competitions of archery compound, rifle shooting, handball, kabbadi, road cycling, weight lifting, fencing, rowing, artistic gymnastics. Besides the college has bagged second runners up position in seven competitions of hockey, archery recurve, kho-kho, rugby, taekwondo, softball and rhythmic gymnastics,” she said.Sweety Bala, Head, Department of Sports, BBK DAV College for Women, said, “The college is offering water sports training programme, including kayaking, canoeing, rowing and artistic gymnastics. Our annual sports budget is Rs1.5 crore. An amount of Rs22 to Rs25 lakh is spent on buying state-of-the art equipment for our athletes.”“We hire professional coaches and organise one month training camp at Gobind Sagar Dam for water sports, with emphasis on Olympics,” she added.“Out of 38 sports categories, BBKDAV College has competed in 36 this year,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bbk-dav-college-wins-gndu-overall-championship-307727
07-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Punjab Roadways staff protest for regularisation of services||On the first day of the indefinite strike of the Punjab Roadways Punbus and PRTC staff a protest was organised by workers today. Employees removed their clothes during protest in front of the roadways depot.Addressing protesters Satnam Singh Tur, depot president, Punjab Roadways Punbus and PRTC staff, said they had been working with the department for over 15 years on meagre salaries, but the government had seldom thought to regularise their services.Leaders said workers must teach a lesson to the Congress in the coming Assembly elections. Other employees’ unions and farmer outfits have extended to roadways employees. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-roadways-staff-protest-for-regularisation-of-services-307729
07-09-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar residents up in arms for shifting  Bhagtanwala garbage dump yard||Residents of localities near Bhagtanwala garbage dump on Monday held a candle march to protest against the failure of the Congress government to shift the dump even after four-and-a-half years of coming to power in the state.They alleged that the Congress MLA, Inderbir Singh Bolaria, present PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Raj Kumar Verka and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had made tall promises to get people rid of the garbage dump.They further alleged that repeated fire incidents at the garbage dump led to emisson of poisonous gases, which caused massive air pollution thereby spreading respiratory diseases among residents of nearby localities. Their lives had become hell while local political leadership had turned a blind eye towards their genuine problem, said residents.“Bolaria has installed mysterious hoardings asking people to keep their moblie phone charged for a big announcement. Instead of playing tricks, he should do what is needed. He should get the dump shifted elsewhere,” said Amarjit Singh, a resident. Bolaria had promised to construct a beautiful garden over the land after shifting the garbage dump, he added.“We connot sit on our rooftops as smoke emnating from the garbage dump affects our health. Besides, the smell of carcases has spread in the area,” said Bholi, another resident.Residents threatened to intensify their stir if their demand was not met. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-up-in-arms-for-shifting-bhagtanwala-garbage-dump-yard-307731
07-09-2021||---||Catch a glimpse of great artist SG Thakar Singh’s work||Amritsar, September 6The Indian Academy of Fine Arts (IAFA) celebrated the 122nd birth anniversary of eminent artist SG Thakar Singh, who was also the founder member of the academy along with another noted artist Master Gurdit Singh.As a tribute to the great artist, the IAFA has organised an exhibition displaying the popular works of SG Thakar Singh as well as his personal memorabilia, including the medals he had been awarded by various royals for his artistic services. The exhibition will stay open till October.Thakar Singh had earned patrons, including Rabindranath Tagore, Pataudis, Maharaja of Patiala, Kapurthala royal family and India’s first President, Dr Rajendra Prasad.“Some of these paintings, which are 100 years old, have been preserved by the IAFA. The exhibition will create awareness about his works and his contribution to the promotion of art at a time when most painting artists were limited to work as poster makers in film industry in Mumbai. His hat has intellectual rights to his works. He founded the IAFA to serve as a tool for promoting and supporting progressive art and artists,” said Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, IAFA. A short film was also screened at the event for student of fine arts. Born in 1899 in Verka near Amritsar, Thakar Singh was awarded Padma Shri in 1973. A landscape artist, he spent later years of his life in Amritsar where he founded the Thakar Singh School of Arts that turned into an art gallery later.Know the man||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/catch-a-glimpse-of-great-artist-sg-thakar-singhs-work-307728
07-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Man dies of heart attack at Punjab National Bank||One arrested in road rage, firingAmritsar: The Civil Lines police have arrested Simarpal Singh of the posh Ranjit Avenue area for allegedly firing at a family after their cars collided. Chand Mehra of Palm Groove enclave, Airport Road, said he was going from Ranjit Avenue to Rani Ka Bagh area with his family, when their car collided. The accused pulled out the keys of his car and started arguing. He said he also took out a revolver and pointed at him. He said his friend Jeet Bachan Singh came and tried to intervene. He said when he was trying to leave, the accused came before his car and threatened to shoot. Meanwhile, his friends also came and thrashed him and his friend Jeet Bachan before the family. After this, a police party reached and arrested Simarpal. Besides Simarpal, the police also booked Sahil of New Golden Avenue, Neeraj, Jagmeet Singh and Atul besides their unidentified accomplice. TNSCamera snatched, two arrestedAmritsar: The Majitha road police have nabbed two persons for snatching a camera from Girish Kumar of Katra Baggian near Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan on the Mall Road on August 28. They were identified as Dikshit Kumar of Sanjay Gandhi Colony and Shiva of Ekta Nagar, Chamrang Road. The duo along with three others snatched the camera when Girish and his friends — Pulkit Sharma and Gursimran Singh — were clicking pictures. They were identified through the CCTV cameras. The police said raids were on to nab other accomplices. TNSTwo held with 50-gm heroinAmritsar: The CIA staff have arrested Surinder Singh, alias Bitta, of Ishwar Nagar and Rajwinder Kaur of Sultanwind with 50-gm heroin. They were on a scooter, when they were held at a naka following a tip-off. A case under the NDPS Act was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-dies-of-heart-attack-at-punjab-national-bank-307735
07-09-2021||---||Fire at Chowk Farid bank branch in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 6A fire broke out at the Bank of India branch in Chowk Farid, Hall Bazaar area on Monday. Though there was no loss of life, important record of the bank is said to have been gutted.ASI Gurjit Singh of Kotwali police station said around 8 am, the police got an information about smoke billowing out of the bank branch. He said immediately a fire tender was also informed. An official said the smoke was coming out of the basement and the exact reason behind fire was yet to be ascertained. He said only bank official would be able to tell about the loss. The fire was controlled after a couple of hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-at-chowk-farid-bank-branch-in-amritsar-307723
07-09-2021||---||Covid-19: Amritsar district logs 4 positive cases||Amritsar, September 6With four positive cases reported on Monday, the district tally of cases increased to 47,254. The new cases include three influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient.The district health authorities have also reported the recovery of two patients with which the total recovery count increased to 45,647. The district at present has a total of 18 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 1,703 residents were inoculated for Covid-19 during the ongoing vaccination drive on Monday. Of these, 1,103 residents received the first dose of the vaccine, while 600 received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-logs-4-positive-cases-307722
07-09-2021||---||Man killed over monetary dispute in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 6Shamsher Singh (38), a resident of Gaggarbhana village falling under the Mehta police station, was found dead in Sadhpur village in Jandiala here yesterday. The police have booked Jagtar Singh of Sadhpur village on the charge of murder while further investigations were under progress. The accused was still at large.Gurmej Singh, father of the deceased, told the police that Shamsher had gone to meet Jagtar Singh who had borrowed some money from the former, but he did not return till evening. Late in the evening, Sikander Singh, his son-in-law, told him that his body was lying near Sadhpur canal. They immediately rushed to the spot. Shamsher had injury marks on his head, forehead and ears. He alleged that Jagtar Singh had killed his son in order to swindle the money.Sub-Inspector Nishan Singh said a case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered against Jagtar Singh and body was handed over the family after autopsy. He said further investigations were under progress while raids were on to nab Jagtar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-killed-over-monetary-dispute-in-amritsar-307720
07-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Money exchanger duped of Rs 4 lakh in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 6A money exchanger was duped of Rs 4 lakh by swindlers, who posed as hotel staff here on August 23.Ironically, though the victim lodged a complaint with the Division B police station here, officials failed to take any action in this connection. “The police have not even registered any FIR in the incident,” said Jaskirat Singh Sethi, the complainant.He has now lodged a complaint with Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal urging him for immediate action against perpetrators and recover money.Sethi said he had his office on the Railway Link road here and was into the money exchange business for the past 20 years. On August 23, he got a call from a person, who identified himself as Aditiya, manager of a hotel located on the main GT road, near the interstate bus terminus, Sethi added. A customer in his hotel wanted to exchange 300 US dollars, said Sethi.He sent his employee Charanjit Singh to the hotel with cash, Sethi added. A waiter took him to customer on the fourth floor of the hotel where he exchanged cash for dollars, said Sethi. Aditiya asked Charanjit to take the ID proof and bill from the customer in the evening, added Sethi.In the evening Aditiya called him again and said some clients needed 12 rooms and wanted to exchange 5,500 US dollars, said Sethi.He again sent his employee with Rs4,01,500 cash to the hotel, added Sethi.Aditiya took cash from his employee and said he would collect the ID proofs and dollars from clients, said Sethi. However, he did not return even after a long wait, Sethi added. His employee then called him, said Sethi.When footage of the CCTV cameras installed at the hotel was scanned it was found that the suspects, who were three in number, came to the hotel on a taxi (bearing registration No. PB01A5627) and remained there for five hours. The picture of one of the suspects was captured in the CCTV camera footage. He was wearing the hotel staff uniform. ASI Kuldeep Singh, who visited the hotel with complainants, said victims did not file any written complaint. Sethi, however, pointed out that if they had not filed a written complaint then how come the ASI accompanied them to the hotel and why the hotel authorities allowed them to check CCTV camera footage?Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said he would look into the matter and take appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/money-exchanger-duped-of-rs-4-lakh-in-amritsar-307719
07-09-2021||---||Resume Metro bus from Gheo Mandi to airport, say Amritsar residents||Amritsar, September 6After suspending the Metro bus service under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) from Gheo Mandi to the airport, local NGOs, commuters and residents are demanding the resumption of the BRTS service on the route. The bus route was suspended after regular demonstrations by mini bus operators.Yogesh Kamra, Secretary, AVMThe Metro bus is a great service for air passengers, which must continue. The mini-bus operators should not be allowed to disrupt the service. The district administration must deal with the protesting mini-bus operators.A local NGO, Amritsar Vikas Manch, has urged the Deputy Commissioner, Amritsar, to resume the service on the route.“It was the demand of air passengers to connect the airport and Darbar Sahib. Darbar Sahib is a religious place where almost every air traveller pays obeisance before boarding or alighting the plane. Gheo Mandi Chowk is only about 200 m away from Darbar Sahib and this small distance can be covered on foot. The Metro bus is a great service for air passengers, which must continue. The mini bus operators should not be allowed to disrupt the service. The district administration must deal with the protesting mini bus operators,” said Yogesh Kamra, secretary, AVM.“The administration should find ways to protect the business interests of the mini bus operators, affected due to the plying of the Metro buses. One thing is clear that the service on the route should not be affected,” said Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi.Kuljit Singh, a resident, said, “On the one hand, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla inaugurated the Metro bus service from Golden Temple to the airport on August 16. We had welcomed the move. But after 15 days, the same politician intervened and suspended the service bowing under pressure from the mini bus operators. The policies and programmes of the government should be implemented in the interest of the public, not some exclusive group for votes. The benefit of the public should not be ignored. Ironically, it happened in this case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resume-metro-bus-from-gheo-mandi-to-airport-say-amritsar-residents-307717
07-09-2021||---||When in Rome…fly directly to Amritsar||Amritsar, September 6Great news for international flyers — Air India is set to start a direct Amritsar-Rome flight from Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport from September 8.Earlier, the airport had established direct air connectivity with Heathrow, London and Birmingham.Sameep Singh Gumtala, Global Convener of FlyAmritsar Initiative This will hugely benefit the Punjabi diaspora in Italy. It’s a big relief for thousands of people, stranded in India due to Italy’s decision to ban direct flights in late April this year.As per the schedule, the flight AI123 will take off from Amritsar every Wednesday at 3.55 pm and reach Rome the same day. The return flight will depart from Rome the next day on Thursday and reach Amritsar on Friday morning at 5.35am. Air India will operate its Boeing 787 Dreamliner on this route.Hailing the move, Sameep Singh Gumtala, Global Convener of the FlyAmritsar Initiative working for better air connectivity for the holy city, said this once-a-week flight would hugely benefit the Punjabi diaspora in Italy.Gumtala said the resumption of the flight comes after the decision by the Italy Government to relax restrictions on passengers arriving from India.“This is a big relief for thousands of people, who got stranded in India due to the decision by Italy to ban direct flights in late April this year,” he said.The air passengers had to pay hefty fare to reach their destination through connecting flights via other countries and complete quarantine requirements during the transit. This direct flight will now reduce the cost and also their travel time to just 7 to 8 hours.The operation of these flights to three destinations in Europe provides a big boost for direct international connectivity from the airport, said Yogesh Kamra, convener (India) of the FlyAmritsar Initiative and secretary of Amritsar Vikas Manch, an NGO.Kamra said Amritsar was currently India’s only airport that is directly connected with two airports in the UK. With the resumption of Rome flight, it will be the only airport in India after Delhi directly connecting with three destinations in Europe by the Indian national carrier — Air India, he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-in-rome%E2%80%A6fly-directly-to-amritsar-307724
07-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran administration finally assures farmers of compensation to deceased's kin||Tarn Taran, September 6Buckling under pressure, the district administration has assured farmers to release the compensation to the family of Surjit Singh (32), a farmer of Cheema Khurd within a week.The farmers under the banner of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha were on chain hunger strike, which entered its sixth day.The representatives of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab, Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab (Pannu), Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab (Kot Budha) and Kul Hind Kisan Sabha under the leadership of Daljit Singh Dialpura met Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and presented him a memorandum warning him to intensify the agitation jointly by the farmers’ organisations.The DC discussed the issue with farmers’ representatives sympathically and assured them of releasing compensation of Rs5 lakhs to the family of farmer Surjit Singh within a week. Surjit Singh had lost his life at the Delhi border in the farmers’ agitation seven months ago.The DC sent Jagwindrjit Singh Grewal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), to the camp of hunger strike informing about the assurance of the administration.The ADC, while addressing farmers, assured them to release the compensation within a week and the agitating farmers left for their homes. On Monday, women farmers led the agitation and all proceedings regarding the agitation were conducted by the women leaders besides the 11-member women jatha that sat on hunger strike. Narinder Kaur Patti, Lakhwinder Kaur Chabal, Jasbir Kaur Tarn Taran and other women leaders addressed on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-administration-finally-assures-farmers-of-compensation-to-deceaseds-kin-307718
07-09-2021||---||Now, regularise your illegal water, sewer connections||Amritsar, September 6The state government through the Local Government Department has offered special opportunity to regularise unauthorised water and sewerage connections.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi said the Local Bodies Department has offered a window of opportunity to those residents who have unauthorised water and sewerage domestic connections to regularise these after paying one-time fee.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, MC Commissione After the expiry of three months, consumers will have to pay fine at the time of regularisation of connections. No extra charges such as road cutting, connection, security or any other will be imposed after depositing the fee. The notification in this regard was released on August 25 and no fine will be levied within three months.Elaborating on the new scheme, he informed that owners of the houses with area less than 125 square yard would be required to shell out Rs100 per month each for both water and sewerage connections. Those having houses above 125 square yard and less than 250 square yard would need to deposit Rs250 each for both connections (Rs500 per month). The domestic consumers having area above 250 square yard will have to pay Rs500 per month for each utility. Similarly, the commercial facilities raised over 1,000 square yard would have to pay Rs1,000 per month for each utility.He assured that after the deposit of fee, no extra charges such as road cutting, connection, security or any other fee would be imposed on consumers. He said the notification in this regard was released on August 25 and no fine would be levied within three months.“After the expiry of three months, consumers will have to pay fine at the time of regularisation of connections.”A window of opportunity — Just pay one-time fee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-regularise-your-illegal-water-sewer-connections-307721
07-09-2021||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh raps 2 ministers over letter on Batala||Chandigarh, September 6Days after two rebel ministers — Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa — wrote to Capt Amarinder Singh seeking district status for Batala, the Chief Minister in a subtle rebuke to his Cabinet colleagues said instead of shooting off letter in this manner, they should have discussed the issue with him.Also read: Make Batala district: Rebel ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh BajwaReplying to the two ministers, once trusted loyalists-turned-critics, the CM said Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa had already raised the issue through a letter on August 11. Of late, the MP has joined hands with Captain Amarinder to counter the influence of the Majha ministers, who had been at the forefront of the rebel against CM.Already under considerationHad they come to me and spoken about it, I would have told them that I am already looking into the matter, and would have even consulted them in this regard. —Capt Amarinder Singh, CM“Had they come to me and spoken about it, I would have told them that I am already looking into the matter, and would have even consulted them in this regard,” said Captain Amarinder, taking a dig at the two ministers.In political circles, CM’s reply is being seen as a clear message to the two rebel ministers who had sought an early appointment from him to discuss the vital issue.The demand for declaring Batala as a district was already under consideration and a final decision would be taken after due consideration of various issues involved, the CM said.“There have been some reports in the media over the past few days indicating that citizens of Batala have also publicly raised the demand for a new district to be carved out of their region,” said the CM while expressing surprise that neither Tript nor Sukhjinder had seen the reports in the public domain nor deemed it fit to discuss the issue with him before shooting off a joint letter in this manner.The CM said he was cognisant of Batala’s significance to Punjab’s history and culture, as well as the public sentiment. He would discuss the issue with various stakeholders before taking a decision, he added. He would do everything in his power to ensure that Batala got its due, he added.Sidhu meets working chiefs; Capt leadersChandigarh: Continuing with his efforts to set up the new Pradesh Congress Committee body, state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu held another round of discussions with his four working presidents on Monday. Sidhu also met the PCC general secretary (organisation) to set the ball rolling for finalising the name of office-bearers. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh met party leaders, including MPs Ravneet Bittu and Gurjit Aujla, and ministers at his residence. TNSGovt on House hunt for PCC chiefThe government is looking for an accommodation here for PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, it is learnt. Sources said efforts were on to allot a house out of CM’s pool at ministers’ complex in Sector 39. Sidhu is entitled to an MLA flat, but could be allotted a ministerial house owing to security concerns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-raps-2-ministers-over-letter-on-batala-307578
07-09-2021||GS Paul||Jallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restored||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 6The renovation of Jallianwala Bagh has not gone down well with the kin of 1919 martyrs.Terming it an attempt to wipe out their ancestors’ history and tarnish the ambience of the Bagh where the freedom struggle was scripted, they took out a candle march from Heritage Street to the Jallianwala Bagh to pay tribute to the martyrs and sensitise the authorities and demand rectification.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeDemanding the restoration of original landscape and architecture of the site, they had approached the Union Ministry of Culture too.They demanded removal of the murals on the walls of the original narrow street from where General Reginald Dyer passed through with his troops ending up opening fire at a gathering of unarmed men, women and children.Set up temple on Jallianwala Bagh premisesWe have written to the Union Ministry of Culture and raised objections against the flaws. Besides, we have asked the authorities to set up a temple inside the Bagh where holy scriptures of all faiths be placed and prayers be performed for the departed. —Sunil Kapoor, President, Jallianwala bagh freedom fighters foundationThe pedestal on which Dyer stood and ordered firing has also been erased. It should be rebuilt at the same place, they demanded.They also pointed out that the (Amar Jyoti) flame, which was earlier at the entrance of the memorial, has also been shifted at the back. They demanded it to be restored at its original spot to evoke patriotic feeling.Another objection raised was on the new structure built on the martyrs’ well (Shaheedi Khu) from where 120 bodies were later recovered. They wanted its design to be on the basis of original pattern, as was being described in history books.Talking to The Tribune, Sunil Kapoor, president, Jallianwala Bagh Freedom Fighters Foundation, who lost his great-grandfather Lala Wasu Mal in the bloodbath, said: “We have written to the Union Ministry of Culture and raised objections against the flaws. Besides, we have asked the authorities to set up a temple inside the Bagh where holy scriptures of all faiths — Guru Granth Sahib, Geeta, Quran Sharif and Bible — be placed and prayers be performed for the departed. A ‘wall of martyrs’ should be erected inside the Bagh with their credentials so that visitors know about them.”He said that the family members should be given “tamar patras” to recognise their ancestors’ sacrifices and be included in the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-kin-of-1919-martyrs-hold-candle-march-want-original-character-restored-307589
07-09-2021||Navdeep Suri||The Jallianwala Bagh makeover||It is grotesque, this thoughtless desecration of one of the most poignant memorials of our Independence struggle — the anger being expressed on social media and by some of the leading Indian and international historians who have worked on the Jallianwala Bagh massacre is legitimate and I’ve been straining to join the fray. But first, I wanted to see it for myself.Jallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredAlso read:Jallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeI went to the Bagh and here’s the good news first. The undulating, landscaped lawns look lovely; there are a lot of young people taking pictures and selfies, most of them in a cheerful, out-for-a-picnic kind of mood. The museum and galleries are kind of interesting to the extent that they provide easy-to-digest information for the uninitiated tourist. I haven’t seen the light-and-sound show and can’t comment on the basis of personal experience. But educated citizens of Amritsar who have seen it are near-unanimous in decrying its tackiness. Overall, the place has a happy feel to it — if that’s how you want to feel at the site of the most egregious massacre committed by the British Raj in India.For me, the visit to the newly beautified environs of the memorial and to search for traces of the place we knew was a gut-wrenching experience.I was born in Gali Punjab Singh, a short distance from the Bagh. As a kid, I remember going to the Bagh whenever we had relatives visiting Amritsar for the customary pilgrimage to the Golden Temple. We would make our way through the nondescript wrought iron gate and down the narrow passage which dramatically opened into a mostly barren maidan. The pink sandstone memorial stood in front and a footpath took us to that red-brick wall, unplastered and pockmarked with bullet holes from the Vaisakhi day massacre. My mother would show the visitors around, making it a point to take a detour to the left and stop near the ancient martyrs’ well as she painted a vivid image of helpless men jumping into its bottomless depths, some to escape the hail of bullets and others after they had been shot. Peering over the ledge into the darkness below, I would try to see if the water was still tinged red with all the blood. There were times when I thought I could hear the screams of the victims echo dimly as I stood transfixed by the darkness.That infamous well, alas, has been enclosed in a brick-and-glass wall. Peer through the glass and you see the nicely backlit interior of the well, its walls painted an alluring pink. It makes a great spot for selfies, as we saw one couple after another make a beeline for the backdrop. With the song ‘Pagdi Sambhaal Jatta’ streaming from the outdoor speakers, it also provides a somewhat curious ambience for video enthusiasts.But there is a more important reason for my anguish. My grandfather Nanak Singh was one of the fortunate survivors of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. In the stories we often heard from our grandmother, he had gone to the rally to protest against the Rowlatt Act with two of his friends. Both friends fell victim to Brig Gen Dyer’s bullets, while my grandfather was knocked unconscious in the stampede and left for dead. He paints an intense picture of that ghastly afternoon of April 13, 1919 in ‘Khooni Vaisakhi’, a ballad that was first published in May 1920 and banned soon thereafter by the Raj.This was a 22-year-old youth who had no formal education beyond fourth grade in school. And yet, he had the sensibility to recognise that the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh must be remembered for posterity. In his opening verses that are an invocation to Guru Gobind Singh, Nanak Singh writes:To pen a portrait of those departed onesGrant me the strength, my Divine Guru.To remind my people across IndiaLest we forget their sacrifice, my Divine Guru.Do help me complete this mission of mineNanak Singh beseeches, O my Divine Guru.I will fall back on his words to give us a description of the Bagh and the mood of Amritsar city as he saw it a century ago.That narrow lane to enter the BaghSealed off on Dyer’s command, my friends.No exit, no escape, no way out was leftMaking Bagh a deathly trap, my friends.A fortunate few somehow survived,While most died then and there, my friends.Some ran with bullets ripping their chestStumbling to their painful end, my friends.Others caught the bullet while running awayDropping lifeless in awkward heaps, my friends.That narrowness of the passage, that absence of an exit were critical factors in making the Bagh a death trap for Dyer’s savagery. There is enough historical research to suggest that Dyer chose the Bagh for this very reason, to inflict maximum casualties, to teach a lesson and to instil fear. Going through that dingy passage was enough to put you in a sombre frame as you silently made your way towards the memorial.After the renovation, the passage is brightly lit and lined with murals depicting an improbably cheerful set of persons making their way into the Bagh. The visitor’s mood is influenced by the martial beats of ‘Aye Watan, Aye Watan, Hum Ko Teri Kasam…’ as she goes through the passage. And yes, the murals are also great for selfies. Sombre reflection be damned.We could argue over the interpretation of the murals. One explanation is that they portray ordinary people coming to celebrate Vaisakhi at the Bagh that fateful day. But the facts are different. Amritsar was already under tight restrictions following the police firing near the railway bridge on April 10. As Nanak Singh tells us, the people of Amritsar came to the Bagh in defiance of martial law, not to celebrate Vaisakhi.As the clock struck five on thirteenth AprilThey all gather in the Bagh, my friends.Seeking justice fair and honour, they standSikhs, Hindus, Muslims together, my friends.They went to speak, to share their griefPlace lives at stake without fear, my friends.With their own blood they wanted to bloomThe parched soil of the Bagh, my friends.Let me make one final point about the renovation. As we dragged our despondent feet back towards the passage to leave the Bagh, we were told off by the security guard. The passage was only meant for entering the Bagh. Hadn’t we seen the sign for an exit lane on the other side? An exit? Sure, what’s wrong with that, you may ask. Except for the inconvenient fact that there wasn’t an exit from the Bagh. And now there is. That’s how we treat history. And memory.Nanak Singh, perhaps, was prescient when he employed a dose of sarcasm to echo the voices of our martyrs:Make time to visit this Bagh of oursEchoes tales of gallant souls, O friends.With heavy heart, they mock our nationThanks so much for your love, O friends.Look closely at our bodies sievedA thousand wounds you’ll see, O friends.You stayed at home, reveling in your lifeAnd exiled us from your hearts, O friends.How could you promise, and forget?What a way to honour your words, O friends.Unfortunately, that’s what we’ve done to the Bagh. Somewhere in our technology-driven vision of modernity, we forgot that this was about preserving the soul of a place that we have held sacred. The scepticism of my grandfather has been justified. And it hurts.It didn’t have to be this way. I had made several visits to Jallianwala Bagh while working on the English translation of ‘Khooni Vaisakhi’ and always came away with a profound sense of disappointment over the way we abuse our heritage. The dusty bookcases, the plaster peeling in the visitors’ centre, the stinking toilets and the general air of apathy and neglect was all too visible. The need for a makeover was palpable and we were promised that it would be in place to mark the centenary of the massacre in April 2019.The Jallianwala Bagh Trust had shared its extensive research on the period with the Ministry of Culture. Guru Nanak Dev University in Amritsar has strong departments of history and architecture to provide the requisite intellectual and technical backup for a project of this nature. But the task was assigned to Vama Communications of Ahmedabad, working in tandem with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the NBCC (India) Limited (formerly National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited), and the results are there to see.It reflects both a missed opportunity and a deficit of imagination. Over the course of conversations with friends in Amritsar, I heard several suggestions that showed both ambition and vision. A senior professor at the university said that he had proposed making the Bagh a designated place for peaceful protests, like Jantar Mantar in Delhi. That might have been a balm for the martyrs who were asserting their right to assembly. Another friend, an eminent writer, suggested that the Bagh could become a place that embodies free speech, a bit of the Hyde Park Speakers’ Corner in Amritsar. That would consecrate the fact that the martyrs were protesting against the curtailment of civil liberties codified in the Rowlatt Act.Or maybe that’s too idealistic. A bit like the martyrs who died for their country.— The writer is a former diplomat. He translated Nanak Singh’s ‘Khooni Vaisakhi’ into English||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-jallianwala-bagh-makeover-307035
