08-09-2021||---||Pvt buses make hay out of Punbus, PRTC staff strike||Amritsar, September 7The occupancy of private buses shot up to 100 per cent after a long time, as the state-run Punbus and PRTC buses were withdrawn from service due to the indefinite strike called by the Punjab Roadways Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union on Tuesday.Their members did not block the Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT), which allowed private buses to earn a moolah.Passengers have been preferring government buses over private ones since the introduction of free travel for women passengers.Harjot Singh, a ticket collector in a private bus, accepted that private buses which had been at the receiving end since the introduction of the said scheme recorded a huge turnaround during the strike called by the employees of state-run buses. He said this trend was limited to the days of strike which were frequent in the wake of the run up to the Assembly election. Two phases of strike were held last month and this is the first phase of indefinite strike this month.Sarbjit Singh, a driver with a private bus, said family segment of passengers preferred state-run buses due to the free travel scheme. Passengers usually turn to private buses after the government buses are packed to their capacity.Jodh Singh, senior vice-president of the union, said the meeting between the representatives of his union and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is scheduled to take place at the CM House in Chandigarh on September 10. “Its conclusion will decide how they will steer their agitation. In case the government does not listen to their demands positively, then they will be compelled to hold intensify their protests.”A majority of the state-run buses ply on long routes. Yet there are ample choices for passengers to choose from a variety of private-run buses who charge the same tariff.The Punjab Roadways Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union demanded that the Capt Amarinder Singh government must increase the number of buses to 10,000 buses, regularise all contractual workers under the PRTC as there were nearly 7,500 contractual workers in the Punbus and PRTC across the state, including 400 contractual workers in the district.Meanwhile, since buses under the Punjab Roadways are driven by regular staff, its buses plied without any trouble.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pvt-buses-make-hay-out-of-punbus-prtc-staff-strike-308309
08-09-2021||---||Man booked for raping minor||Amritsar, September 7In a shocking incident, a 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her relative, identified as Deepu, alias Sanjiv Sharma of Navi Abadi in Faizpura area, located near Rattan Singh Chowk here.The victim’s mother told the police that after her husband’s death, she married again, after which she handed over her two daughters to her brother-in-law Vinay Kumar of Faizpura and the younger one (8) to her sister-in-law in Verka. She said on Rakhi, she came to meet her daughters, where her elder daughter told her that the accused, a distant relative, called her to his home and raped her. Shocked over this, she decided to lodge an FIR against the accused.The Majitha Road police have booked the accused under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act. He was arrested and further investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-raping-minor-308310
08-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Border area farmers to gherao CM’s residence||Tarn Taran, September 7The Punjab Border Area Kisan Welfare Society in its meeting held in the border township of Khemkaran here on Tuesday flayed the state government for not releasing the compensation for four years to the farmers who own land across the fencing.The organisation warned that in case the compensation was not released soon, the farmers across the state would gherao the Chandigarh-based residence of the Chief Minister on September 15.Raghbir Singh Bhangala, state president of the society, said the Centre started giving compensation on this land since 1997 which had not been paid to the land holding farmers for the last four years.He said such farmers from Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Fazilka and Ferozpur attended the meeting and resolved to move to Chandigarh on September 15. He said the farmers having their land across the fencing were already facing great hardships as they were not allowed by the BSF authorities to sow tall crops like sugarcane. The organisation urged the state government to issue notification regarding the 11-foot wide passage on the 530-km-long stretch the land of which had been encroached by the BSF and the farmers had been demanding the compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/border-area-farmers-to-gherao-cms-residence-308311
08-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||England-based youth booked in Amritsar in illegal weapons case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7Three days after the Amritsar rural police nabbed two persons with illegal weapons, the police have now nominated an England-based youth, identified as Pargat Singh, in the case.Pargat, who originally hailed from Nabha, was allegedly providing illegal weapons to miscreants and gangsters in Punjab and adjoining states.He had developed a network of youth for supplying weapons to their clients after procuring the same from Madhya Pradesh or UP-based illegal weapon suppliers, said the police.The police had nabbed Lovepreet Singh of Nawan Pind village located on Mehta Road and Harprabhjot Singh of Harike area with two country-made pistols along with ammunition on Saturday.A case under the Arms Act was registered against them and they were brought on police remand for further interrogation.SSP Gulneet Singh Khuranna, however, said the matter was under investigations.Sources said Pargat’s name figured during the interrogation of Lovedeep and Harprabhjot Singh. Investigations were on to ascertain how Pargat was running his network from England and identify his accomplices involved in the racket. It has been learnt that he had links with several gangsters in Punjab.The police were also holding financial investigations to ascertain forward and backward links of the racket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/england-based-youth-booked-in-amritsar-in-illegal-weapons-case-308312
08-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Property tax: Amritsar MC issues notice to 10,717 defaulters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7The property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation has issued 10,717 sealing notices to tax defaulters in the last two months.Municipal Corporation officials said now the sealing drive would be conducted after September 30, which is the last date for paying tax with 10 per cent rebate.“Initially, we issued more than 6,000 notices of 112A under the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act and asked property owners to pay the tax or in case of payment, show the receipt. Now, we have issued 10,717 notices of 138c of the Act about the sealing of buildings of tax defaulters. We will wait till September 30. After that, we will start sealing buildings,” said Daljit Singh, nodal officer for property tax.In response to this action of the MC, the recovery of property tax collection has witnessed a significant rise. The MC so far has collected Rs3.50 crore more as compared to last year. Last year, the MC had recovered Rs3.78 crore only till September 7. However, the MC has already collected Rs7.25 crore so far.The MC had set the target of collecting Rs42.5 crore as property tax this year. The property tax wing of the MC had never achieved the recovery target before. After joining the MC, Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi focused on the recovery of taxes and instructed employees to focus on commercial buildings and assure 100 per cent tax recovery. On the directions, MC issued notices to industrial units, banks/ATMs, corporate offices multinational company offices, brand stores, hotels/guest house, hospital/nursing homes, private educational institutes, marriage palaces, automobile agencies, mobile towers, shopping malls, and boards/corporation offices. Despite it being a holiday on Tuesday, the office was open for tax collection.“There are around 90 employees in each zone of the MC. We gave them a target to issue notices to at least 25 property owners daily. Now, we are focusing on those, who deposited tax last year, but not this year. We will follow them and have asked them to pay the tax till September 30 and get benefit of rebate. Otherwise, we will start sealing to achieve the recovery targets,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-tax-amritsar-mc-issues-notice-to-10-717-defaulters-308313
08-09-2021||---||Insufficient stock of doses hits vaccination||Amritsar, September 7 The usual rush of people outside vaccination centres in the district was not visible due to the insufficient stock of Covid-19 vaccines here on Tuesday. A huge rush of people who gathered at the Covid centre in the Civil Hospital on Zonal yesterday was nowhere visible today. Paramedic and security staff deployed at the centre said due to the first working day of the week, a huge rush of people had turned up on Monday. They broke the panes of windows and doors. “Various methods were employed to streamline the flow of people coming to vaccinate, but they remain non-controllable. On the pattern of banks, numbers were also issued to people turning up at the centre but it fuelled mistrust among them and they tried to broke open the front gate. Due to short supply of vaccines from state and central governments, only 2380 doses were administered on Tuesday. Only one person was found positive today which increased the total number of positives in the district to 47,255. Five persons fully recovered taking the total number of people recovered to 45,652. There are still 14 positive cases. No casualty due to novel was attributed to novel coronavirus was found.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/insufficient-stock-of-doses-hits-vaccination-308314
08-09-2021||---||‘Most historians have ignored Sikh architecture’||Amritsar, September 7Most historians have ignored the Sikh Architecture; some have condescendingly accepted it as a syncretism of the Islamic and Rajputana styles, which Dr SS Bhatti, calls a historic fallacy. Dr Bhatti, former Principal, Chandigarh College of Architecture, was delivering his keynote address at the inaugural session of first ever international symposium on the Sikh architecture, which took off in a virtual format here on Tuesday.The three-part symposium is being attended by over many architects and other professionals from across the region and Pakistan. The event has been organised to commemorate the Parkash Utsav of Guru Granth Sahib and has been organised by Saakaar Foundation, Chandigarh, and is being supported by the Sikh Chamber of Commerce, Fire & Security Association of India, Indian Institute of Architects’ Chandigarh/Punjab Chapter, Ashrae, ASSOCHAM-GEM and eight schools of Architecture.Architect Surinder Bahga introduced the theme of the international symposium on the Sikh architecture.Dr Bhatti, in his third PhD on the Golden Temple, researched forms of the building design spread over 45 centuries worldwide lamented that the architects and the management have together ruined the glory of this holiest of holy shrines of the Sikh faith out of sheer ignorance of its religious tenets and the gurus’ spiritual exhortations.Aurangabad-based architect Abraham Pathrose spoke on the conservation work being carried on the Gurudwara Saragarhi Memorial and Gurudwara Chowrasti Attari of Amritsar. He said, “School trips, tourists shall be encouraged to propagate the vast glory of these two gurudwaras. Such documentation works shall continue for other heritage sites too.”Pakistan-based Dr Nadhra Shahbaz Khan, Associate Professor of the Art History at Lahore University of Management Sciences talked on, “Sikh monuments in and around the Lahore Fort.”She said, “Lahore is proud of its Sikh-era monuments and hosts several gurdwaras, havelis, samadhis and baradaris commissioned during the first half of the 19th century by Sikh royalty and nobility. Most of these monuments are unexplored or misread chapters of Punjab’s history that need to be studied with fresh eyes—what they can tell us about their patrons is not found anywhere in historical narratives!”Prof Shruti H Kapur from the CT Institute of Architecture and Planning, Jalandhar, said, “Sultanpur Lodhi, with its legacy to have historic buildings, vital landscape, relics from various architectural styles needs to preserved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/most-historians-have-ignored-sikh-architecture-308318
08-09-2021||---||Student unions protest privatisation, lack of jobs||Amritsar, September 7Student unions, namely, Research Scholar Union GNDU, Students For Society (SFS), All India Students Federation, Punjab Student Union (PSU), PSU Lalkar, protested outside Khalsa College for Women today against lack of jobs.Jatinder Vir Singh, president, GNDU Research Scholar Union, said there is no regular recruitment in government colleges of Punjab for the past 25 years. “The educational affairs at these colleges are so abysmal that no student wants to risk their future by taking admission. Public education institutes in developing economies have important role to elevate the standards of lower income strata but unfortunately Punjab government has turned a blind eye, which is highly condemnable. “It appears that lobby of private educational institutes is conspiring against public institutes in connivance with government, so that one has to shell high fees in private colleges. This would take children of lower income families far away from education” he said.Vijay Jandiala, member, SFS, said privatisation of public institutes is detrimental for interests of general masses. “Since 1991 LPG reforms, government sectors are being systematically sold off to private corporations. In Punjab, if government colleges are not saved it would impact educational prospects of 66% rural population.”Another student Lovepreet, a research scholar, demanded that the government should bring a policy for 90 per cent reservation of state-domiciled candidates in recruitment as in other states. The students also raised the demand of opening new government colleges, allowing recruitment of teachers and providing quality and cheap education to youth of Punjab. “Frustrated with the present education system and lack of jobs, youth is flying abroad for sustenance. If our demands are not considered or the matter is not taken up with immediate effect, we will continue our stir across the state under the banner of Sarkari College Bachao Manch Punjab,” said Jatinder Vir Singh.//Box: Teachers sit on chain hunger strike at PUFour days after holding a state rally, teachers from Amritsar sat on a chain hunger strike at Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh, under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO). Pressing for the immediate implementation of the seventh UGC pay scales by the Punjab government, five representatives from district unit of PFUCTO, Dr BB Yadav, Dr GS Sekhon, Prof Gurjit Singh Sidhu, Dr Munish Gupta and Prof Puneet Sharma started the chain hunger strike in front of the university’s guest house. They are also demanding the withdrawal of de-linking of UGC pay scales.All constituents of the PFUCTO would participate in the chain fast at the same venue on rotational basis till all demands are met by the Punjab government, they said.Various student bodies and other teaching associations are also supporting the teachers’ agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/student-unions-protest-privatisation-lack-of-jobs-308322
08-09-2021||Strap||AAP slams CM on failure to cancel PPAs, burns his effigy||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 7Volunteers of the Amritsar unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) set ablaze an effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for his announcement not to annul the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the erstwhile SAD-BJP coalition government following a protest on Tuesday.Addressing the AAP members, Iqbal Singh Bhullar, in charge, AAP Amritsar Lok Sabha seat; Jiwan Jyot Kaur, president of the AAP Urban, and Seema Sodhi, president of AAP (Rural), said the Congress party in its manifesto had announced that it would cancel the power purchase agreements signed at higher prices. After over four years, the state continues to sink in the morass of debt while the government does not have a plan to deal with the problem, they said.They accused the private companies running thermal power plants to ever properly working during the peak load season when the demand rises exponentially in the state. They said the CM never loses an opportunity to cast doubt and aspersions on the power agreements but he invariably shirks from taking any decision over these.They added that this showed a tacit complicity between the Congress government and Opposition party - SAD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-slams-cm-on-failure-to-cancel-ppas-burns-his-effigy-308323
08-09-2021||Amritsar||417th ‘Parkash Purb’ of Guru Granth Sahib celebrated at Khalsa College, Amritsar||GGI holds interactive sessionThe Global Group of Institutes organised an interactive session on its campus which was addressed by motivational speaker Rajesh Talwar. Talwar spoke at length on the role of teachers and on different aspects of post-Covid phase and dwelt on the ways and approach that should be followed by the teachers while shifting from online mode of teaching presently being pursued to the classroom teaching in the near future. He outlined the need to prepare a roadmap for the future and to engage the students who would be shifting to the offline mode after a long gap. He impressed upon the teachers to look beyond just academics and counsel the students on issues that they might be facing in the absence of day-to-day classes and also in the matters that do not form part of the curriculum. The talk also laid emphasis on the brain-mapping technique that can be adopted by the teachers to read the minds of the students and foresee their requirements and problems so that they can come up with the solutions to overcome such doubts in their minds.AGC honours its teachersThe Amritsar Group of Colleges (AGC) honoured their teaching staff to mark the Teacher’s Day celebrations. The college held a special ceremony to award the teachers and appreciate their efforts towards continuity of education during the pandemic year. Dr VK Banga, Principal, in his address shared the role of a teacher in a student’s life considering them the nation builders. He said teachers play a significant role in training human resource. Teacher of the Year Award was presented to all those faculty members who have shown outstanding contribution in online teaching. Apart from this, e-certificates were awarded to all teachers. Amit Sharma, chairman & CEO, AGC, Ragini Sharma, director finance, AGC, congratulated the teachers for inspiring and nurturing the students to march in the right direction. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/417th-parkash-purb-of-guru-granth-sahib-celebrated-at-khalsa-college-amritsar-308326
08-09-2021||Tarn Taran||1 dead, another hurt in accident||Helpline to ease traffic woesAmritsar: To regulate and solve the problem of frequent traffic chaos in different parts of the city, the police have launched a traffic helpline besides deputed dedicated traffic cops for opening traffic jams. Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said: “Joint Commissioner of Police D Sudarvizhi will supervise the traffic helpline. People can call on the helpline 1073 if there is any traffic chaos. Besides, they can also WhatsApp at the traffic control room number 97811-30630 or post on Facebook page of the Amritsar Traffic Police Commissionerate. They can also tweet at @cpamritsar. He said people can inform the administration about traffic bottlenecks. They can send the location of wrongly-parked vehicles and traffic police will take stern action against the offender. Duggal said people can also share views at cpo.asr.police@punjab.gove.in. He said 30 cops on 15 bikes will remain stationed at different points, from where they can reach at the traffic bottleneck for streamlining traffic. TNSSC commission visits Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Deepak Kumar, senior vice-president, and Raj Kumar Hans, member of the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission, visited three villages of the district to probe the cases related to atrocities on members of the SC community here on Tuesday. The commission visited nearby Doburji village where two minor children belonging to the SC community were beaten up with a shoe for plucking mangoes from the fields of a farmer. The commission also visited Jalalabad and Talwandi Saran villages in connection with the complaints lodged with the SC commission regarding atrocities committed by landlords who had encroached common land in villages. The commission instructed local DSP Sucha Singh Bal to submit the report of the three cases to the commission office on September 16. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-dead-another-hurt-in-accident-308327
08-09-2021||---||Batala district demand: After Capt Amarinder Singh's letter snub, ministers write back||Chandigarh, September 7A day after snub by Capt Amarinder Singh for “shooting” off a letter to him seeking district status for Batala, rebel ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Sukhjinder Randhawa today wrote back to the CM, saying they were not bothered as to who gets the credit for the creation of a new district.Correct historical wrongRajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa said it was only after the British annexation of Punjab that the district headquarters were shifted from Batala to Gurdaspur. It is time to correct this historical wrong committed by British Raj.SSS Board chief opposes movePunjab Subordinate Service Selection Board Chairman Raman Behl on Tuesday warned against carving Batala district out of Gurdaspur, saying it would lead to implications. Gurdaspur had already suffered divisions during the reorganisation of 1966 and carving out of Pathankot district in 2011.Capt to cook for Olympic winnersChandigarh: Capt Amarinder Singh will host a dinner for Punjab Olympic winners, including Neeraj Chopra, on Wednesday. “From Patiala cuisine to pulao, lamb, chicken, aloo & zarda rice, Capt Amarinder will prepare each of these delicacies himself to keep his promise to Punjab Olympic medal winners and Neeraj Chopra at the dinner he is hosting tomorrow,” tweeted CM’s media adviser.In the same breath, the ministers expressed surprise at Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa writing on the same subject to the CM. “Partap Bajwa has written a letter to you to make Batala a district. This is a bit surprising because the person who has direct access to you should not have the need to write to you,” said the ministers while hitting back at the CM.The two ministers sent the letter while holding consultations with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu at PCC general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh’s residence.They further reminded the CM: “The Rajya Sabha MP had been writing letters for four and a half years and releasing the same to the media even at the cost of causing embarrassment not only to you and government but also the party, as he did not enjoy this rare privileged access earlier.”In their justification for writing to the CM, the two said: “We adopted the medium of writing to convey to you the legitimate and long-standing demand of the people of Batala city and region to make Batala a district because you were not holding public meetings for some time. All meetings, including that of the Cabinet, are being held by video conferencing. So we had no choice but to write to you.”Tript further drew CM’s attention to the Cabinet meeting wherein the decision to make Malerkotla a district was taken, saying he and then PCC chief Sunil Jakhar had then raised their voice for upgrading Batala to a district.The CM while taking a dig at the two ministers had yesterday said: “Had they come to me and spoken about it, I would have told them that I am already looking into the matter, and would have even consulted them in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-district-demand-after-capt-amarinder-singhs-letter-snub-ministers-write-back-308012
08-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Batala: Proposed district status raises hope, scepticism||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 7The proposal to elevate Batala sub-divisional town to a full-fledged district is being met with scepticism and hope in equal measure.Announcement on guru’s anniv?Amid speculation over the CM possibly announcing Batala as district on September 13, to mark marriage anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev, ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri said: “Sept 13 may be a red-letter day for us.”There is a section of residents which claim that if the move fructifies Gurdaspur district will be reduced to a lame duck, while there are others who maintain that “the smaller a district the better it can be administered”.In 2011, Pathankot was carved out as a separate entity from Gurdaspur. Before that Gurdaspur had 1,530 villages. After the division, it was left with 1,279 villages. And now, if Batala is separated, just 800 odd villages will remain.In 1988, the government of the day driven by exigencies of terrorism, had designated Batala as a police district.Gurdaspur-based advocate Santokh Singh Basra claims a majority of his ilk will be left with no work if the government decides on a division. “Lawyers who have their practices in Gurdaspur will be rendered idle as litigants will get their judicial work done in Batala itself. My brethren will suffer a big financial loss?” said Basra.“Batala is Punjab’s eighth largest city and has a large number of industrial units. The city’s Municipal Committee has already been elevated to the status of a corporation following which more funds are now available. If Malerkotla sub-division with 150 villages in its fold can be converted into a district, why can’t Batala, which has nearly 480 villages?” questioned Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, Chairman, Gurdaspur district planning committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-proposed-district-status-raises-hope-scepticism-308013
08-09-2021||---||Custodial death: Rights panel orders FIR against two Batala cops||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 7The Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC) has ordered registration of an FIR and initiation of disciplinary proceedings against Balkar Singh, then SHO of Sri Hargobindpur police station, and Sub-Inspector Jaswinder Singh, the then in charge of Harchowal police post, over their alleged involvement in the custodial death of Navdeep Singh in July last year.Action soughtThe PSHRC has also ordered initiation of disciplinary proceedings against then SHO of Sri Hargobindpur police station and then in charge of Harchowal police post over the custodial death of Navdeep Singh last year.Navdeep of Dhapai village, falling in the jurisdiction of Sri Hargobindpur police station, was nabbed by the Batala police under the Excise Act following which a case was made out against him on July 15, 2020. He was arrested the next day and subsequently sent on police remand till July 20 by a local court. However, on July 19, he died while in custody of the police.Since it was a custodial death, the PSHRC, vide an order passed on September 2, 2020, asked for a report from the DGP (Prisons), Gurdaspur DC and Batala SSP. In his reply, the SSP submitted the post-mortem report, cause of death based on the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) analysis and the inquest report.The District and Sessions Judge, Gurdaspur, had also directed the Chief Judicial Magistrate to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the circumstances leading to the death of Navdeep. The report was submitted to the commission by the Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Batala.“The (SSP’s) report is based on the statements given by senior police officers and close family members of Navdeep as well as the post-mortem report and other documentary evidence. As per the report of Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Batala, there were as many as 20 injuries on the body. No explanation for these 20 injuries is forthcoming,” said the PSHRC order.The commission has sought that the action taken on its report be placed before it within 30 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/custodial-death-rights-panel-orders-fir-against-two-batala-cops-308017
