09-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Anganwari staff threaten stir||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anganwari-staff-threaten-stir-308787
09-09-2021||Tarn Taran MC has failed to provide basic amenities to devotees visiting the holy town to pay their respect to the fifth Sikh Master Sri Guru Arjun Dev. The 13 public toilets constructed at different corners of the town are in a dilapidated state. Residents of the nearby sites say that they never got to see sweepers cleaning the toilets. The shopkeepers of the Palika Bazaar said they had arranged a sweeper and were paying him out of their own pockets. It is being said that the MC had been paying Rs9285.83 every month to each sweeper in the official records. The public toilet constructed at the Chabal-Amritsar Bypass was also hit by a vehicle two years ago and has not been renovated till date. Sharanjit Kaur||Tarn Taran diary: Public toilets remain inaccessible||Teachers who went beyond textbooksTwo teachers from Tarn Taran district were among the 80 personalities being honoured by the Education Department on the Teacher’s Day in a virtual and the offline state-level function. Jaswinder Singh (in pink turban), Block Elementary Education Officer (BEEO), Chohla Sahib, and Lakhwinder Singh (in blue turban), an English lecturer at Government Secondary School, Jahangir, were felicitated on Teacher’s Day. The BEEO Jaswinder Singh has been honoured with the Administrator State Award while Lakhwinder Singh has bagged the State Teacher Award. The education block, Chohla Sahib, is the first block in the state where all 56 government elementary schools were turned into Smart schools to provide online education. These 56 schools have been equipped with LED and projectors in all classrooms. BEEO Jaswinder Singh said all this could be done with the sincere efforts of the teachers who roped in donors, NGOs and other sections of the society to come forward for the common cause. It’s only because of their efforts that the schools did not have to seek even a single penny from the state government.Dist Farmers hold their ground at MahapanchayatThe border district of Tarn Taran contributed remarkably to the Kisan Mahapanchayat held in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, on September 5 by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Members of more than 300 farmers’ organisations participated in the mahapanchayat, expressing resentment against three contentious farm laws. The leaders who addressed on the occasion were Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, state president of Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC), Punjab, and Harjinder Singh Tanda, state president of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee. Kanwalpreet Singh addressed the Mahapanchayat in chaste Punjabi. He sternly warned the government against three contentious farm laws. He said a day will come when PM Modi would have to leave his ‘anti-farmer’ stand. The role of Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu for strengthening the farmers’ movement in Punjab cannot be ignored. He formed the KSC in 2000 and managed to protect the interests of farmers. Harjinder Singh Tanda who is a grassroots leader, warned the Centre against the agri laws. Inderjit Singh Kot Budha said as he was away from Delhi, his representative addressed the gathering.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-public-toilets-remain-inaccessible-308786
09-09-2021||Amritsar||GNDU organises webinar on Sri Guru Granth Sahib||GNDU declares resultsGNDU declared results of Bachelor of Vocation Automobile Technology, (Sem – II), Bachelor of Vocation E-Commerce & Digital Marketing, (Sem– IV), Bachelor of Vocation Web Designing and Development (IT), (Sem – II) , Bachelor of Vocation Web Designing and Development (IT), (Sem– IV), MA Music Instrumental (Sem-IV), M.A. History of Art (Sem-II), MA History of Art) Sem-IV, Diploma Course in French (Full Time), Sem-II, M Design (Multimedia) Sem-II, M.Design Multimedia (Sem-IV), MA Geography (Sem-II), MA Geography (Sem IV), Bachelor of Vocation (Web Technology & Multimedia), Sem-II, Bachelor of Vocation Web Technology & Multimedia, (Sem – IV), Bachelor of Vocation Printing Technology, (Sem-II) Bachelor of Vocation Printing Technology, (Sem- IV), BSC Bio Technology, (Sem- VI), Bachelor of Vocation E-Commerce & Digital Marketing, (Sem- II), Bachelor of Vocation Animation, (Sem– IV), Bachelor of Vocation Data Science, (Sem– IV), Bachelor of Vocation Product Design Management and Entrepreneurship, (Sem- IV), Bachelor of Vocation Media and Communication, (Sem- VI), Bachelor of Vocation Fashion Designing and Product, (Sem-VI), MSc. Internet Studies (Sem–II) , M.Sc. (Physics) Sem- III , BBA LL.B. (Five years Integrated Course), Sem- I and BSC Home Science, (Sem-II), among others.Little Champ Contest launchedMLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria on Wednesday launched ‘Amritsar Little Champ Contest’, which offers a platform to children under the age of 18 years to showcase their talent through social media. It will sensitise people to vaccination to curb Covid-19. Kids have to record a two-minute video message and upload on www.amritsarlittlechamps.in to be eligible for the contest. The MLA said two winners would be selected daily who would be given tablets. “This month long campaign has been kick-started today and I have arranged 60 tablets for the toppers. The children can express their creativity in the form of song, dance, acting, extempore or a speech,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-organises-webinar-on-sri-guru-granth-sahib-308785
09-09-2021||---||Covid forced him to shift to packaging biz||Amritsar, September 8While the pandemic upended the lives of many, and brought challenges to people from diverse backgrounds, there were many who chose to take the hurdles head on.As his family business in agri-commodities took a beating during the pandemic, Etin Sehgal (35) did not feel let down. He instead charted a new course by floating a new brand – Fig Tree – under which he started packing spices, herbs and nuts. “I set up a processing and packaging centre and directly and indirectly engaged around 50 persons.”A commerce graduate, he is of the opinion that the pandemic shaped the mentality of consumers, making them more conscious of nutritious food and hygiene. The need for packaged food was felt during the pandemic.Providing quality to customers was the main objective for the best Californian almonds, walnuts, spices from the peninsular India and herbs. These are being sold across the country but the main orders were mostly coming from the Northern India. “We are also exporting these items to the Gulf countries,” he remarks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-forced-him-to-shift-to-packaging-biz-308784
09-09-2021||---||Amritsar school heads hail training modules||Amritsar, September 8Enabling headmasters and principals of government schools to upgrade their leadership skills and develop soft skills, the Education Department’s initiative to provide training modules has been welcomed by the heads of schools in district.Deepika Dean, headmistress of Government School, Abdal, one of the 520 trainees, said, “The module used 14 categories of training and SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats) analysis for building better communication and innovative idea implementation for better output, there were several concepts that were taught to us. The entire structure of functioning and work culture in government education sector needs to be changed and nuanced approach, including building emotional quotient of teachers as well as school heads is the need of the hour.”Gurpreet Singh, headmaster, Government high School, Shahpur, who attended the module, said, “Such trainings are now a significant part of any sector undergoing digitisation. By improving leadership in schools, one can bring in better infrastructure and resources and manpower.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-school-heads-hail-training-modules-308783
09-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Honoured for raising the level of education||Tarn Taran, September 8District Education Officer (Elementary) Rajesh Kumar Sharma presided over a meeting with his subordinates and the district team of ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’ project to review different projects of the Education Department in the district here on Wednesday.The meeting was attended by the Block Education Officers (BEOs) and officials of the ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’ project.The DEO also issued instructions to school heads to perform better in National Achievement Survey (NAS) too. The DEO appreciated the officials of the department for their efforts for uplifting the status of education in this border district by raising all Government Elementary Schools to the level of smart schools. The DEO called officials to take teachers and schools heads in their confidence to make the education atmosphere more progressive.On the occasion the BEOs from different blocks Jaswinder Singh (Chohla Sahib), Paras Khullar (Valtoha), Veerjit Kaur (Naushehra Pannuan), Paramjit Kaur (Patti), Harjit Singh (Bhikhiwid), Dilbag Singh (Khadoor Sahib) and Mathra Devi (Tarn Taran) were honoured with the citation and appreciation letters on behalf of the department.Navdeep Singh and Anoop Singh Maini, team members of the ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’, too, were honoured on the occasion.The DEO said Punjab was the only state where the recruitment, transfers and other processes had been made online to stay away from unfair means.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/honoured-for-raising-the-level-of-education-308782
09-09-2021||---||Of Hindu civilisation & its growing neglect among youth||Amritsar, September 8Pawan K Varma, former Indian diplomat and Rajya Sabha MP, highlighted the prejudice that the history of Hindu civilisation has been facing, both internationally and in the country. He was in conversation with noted writer Advaita Kala in an online session organised by Majha House about his book ‘The Great Hindu Civilisation’ that traces the history and significance of the Hindu civilisation.While talking about the book, Pawan said, “I strongly feel what India needs today is not Hindutva but Hindu-satya. The idea of the Hindu civilisation has been corrupted by vested parties so much so that it is barely recognisable from what it originally was,” he said.Clarifying his stance about the past of India’s civilisation, Pawan said he was by no means eulogising everything that contributed towards the Indian culture. “There were many ill practices prevalent in the Hindu civilisation — caste system and gender disparity — to name a few. But today, women have gained much more respect for their work and contribution towards society and culture but there is still a gap that needs to be filled.”His book presents the idea that many facts in regard to the Hindu civilisation, its practices, traditions and other aspects have been whitewashed. He also said divisive politics and hatred towards people of other religions has never been stronger than it is today. “The Mughals invaded India and plundered it; Nalanda was burnt; temples were razed to the ground. These are facts that cannot be ignored. But we must move on towards a path of peace and plurality. We cannot keep on clinging to the evil deeds done by them hundreds of years back and let politicians instil hate in our hearts. We have to revive the culture of brotherhood once again if we are to progress as a nation collectively,” he said.He also said he felt disappointed that today’s youth not just lacks the knowledge about our glorious past but also has no curiosity to know about it. “They are not interested in knowing what the truth about our civilisation is. This is why the book is close to my heart. It is my inherent desire to revive interest in our civilisation, to make people aware of how great the Hindu civilisation was and how advanced it was. If I am able to do that I will consider my years of research fruitful,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-hindu-civilisation-its-growing-neglect-among-youth-308781
09-09-2021||---||Contractual employees’ stir puts brakes on bus service in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 8The Punjab Roadways PUNBUS Contractual Workers’ Union will hold a four-hour protest at all bus stands across the state from 10 am to 2 pm on Thursday.Jodh Singh, senior vice-president of the union, said they were being compelled to lay siege to the residence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh on September 10.“We demand regularisation of 7,500 contractual workers employed by the PRTC, pay parity and reinstatement of those staff who have been shown the door after putting conditions,” he said.The indefinite strike of the contractual workers entered third day today. Neither PUNBUS, nor PRTC buses, plied from the Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-state Bus Terminal (ISBT) today. However, buses having regular staff ferried passengers. There was no impact on movement of private buses, which plied without hassle and passengers could be seen waiting in queues to board buses.20-bus convoy to join state-level rally on Sept 11An urgent meeting of the Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front was held on Wednesday, where members of the district units of Punjab and UT employees and pensioners announced that they will join the sate-wide rally scheduled in Chandigarh on September 11.The protest march will be held towards the Chief Minister’s residence and a convoy of 20 buses from Amritsar will join them. District convener Gardeep Singh Bajwa said the decision of the Cabinet to reject the demands of nearly 6 lakh employees and pensioners of Punjab was a betrayal. As per the demand of the united front of the pensioners, the minimum increase in pay in different categories will not be accepted by them. There was a massive outrage among Punjab employees and pensioners against the government over the cancellation of old pension scheme, non-implementation of Centre scale on employees recruited after July 2020, payment of basic pay during probationary period under notification dated January 15, 2015. The Punjab and UT employees and pensioners will be holding a rally on September 11 in Chandigarh.No bus service from Tarn Taran to ChandigarhContractual workers of the state-run Punbus and PRTC buses held a motorcycle rally in Tarn Taran on Wednesday. The ongoing strike has created great hardships for long- distance passengers as private transporters do not have a permit for Chandigarh. The protesting employees started the march from the roadways depot, which concluded at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) . Satnam Singh Tur, chief, Roadways Depot, said the state government has totally failed to fulfil any of the promises it made with employees, farmers, students and other sections of society. He said the agitating staff working from the last 15 years has been demanding regularisation of their services. The protesters blamed the state government for privatization of various departments, including health, education and roadways. They said neither they have been regularised nor vacant posts have been fulfilled. Members of the union said the stir would continue as long as their demands would not be accepted by the state government. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/contractual-employees-stir-puts-brakes-on-bus-service-in-amritsar-308780
09-09-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar cop dismissed for going abroad without getting ex-India leave sanctioned||Police Commissioner Vikramjeet Duggal has dismissed a constable for breach of discipline on Wednesday.Constable Manjinder Singh of EO Wing-2 went abroad without getting ex-India leave sanctioned on May 19, 2020. After reaching Canada, Manjinder sent an e-mail stating that he could not inform the department, due to time constraints. A departmental inquiry had been launched against the employee for committing serious misconduct by not getting leave as per the rules before going abroad. He was found guilty and a show-cause notice was also issued, but the department didn’t get any response. On the basis of the inquiry report, action was taken and constable Manjinder was dismissed.“Cops at the Amritsar Commissionerate of Police are a disciplinary force. Some personnel do not follow the discipline and take such decision without bringing it to the notice of their senior officers. Stern actions will be taken against violation of rules,” said the CP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-cop-dismissed-for-going-abroad-without-getting-ex-india-leave-sanctioned-308779
09-09-2021||---||Maiden flight to Rome takes off from Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 8The direct flight from Amritsar to Rome took off on Wednesday. As many as 183 passengers boarded the Amritsar — Rome direct flight from Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport and 130 passengers are expected to arrive from Rome, day after tomorrow on arrival flight.Air India’s Dreamliner has a total of 256 seats of which 238 are economy class and 18 are business class seats. Seven business class and 176 economy class seats were booked by passengers on this flight.Gurjit Singh Aujla, chairman of the advisory committee of Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar, congratulated the passengers of the flight and said this flight connects Amritsar to Europe, which is the hub of Punjabi community. “It was a long-standing demand of the people living in Italy and it was my duty to raise their demand,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/maiden-flight-to-rome-takes-off-from-amritsar-308778
09-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Price rise burning hole in consumers’ pockets||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 8Soaring inflation on basic essential commodities such as LPG, sugar and even bread is burning a hole in the pocket of consumers. However, much to the discomfort of the common public, this trend neither shakes the Central nor the state governments from its slumber, feel residents.Rajesh Gupta, a trader, said: “The governments have squarely failed to rein in inflation on essential commodities such as LPG, fossil fuel, cooking oil and other items. They neither have time, nor the will to address the issue of soaring inflation.” He accused the delivery men of a gas agency of charging extra cost that was written on the receipt during the delivery of LPG cylinder. He pointed out that he received the receipt of LPG cylinder mentioning Rs925 as its cost and the delivery man insisted on asking for Rs35 over that amount.When he approached the gas dealer, he flatly asked him not to give anything above the receipt. When he told this thing to the delivery man, he simply asked him to pick up his cylinder from the agency itself.Hargun Kaur, a house wife, said not only LPG refill, but the prices of bread and sugar, too, have increased in the past one week. “Hike in prices of LPG refill was noticed by all, but the rise in the price of bread by Rs5 per packet and sugar in retail stretched the monthly kitchen budget.Government seems to be non-existent for retail shops who charge as per their own will. Famous ice-cream sellers in the city also hiked softy price by Rs10 per piece recently.Sandeep Gupta, general secretary of the Amritsar Retail Karyana Association, said the trend of soaring prices on groceries have shocked them and the reasons were inexplicable. It was high time the government intervened to take stock of the situation, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/price-rise-burning-hole-in-consumers-pockets-308777
09-09-2021||---||Vax drive resumes, Amritsar district administration receives 80K doses||Amritsar, September 8The administration received 80,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday evening. Officials of the Health Department said the district received 1.40 lakh doses in the last one week.A total of 10,706 residents were inoculated on Wednesday in comparison to 2,380 on Tuesday.The department deliberately kept the drive slow today as it was a weekly immunisation of children at the government hospitals.In the next two days, the Health Department has planned to conduct mega-vaccination drives to inoculate maximum residents. Earlier, the department had set a sort of record by vaccinating 57,800 beneficiaries.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said, “We are getting maximum number of doses in the state. The quota is allocated as per usage, so we try to inoculate maximum number of people.” He said they would again be getting their quota in next two days.The Civil Surgeon said there’s no need for residents to feel anxious. He said, “A total of 2.61 lakh residents in the district have been completely vaccinated while more than 6 lakh beneficiaries have received their first dose.”Meanwhile, the health authorities reported two positive cases today, with which the total number of cases increased to 47,257. The Health Department reported recovery of six patients. With this, the recovery count reached 45,658. The district has a total of 10 active cases.No case, death in Tarn TaranThe district authorities reported no positive case and Covid-19 related death in Tarn Taran on Wednesday. The toll stands at 378 to date.Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said 18,466 persons were vaccinated at 94 camps today. The Health Department said the district administration received 30,000 doses today. Earlier, the district was facing severe shortage of vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vax-drive-resumes-amritsar-district-administration-receives-80k-doses-308776
09-09-2021||---||Fogging increased in Amritsar city, claims MC’s health wing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 8The Municipal Corporation (MC) has increased fogging in the city considering the rising number of dengue cases, claimed health officials here on Wednesday.MC health officer Dr Rama met the district malaria officer and the ‘Eat Right’ team of the Smart City regarding the issue. The officials discussed about dengue-prone areas and decided to increase fogging in the city to eliminate the larvae.The health wing officials of the Municipal Corporation have revised the roster of fogging in the wards. Now, fogging teams start working at 6 in the morning till 6 in the evening, claimed Dr Rama.The officials said that fogging would curb the breeding of dengue larvae and mosquitoes.There are several slums and villages on the periphery that witnesses more dengue cases than posh areas. Residents of several colonies on the periphery areas claimed that no fogging had been conducted in their areas so far.Meanwhile, stagnant water can be seen in potholes and open plots in a lots of localities. A large pool of rainwater can be seen behind the MC’s auto workshop opposite Durgiana Temple. This year, the MC was reluctant to conduct fogging but after the rise in dengue cases, the health wing woke up from its slumber. Now, the MC is using jeeps, auto-rickshaws and scooters to conduct fogging in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fogging-increased-in-amritsar-city-claims-mcs-health-wing-308775
09-09-2021||---||Dengue rearing its ugly head in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 8With 88 dengue cases reported in the last seven days, the total count increased to 190 in the district. Except three cases that were reported in March, other were reported in the months of June, July and August. The cases have witnessed a sudden surge in the last fortnight. The health officials said maximum cases have been reported from Sultanwind Road, Tarn Taran Road, Kot Baba Deep Singh and Antaryami Colony.The officials said they were continuously conducting fogging around the houses of positive patients. The Health Department conducts fogging in roughly 50 houses in the vicinity of a positive patient.The officials said the Municipal Corporation, which is responsible for fogging in the city, has also been asked to conduct fogging in at least 12 wards of the MC.“If only the MC covers 12 wards a day, it would be able to cover 85 wards in a week. Fogging is required after every seven days in an area,” an official said. The district Health Department has also doubled the number of anti-larvae teams for collecting samples from the city to 30. The officials said there were negligible number of dengue cases from rural areas and city residents due to high population density were more affected.The department has also asked residents to take proper precautions to avoid mosquito bites especially during the day to avoid dengue. The department has also asked residents to consult a qualified physician in case of appearance of any symptoms associated with the disease and avoid treatment from quacks or relying on home remedies.SymptomsThe symptoms of the disease include high grade fever above 102°F, headache, pain in the eyes, general body aches, vomiting, skin rashes which must be monitored for 7 to 10 days by medical expertsDosDon’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-rearing-its-ugly-head-in-amritsar-district-308774
09-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC's F&CC meeting a stormy affair||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 8The meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation was a stormy affair as Deputy Mayor Younas Kumar raised objection on a lot of proposals presented in the meeting here on Wednesday.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi, senior deputy mayor Raman Bakshi, deputy mayor Younas Kumar, councillor Damanjit Singh, councillor Gurjeet Kaur and MC officials were present in the meeting.There were total 248 proposals for discussion, but only 25 proposals were discussed while responding to the queries of Younas Kumar.According to sources, Younas objected to the proposals on technical ground and also questioned officials about the faulty bidding process benefiting only three contractors, which were defaulters allegedly.“Some of the proposals were violations of rules and regulations of the government.When we float tender of up to Rs60 lakh for the first time, we have to give preference to cooperative firms, second time we can invite firms. But here, officials invited firms the first time only. The proposals of the Operation and Maintenance wing were mentioned in some proposals that work has been allotted to a single firm during the second call for tender, but didn’t provide details of the first tender. There are three contractors that are favourites of officials and they again get works. I have objected on 25 proposals, while others were not discussed,” said Younas.After this, it was decided that officials will provide all files related to the proposals to Younas Kumar and after eliminating anomalies, it would be passed.However, a press statement issued by the Mayor’s office claimed that all proposals were unanimously passed and it was decided that a third-party audit would be conducted for all development works carried out by the Municipal Corporation Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mcs-fcc-meeting-a-stormy-affair-308773
09-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Heritage structures in a shambles in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 8It has been over three years since the Service Club handed over the possession of the ‘deorhi’ located at the entrance of the historic Ram Bagh (garden) to the Municipal Corporation, but its restoration work is yet to see the light of day.Earlier, it was the Covid-induced lockdown and now its restoration work is stuck for want of necessary approval from higher authorities of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in New Delhi.Also readThe Jallianwala Bagh makeoverSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranDens of belief: Akharas of AmritsarThe historical structure — deorhi or entrance gate — is situated in the northern end of the summer palace of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Also known as Ram Bagh deorhi or Company Bagh deorhi, it is now crying for attention.One of the projecting balconies decorated with ornamental floral designs in lime plaster has fallen, while cracks have appeared from different sides in the structure. The structure remained in the occupation of the Service Club for nearly a century.Meanwhile, similar deorhi at the southern end of Ram Bagh deori is properly conserved and is currently under the occupation of the ASI, which runs its office from its premises. This deorhi comprises fortified citadel having the Darbar Hall, two pavilions on the eastern and western sides, two gateways on the northern and southern sides. Besides the façade contains beautiful balconies.Nevertheless, the façade of the deorhi (vacated by the Service Club) needs urgent repair. An outer balcony has caved in, while cracks have appeared on different sides.Sources in the ASI revealed that they have already written for the approval to senior officials in Delhi and the officials here were likely to get it within a couple of weeks.An ASI official wishing not to be quoted said after getting the approval, tenders would be floated for supply of material required for the repair and restoration of outer façade that has been in a dilapidated condition at present. It is likely to take one-and-a-half months for the completion of the entire process, he said. After this, they would again request the MC authorities to hand over the structure to them.The ASI has written a number of times to the civic authorities to hand over the protected monument. At present, three British-era clubs — Service Club, Lumsden Club and Amritsar Club — are being run from the premises. Besides, food kiosks, concrete pathways, children’s park, skating rink, tennis courts and zonal offices of the Municipal Corporation have been playing a spoilsport as far as the historic bagh’s heritage significance is concerned.The ASI and the Municipal Corporation had reached on an agreement, where the latter would remain the custodian of the garden, but the restoration of the heritage would be done under the ASI.What a neglect||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heritage-structures-in-a-shambles-in-amritsar-308772
09-09-2021||Amritsar||Defamation Suit: Sanjay Singh appears in Amritsar court||AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh appeared in a local court today in connection with a defamation case filed by SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia for allegedly making defamatory statements against him during political rallies in the run-up to the 2017 Assembly elections.A witness from Majithia’s side also recorded his statement in the court. The next hearing in the case would take place on September 27.Majithia filed the case against AAP leaders—Arvind Kejriwal, Sanjay Singh and Ashish Khetan—in May 2016.In March 2018, Kejriwal apologised to Majithia for his statements. Sanjay Singh, however, did not apologise and decided to face the charges. The AAP leader on his visit to the city met Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh and other party leaders. Sanjay Singh said his fight for the truth would continue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defamation-suit-sanjay-singh-appears-in-amritsar-court-308527
09-09-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to arrange langar at Karnal protest site||Showing solidarity with farmers, the SGPC has announced providing need-based services in Karnal where the farmers have staged a sit-in.Also read:Farm stir: After Singhu & Tikri, now Karnal takes centre stageBan on mobile Internet services in Karnal extended till Thursday midnight as farmers' protest enters day 3SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said their sub-office in Kurukshetra and managers of gurdwaras in Haryana were instructed to start working in this regard. Similarly, teams have been deputed from the gurdwaras along the Haryana border to arrange langar, tea, water and beddings for the farmers. “Instructions were issued in this regard to the managers of Gurdwara Nada Sahib, Panchkula, Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, Patiala and Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin, Kurukshetra,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-to-arrange-langar-at-karnal-protest-site-308533
09-09-2021||Amritsar||Lathicharge no solution, talks must: Baljit Singh Daduwal||Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal expressed concern over the standoff between farmers and the Centre over the three farm laws.After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple today, he said lathicharge against farmers was never a solution and the issues should be resolved amicably across the table.“Lathicharge, be it in Moga or Karnal, should have been avoided as violence will never yield good results. In Punjab, the issue of sugarcane price was resolved after the government raised the procurement price. Similarly, the friction between the Centre and farmers should be settled through dialogue. The Centre should also take an initiative to break the ice and fulfil their genuine demands ,” he said.He appealed to the Punjab and Haryana governments to compensate the kin of those farmers who died during the protest on the Delhi borders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lathicharge-no-solution-talks-must-baljit-singh-daduwal-308534
09-09-2021||Amritsar||Guru Granth Sahib 'Parkash Purb' celebrated at Golden Temple||The 417th 'Parkash Purb’, the first installation of Guru Granth Sahib at Golden Temple, was celebrated with religious fervour and devotion at Golden Temple, Amritsar.Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranA nagar kirtan commenced from Gurdwara Shri Ramsar Sahib and culminated at the Golden Temple. Kirtani jathas and gatka parties took part in the nagar kirtan. An akahand path was organised at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-granth-sahib-parkash-purb-celebrated-at-golden-temple-308351
