10-09-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC removes two illegal kiosks||50 held under preventive actionAmritsar: The police have arrested over 50 persons in the last six days under preventive action. The step was taken in view of the rising snatching cases in the city. According to the police, it would also help in nailing drug peddlers. The police have been holding search operations in vulnerable areas to nail miscreants. Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal said they have launched a drive against miscreants and they were being taken into preventive custody. The city has witnessed a spurt in snatchings and vehicle lifting cases. Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said the main motive was to keep an eye on such elements who could foment trouble during festive season or the Assembly polls. “It is better to take preventive measure now rather than repenting after someone commits crime,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-removes-two-illegal-kiosks-309187
10-09-2021||---||Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu is All-India Council of Mayors vice-chairman||Amritsar, September 9Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu was appointed as the vice-chairman of the All-India Council of Mayors (AICM) on Thursday. In a communiqué issued from the office of the chairman of AICM, Naveen Jain, he was declared as vice chairman, recognising his work and commitment towards the post in the past a few years.The AICM is a national level body, with head office in New Delhi, working for coordination and streamlining of the local government in an effective manner. Mayor Rintu was greeted by city councillors in his office today with a bouquet of flowers after his appointment as the vice-chairman.Happy over his elevation, Rintu said this was an honour not for him but for city residents. He said he would work harder and focus on providing basic amenities to citizens.Rintu, who was received by the city councillors at his office following his elevation, said people’s expectations regarding the livable conditions have increased manifold and the municipalities will have to work day and night to meet the goals. “The MC’s role in the development and provision of basic amenities has increased and we have to prepare for future,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-karamjit-singh-rintu-is-all-india-council-of-mayors-vice-chairman-309179
10-09-2021||---||Carjacking:  Three arrested in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 9The police have nabbed three carjackers while their fourth accomplice who is reportedly the prime accused is still absconding.Those arrested have been identified as Sakay Love Masih of Majitha, Manmohitdeep Singh of Majitha and Jaspal Masih of Batala. Their fourth accomplice Vishal alias Kattu, is a nephew of Jaspal.The accused had snatched a car from Dr Parveen Devgan of Ranjit Avenue on August 21. The car was recovered.Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said the accused had snatched the car from Dr Devgan near Mahal village. He said following a tip-off, the police recovered the car from Love and Manmohitdeep.During preliminary probe, they revealed that Kattu of Ekta Nagar, and his uncle Jaspal had given them the car. Kattu said he had stolen the car with Himmat Mohanbhandaria, who was the student union’s president. The accused had installed a registration number of Haryana on the car and were ready to install a VIP number for Rs1 lakh.Following this, the police arrested Jaspal while raids were on to nab Kattu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-three-arrested-in-amritsar-309166
10-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Batala SSP checks alertness of cops at 3.30 am||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 9Batala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Ashwani Kapur in an exercise wrapped in complete secrecy, ordered all officers of the police district to gather at Gandhi Chowk at 3.30 am, on Thursday.Later, the SSP said the exercise was a part of the police preparedness ahead of marriage celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev slated to be held on September 13. At 2.50 am a message was flashed from the SSP residence directing all the 12 SPs and DSPs and the 13 SHOs to reach at Gandhi Chowk within 40 minutes.They were also told that they would be open to disciplinary action if they did not reach on time.It was made clear that vehicles in which they would be reaching should be carrying search lights and bulletproof jackets. All officers, barring one who was indisposed, reached the spot on time.“This was a mock drill, but with a difference. Normally, such exercises are held during daytime. What surprised us was the stern message that anybody not abiding by the diktat will face the music. Initially, I thought there might have been some infiltration near the International Border. Later, I realised that it was actually a mock drill,” said a DSP-rank officer.Residents said the same alacrity should be shown by the police when the police control room receives a call from a common man. “The officers were bound to reach on time because after all it was the SSP who had called them. The efficacy of cops should be checked when some resident calls up the control room informing them about crime. It is then we should check how many minutes does the police take to reach,” said Ajmer Singh, who was passing through Gandhi Chowk when the cops had started to assemble in the wee hours.The entire city has been divided into zones and sub-zones for ‘Babe-Da-Viah’. Each zone is headed by a DSP- rank officer.Meanwhile, SDM Shayari Malhotra said she had requested the participants to follow Covid norms, including maintaining proper distance from each other, wearing masks and washing hands regularly. However, all her pleas may go unheard as the more than 50,000 devotees would converge at gurdwara Kandh Sahib, the venue of the festivities.“Covid norms should be abided with. But it’s not possible with nearly 50,000 people thronging gurdwara Kandh Sahib during the day-long proceedings. All health protocols were thrown to the wind when several farm unions held protests in the city last week,” said a police officer.The health authorities said 10 medical teams and an equal number of ambulances would be pressed into service on September 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-ssp-checks-alertness-of-cops-at-3-30-am-309155
10-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Smart policing: Nailing criminals not a handicap anymore||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 9Even as the city police have initiated digital mapping to bring down crime rate in the holy city, the police have failed to use the Punjab Artificial Intelligence System (PAIS) at its optimum level.Though the system has been there for the last nearly three years, it was hardly used by cops performing duties at checkpoints in different parts.Therefore, miscreants continued to create law and order problems.“Had the PAIS been used at nakas by cops, it would have easily nailed down many anti-social elements, thereby helping in arresting them on time before they could commit any serious crime,” said a senior police official.He said the mobile app allowed the Punjab Police to digitise criminal records and automate criminal search and analysis at ground zero. It has different features such as facial recognition, gang analysis and phonetic search among other things. At present, it has a database of over 90,000 criminals.“Just by clicking a picture of the suspicious elements and uploading these on the system, you will get the entire details if he had had any criminal record,” he said, adding that the Punjab Police had even received the FICCI Smart Policing Awards in 2018 for this.Deputy Commissioner of Police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said it was true that it was not being used on field at the ground level, but the city police have now made sure that it is used by cops at checkpoints to identify suspects. The police have managed to nab vehicle lifters leading to the recovery of stolen vehicles.Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said since he joined as the Police Commissioner in the holy city, his endeavour was to use technology to their advantage. “The criminal elements are using technology to hoodwink the innocent people and making crime detection a little difficult. It is time we used technology to our advantage,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-policing-nailing-criminals-not-a-handicap-anymore-309154
10-09-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 1 +ve case of Covid-19||Amritsar, September 9A person tested positive on Thursday taking the district tally to 47,258. The Health Department has also reported the recovery of one patient with which the recovery count improved to 45,659. The district at present has 10 active cases.2.70L residents fully inoculated in districtA total of 46, 791 residents were inoculated during the ongoing Covid-19 vaccine drive on Thursday. With this, the district has partially vaccinated a total of 6,21,945 residents and completely vaccinated 2,70,813 residents so far.Of those vaccinated on Thursday, 32,097 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 14,704 received the second dose. Further of the total inoculations done on Thursday, only 65 were done at private hospitals, while the remaining were done at vaccination centres being run by the government.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said apart from regular vaccination centres, total 611 vaccination camps have been organised till date. He said on an average, 168 persons were given injections in each of these camps.He said the initial inhibitions regarding getting the vaccine are over and now pregnant women and lactating mothers, too, are coming for getting the jab. In the district, till date, 897 pregnant women and 739 lactating mothers have been given the injections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-1-ve-case-of-covid-19-309153
10-09-2021||---||Amritsar district set to eradicate TB by 2025||Amritsar, September 9The district Health Department has launched Tuberculosis Preventive Treatment under the National TB Control Programme to prevent occurrence of TB among the family members of an identified patient.District TB officer Dr Naresh Chawla said the state government has set a target to eradicate TB till year 2025. He said the new programme would be crucial in realising the dream.“The chances of family members of an infected person becoming an active case in the next two years are high. The idea is to bring them under preventive treatment, so that the disease does not occur in them,” he said, adding that under the TB Preventive Programme, the teams of TB Alert India would visit the houses of TB patients to counsel the family members and bring them under the programme.Dr Chawla said 3,960 TB cases have been identified in the district during the current year. Talking about the causes behind the disease, he said low immunity, lack of proper ventilation, underlying health conditions and unhygienic surroundings are a few of the reasons.He said around 95 per cent of prevalence has been seen in people from lower economic strata of society, but it can occur in anybody as it is a communicable disease.Important statsIMA members meet top cop, put forth their issues Amritsar: Members of the Indian Medical Association (Amritsar Chapter) met Commissioner of Police Vikram Jeet Duggal and apprised him of the problems faced by medical fraternity, including incidents of violence by relatives of patients. The IMA members said a section of media also runs vilification campaign against private hospitals. Dr Jaspreet Grover, secretary, IMA (Amritsar Chapter), said the Police Commissioner has suggested them to be cautious of unregistered Youtubers claiming to be representatives of media houses and procure list of registered media bodies for reference from the Public Relations Department. He said the Police Commissioner has assured to appoint an SP-rank official as a nodal officer to address issues of violence against medical fraternity at workplace. Dr Kuldeep Singh Arora, chief, IMA (Punjab) said such incidents of violence have a demoralising affect on the medical fraternity. The delegation included Dr Amandeep Kaur, Dr Amrik Singh Arora, Dr RS Sethi and Dr Sukhjit Singh among others. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-set-to-eradicate-tb-by-2025-309152
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Probe property grab charges: HC to Amritsar IG||The Punjab and Haryana HC has asked the Amritsar Border Range Inspector General of Police to look into and decide pleas alleging misappropriation of property through impersonation and connivance of revenue officials.The direction by Justice Lalit Batra came on a petition against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Suresh Mahajan and another petitioner through counsel Onkar Singh Batalvi. It was alleged that the petitioners had been running from pillar to post for initiation of appropriate legal action against the respondents, as well as revenue officials concerned, by registering a case. But nothing has been done in this regard.Officials involvedThe pvt respondents, in connivance with revenue officials, have not only forged documents, but also succeeded in getting registered sale deeds by way of impersonation and cheating the petitioners. —Onkar Singh Batalvi, Petitioner’s counselThe matter pertains to property in Pathankot. Batalvi alleged a respondent purchased one of petitioners’ properties measuring over 1 kanal by forging and fabricating documents with another person impersonating the petitioner.“The private respondents, by conniving with each other and with the revenue authorities/officials concerned, have not only forged and fabricated the documents, but also succeeded in getting registered sale deeds by way of impersonation and as such played fraud and cheating with the petitioners,” he added.“The petition is disposed of with the direction to respondent-IG, Border Range, Amritsar, to look into representations by passing speaking orders and that too within two months from the date of receipt of copy of this order,” Justice Batra said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probe-property-grab-charges-hc-to-amritsar-ig-308915
