11-09-2021||Amritsar||Webinar on freedom struggle||MDP for Indian Oil Corporation LtdIIM Amritsar inaugurated a three-day Management Development Programme (MDP) for senior officials of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. The programme is designed in partnership with IIPM. The Director, IIM Amritsar, Dr Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Executive Director of IOCL, Urvija Bajpai, Chair, Executive Education, Dr Vartika Dutta, and all the participants of the programme along with the staff of IIM, Amritsar, attended the inauguration ceremony. The speakers threw light on the upcoming challenges in the post-pandemic scenario and realising that the need of the hour is that the senior leaders in the organisation identify new areas to innovate by questioning their own mindsets and deep-seated beliefs. The progarmme aims to provide a practical toolkit to the professionals to know how they can train their brains to alter mindsets of their own self and the teams they work in.School society distributes articlesTarn Taran: Students and staff of Universal Academy Secondary School, distributed daily usable articles to the underprivileged section of society on Friday under its weekly routine task. Nandini Malhotra, Principal of the school informed that the institution had formed a social organisation “Guruji Sab Tera-Tera” with the association of school staff, students and their parents for this noble cause. Jasbir Kaur is the in-charge of the social society while Anukarandeep Singh has been nominated as the president and Anmoldeep Singh as the secretary of the society. The society distributed ration, food, clothes, shoes and other articles. Jatinder Kumar Sood, Chairman of the school managing committee, called the deserving families to avail the initiative taken by the school. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-on-freedom-struggle-309508
11-09-2021||The priority of any addict is to ease the passage of the day with some purchased relief. This is the belief of Romesh Mahajan||Gurdaspur Diary: Of love, dope and hope||The new power centreAfter the CM’s office recently passed on a message to officials in Gurdaspur to listen to three time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri, the man has become all powerful in Batala. He now calls the shots in both the civil and police administration. Knowing that it is the early bird that catches the worm, he gets up early and starts touring villages. Batala assembly seat has 80 villages and Sekhri has already covered them once. He is now ready to go on a village round for the second time. As Chairman of the Punjab State Health Systems Corporation, he has paid a visit to nearly all government hospitals in and around Batala. Earlier, officers used to bend backwards to obey the diktats of Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. Now, these very officers are at the beck and call of Sekhri. How time flies! For nearly four years, all of Sekhri’s pleas used to fall on deaf ears in the corridors of power in Chandigarh. Nevertheless, this made him stronger and resilient. The man should know that when everything seems to be going against you, remember that the airplane takes off against the wind, not with it.Just statues won’t doEarly this week, some Congressmen visited Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq and asked him to let them install busts in memory of Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and Beant Singh on the government land. The DC was handed over a memorandum and within minutes dispatched it to the state government for a final decision. However, residents are questioning the logic and rationality of installing statues. The consensus among them is that the ‘Congress could do better to start some welfare schemes for the poor and the needy rather than coming up with irrelevant ideas like establishing busts.”— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-of-love-dope-and-hope-309504
11-09-2021||Amritsar||Day 5: Buses stay off roads||The Punbus and PRTC buses remained off the road for the fifth consecutive day on Friday as members of the Punjab Roadways Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union protested in Chandigarh against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Jodh Singh, senior vice-president of the union, said they did not shut the Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) today as most of their members went to Chandigarh to gherao the residence of Capt Amarinder Singh. Jodh said they lifted their protest at 3.30 pm after officials assured them of a meeting with the government on September 14.He said in case the government fails to fulfil their demands, they would be forced to block roads across the state.The demands include regularisation of 7,500 contractual workers, pay parity and reinstatement of contractual staff members who were relieved.Meanwhile, buses operated by regular staff plied without any hassle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-5-buses-stay-off-roads-309502
11-09-2021||---||Guru Nanak Dev University improves NIRF rankings, IIM-Amritsar debuts||Amritsar, September 10Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has improved its rankings from the previous year in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2021. Its ranking got scaled up to 13th rank in 2021 as compared to the 14th position in 2020 among the multi-speciality state universities of India. No other multi-speciality state university of northern region, except University of Kashmir, has figured in the first 55 positions in the country. Overall, it has stood at 53rd position among universities and 85th among all the higher education institutions of India.VC Prof Jaspal Sandhu said high quality academics and highly cited research of the faculty have earned name and fame to the university not only in India but at international arena as well. High quality research has improved the H-index of the university from 64 to 115 with top 10 percent highly cited papers in Scopus. The NIRF had considered the parameters of teaching-learning resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcomes, outreach and inclusivity, peer perception, for evaluating higher education institutions. Prof (Dr) Jaspal Singh, while appreciating the efforts of the faculty and staff, has expressed its commitment to improve the quality of education and research in the university in the times to come.Meanwhile, IIM Amritsar debuted with the 67th rank in the top 100 management school list released by the NIRF. IIM Amritsar has fared well on the parameters such as Graduation Outcome and Outreach and Inclusivity with a score of 88.37 and 66 respectively on a scale of 100.Pleased with the entry of IIM Amritsar in the national ranking, Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director IIM Amritsar, congratulated the faculty and staff of the Institute and lauded their efforts. Director, IIM Amritsar said, “We will enter the top 25 list within two years as we have made a considerable leap in terms of improvement in teaching-learning resources by recruiting quality faculty members in every area. I am confident that the results of the progress we have made since 2019-20 will be visible within two years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-improves-nirf-rankings-iim-amritsar-debuts-309505
11-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Bonded workers rescued, 1 held in Tarn Taran||4 cell phones found in jailAmritsar: The Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated four mobile phones during checking here on Wednesday. While three mobiles were seized from three prisoners, a cell phone was found abandoned in the bathroom’s exhaust fan of barrack number 6 of room number 6. The police have booked three jail inmates including Savan, alias Dhuti; Amritpal Singh, alias Kala, and Tarsem Singh, alias Kairon. Najjar Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said during checking barrack number 6 of room number 6, the jail staff found two mobile phones from Savan and Tarsem, while a third phone was recovered from the bathroom. Similarly, a search operation was conducted in the isolation cell and a smart phone was recovered from Amritpal Singh, alias Kaka. The Islamabad police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against them. Further probe is on to ascertain how they managed to sneak in the prohibited material inside the high-security jail. TNSNo vax to invite action, says DEOTarn Taran: Satnam Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary Education), has issued instructions to all the heads of government schools to take stern action against teachers and other staff members who had not vaccinated themselves against Covid. The DEO said in case the staff members had not been vaccinated, stop them to mark their attendance and their salary too be stopped. The DEO had sent a list of 250 staff members who had not taken vaccination till date. The officer warned that if these staff members were vaccinated and data not updated on e-Punjab portal then strict action be taken immediately and in case of staff who exempted from vaccination their reason and certificate on e-Punjab portal to be uploaded. OCFive snatchers nabbed by copsAmritsar: The police have arrested five snatchers who used to rob people at knife point. Cops recovered a motorcycle, five mobile phones and a sharp-edged weapon from their possession. Those arrested have been identified as Raunak Singh, Akash alias Kali, Abhimanyu Thapa, Sanjay and Bir Singh, all residents of Chheharta. During interrogation they had confessed to six snatching. According to police, the accused were held near Naraiangarh cremation ground. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bonded-workers-rescued-1-held-in-tarn-taran-309506
11-09-2021||---||Covid-19: One death, two positive cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 10The health authorities reported two positive cases in the district today with which the total number of cases increased to 47,260. The authorities reported one Covid-19 related death today. With this, the toll has increased to 1,590. The deceased has been identified as Kamala Devi (89), a resident of Basant Avenue.The Health Department reported recovery of one patient and the recovery count reached 45,660. The district has a total of 10 active cases. The authorities vaccinated 23,849 people today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-one-death-two-positive-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-309507
11-09-2021||---||Lawyer among nine booked for forging property papers in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 10The Vigilance Bureau (VB) has booked nine persons, including a lawyer, a deed writer and a stamp vendor for allegedly forging property documents and selling the same. They were booked following a complaint filed by Rajinder Kaur, a resident of Gurnam Nagar, on Sultanwind Road.Those booked have been identified as Malkeet Singh of Jaspal Nagar, Manpreet Singh of Kot Mit Singh, Advocate Mangat Ram Silli, a resident of New Golden Avenue, Bikramjit Singh alias Happy, Raobarinder Singh alias Lucky of Patti Mansoor ki, Sultanwind village, Jagsharan Singh of New Janta Colony, Deepak Sharma of Tehsil Complex and Ashwani Kumar (deed writer), a resident of Guru Nanak Pura in Kot Khalsa.The VB arrested Deepak Sharma while the remaining accused were still on the run. The complainant said she owned 3 kanal and 3 marlas. She said she sold 3 marlas to Bikramjit Happy, Raobarinder Singh, Malkeet Singh and Manpreet Singh.In December 2018, she came to know that the accused had fraudulently sold her 63 marlas to Jarnail Singh of Sultanwind village, Amandeep Singh of Deen Dayal Colony, Verka and Davinder Singh of Sultanwind village.The VB sleuths revealed that that the accused fraudulently changed the figure 3 marlas to 63 marlas in the documents by prefixing 6. A case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the accused.Six booked for murder bidThe Khalchian police have booked six persons on charges of firing and murder bid. The incident took place three days ago, but a complaint was lodged on Thursday.Those booked have been identified as Harjinder Singh, Gurnam Singh, German Singh, Joban Singh, all residents of Sidhwan village, Gurjant Singh and Balraj Singh, both residents of Kammoke village, Beas.Rajwinder Kaur, a resident of Wadala Kalan village, told the police that on July 31, Harjinder had a quarrel with her father-in-law following which her husband (Jasbir Singh) pushed him out of the house. She said on the same day, the accused gathered outside their house, and started hurling abuses. She said the accused also pelted stones at their house, besides firing several gun shots in the air.She said three days ago, her husband was present at his shop when six unknown persons with their faces covered thrashed him brutally and fled away on two motorcycles.A case under Sections 307, 336, 148, 149, 120-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lawyer-among-nine-booked-for-forging-property-papers-in-amritsar-309509
11-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar: Top cop Vikram Jeet Duggal leads from the front||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 10At a time when people preferred to remain indoors, Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal ventured out along with Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Jaswant Kaur and several other officials of the traffic wing on Friday. He waded through the rainwater accumulated on the roads barefoot in order to encourage the traffic cops and to oversee the problems faced by commuters due to the jam because of heavy rain.Also read: Heavy rain floods Amritsar, throws life out of gear“It is appreciable how the traffic cops were performing their duties during heavy rain and ensured to streamline the traffic,” he said, adding that his prime motive now was to oversee what problems the commuters face in holy city during heavy rain showers.From the Hall Gate area, he went barefoot to the Heritage Street near Golden Temple where heavy rainwater got accumulated like after every downpour. He interacted with the shopkeepers about the problems they faced due to traffic bottlenecks during rains or normal days.“The water might have got accumulated near the Heritage Street due to chocking of drains. This must have led to traffic chaos near the area,” he said, while adding that he would talk to the civic authorities about this as the area witnesses a huge rush of devotees and tourists to pay obeisance at the holy Sikh shrine.The other major problem was of parking on the road leading from Hall Gate to Darbar Sahib. In the absence of any parking lot, shopkeepers and people park their vehicles in a haphazard manner on the road. “Wrongly-parked vehicles lead to traffic jams. People should think of the problems which arise due to their negligent attitude,” he said.He said the traffic cops were deputed at main chowks, including the bus stand, railway station, Heritage Street and other adjoining areas for streamlining the traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-top-cop-vikram-jeet-duggal-leads-from-the-front-309510
11-09-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Rain pain: In Tarn Taran, storm water drains give way||Tarn Taran, September 10Heavy rain in Tarn Taran district on Friday disrupted the normal life and caused damage to early growing varieties of paddy. As power supply was suspended early in the morning, residents faced difficulty in sourcing potable water.More than 70 per cent of the town, including Adda Bazaar, Chauki Bohri, Tehsil Bazaar, Noordi Adda and slums in Muradpur were in knee-deep water. The storm water drains choked as they were not desilted.The camp office of MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri and the road passing nearby remained waterlogged the entire day.Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh Saini said 89 mm rainfall was recorded in Tarn Taran subdivision, 10 mm in Khadoor Sahib and 90 mm in Patti subdivision.The CAO said early growing paddy varieties— PR-1509, PR-126 — were badly damaged today.Former municipal councillor Dr Sukhdev Singh Lauhuka said most of the shopkeepers could not open their shops till 12 noon due to stagnant water in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-pain-in-tarn-taran-storm-water-drains-give-way-309511
11-09-2021||Amritsar||Heavy rain floods Amritsar, throws life out of gear||Rain for around six hours on Friday not just left the entire holy city flooded, but also exposed monsoon-ready claims of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation. Irked residents raised questions on crores of rupees spent in the name of desilting.Top cop Vikram Jeet Duggal leads from the frontWades through waterlogged Heritage Street barefoot to take stock of the ground situationNot just low-lying areas, the Heritage Street, Katra Jaimal Singh, Katra Ahluwalia, Outer Ring Road, GT Road, BRTS lanes, bus stand, Mall Road, MM Malvia Road, Majitha Road, Batala Road, Mall Road, Putlighar, Khalsa Collage lane, SSSS Chowk and several areas of the walled city remained inundated.OfficialspeakIt was an extremely heavy downpour. It was beyond the capacity of our existing system. As there is no storm water sewer in the city, so it takes a few hours to drain rainwater. We operated disposal pumps without any disruption. Rainwater was drained out within two hours because of desilting. Malwinder Singh Jaggi, MC CommissionerThe rainwater entered houses in low lying areas in Inderpuri, Islambaad and Kot Khalsa. As all major sewers remained choked, the rainwater remained stagnant on roads throughout the day.Apart from this, the rain also exposed the true picture Heritage Street. The rainwater entered shops around the Golden Temple and devotees could be seen navigating through stagnant water.ResidentspeakWaterlogging is a regular problem. The rainwater enters our shops everytime and damages our goods. Today, rainwater damaged my goods worth Rs1 lakh. Similar situation was witnessed last year. Insurance companies do not cover such damage and nobody listens to us. It is a curse to have a shop on the Heritage Street. Rahul, a shopkeeper at Heritage StreetCommuters, especially motorcyclists and pedestrians, had a tough time. Several vehicles got stuck due to waterlogging, which further led to massive snarls in the city. Supply of milk and vegetables, too, got affected.‘No desilting by civic body’Suresh Sharma, an RTI activist, alleged that the Amritsar Municipal Corporation claimed to spend Rs 12.10 crore in 2018-19 on desilting of sewers. Then Rs 40 lakh was sanctioned for each Assembly segment. Later, Rs 1 lakh was sanctioned for several areas in the city. There is no public record related to desilting. The office-bearers of the MC General House, senior officials and contractors were hand-in-glove and they embezzled the funds, said Sharma.“There should be a vigilance inquiry. They have passed the bills, but not conducted desilting. If sewer lines were cleaned then how come the city turned into a pool?” asked Sharma.According to sources, there is no check of administration on desilting work. “Generally, they park the super-sucker machine on a manhole and click pictures and send it to senior officers of the MC. There is no inspection of any department. No one measures the level of silt before and after the desilting is done. Noting is in public domain. Nobody responds to public representative in this regard,” said a councillor.No power in several areasPower remained suspended in several localities of the city. Amit Kumar, a resident of Veer Enclave, said a power cut was imposed at 9 am.Early sown paddy at riskHeavy rain accompanied with high-velocity winds flattenend early grown varieties of paddy in parts of the district. Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, Block Agriculture Development Officer said, “Heavy rain in the area has partially damaged all early sown varieties. It will affect the colour of grain, which is on a maturing stage. The late sown varities such as 1121 are safe. The risk of bacterial leaf blight of rice plant is also there as water accumulates in fields, which results in spreading of bacterial diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heavy-rain-floods-amritsar-throws-life-out-of-gear-309512
11-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Leaders divided over district status to Batala||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 10A majority of city residents want the coming Monday to be a red-letter day for them even as the proposed decision to elevate Batala subdivision into a full-fledged district is having some interesting fallouts.There is widespread speculation that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will make an official declaration on the occasion of the marriage anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak — also known as ‘Babe Da Viah’ — falling on September 13. Even as the city is agog with religious fervour and excitement, residents feel an official announcement will provide the icing on the cake.Move not in our interest: LawyersIn the battle to make the town a district, friends have become foes and vice-versa. The Gurdaspur District Bar Association has nearly 400 members on its rolls. These lawyers have different political affiliations but when ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajnder Singh Bajwa,and Rajya Sabha Member Partap Singh Bajwa wrote to the Chief Minister seeking the district status, the advocates gave their difference a quiet burial and instead came together on a single platform.They vociferously claimed the creation of a separate district would harm their professional interests. “Right now, 65 per cent of our professional work originates from the Batala subdivision. If the proposed decision takes practical shape, all of us will be doomed. Our earnings will substantially decrease,” said leading lawyer Santokh Singh Basra. Around 90 lawyers, concerned over the proposal, have sought a meeting with the Chief Minister. Despite the fact that there was no confirmation from the Chief Minister’s office, these advocates left Gurdaspur today for Capt Amarinder’s farmhouse at Siswan in Mohali.Interestingly, three known dissidents — Randhawa, Bajwa and Gurdaspur legislator Barindermeet Singh Pahra, who earlier were hand in glove with each other, are now finding themselves at two ends of the spectrum.While the ministers have passionately committed themselves in the battle to get the district status, Pahra has been left withno option except to go with the voices which do not want a division.With the D-day fast approaching, Batalvis, many of whom have started prayers in religious places, are waiting with a bated breath for an official word. “Batala district was a separate entity till the British merged it with Gurdaspur. By restoring the original position, the Chief Minister will actually be correcting a historical mistake,” said Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, chairman of the Gurdaspur Planning Board.Committed to causeBoth the ministers have passionately committed themselves to the battle of getting the district status for Batala. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has also written to the Chief Minister, seeking the district status.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/leaders-divided-over-district-status-to-batala-309344
11-09-2021||GS Paul||Rectify Jallianwala Bagh facelift ‘lapses’ to avoid flak, Trustee asks Centre||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 10Amid criticism over the alleged tinkering with the original character of the Jallianwala Bagh during its renovation, the former MP and one of the trustees of the Prime Minister-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, Tarlochan Singh, has approached the Centre to rectify the shortcomings.Observing several lapses, Singh said he had written to the Union Ministry of Culture, under whose supervision the first phase of renovation worth Rs 20 crore was executed in the Bagh, so that negative publicity could be avoided. Though the work was done in collaboration with the Archaeological Survey of India, there remained some lapses, he said.Also read: The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverRestore Jallianwala Bagh’s old look, panel writes to PM ModiJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeHe demanded the murals erected on the walls of the narrow street from where General Reginald Dyer passed through with his troops be removed and it should be restored as it was.Sentiments hurt, probe Rs 20-crore project: Laxmi Kanta Chawla Another major blunder was to introduce a new ‘exit’ passage. “This itself belies the history as there was a single entry and exit passage and people got stuck up in the absence of any other exit. Had there been a passage to go out, people would have run out of the Bagh. So, the new exit gate has to be closed,” he said.He also pointed out that the pyramid-like small pedestal depicting the place of firing was replaced with just a marker on the floor which was hardly visible. It should be rebuilt again.“Many doors and windows of the historic office building have been removed. I have requested to examine the old photographs and make them look like the same,” he said.He said there would be no entry fee to the Bagh, but the e-ticketing machines and the ticket counters built at the entrance raised suspicion. “I have requested to remove the ticket counter structure and the e-ticketing machines”, he said.The martyrs’ families demanded the pictures of their forefathers, who sacrificed their lives, to be reinstalled. “This was also a genuine demand and I have requested to place their photographs”, he said.‘Remove murals, rebuild pedestal’Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust member Tarlochan Singh has urged the Centre to remove murals erected on the walls of the narrow street, close the new exit gate, rebuild pedestal depicting the place of firing, reinstall the pictures of martyrs and remove the ticket counter structure and e-ticketing machines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rectify-jallianwala-bagh-facelift-lapses-to-avoid-flak-trustee-asks-centre-309351
11-09-2021||---||BSF targets drone, seizes 6 kg heroin along border||Tarn Taran, September 10BSF personnel today confiscated six packets of heroin, weighing 6 kg, worth Rs 30 crore in the international market.The contraband was smuggled into the Indian territory by Pakistan-based anti-national forces using drones near the Havelian border outpost falling in the Tarn Taran area and in the jurisdiction of the Amritsar sector of the BSF.A spokesperson for the BSF said the troops heard buzzing sound of a flying unmanned aerial vehicle around 11.15 pm last night. Later, a sound of dropping of some bag was heard, prompting the jawans to fire 14 shots in the direction.However, the drone apparently returned to the Pakistan side after dropping the consignment. Sources said soon afterwards, teams of the BSF and district police from Sarai Amanat Khan and Chabal areas reached the spot and launched a search operation, leading to the recovery of six packets of heroin.The case has been handed over to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the nodal agency of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The BSF authorities said anti-national forces in Pakistan, including smugglers and banned terrorist outfits, were using all means to sneak in contraband, and arms and ammunition. In the combined seizures with other agencies, the BSF has so far confiscated 324 kg heroin this year.Worth Rs 30 cr in international marketThe consignment costs Rs30 crore in the international market. A spokesperson for the BSF said the troops heard buzzing sound of a flying unmanned aerial vehicle around 11.15 pm on Thursday night. Later, a sound of dropping of some bag was heard, prompting the jawans to fire 14 shots in the direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-targets-drone-seizes-6-kg-heroin-along-border-309357
11-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Restore Jallianwala Bagh’s old look, panel writes to PM Modi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 8The Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee, Jalandhar, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also the chairman of the Jalliwanala Bagh National Memorial Trust, expressing resentment and anger over the recent ‘beautification’ of the Jallianwala Bagh. The committee has requested the PM to form a panel of prominent historians to “right the historical wrong” and sought the restoration of the Bagh. Also read The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeMembers of the committee had recently visited the memorial on September 4 after which they raised objections over the recent changes made at the Bagh.Desh Bhagat Yaadgar CommitteeNot a festive placeThe murals displayed on the walls of its entrance remind one of a festival and not of a place where more than thousands of Indians were massacred by the British government.In its memorandum, signed by committee president Ajmer Singh and general secretary Gurmeet Singh, sent to the PMO, the committee sought restoration of the Jallianwala Bagh to its earlier form and layout.The committee members said: “We have also asked the government not to impose any entrance fee for visiting the memorial, as they have constructed booking counters at the memorial.”They said the changes had divested the memorial of its historical heritage and had transformed it into a picnic spot. “The murals displayed on the walls of its entrance remind one of a festival and not of a place where more than thousands of Indians were massacred by the British government. Similarly, the well in which hundreds of people jumped to escape the British, has now been concealed in a glass wall through which almost nothing is visible,” they said. The letter adds, “In the same manner, the rendition of history in the videos has its own deliberate omissions and inaccuracies. The use of the term ‘nationalism’ and avoidance of the terms ‘freedom struggle’ or ‘anti-colonial movement’ is also methodologically problematic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restore-jallianwala-baghs-old-look-panel-writes-to-pm-modi-308537
