12-09-2021||Amritsar||Thief escapes from lock-up||A thief, who was arrested by the police and put behind bars, managed to dodge the police and fled from the Vallah police station here on Friday.The accused has been identified as Angrej Singh, a resident of Lahori Mal village.According to the police, Angrej was lodged in the lock-up of Vallah police station. Constable Shamsher Singh was accompanying the accused to Gurdaspur jail. But ASI Tarsem Singh, who forgot the DDR copy, returned to the police station. The accused took permission to go to toilet. The police said the accused then pushed the constable and jumped over the bathroom wall and slipped away. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thief-escapes-from-lock-up-309919
12-09-2021||---||Mein Saan Judge Da Ardali included in Jammu University syllabus||Amritsar, September 11Students of Punjabi at University of Jammu would get the chance to read noted Punjabi writer Ninder Ghugianvi’s critically acclaimed autobiography “Mein Saan Judge Da Ardali”, which will now be included in the syllabus of MA Punjabi (third semester).Written 20 years ago, the book had earned a lot of acclaim for its description of everyday exploitation of Class IV government employees. The book has so far been awarded internationally as well with 12 editions in publication. The book has been translated into other languages like Hindi, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Urdu, Maithili, Sindhi, Bhojpuri, etc. A short film based on the book was also made in 2005.Ghugianvi, who had served as an orderly to a judge at the Faridkot district court, detailed the complexities of working in a court and how the job comes with its set of compromises. “Though my affinity towards literature was since my early adulthood, my job as an ardali triggered a passion for writing and the kind of appreciation I received for my first book fuelled my creativity further,” shared Ghugianvi. He has also written another book on the inner workings of courts, titled “Kale Coat Da Dard”.Ghugianvi informed that “Mein Saan Judge Da Ardali” is being taught in BA (semester II) by Kurukshetra University and its English translation is also under publication. Ninder will also be conferred the Shiromani Punjabi Sahitkar Award by the Punjab Government for the year 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mein-saan-judge-da-ardali-included-in-jammu-university-syllabus-309920
12-09-2021||---||National Lok Adalat: More than 5,000 cases disposed of in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 11A total of 5,871 cases were disposed of during the National Lok Adalat held at the Amritsar District Courts and sub- divisional courts at Ajnala and Baba Bakala on Saturday.A total of 34 Benches were constituted, including 28 Benches at Amritsar, one Bench of Permanent Lok Adalat, four Benches at Ajnala and one Bench at Baba Bakala.District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman District Legal Services authority (DLSA) Harpreet Kaur Randhawa said a total of 9,805 cases were taken up.The cases comprising criminal compoundable, bank recovery, cheque bounce, matrimonial disputes, electricity and water bills, telecoms, labour disputes and traffic challans were taken up for hearing.Justice Randhawa said, “Lok adalats are an Alternative Dispute Resolution mode wherein pre-litigative and pending cases in the courts are taken up for amicable settlement without any expense on the part of litigants. It is free of cost and expeditious method to bring litigating parties to a settlement of their disputes and saving them from prolonged litigation under adversarial system of adjudication which is generally perceived to be time consuming and costly.”1,382 cases settled in Tarn TaranUnder the supervision of Priya Sood, District and Sessions Judge, Tarn Taran, a total of 4,508 cases came up for hearing. Gurbir Singh, Civil Judge-cum-Secretary of the district legal authority, said 1,382 cases were disposed of.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/national-lok-adalat-more-than-5-000-cases-disposed-of-in-amritsar-309921
12-09-2021||---||Confluence of British & Indian fashion||Amritsar, September 11Talking about fashion and its influence during the time of the Britishers, author and textile designer, Jasvinder Kaur, busted several myths about Indian attires at a special weekend session organised by the Majha House.When we talk about fashion, we invariably think of women. But men have embraced fashion all along too. In fact, men were more welcoming to the British style of clothing and tried to emulate it. We have extensive evidence of aristocratic Indian men wearing suits as early as the 1920s while women incorporated only some elements from the western dresses. Jasvinder Kaur, Author and textile designerIn conversation with Alka Pande, artist and historian, Jasvinder spoke about the British influence on men and women’s clothing as she took the audience back to era of the vintage fashion.“When we talk about fashion we invariably think of women. But men have embraced fashion all along too. In fact, men were more welcoming to the British style of clothing and tried to emulate it. We have extensive evidence of aristocratic Indian men wearing suits as early as the 1920s while women incorporated only some elements from the western dresses,” said Jasvinder.“The British influence is so intricately woven into our culture that we don’t even realise that what we are wearing is not Indian. When we see men wearing an ‘achkan’ with a ‘churidar pyjama’ we just assume that they are both Indian garments, but in reality they are a fusion of English and Indian elements. We have photographs in which Indian men have paired coats and waistcoats with ‘churidars’, pyjamas, and trousers,” explained Jasvinder.Introducing Jasvinder’s book “Influence of British Raj on the Attire and Textiles of Punjab”, Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said, ‘This is an extensively researched book. Years of hard work have gone into it. Jasvinder is the perfect person to author it because of her vast experience in fabrics and threads. She has had consultancy assignments in Geneva. Alka of course is well known for her deep love for all forms of art. Her contribution to the field of arts is immense.”“Whenever two different races come into contact some confluence and influence is inevitable. Our everyday clothes and dishes are not exclusively Indian, but a result of this confluence,” said Jasvinder.“A ‘petticoat’ and ‘blouse’ are neither Indian words nor Indian garments. ‘Petticoats’ in India developed from the layers of petticoats that women wore under their dresses right from the Elizabethan Age. As far as blouses are concerned, Indian women either did not wear a blouse or wore a skimpy one. Only later, it developed as a fancy, graceful garment with a character of its own,” cleared Jasvinder.“Even embroideries traditionally associated with Punjab, find their existence from the Colonial Era. There are many types of embroideries existent even today, apart from ‘phulkari’, ‘khes’, and ‘dhurries’, which are influenced by the British,” Jasvinder added.Techniques like ‘bharni’ and white-work were used to decorate pillow covers, table-cloths, bed sheets, and trousseau with English phrases like ‘Good night’, ‘god bless you’ and ‘come again’ woven therein’, said Jasvinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/confluence-of-british-indian-fashion-309922
12-09-2021||---||AAP seeks probe into funds spent on development works||Amritsar, September 11Tall claims of development in the city by the previous ruling dispensation and now by the Congress government in the state had fallen flat, said Jeevan Jyot Kaur, district president (Urban), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Jeevanjot, AAP leaderTall development claims of the SAD-BJP and the Congress have been exposed during the two-day rain. There is a clear indication of misuse of public money by the previous as well as the present government in the state. An unbiased high-level probe can only bring out the truth.Reality had been exposed by only one-day rain in the city, she said.It was shocking to see flooded roads and choked sewerage in the city, which was contrary to claim of the Congress government for having spent crores on development of the holy city, she added.As per the claims of the state government several crores were spent on infrastructure development works, including sewerage, under various schemes such as Smart City, AMRUT, Urban Infrastructure Improvement Program (UIIP) and sewer project funded by the JICA etc in Amritsar, but a single day rain revealed the truth, said Jeevan Jyot.Reacting to a statement issued by SAD president Sukhbir Badal during a rally in Amritsar that Rs4,500 crore were spent on the development of Amritsar by his government, Jeevan Jyot added, “From the current scenario it seems that Sukhbir spent these funds on his personal development.”Demanding a high-level probe into funds spent on so called development projects during the SAD-BJP regime as well as the present Congress government, Jeevan Jyot said, “There is clear indication of misuse of public money by the previous as well as the present governments in the state. An unbiased high-level probe can only bring out the truth.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-seeks-probe-into-funds-spent-on-development-works-309923
12-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Will RoB at Vallah see the light of day soon?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 11The advancement of the no-objection certificate (NOC) file for the railway over bridge (RoB) at Vallah to the officials of the Ministry of Defence has made vegetable growers, traders and commuters on Vallah Road hopeful.After a delegation of the Fruit and Vegetable Traders’ Association, led by their president Parvinder Singh, met the Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt recently, requesting him to reduce the no-construction zone of 1,000 metre around the Army’s Vallah Ammunition Depot to 350 metre, there seems a ray of hope for the stalled civil work of the RoB at Vallah and construction of roads and shops in the wholesale fruit and vegetable market as Bhatt has forwarded the NOC file for the RoB at Vallah to the official concerned.Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman Dinesh Bassi said the Army officials had recommended granting the NOC to the RoB in their file forwarded to the Ministry of Defence on December 18, 2020.“Only a minor portion of the RoB at the Vallah side falls in the no-construction zone. Almost all pier caps have been constructed on both sides of the RoB, which will have a span of about 800 metre. Once complete, it will be the maiden bowstring shape RoB in the entire city,” he said.Aimed at providing better connectivityAs per the notification issued on November 11, 2004, any construction on 1,000-yard parapet of the ammunition dump at Vallah is prohibited. On this premise, the Army in a communiqué to the Improvement Trust had directed it to stop the construction of a pillar of the RoB, as it fell within the no-construction zone of the dump at Vallah in January 2020. Before this, the Trust had applied for the NOC from the defence authorities but it did not elicit a positive response.The construction of the RoB was aimed at providing better connectivity to people, vegetable growers, traders and commuters travelling on the Vallah road. However, their movement was frequently held up due to the railway crossing which falls on the busy Amritsar-Delhi railway line. Situated in the vicinity of Vallah ammunition dump, surface infrastructure of the Vallah Mandi is in deplorable condition. A brief shower can transform the roads into puddles. A large number of shops remained non-constructed due to the restriction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-rob-at-vallah-see-the-light-of-day-soon-309924
12-09-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Showers flatten paddy crop, delay sowing of vegetables||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 11Heavy rain in the district during the last 72 hours flattened paddy crop especially 1509 basmati variety, which would be ready for harvesting in the next few days.The showers have not only caused damage to the standing crop, but also delayed its harvesting for atleast next seven days. The heavy rain, which started early in the morning and continued till late afternoon in the district.The showers have delayed potato sowing by at least 12 days. The soil moisture will drop to optimum level in at least seven days after which fields will be prepared. Sukhdev Singh, A farmer from Chohan villageThe harvesting of 1509 basmati had already begun in the district. Private players were purchasing this variety of rice in the price range of Rs2,500 to Rs3,000 per quintal.The early ripening variety of rice is preferred by growers, who sow potato, peas and other seasonal vegetables.Apart from flattening 1509 basmati crop, the rain washed away pollens from fields, which were at the pollination stage. It will certainly have an impact on the crop yield. Kuljeet Singh, A farmer from Malawali villageA farmer from Chohan village, near Jandiala, Sukhdev Singh said, “The showers have delayed potato sowing by atleast 12 days. The soil moisture will drop to optimum level in at least seven days after which fields will be prepared. There will be serious trouble if it rains more next week.”Farmers, who had harvested the crop, were getting ready to sow potatoes, but showers spoiled their plans, he added.Another farmer, Kuljeet Singh of Malawali village said, “Apart from flattening 1509 basmati crop, the rain washed away pollens from fields, which were at the pollination stage. It will certainly have an impact on the crop yield.”The flattened crop would get discoloured and farmers would face difficulties in selling it, he added.Lakhbir Singh Nizampur, president, Vegetable Growers Association said, “The crop in most fields has flattened. Basmati 1509 has suffered more damages than other varieties, but the difference is only in degrees.”Vegetable sowing, which would have reached its peak in coming the coming week, had been delayed for atleast 15 days.District agriculture officials said the damage to crops was being assessed. Field officers had been asked to file report after visiting their areas, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/showers-flatten-paddy-crop-delay-sowing-of-vegetables-309912
12-09-2021||Amritsar||Suicide: SI among two booked||Girl booked on extortion chargeTarn Taran: The Bhikhiwind police have booked a girl for uploading objectionable video of a boy on the social media when the latter refused to pay the amount demanded. The police registered a case under Section 384, IPC, and Section 67-A IT Act, 2000, against the suspect. The police said the suspect identified as, Arti Sharma, contacted the boy from Bhikhiwind through his Facebook account on the intervening night of September 5 and 6. The suspect was naked when she contacted the victim through Facebook, who stopped hung up the video call. Soon after she sent a message on victim’s WhatsApp number and demanded Rs21,500. She threatened the victim to upload his video on the social media if he didn’t pay the amount. When the victim refused to pay, the suspect uploaded his video on the socila media. Later, the victim lodged a complaint with the police. A case was registered after a preliminary investigation. The police said investigation was in progress and the suspect would be nabbed soon. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suicide-si-among-two-booked-309925
12-09-2021||---||Covid-19: One tests +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 11The district health authorities reported one positive case on Saturday, with which the tally increased to 47,261. The authorities have also reported the recovery of one patient with which total recovery count increased to 45,661. The district at present has a total of 10 active cases.Meanwhile, 7,202 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Saturday. Of these, 4,787 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 2,415 received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-one-tests-ve-in-amritsar-district-309926
12-09-2021||---||RTI activist fears for life in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 11Gurmeet Singh Bablu, an RTI activist and a whistleblower, in an alleged multi-crore scam committed by a rice miller has been fearing for his life.Bablu said he received a threat call from an unknown number. The person on the other end threatened him of dire consequences if he failed to withdraw the complaint filed against the rice miller, Bablu added.The Central Bureau of Investigation has been investigating the case. Earlier, too, he had received threatening calls from unknown persons.Bablu had exposed a scam in which banks were allegedly defrauded by an owner of a rice mill located on the Tarn Taran road. He alleged that the firm had committed fraud to the tune of crores.After he complained to the CBI, the agency had asked the vigilance departments of various banks, to investigate the matter.He met Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal and submitted a complaint which was also forwarded to the Director General of Police.The RTI activist sought security for his family. He said if he or his family members were harmed in any way, owners of the rice mill would be responsible for the same.He alleged that the firm took huge loans from different banks by mortgaging moveable and immovable properties. These loans were declared non-performing assets by banks.The Police Commissioner has marked the complaint to the ACP (West) for further action.Exposed scam by rice miller Bablu had exposed a scam in which banks were allegedly defrauded by an owner of a rice mill located on the Tarn Taran road. He alleged that the firm had committed fraud to the tune of crores. After he complained to the CBI, the agency had asked the vigilance departments of various banks, to investigate the matter. He met Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal to seek security for his family and submitted a complaint, which was also forwarded to the Director General of Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rti-activist-fears-for-life-in-amritsar-309910
12-09-2021||---||Rain woes: Power utility gets 3,800 complaints in last 24 hours in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 11Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) registered 3,800 complaints during the last 24 hours as continuous rain and lightning largely affected the power supply network in the city.Residents of several localities faced inconvenience as PSPCL failed to restore power supply even after 12 hours. As the downpour continued for the second consecutive day today (on Saturday), PSPCL employees faced inconvenience while repairing power supply lines.Power supply was hit at around 9 am on Friday and it was restored on 1.30 pm Saturday. A 16-hour power cut is horrible. It is inefficiency of the PSPCL that they took so long to restore power supply. Jatinder Singh, New Amritsar residentSenior officials of PSPCL stated that lightning along with rain affected power transmission in the area. “The main reason behind the disruption of power supply is lightning during rain. Lightning activity damaged 10 power transformers in the city. It is not easy to replace the transformer on the spot. We have received most complaints from those areas where transformers failed due to lightning,” said Ashwani Mehta, Deputy Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Border Zone, Amritsar.“It is lightning which causes more damage to them than rain or winds. In case of any loose connection, lightning burn the joints. Moreover, the shrubs and trees grown around supply lines also cause breakage of lines and failure of transmission,” said a junior engineer. PSPCL employees claimed that they had addressed 3,500 out of 3,800 complaints and restored the power supply in most areas.The main reason behind the disruption of power supply is lightning during rain. Lightning damaged 10 power transformers in the city. It is not easy to replace transformer on the spot. We have received most complaints from those areas where transformers failed due to lightning. Ashwani Mehta, Deputy Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Border Zone, Amritsar“There are around 300 complaints which are yet to be addressed. Our teams are working on supply lines and power would be restored in each locality of the city soon,” said Mehta. Jatinder Singh, a resident of New Amritsar, said, “Power supply was hit at around 9 am on Friday and it was restored on 1.30 pm Saturday. A 16-hour power cut is horrible. It is inefficiency of PSPCL that they took so long to restore power supply.”Jallianwala Bagh turns into a swimming pool after first rainAmritsar: The descendants of freedom fighters led by Kuldeep Singh Brar, national president, All-India Freedom Fighters’ Family Group, staged a demonstration against the Centre by standing in rainwater accumulated at Jallianwala Bagh, a recently renovated national monument, here on Saturday. Irked over waterlogging at the historic Jallianwala Bagh, Brar alleged that the government spent Rs20 crore to ruin the garden, which was far better before restoration. He said the restoration was an attempt to damage the historical importance of the garden and the families of freedom fighters would not allow them to temper with history. “First rain after the restoration has exposed the tall claims of the government. More than 3-feet water accumulated at the historical garden. It is shameful and disgrace to the martyrs,” said Brar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-woes-power-utility-gets-3-800-complaints-in-last-24-hours-in-amritsar-309918
12-09-2021||---||Upgrading surveillance system to curb crime: Police Commissioner||Amritsar, September 11Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal has announced that currently the police are focusing on upgrading the surveillance system by linking the cameras in the industrial zones, residential areas and local market areas with the Central Police Command and using drones to better monitor the entire city.He stated this during a meeting with a delegation of the Confederation of the Indian Industry (CII), Amritsar Zone, held here on Friday.“Regular patrolling would be undertaken in the industrial zones to curb crimes during shift changes and paydays. For providing security to rural population, we would be involving the Amritsar rural police. This would help in promoting and assisting the industry located in rural areas of the city,” he added.The Police Commissioner said, “Considering that Amritsar being an industrial town with a large migrant population, the city has its own set of challenges and to overcome these we are launching an App for the verification of migrant labourers. This would help in further enhancing security measures in the city.”Alarmed at the rising cases of thefts and mugging, a delegation of the Confederation of the Indian Industry (CII), led by Rajiv Sajdeh, Chairman, CII Amritsar Zone met the Police Commissioner.They stated that before the outbreak of Covid-19, only a couple of incidents used to take place, but later the number rose significantly. They pointed out that several incidents went unreported as many victims did not want to go through the hassles of visiting police stations repeatedly. They demanded the strengthening of policing and surveillance, particularly in the industrial areas.Sajdeh said, “This is a welcome move and the CII would be extending all possible support and assisting the Police Commissionerate in the process of upgrade. Our objective of the meeting is primarily to apprise officials of some of the challenges pertaining to security and law and order problems faced by industry and common citizens, besides exploring areas where the CII and the local police authorities can work together.”Karan Verma, vice-chairman, CII, Amritsar Zone, said, “Apart from scattered industrial units in the mixed use areas, there are as many as 10 big and small industrial clusters, which include two focal points, an industrial area and an industrial estate. One focal point for engineering and textile is situated on the GT Road and another New Focal Point on the Mehta Road. Besides, there is an industrial estate and a few industrial focal points in and around Chheharta. Most of the cottage units are situated in Putlighar, Islamabad, GT Road, Verka industrial area, localities near Amritsar Engineering College, Attari, Batala Road and Majitha Road.He demanded that the police must enhance the security cover of these areas to prevent the deteriorating law and order situation.Joint Commissioner of Police D Sudarvizhi, DCP, Law and Order, Amritsar, Parminder Singh Bhandal, ADCP of various zones, high-level officers, among others, were present.CII delegation meets CP Alarmed at the rising cases of thefts and mugging, a delegation of the Confederation of the Indian Industry (CII), led by Rajiv Sajdeh, Chairman, CII Amritsar Zone, met the Police Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/upgrading-surveillance-system-to-curb-crime-police-commissioner-309927
12-09-2021||---||5 smugglers held with 1.5-kg heroin, Rs 7.8-lakh drug money in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 11The CIA staff of the local police on Saturday arrested an international drug trafficker along with four others and confiscated 1.5-kg heroin from them.The police also seized Rs7.8 lakh drug money, a cash counting machine and two electronic scales, two illegal weapons and a car from them.They were identified as international smuggler Harbhej Singh, alias Javed (22), of Loharaka Kalan village; Sunil Masih (21) of Ballarwal village; Lovepreet Singh, aka Happy (26), of Loharka Kalan; Jugal Kishore (30) of Majitha and Vishal (CIA) of Loharka Kalan village.Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said the accused were being produced in court for procuring the police remand for ascertaining their forward and backward links. He said as per the preliminary probe, they had links with two drug peddlers — Narinder Singh of Dhulka village and Rajinder Singh Ganja of Sheikhupura Mohalla in Jandiala Guru area — who are lodged in jails.Gurbhej Singh had four cases, including that of murder bid and under NDPS Act, against him, while Lovepreet Singh had eight criminal cases, including of murder, theft, robbery and under NDPS Act, against him. Jugal Kishore has three and Vishal has one case against him.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Investigations, Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said Narinder Singh had three cases including two under the NDPS Act against him and was currently lodged in Faridkot jail. Rajinder Ganja had four cases under the NDPS Act in Kapurthala and Mohali districts. He was lodged in Amritsar Central Jail at present.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh Sandhu said Narinder and Rajinder Ganja would also be brought on production warrant in the case for further investigation to ascertain the source of the contraband and weapons seized from the five drug traffickers.The Police Commissioner said the accused had brought the drug consignment from the outskirts of Patti area in Tarn Taran and were to supply it in different parts of the city.“We believe that with their arrest, we have managed to break a drug network active in the area,” Duggal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-smugglers-held-with-1-5-kg-heroin-rs-7-8-lakh-drug-money-in-amritsar-309909
12-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Partap Singh Bajwa throws hat in the ring from Batala||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 11Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa announced his return to state politics in a big way by addressing meetings of his supporters at as many as eight places on the first day of his scheduled three-day tour of this Assembly seat.Today’s development means Bajwa has chosen Batala as the seat to contest the Assembly poll. In between his hectic schedule, he also addressed a press conference where he threw a stunner by saying, “Make no mistake, I have come here with the blessings of my party high command”.SDM Shayari Bhandari, Municipal Corporation Commissioner JS Grewal, SSP Ashwani Kapur, Chairman of Improvement Trust Pawan Kumar Pamma, Chairman of Market Committee Gurvinder Singh and other senior officers were also present. Observers claim their presence clearly indicates that he has the support of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in his endeavour to stake claim to the seat. The development has upset the carefully crafted political calculations of two of his main rivals: Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three-time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri.The MP also made it clear that he had an “emotional attachment”with Batala and Batalvis which is why he has decided to return to the city and nowhere else.His term as an RS MP is ending in April next year, barely weeks after the poll results will be out. His entry into state politics was imminent and the only speculation was the name of the seat he would select to contest.“Today, Bajwa has made it clear that Batala is his chosen seat. Even as other ticket contenders are still glued to the drawing board, he has already started his campaign. Round one surely goes to the MP,” said an MLA. Bajwa said the election manifestos should be made legal documents. “In Canada, they pull up the people’s representatives who do not fulfil their poll promises. Why cannot it be implemented in Punjab?” he said.‘No differences with Chief minister’MP Partap Singh Bajwa said he had reconciled his differences with the CM. “You must have noticed that I have been giving him issue-based support. It was at my behest that he agreed to increase the sugarcane SAP. If the issue at hand is just in nature, I will continue to support him in the future too,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partap-singh-bajwa-throws-hat-in-the-ring-from-batala-309823
