13-09-2021||Chandigarh/Amritsar||Amritsar police bust an international drug smuggling network||In a major breakthrough, Punjab Police on Monday arrested an international smuggler identified as Harpreet Singh alias Happy, a resident of village Chawinda Kalan in Amritsar, for his role in the smuggling of 40kg heroin-consignment, which was recovered at Indo-Pak Border.Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta said the police have also recovered 1kg heroin from the possession of Happy, who was arrested by the Amritsar police from village Chheharta in Amritsar.Police have also impounded his Splendor motorcycle, he added.Amritsar rural police had earlier foiled a major drug smuggling bid by recovering 39 packets of heroin, weighing 40.81 kg, in the Panjgraian Border Outpost (BOP) area of Amritsar on August 21.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the investigations carried out so far had pointed to Happy’s nexus with international-based drug smugglers and gangsters.“His (Happy) links with smugglers in Pakistan and smuggler Jagga, who works from Malaysia are also being deeply probed,” he added.Commissioner of Police (CP) Amritsar Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police are carrying out further investigations to unravel the international drug supply network operating in the state.Meanwhile, a case has been registered under section 21 of the NDPS Act at police station Chheharta in Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-bust-an-international-drug-smuggling-network-310614
13-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Now, Amritsar cops to get leave on their birthday, marriage anniversary||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12In a novel gesture, Amritsar Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal has decided to give leave to cops on their birthdays and anniversaries.The cops on the other hand hailed the move and said it would also boost their morale. “As frontline warriors and emergency service providers, policemen work round-the-clock in stress, thereby disturbing not only their family and personal lives, but it also take toll on their health. Therefore, the basic idea to give a leave on their special days like birthdays and anniversaries was to give them enough space to cherish their moments,” said Duggal.“As society has been passing through unprecedented health crisis and there is enormous challenges before policemen, cops have doubled as relief providers and in enforcing law and order. They need some personal space to be prepared for new challenges,” he pointed out.Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, investigations, said ground-level officers mostly remain on field and hardly find time for themselves. This sometimes leads to frustrations and mental stress. “It is a welcoming step and every cop appreciated the gesture,” he said.Not only this, other officials were also directed to extend wishes to cops on their birthdays and anniversaries.Earlier, too, Duggal had taken similar step when he was SSP Amritsar rural in 2019 and later as SSP Patiala last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-amritsar-cops-to-get-leave-on-their-birthday-marriage-anniversary-310431
13-09-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Hundreds of acres submerged under water in Ajnala||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12The reconstruction of a canal minor without taking into consideration the natural topography of the area for the flow of rainwater has resulted into trouble for farmers, as the walls of irrigation channel has createda barrier for rainwater and their crops have submerged in water.Former deputy director horticulture Dr Baaj Singh, who owns an orchard in the area, said the side walls are around 4-5 feet high above the ground. “The water from higher area has flowed towards this side following its natural course. But due to concrete walls, it is now trapped,” he said, adding that his orchard and around 400 acres of paddy crop would be destroyed if the water remained trapped.Farmers in the area said the Ajnala canal minor passing through Othian was first built in 1952-53. “It remained kucha for many years and then remained dry for many years, but was rebuilt with concrete walls.The mud banks would let the water pass if it rained heavily,” said another farmer Amrik Singh Chhinna. He said the Irrigation Department should have constructed underpasses under the canal minor to allow rain water to cross. The farmers in the area had apprised the Irrigation Department officials of the problem many days ago, he said.Jamhoori Kisan Sabha leader Satnam Singh Chak said: “The farmers have been sitting on protest on this issue for the last 36 days. If the department had taken timely action and built under-passes, farmers would not have suffered the losses which the stagnant water has caused to their crops.”He said senior administration officials should look into the matter and come to the help of farmers.Special girdawari of loss in Tarn TaranPunjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday had ordered the Deputy Commissioner to immediately conduct special girdawari to assess the damage caused to the crops and houses due to heavy rains which led to waterlogging in the nearby villages due to flooding of Kasur nullah. Meanwhile, the CM also directed the Principal Secretary, Water Resources, to rush a high-level team comprising senior officers of the department and its drainage wing to immediately swing into action by pressing into service requisite machinery and manpower for dewatering in few villages in Khemkaran area of Patti tehsil. He also instructed the team to further strengthen the flood protection works in vulnerable areas giving it a top priority, so as to prevent recurrence of such incidents in the coming days, in case of any possibility of incessant rains in the region. The CM also asked the district administration to keep its relief and rehabilitation teams ready to face any eventuality arising out of heavy rains. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hundreds-of-acres-submerged-under-water-in-ajnala-310432
13-09-2021||---||SGPC remembers Saragarhi martyrs||Amritsar, September 12The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) organised an event at Gurdwara Saragarhi Sahib to commemorate the martyrs of Battle of Saragarhi on its 124th anniversary.Also read: Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh pays tribute to martyrs on 124th Saragarhi battle anniversaryAfter the culmination of Akhand Path, raagi group of Bhai Harpinder Singh connected sangat with Gurbani kirtan. Additional head granthi of the Golden Temple Giani Jagtar Singh paid homage to the martyrs.Saragarhi was a small rocky outpost situated between Fort Gulistan (Cavagnari) and Fort Lockhart in North West Frontier Province, now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistan. It was manned by just 21 Sikh soldiers who repelled a ferocious attack by tribals for many hours on this day in 1897.Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranRecalling the 21 brave Sikhs who fought against 10,000 Pathan tribes, Giani Jagtar said there was a long list of martyrs belonging to the Sikh community from whom the present generation should take inspiration and connect to the faith.On this occasion, a few of the family members (Ranjit Singh and Taranpreet Singh) of the martyrs were also present who were honoured with the Siropas (robes of honour).Present on this occasion were manager Baghel Singh, granthi of Gurdwara Saragarhi Sahib Bhai Gagandeep Singh, Bhai Ranjit Singh and jathedar Ranyodh Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-remembers-saragarhi-martyrs-310433
13-09-2021||---||Over 3K appear for NEET in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 12Amid rain, over 3,000 candidates appeared for the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET-2021) held at seven centres in the city on Sunday.A majority of the students felt relieved that the examination was not postponed again.Rihan Kaur, a student, said there were only two questions in chemistry that were tricky, while the rest in botany, zoology, and physics were from the syllabus.Anmol Bajwa, another student, said though they were wearing masks, the centre also had a provision of providing masks. Though the examination was held from 2 pm to 5 pm, they were asked to appear at the centre three hours before the start of the examination due to Covid-19 restrictions. Fifty students were allowed entry in a staggered way in the half an hour gap, he said.Each student was asked to come with a bottle of at least 50 ml sanitiser, a transparent bottle of water. All examination centres were cleaned and surface, including furniture, sterilised with sodium hypochloride.Uttamjit Singh, a botany teacher, observed that unlike last year, when the examination was postponed for a record four times in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, this year it was postponed only twice. “So, students were saved from the undue harassment of waiting for a long period for the examination,” he said, terming the paper as balanced, which contained questions drawn from the syllabi.NEET is generally held on the first Sunday of May. A notice was issued to conduct it in June but it did not happen. Later, another notice was issued to hold it in September.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-3k-appear-for-neet-in-amritsar-310434
13-09-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar district logs one Covid positive case||With one positive case reported on Sunday, the total count of cases in the district increased to 47,262. The district health authorities have also reported the recovery of one patient with which the total recovery count increased to 45,662. The district at present has a total of 10 active cases.Meanwhile, total 2,419 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Sunday. Of these, 1,196 persons received the first dose of the vaccine, while 1,223 received the second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-one-covid-positive-case-310436
13-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Pay property tax & avail 10 pc rebate||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12The property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) has prepared a database of tax payers and are sending SMS alerts to them to avail 10 per cent rebate on tax.The officials claimed that they have sent alert to tax payers five times on their mobile numbers.Residents and traders who have been paying their property tax regularly are now in touch with the MC. The MC sends flash message about any offer or discount and last date to deposit the property tax. Now, it is convenient for the property tax wing employees to track tax payers in case of any delay in depositing tax.Daljit Singh, nodal officer for property tax of the MC, said: “We are getting good response by adopting the SMS alert system. More residents are availing benefit of 10 per cent rebate on tax amount this time. The MC has already collected around Rs7.50 crore so far. By the end of the fiscal, we will achieve the recovery target of Rs42.5 crore. We are regularly sending alert to residents who have not paid the tax till date. There is a good opportunity to get 10 per cent discount on the current tax. The offer would end on September 30.”The nodal officer asked the property tax wing employees to make efforts for maximum recovery of tax till September 30. The employees would not get leave till September 30 so that residents don’t face any inconvenience.The property tax wing of the MC has issued 10,717 sealing notices to tax defaulters in the last two months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pay-property-tax-avail-10-pc-rebate-310438
13-09-2021||---||PRTC, Punbus contractual employees gherao Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka’s house||Amritsar, September 12Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka announced that he would take up the issue of the Punjab Roadways Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union in the proposed meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on September 14.Addressing the members of the union, who gathered outside his residence after carrying out a march, he told them he favoured regularisation of contractual staff. He said the process for the same was underway. Besides, the CM had called a meeting with the Personnel Department and the data for outsourcing the staff has been prepared. “All of you are my guests since you have come at my residence,” he said. The representatives of the union handed over a memorandum to the Congress MLA. They have been on strike seeking regularisation of contractual staff of the Punbus and PRTC for the last one week.Around 110 buses of the Punbus being operated by the two depots of the district did not ply on Sunday. Most of these buses are operated on long routes from the Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT).Dharna staged in Tarn Taran as well,  MLAs assure to take up issue with CM Tarn Taran: The contractual employees working in the Roadways Department on the seventh day of their indefinite strike staged a district-level dharna at the local bus stand on Sunday. In spite of heavy rainfall, agitating employees attended the rally in large numbers. The employees were to gherao the local MLA’s residence for two hours, but they later protested at the bus stand. Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, local Congress MLA, himself came to receive the memorandum of the agitating employees at the bus stand. The MLA expressed his solidarity with the demands of the agitating employees and assured them to send their demands’ charter to the state government. The leaders said they have been serving the department for the last more than 15 years with meagre salaries. They warned that they would fight till the last to get justice. They condemned the state government for issuing them notices to call the strike illegal and serving them warning in case they do not resume services soon. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prtc-punbus-contractual-employees-gherao-congress-mla-raj-kumar-verkas-house-310439
13-09-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Lawyers not in favour of district status to Batala||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12While Congress leaders have been squabbling to take credit for the proposed new district Batala, 2,500 lawyers at the Amritsar district courts have been unhappy.Advocates fear that Mehta and Beas police stations could be attached to Batala, which would mean less work for them. Earlier, Pathankot district was carved out of Gurdaspur in 2011, which did not left it with much geographical area and population.Advocate Gurpreet Singh Panesar, former secretary, Amritsar Bar Association, announced to oppose any move to attach areas falling under Amritsar to the proposed new district.Panesar said political and bureaucratic circles were abuzz that few police stations would be removed from Amritsar and attached with Batala. “It will be against the interests of lawyers and their supporting staff at Amritsar district courts. Beas has better connectivity with Amritsar than Batala,” said Panesar.Advocate Kuljeet Singh Malawali said, “Lawyers had suffered when Tarn Taran was made a new district in 2006.” He said the governments should create new districts only if these help people with better governance and should not do so only for political reasons.Advocates Shashiveer Sharma and Swarandeep Singh, said consensus was building among legal fraternity to oppose any move to bifurcate Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lawyers-not-in-favour-of-district-status-to-batala-310440
13-09-2021||---||Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu attends meet in Ayodhya||Amritsar, September 12Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu visited Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh where he was welcomed by Mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay on Sunday. Rintu has been appointed vice-chairman of the All India Council of Mayors (AICM). The two-day meet was chaired by UP Local Government Minister Ashutosh Tandon and is being attended by mayors of 70 municipal corporations across the country. The main purpose was to prepare a framework for special development of relics related to the life of Lord Rama. The mayors would share their views and experiences about the ongoing development works and other schemes in their respective cities during the two-day meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-karamjit-singh-rintu-attends-meet-in-ayodhya-310441
13-09-2021||---||Cluster office of NABARD opened in Amritsar's Ranjit Avenue||Amritsar, September 12The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) inaugurated its cluster office at Ranjit Avenue. The cluster office will cater to Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot, besides Amritsar district. The office was inaugurated by HK Sablania, General Manager, NABARD, in presence of Sanjeev Kumar Dubey, Chairman, Punjab Gramin Bank and Prem Arora, DGM, Punjab National Bank. Sablania had a detailed discussion with Dubey and the DMs regarding increasing investment credit in agriculture for the long-term sustainable growth in the sector.The cluster office will cater to farm sector in four districts along with implementation of the government schemes. The credit planning and monitoring of all four districts would be undertaken by the cluster office. Lead district managers from all four districts and district managers (DMs) from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur Central Co-operative Banks were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cluster-office-of-nabard-opened-in-amritsars-ranjit-avenue-310442
13-09-2021||---||Denied money for outing by dad, girl commits suicide||Jalandhar, September 12A 22-year-old girl committed suicide in the Aman Nagar area after her father refused to give her money to go out here on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Muskan. After the police were informed about the incident, a team of cops reached the spot and sent the body for a post-mortem.Rajinder Kumar, father of the victim, said his daughter was insisting on going out and was asking for money and when he refused to give her money and asked her to go some other day, she got angry and locked herself in a room.“She also played loud music. After a while when we asked her to come out, she did not respond. Later, we broke open the door only to find her hanging from a ceiling fan. By the time we brought her body down, there was no movement in her body. Subsequently, the police were called,” added Rajinder Kumar, who runs a paan and cigarette stall.Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC have been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/denied-money-for-outing-by-dad-girl-commits-suicide-310443
13-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Two booked for raping 2 minors||Drone spotted in Khalra sectorTarn Taran: The Border Security Force (BSF) jawans spotted a drone in Khalra sector on Saturday night. Sources said the drone was seen on the Indian side near Mangli border outpost. The patrolling party of the BSF fired at the drone, which went back to Pakistan. The BSF initiated a search operation in the area, but failed to recover anything from the spot. Three days ago, the BSF had observed drone movement in the area. Later, six packets of heroin were recovered during search operation. OCTourist among two robbedAmritsar: Two bike-borne persons snatched a purse of a Delhi resident who along with her family had come to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple on Saturday. Neha Yatav, a resident of Delhi, told the police that they had taken a room in a hotel near the Hall Gate. She said when they reached near Lucky Dhaba on e-rickshaw after paying obeisance, two bike-borne persons snatched her purse. The victim said her purse contained Rs 7,000, two mobile phones and a gold ear ring, besides other documents. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC in this regard. In another incident, two persons snatched a mobile phone from Rahul, when he was buying household goods in Rambagh area. One of the suspect was nabbed by locals. The accused has been identified as Kamal Kumar alias Prince of Islamabad area, while his accomplice has yet not been identified. TNS4 commit Rs28L fraud, bookedAmritsar: Division B police station have booked four persons, including three Jalandhar residents, for allegedly duping a local of Rs 28.4 lakh. Those booked have been identified as Nitin Khera, his mother Manju Khera, Lakhan Gandhi, all residents of Basti Gujja in Jalandhar, and Amandeep Singh of Sultanwind Road. Charanjit Kaur had submitted a complaint to the police in May. The victim said the accused cheated her of Rs 28.44 lakh on the pretext of cancellation of an FIR, getting her son Lovepreet Singh released on bail. He was booked by the Division B police on charge of gang rape. The police said further investigation was under progress and raids were on to nab the accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-raping-2-minors-310444
13-09-2021||Open House||Incentivise alternative technologies, raise awareness||Can be used as fuel for power plantsDuring the month of September and October every year harvesting of paddy starts in this part of the country. Farmers do take their products to mandis, but they are left with huge quantity stubble in their fields. Now, the farmers are to sow the next crop for which very limited period of day 30-40 days is left. Hence, they are in great hurry because if they are delayed in sowing of next crop, they get lower yield which translates in to lower income. So they find burning of the stubble a very quick, cheap and effective way to get rid of the residue lying in the field. Though with the passage of the time farmers came to know that burning of stubble leads to the destruction of the organic matters, which is very good ingredient for the health of the soil. This leads the farmers to increase the input of fertiliser for the next crop thus incurring extra expenditure. The other alternative is to manage the stubble, which is possible with the help of the machines. In this process machines collect the stubble and give it the form of a bale/ bundle. But now cost factor comes in. All farmers can’t afford such machine, though government is giving heavy subsidy on such machine. So, some central government agency, as they procure wheat and paddy, should come in to the picture and through machines quickly take the stubble in packed form and supply it as fuel to power plants or other consumers. This is the only way to get rid of a great source of air pollution.Harsh JoharEngage pvt firms to clear stubbleSince 1991, successive governments at the Centre are pursuing the policy of Globalization, Liberalisation and Privatisation. Latest in this series are farms laws whereby private players have been allowed procurement and marketing of farm products. If the Central Government is so sure of the efficiency of the private players, they should pay to them on fixed rate for clearing the farm fields within a fixed time frame. In this way central and state governments would be saving a lot of money they are paying in form of subsidy to farmers to buy machinery for collecting and making bales of stubble. Farmers get their fields clean with no extra expenditure and no loss to the health of the soil. Power plants and other industries get cheap fuel in the form of stubble. Above all people living in the region getting rid of air pollution.Naresh JoharLong-term planning is need of the hourEvery winter we have to breathe in a polluted smog-filled atmosphere. Stubble burning is one of the factors behind it. Why do farmers resort to stubble burning despite repeated appeals to the contrary? Farmers are a distressed lot with their returns dwindling due to the ever-increasing input costs and unavailability of the remunerative price of their produce. Since there is a little time gap between the harvesting of paddy and sowing of the next crop, they resort to the cheapest and quickest mode of getting rid of the stubble, by burning it. Even the cash incentives announced, therefore, fail to deter farmers from stubble burning. The government must take up as its own responsibility to make available mechanised methods to get rid of the stubble, free of cost, to every farmer every year. Also, the agitating farmers might be in a defiant mood. All efforts, by all those who matter, must be made to find a solution to the ongoing standoff. A long term planning is required to set up infrastructure to convert the stubble into a useful biofuel or biofertiliser besides animal fodder. That could, besides incentivising the farmers, could generate some badly needed jobs too.HL SharmaIssue strict warning to farmersFarmers burning stubble are doing an illegal act. To stop farmers fromburning stubble in this winter, the government should issue a strict warning to all farmers to not to burn stubble this winter otherwise face dire consequences of punishment of imprisonment for large no of years and heavy fines. Lastly, the government should increase vigilance in areas where burning of stubble has been reported in the past and prevent it from recurring again.Sanjay ChawlaClean air demands cost & careWhen paddy used to be pesticide-free and was reaped manually, it left very short stubbles which would be ploughed into the soil prepared for the next crop. The straw itself was kept in reserve and used as dry animal-fodder. But now, machine harvesting leaves long stubble which, if ploughed into the soil, needs multiple ploughings. Even then, the plant yield from potatoes and peas suffers. Pests like rats complicate the issue. Stubble burning is no solution because it pollutes the entire area, including the farmer’s home and farm. When one farmer resorts to burning his stubble, others follow suit and the pollution spreads like a mushroom cloud, resulting in more and more cases of bronchitis, asthma. But add to the caseload of tyre burning, garbage-burning and cremating dead bodies using firewood, even when other modes are available, you have defined an ignorant society and a careless government. In conclusion, compensate the farmer if you truly want him to not burn his stubble. But also check garbage burning and ensure efficient use of the Indane gas-crematoriums installed in the city. Clean air demands cost and attentionProf Mohan SinghEducate farmers on its bad effectsThe burning of straw and stubble of paddy and wheat is a perennial problem. The burning of stubble emits a large amount of pollutants, including toxic gases which are very dangerous to the human beings and the flora and fauna. Residue burning is a more economical and inexpensive as sufficient labour force is required to manually remove the residues. But little do farmers know that this practice of stubble burning has been linked to increased asthma, cough and cold, cancer, allergy, choking of lungs and a myriad of other respiratory problems. Of course, there are some advantages of burning stubble as it kills weeds, slugs and other pests but it should be known that it also results in loss of nutrients, bad impact on soil microbes and reduction in soil structure. Therefore, the government should create awareness among farmers about the negative impact of crop biomass burning and importance of crop residues incorporation in soil for maintaining sustainable agricultural productivity. Harvesters ought to be modified to tackle the root cause of the problem. It should be ensured that stubble burning is dealt in a scientific way. A cost-effective PUSA decomposer, a fungi based liquid solution form a part of a scientific way. The government should educate the farmers about the pernicious consequences of stubble burning rather than imposing huge fines on them or creating rigid statutory policies. It should adopt a multi-stakeholder and multi-disciplinary approach to reduce the dependency on the typical paddy- wheat crop cycle through various initiatives such as boosting crop diversification . It should invest in research and development in agriculture to uplift this neglected sector and strengthen it by empowering the farming community. Policies should be framed so as to procure straw and stubble and to channel it to make biochar and high quality fertiliser. Wielding the stick alone can’t deliver the desired results. A strong political will, combined with sincerity and earnestness is required to solve the knotty problem. The government should give incentives to the farmers to dispose of stubble in any way other than burning.Tarsem S BumrahPromote cultivation of short-duration cropsBefore mulling ways of preventing farmers from burning stubble, it would be wise to first list out the reasons that cause them to resort to it. Mechanised harvesting of paddy leaves a taller residue, which takes longer to decompose, leaving farmers with little time to prepare their fields for sowing the wheat crop. On top of that, the leftovers are not suitable to be used as animal fodder. This, coupled with the water conservation laws enacted by Punjab and Haryana to deal with the depletion of the ground water level, often lead to delayed sowing of wheat, leaving farmers with no option but to burn the stubble, regarded as the quickest and cheapest way of preparing their fields for sowing the wheat crop. However, there are solutions that could be considered for implementation to deal with the issue. Besides offering incentives to farmers abstaining from stubble burning, the government could promote cultivation of short-duration crops, while also ensuring availability of reasonably priced, but sophisticated agricultural technology to assist farmers in their sowing and harvesting operations.Shaheen P ParshadSmoke is extremely dangerous for lungsThe issue of stubble burning is associated with adverse effects on environment as well as on health. It leads to rise in the level of air pollution due to which numerous ailments relates to respiratory system go up. It aggravates allergies and asthma attacks. Also, this has a pressing affect on the oxygen carrying capacity of the body. Stubble burning makes the soil infertile by destroying its nutrients. Farmers should opt for PUSA-named decomposer made by Indian Agricultural Research Institute, which decomposes the crop residue into manure by exaggerating the decomposition process. Later on, the usage of it reduces the need of fertiliser and enhances the yield of crop. Farmers can convert stubble into biochar, which can be used as a fertiliser in the fields, by burning it in a kiln. Lastly, farmers can replace the long duration varieties into short duration varieties such as PUSA Basmati 1509 and PR-126. These short duration varieties can be harvested almost in the fall of the year. By doing this, farmers can get more time between the end of paddy season and start of wheat season and they can easily eliminate the need of stubble burning as they have enough time to decompose straw.Ekamnoor SinghAir pollution leads to respiratory diseasesAir Pollution impact on Respiratory Diseases. Air pollution poses a major threat to human health. The recent WHO and Global Burden of Disease report, including the ‘Lancet Commission on Pollution and Health’ also links air pollution to 7 million premature deaths globally. Pandemic is one of the biggest public health emergencies that have highlighted focus on environmental protection, particularly from air pollution. And stubble burning is one of the largest contributors to the air pollution. The smoke from stubble burning in Punjab is the main cause of spurt in respiratory diseases. Stubble burning starts when the harvest season comes to an end, this becomes the cause of severe air pollution in the region, especially in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and NCR. But in these Covid pandemic years stubble burning issue is even stronger because of the unattractive central subsidies on machinery for straw burning, being offered to small farmers. So the farmers are not likely to switch over to any alternative to straw burning. A permanent solution to a problem that leads to the air quality dipping to the lowest has to be found. The Centre/ States must look into the Indian Agricultural Research Institute’s (IARI) suggestion of converting stubble to manure using a chemical. The challenge of disposing of agricultural waste in Punjab is significant. According to IARI crop residents are in millions of tons, its generation is highest in UP, followed by Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat and Haryana. Last year Punjab and Haryana provided cash incentives to farmers for managing the residue in alternative ways, but it was announced very late. For any multi-pronged approach to work, there needs to be a coordination between the farmers, states, Centre and scientists, but at present there seems to be a disconnect here and the lack of political will to find a solution. The farmers’ protest has complicated the situation further this year. Any stricter actions against the offenders will be seen as anti-farmers. In view of the Covid infection resulting in respiratory ailments getting aggravated with air pollution, harsher means may have to be adopted to solve the stubble’s burning issue. But there is no doubt that the cooperation of the farmers will go a long way in reducing the impact of air pollution on respiratory diseases.Lal SinghImposing fine on farmers no solutionStubble management is one of the major problems being faced by farmers of Punjab, especially the marginal ones who have less than 1 hectare (2.5 acres) of land. They burn stubble out of compulsion as they have limited resources and a small time-frame (due to sowing of the next crop) to manage the stubble in the fields. Imposing hefty fines on these farmers is a very harsh approach by the government to deal with this situation. Instead, these farmers must be made aware about the Happy Seeders and must be financially supported by the government to handle this issue. Remote Sensing and GIS (Geographical Information System) must be used to locate the areas involved in stubble burning and quick action response teams must be constituted to free these areas from any such malpractice.Jatinderpal Singh BatthStubble can be used to produce bio fuel QUESTIONThe poor condition of city roads has not only been causing great hardships to commuters but also leading to accidents on a daily basis. The authorities have turned a blind eye to the inconvenience faced by the public. What should be done to improve the condition of roads?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 16)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/incentivise-alternative-technologies-raise-awareness-310447
13-09-2021||Our Correspondent||12 Tarn Taran border villages inundated||Tarn Taran, September 12Despite efforts by the district administration to control flooding in the Kasur Nullah, the situation in more than a dozen border area villages remains critical.There was an acute shortage of dry and green fodder, and animals were in an urgent need of vaccination against possible infection.The administration is yet to start the special girdawari ordered by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh yesterday to assess loss to crops and houses.The worst-affected villages include Thathi Jaimal Singh, Kalia, Sankatra, Gajjal, Noorwala, Mastgarh, besides Khemkaran township along the Pakistan border.DC Kulwant Singh and Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar along with officials visited the affected villages and issued instructions to provide relief to the residents.The administration said Patti and Bhikhiwind SDMs Alka Kalia and Amandeep Kaur, respectively, were in touch with officials engaged in draining out water from flooded areas.The administration said Army blockades at several places in the area were causing hurdles, but the officials were trying to contact the Army to resolve the issue. Raj Singh, former sarpanch of Thathi Jaimal Singh, said crop on over 2,000 acres at Thathi Jaimal Singh, Kalia, Sankatra, Gajjal, Noorwala, Mastgarh and Khemkaran had been affected. He said the water level in the inundated areas had gone down but the situation was still critical.The locals blamed it on the failure of the administration to remove water hyacinth from Kasur Nullah in time, which they claimed had led to to the flooding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-tarn-taran-border-villages-inundated-310218
13-09-2021||---||Women in small cities making big strides||Amritsar, September 10Sukhmani Sadana has always been a multi-tasker, as an actor, a content creator and now, editor-in-chief of a lifestyle magazine. Hailing from Amritsar, she has also been the one striving to break stereotypes about small-town girls in the Bollywood. Her successful appearance in Sacred Games and Manmarziyan has bagged get her a quality work in the industry that’s famously unforgiving to outsiders. She says hard work and not luck is what gets things done. “I feel that artistes and actors, who come from small towns, have a lot of baggage, as they work hard to prove that they are as capable as those who come from big cities. There is an ambition to shine, there is that drive to excel because you have so much competition that it’s so inspiring,” she said.The Boss Ladies, a community of women entrepreneurs in Amritsar, Sukhmani said smaller cities now have more women who are running successful small businesses. “The fact that women have taken this opportunity to shine in their role as entrepreneurs is heartening. Smaller cities offer a better work-life balance and maybe that’s why women here have more to choose from,” she said.On the work front, Sukhmani has wrapped up shooting for two OTT series. “I am working with Poonam Dhillon, Raj Babbar, Chandrachud Singh for an upcoming series called Those Pricey Thakur Girls and also shot for Apharan 2. I am also doing a Netflix series, which will be a career defining moment for me but it’s too early to reveal the details,” she said.More women turning their home businesses into brandsBringing together women, who get things done at the professional and personal front, Boss Ladies, a community of women entrepreneurs was launched in city. Himja Rana, the woman behind the start-up community, who has been into the profession of business marketing and strategising, says that she saw the opportunity for an exclusive community for women entrepreneurs as more women are turning their home businesses into brands. “Today, more and more women are running small scale businesses through the comfort of their home. Also, post pandemic, several women have turned not just bread winners but also realised business opportunities in earning their bread. I wanted to develop a network of women entrepreneurs from small cities to educate and enable them to expand their businesses and realise marketing startegies,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-in-small-cities-making-big-strides-309503
