14-09-2021||GS Paul||Various organisations, kin of martyrs protest against Jallianwala Bagh facelift||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14Various political, farm and social organisations and kin of martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh on Tuesday conducted a protest march against the renovation and beautification of Jallianwala Bagh alleging it to be tinkering with the historic site.They were denied entry to the Bagh as a preventive measure, since the Amritsar police have imposed Section 144 banning the assembly of five or more persons at a spot, and holding of a protest in the vicinity of the memorial till November 6.Amid heavy police barricading, the protesters, including representatives of Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Society, Kisan Sanjha Morcha and martyrs’ families, had no option but to stage a sit-in on the Heritage Street metres ahead of the Bagh for a few hours.CPI district secretary Amarjit Singh Asal said the heavy police arrangement showed that the anti-democratic vision of Gen Reginald Dyer and Gen O’ Dwyer still prevailed in our system. “A century ago, at the same place the British regime had imposed a ban on public assembly. Now, the present dispensation has been replicating the same. We just wanted to convey to the authorities that till the historic heritage is restored at the Bagh, we would continue to raise our voice,” he said.Jallianwala Bagh Freedom Fighters Foundation president Sunil Kapoor, who lost his great grandfather Lala Wasu Mal in the 1919 massacre, said the Bagh appeared to be more of a “picnic” and “selfie” spot than a memorial.“What is wrong when we demand that the memorabilia and pictures of martyrs be re-installed? We have been raising the issue of granting a freedom fighter status to the martyrs from the Centre and the state governments for long but in vain,” he said.They demanded that the murals mounted on the walls of the original narrow street, from where Gen Dyer passed through with his troops and opened fire on a gathering of unarmed men, women and children assembled in the Bagh, be removed. They also wanted the separate exit point to be closed as it defied history which speaks only about one entry-exit point.The pedestal on which Dyer stood and ordered firing has also been erased; it should be rebuilt at the same place, they demanded.They objected to shifting of the Amar Jyoti flame, which was earlier at the entrance of the memorial, to the back. They demanded that it be restored at its original spot to evoke a patriotic feel.Another objection raised by them was about the new structure built on the martyrs’ well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/various-organisations-kin-of-martyrs-protest-against-jallianwala-bagh-facelift-311017
14-09-2021||---||All-India Sikh Students’ Federation celebrates its 77th Foundation Day at Golden Temple||Amritsar September 13The All-India Sikh Students’ Federation (Peer Mohammad) on Monday celebrated its 77th Foundation Day at the Golden Temple.Ardas was conducted at Akal Takht in presence of former chief Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad, president Bhai Jagroop Singh Cheema, Sangha Federation chief Kashmir Singh Sangha and Dr Manjit Singh Bhoma.Prayers were offered for the upliftment of farmers and tributes were paid to those who died during the protest at Delhi borders.Peer Mohammad and Bhoma said the AISSF stands firmly with farmers. They urged the Centre to repeal the three agri laws.Peer Mohammad said the federation should be established in schools, colleges and universities. Members of the AISSF announced that gurmat training camps and seminars would start from Anandpur Sahib on September 30. They appealed to youths to promote mother tongue.‘Need to revive federation’Amritsar: The All-India Sikh Students’ Federation (Shaheed Bhai Amrik Singh) stressed on reviving the federation and called upon Sikh organisations to join hands to unitedly achieve the panthic interests here on Saturday.It also passed several resolutions, including designating the city of Golden Temple as the holy city. A resolution asked the Union Government to repeal all three laws on farming and to announce a government job for a member of those families, who lost their members during the undergoing peaceful struggle.It resolved to intimate the present Sikh youth with the history of Sikh Gurus and warriors and urged the government to incorporate Sikh history in the syllabi of schools, besides teaching Punjabi as first language and announcing it as an official language.Kanwar Charrat Singh, who is nephew of Bhai Amrik Singh, former head of the AISSF who was killed along with Sant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale during Operation Bluestar, was unanimously appointed president of the AISSF. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-india-sikh-students-federation-celebrates-its-77th-foundation-day-at-golden-temple-310928
14-09-2021||---||Lack of business: Railways announces relief  for vendors||Amritsar, September 13The Ferozepur Division of the Northern Railways has announced a relief in annual licence fee to all categories of vending contracts at the Amritsar railway station for the period of eight months due to the lockdown and farmers’ stir.The Ferozepur Division stated that “all catering units were closed from March 25, 2020 to May 31, 2020 on account of the lockdown. So, the period was being treated as non-existent”.While relief to the tune of 94.47 per cent of the annual licence fee has been decided for the period June 1, 2020 to December 21, 2020 on the basis of volume of passenger traffic and footfall at the station. Nearly six months long period also include two months from September 24, 2020 to November 23, 2020, as trains remained suspended due to farmers’ agitation.The licence fee at the rate of 05.53 per cent would be charged for the period of operation at the station. The railways would charge a token licence fee of Rs 100 per month for the period of non-operation of trains at the station.However, some contractors sought 100 per cent waiver of the licence fee.A contractor said, “Vending units at the Amritsar railway station were closed due to non-operation of trains from March 22, 2020. Even after June 1, 2020 a large number of units did not open as only a limited number of trains were operated and sale of general tickets was prohibited. The number of passengers travelling was extremely low and they feared to eat out due to the pandemic. Thus, the period beyond March 25, 2020 to May 31, 2020 should also be treated as non-existent.”Apart from weighing factors like volume of passenger and traffic footfall, zero sales from June 1 to December 31, 2020 should also be calculated while reviewing the relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lack-of-business-railways-announces-relief-for-vendors-310929
14-09-2021||Amritsar||Phulkari hosts Mani Shankar Aiyar in city||Phulkari WOA organised an event with Mani Shankar Aiyar and Kaveree Bamzai on Sunday evening as a part of their series on interactive programmes. Aiyar, who is a diplomat-turned-politician, has held several portfolios in Congress and has authored several books.Kaveree Bamzai is an author. Her book titled “The Three Khans” has been widely appreciated.Keeping the conversation apolitical, Congress stalwart Aiyar, talked about his life and experience as he shared some anecdotes from his time as a Union Minister and his early days as a student.Deepa Swani, chief, Phulkari said, “ Phulkari always tries to provide opportunities to members and citizens to interact with personalities who have lead exceptional lives. Having such distinguished guests on our platform provided another such opportunity to learn from them and enjoy a stimulating evening.”MP Gurjit Aujla, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Mayor Karamjeet Singh Rintu, Commissioner of Police Vikramjeet Duggal and MCCommissionerMalwinder Singh Jaggi, were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/phulkari-hosts-mani-shankar-aiyar-in-city-310930
14-09-2021||---||What started as B&B venture ended up in greenscape||Amritsar, September 13Brij Sajdeh (72) had turned an entrepreneur two years ago, just before the pandemic hit the world, after she started her Bed and Breakfast (B&B) called Woodland in Joshi Colony.The most attractive feature of her B&B was her vast, luscious garden that she herself nurtured over the years. While the pandemic put a halt to her business plans shortly, she kept busy grooming her greens. “I love gardening and was always fond of plants. I have over 150 plants in my garden, a wide variety of flowering and herbal plants. I never trusted anyone with them. I have made it a routine to start my day and end it by taking care of my plants,” said Brij.Her garden is spacious and offers as a perfect outdoor party venue for her guests. “A lot of time, my guests offer to help me with my garden, ask a lot of questions about the variety of plants I have. It becomes a conversation starter and soon point of engagement with them,” she shared.Apart from watering them, weeding and taking care of their growth, Brij also loves to talk to her pants. “It’s like an exchange of vibes, as I talk to them, I feel relaxed and full of positivity,” she said.With minimal aesthetics to add to her garden space, she mostly has trees and variety of all-weather plants that add a natural beauty to the garden. She has just planted chrysanthemums that will bloom in winters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/what-started-as-bb-venture-ended-up-in-greenscape-310931
14-09-2021||Amritsar||Eye donation awareness camp held at BBK DAV College for Women||BBK DAV College for Women organised an eye donation awareness camp in collaboration with Department of Ophthalmology, Government Medical College, Amritsar, to mark the National Eye Donation Fortnight. Dr Dinesh and Dr Ankush marked their presence. Geetanjali, explained the meaning of cornea. She termed visual impairment as one of the major health impediments. She also added that the first eye bank was opened in New York in 1944 and later in Chennai in 1945. Now, eye banks are available in Amritsar at two hospitals — TNS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eye-donation-awareness-camp-held-at-bbk-dav-college-for-women-310932
14-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Woman ends life, three booked||Youth dies in road mishapAmritsar: Hritik (25), a resident of Kot Khalsa area, died after a rashly driven car allegedly hit his bike when he was returning home from Khasa here late on Saturday evening. The accused, identified as Sukhbaz Singh of Bhuse village in Tarn Taran, was arrested and later released on bail. Sanjiv Kumar, father of the deceased, told the police that on Saturday night around 10pm, he was returning from Khasa when the car hit his bike near Cantonment gate number 5. He said he died on the spot. The police have registered a case under Section 304-A and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigations were under way. TNS6 cell phones seized from jailAmritsar: The Amritsar Central Jail authorities have confiscated as many as six mobile phones from six prisoners during a search operation launched on Sunday. The jail authorities seized three smart phones and three keypad phones from the accused, who were booked by the police under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act by the Islamabad police. Those booked were identified as Rajinder Singh, alias Mithu Ganja, of Jandiala Guru; Karanbir Singh of Ghumanpura village in Gharinda; Sunny Masih of Pokhar village in Gurdaspur; Gurpreet Singh, alias Raja, of Jandiala Guru; Daljit Singh of Pahra village in Gurdaspur and Kala Singh of Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran. Balbir Singh, Assistant Superintendent of Jail, said while checking room number 6 of barrack number 6, VIVO smart phones were recovered from Rajinder Singh and Karanbir Singh, while another smart phone was seized from Sunny Masih. Gurpeet and Daljit Singh were found possessing keypad phones. Similarly, a keypad phone was confiscated from Kala Singh in the same room. The police said the accused would be arrested from jail to ascertain how they managed to sneak in the prohibited material inside high security jail. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-woman-ends-life-three-booked-310933
14-09-2021||Amritsar Group of Colleges||Session on emergency medical care||NIRF-2021: GNDU 8th in engg disciplineAmritsar: GNDU has emerged as the only multi-speciality university in Punjab and its neighbouring states that has obtained position in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2021. Contesting for the first time in the engineering discipline, it has been ranked at 8th position among the multi-speciality universities of the country. State-of-the-art infrastructure, dedicated teaching-learning practices, curriculum enrichment, high employability, quality publications in highly cited national and international research journals are the key concerns to popularise GNDU’s engineering education not only in India but across the world. High quality research in engineering and other disciplines has improved the H-index of the university from 64 to 115 with top 10 per cent highly cited papers in Scopus. Its successful engineering graduates have brought laurels for the university in India and in many parts of the world.DAV College 247th in NIRFDr Rajesh Sharma, principal, DAV Colege, said it’s a proud moment for the institution that DAV College has bagged excellent position in Punjab in and in overall ranking. It has received 247th position throughout the country. He added that 90 per cent of the parameters in NIRF are completely objective and fact-based, while only 10 per cent is based on the subjective parameters by academic peers and employers. Acknowledging that Indian institutions also struggle on the “internationalisation” parameter in global rankings, he expressed confidence that the NIRF ranking will reach a point where international institutions will want to be included in the Indian ranking system rather than vice versa. Overall, 3,771 institutions registered in the ranking framework this year, which is a 20 per cent increase in comparison to last year. All parameters are normalised to keep them size- and age-independent so as to ensure that larger and older institutions do not get any undue advantage.Interactive meet organisedAn interactive session of the Principals’ of DAV Institutions was held at DAV Public School, Lawrence Road, Amritsar, on Monday. The session was chaired by Dr JP Shoor Director PS – I and aided schools. The objective of the session was to review the schools achievements in the previous and current sessions. Dr Shoor extended his appreciation to all the principals for the excellent Board results . He discussed the need of improving performance in games and sports besides academics. Later, he discussed the need to work on internal systems for better performance and satisfaction of all stake holders. He stressed upon the need for giving hearts minds and souls to nurture students, the things they see as vital to their education, critical to their success and important for their future.Cleanliness and Environment AwardSaint Soldier, Jandiala Guru, was given an “A Grade” rating in the the category of ‘Clean and Pure Environment Award’ for creating a green environment in the school and for the excellent campus with excellent hygiene arrangements by FAP (Federation of Private Schools) and Association of Punjab (Regd). Mangal Singh Kishanpuri, Director and Principal Amarpreet Kaur were honoured with a commemorative “FAP Awards” trophy and certificate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/session-on-emergency-medical-care-310934
14-09-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||With minimal staff, clinical work takes a hit at dental college in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 13It may seem unbelievable and shocking, but it is true. Government Dental College, which has produced dentists of national and international repute, is running the show with less than 17 per cent of the sanctioned faculty posts.The college, set up in 1952, at present has 46 of the total 56 faculty posts vacant.With only 10 teachers available, the college has over 250 BDS and MDS students enrolled with it. Further, it has a dental hospital, which had a daily OPD of around 200 patients prior to the pandemic. In the absence of the required faculty, interns and MDS students run the hospital.Of the 10 posts of professor at the college, only one is filled. Dr Jeevan Lata, the sole professor at the college, is also the principal. When contacted, she said: “The government has recently restructured the seats and after the rules are approved by the Cabinet, hopefully we will get more staff.”It is not that the faculty shortage at the college is a recent phenomenon.In 2009, the college had almost 50 per cent of the faculty seats vacant. By 2013, the faculty shortage increased to almost 70 per cent. With no new recruitment during the past one-and-a-half decades and regular retirements, the college has now reached a situation, where it does not have enough teachers to hold regular classes.As an ad hoc measure to address the issue, the government has appointed two teachers from Patiala GDC, who visit for a few days every month.“One of these teachers will retire this year. For years, the teaching and clinical duties have been affected due to the shortage,” an employee said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-minimal-staff-clinical-work-takes-a-hit-at-dental-college-in-amritsar-310920
14-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Double Murder: Days after ‘cracking’ case, Amritsar family alleges police inaction||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 13Days after the police “solved” the double murder case by arresting three persons, the family members of the victims on Monday submitted a memorandum to the Police Commissioner accusing the police of inaction.They said the police station concerned did not record the actual statement given to it under some “pressure”.Meets top copTwo youths were shot dead outside a restaurant on Majitha Road following a fight during a birthday party on August 18. Nine days later (on August 27), the city police nabbed three suspects including Manpreet Singh, alias Mani Dhillon, and his brother Vikram Singh, both residents of Tarn Taran Road here, besides Manpreet Singh Manu of Sultanwind village.The police also recovered a licenced pistol along with four bullets from the possession of Mani Dhillon.The police had booked around 10 unidentified persons for the murder on the basis of a CCTV grab of the incident, which had gone viral on social media a day after the incident.Deceased Munish Sharma and his friend Vikramjit Singh were shot dead by the accused following a dispute over a minor altercation over rubbing cake on the face.Munish’s brother and complainant Pardeep Kumar had told the police that his brother along with Vikramjit Singh and Taranpreet Singh of Daburji village were going to a hotel located near the Ghala Mala Chowk on Majitha Road to attend a birthday party. He also invited him to come.Sunil Arora, national president of Hindu Satkar Committee, along with family members of the deceased appeared before the Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal on Monday. They alleged that the police did not register an FIR on the basis of the actual statement given at that time. They said the police did not incorporate the names of Tarunpreet Singh, Saurav and Joban in the FIR even as their names were given in the statement at that time.Simran, brother of deceased Vikramjit Singh, said before his death, Vikramjit told him that he had named the above three persons as accused. They were held and later let off by the police under some “pressure”.They alleged that both Manish and Vikramjit were invited to the party under a conspiracy to avenge a dispute that had occurred around three months ago.Sunil Arora threatened to launch agitation in the case if the police failed to incorporate the names of the three suspects. Police Commissioner said investigations would be held to ascertain the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/double-murder-days-after-cracking-case-amritsar-family-alleges-police-inaction-310921
14-09-2021||---||Punbus staff squat on Bhandari RoB in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 13Members of the Punjab Roadways Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union held a protest by squatting on the Bhandari Railway Overbridge here on Monday.The indefinite strike called by the union, seeking regularisation of contractual and outsourced staff workforce engaged by the Punbus and PRTC, entered the eighth-day on Monday. Holding banners, they raised slogans against the Capt Amarinder Singh government for not fulfilling its promise for the past four-and-a-half years.Their demands include regularisation of all 7,500 contractual workers being employed under the PRTC, implementation of equal work equal pay and reinstatement of those contractual staff members who were relieved under conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punbus-staff-squat-on-bhandari-rob-in-amritsar-310922
14-09-2021||---||NAS preparatory exam commences offline||Amritsar, September 13As per the department’s instructions to prepare students of government schools for the annual examinations and National Achievement Survey examinations, scheduled to be conducted in November, the September edition of the preparatory examination was conducted offline on Monday. Students of Class V and Class XII came for the exam in the morning shift and those of Class VI, VIII, IX and XI sat in the afternoon shift for the exam.Satinder Bir Singh, District Education Officer, Secondary, said 95 per cent attendance was recorded on the first day of the examination. The papers for all classes were based on multiple choice questions from the syllabus for the month of April to August.“The question papers of the subjects included in the date sheet issued by the department was sent in a soft copy format by the head office, while the question papers of other subjects was prepared by the schools at their own level. In addition to this, the pattern of question papers for subjects of Class VIII and X, was completely based on the National Achievement Survey,” he said.Giving information about the examinations of primary students, Sushil Kumar Tuli, District Education Officer, Elementary, said the papers for Class III, IV and V included 20-20 multiple choice questions from the syllabus till August, while 10 multiple choice questions for welcome life and general knowledge examination were added.The September exams are being conducted as per the department’s efforts to prepare students for the NAS and improve results this year in the wake of pandemic-hit academic session.“Those students who missed taking the exams or were absent due to various reasons, will be given a chance to take the exam on a later date as decided by the department,” said Satinder Bir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nas-preparatory-exam-commences-offline-310924
14-09-2021||---||Two test +ve for Covid in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 13The health authorities reported two positive cases in the district on Monday. With this, the total count of positive cases has increased to 47,264.The authorities reported recovery of one patient with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,663. The district has a total of 11 active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 22,209 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Monday. Of these, 16,456 received first dose, while 5,753 were administered second dose.There was no causality due to Covid in the district, however, three persons tested positive on Monday.The toll stands at 378. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said the Health Department teams inoculated 12,948 persons on Monday at various camps in the district and 4,27,138 persons have been vaccinated so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-test-ve-for-covid-in-amritsar-district-310926
14-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||20 years on, AIT fails to recover dues||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 13Even after 20 years, the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) has failed to recover the dues or take any action against the bidder who occupied a residential property after paying a small amount at Sector-C in Ranjit Avenue.According to record, the AIT allotted a residential plot of 250 sq yard under the Ajnala Road Scheme to successful bidder for Rs4,600 per sq yd on August 29, 2001. The allotment letter was issued after getting 15 per cent of the total payment. The buyer was supposed to pay 10 per cent more after 30 days of the allotment letter, but he didn’t pay anything.Prabjot Singh, an RTI and social activist, filed an application under the Right to Information Act and got details of the case in March 2010. Then, the AIT had asked the buyer to pay Rs26.12 lakh pending amount on August 5, 2010. When he didn’t respond, the AIT passed a proposal to cancel the allotment and seize the deposited amount on November 25, 2010.Meanwhile, the buyer moved court againstthe decision.“The court had ordered to consider the case sympathetically and asked the buyer to pay dues in February 2011. The buyer paid 50 per cent of the pending amount i.e Rs13.06 lakh in April 2011. Now, I have been writing letters to the Local Bodies Department and filling the applications under the RTI Act but no one is responding about the current status of the case. I don’t have any personal grudge against the buyer, but am concerned about the public exchequer. There are several properties of the AIT at Nehru Shopping Complex and other locations, where people occupy properties by paying minimal amount and AIT fails to recover the dues. In this case, the occupant is enjoying the accommodation for the last 20 years by paying a small amount,” said Prabjot Singh, complainant in the case. AIT chairman Dinesh Bassi said: “I will check the status of the case and take appropriate action in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/20-years-on-ait-fails-to-recover-dues-310927
14-09-2021||---||Rs 28-lakh fraud: Jalandhar BJP legal cell chief held in Amritsar||Amritsar/Jalandhar, September 13The Division B police of Amritsar on Monday nabbed Jalandhar BJP legal cell chief Lakhan Gandhi in a Rs 28.44-lakh fraud case.The complainant, Charanjit Kaur, told the police that the accused cheated her of Rs28.44 lakh on the pretext of getting an FIR against her son, Lovepreet, cancelled and getting him released on bail. Lovepreet was booked by Division B police in a case of rape lodged on March 8 last year.Serving as an advocate for the past nearly six years, Lakhan Gandhi had passed out from the local St Soldier Law College. Using his connections, he got himself appointed as the BJP legal cell chief last yearGandhi was produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police custody. A total of four persons were booked in the case. Besides Gandhi, the police had booked complainant’s sister Manju Khera and her nephew Nitin Khera, both residents of Basti Gujjan in Jalandhar, and Amandeep Singh of Sultanwind Road under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC. Division B police station SHO Sarvan Singh said raids were on to nab the remaining three suspects.Amritsar Bar Association chief Vipin Dhand, who appeared before the court on behalf of Gandhi, pointed out that his client took only Rs25,000 as fee and did not know about the remaining amount. On the contrary, the Jalandhar Bar Association, where he remained junior vice-president, and is reportedly related to ex-president Ashok Gandhi, did not show any solidarity with Lakhan.Serving as an advocate for the past nearly six years, Lakhan Gandhi had passed out from the local St Soldier Law College. Using his connections, he got himself appointed as the BJP legal cell chief last year. He reportedly came into contact with the complainant as her sister Manju Khera was his neighbour.Complainant Charanjit Kaur alleged that Lakhan Gandhi in connivance with her sister and nephew had committed a huge financial fraud against her, including creating a fake FDR of Rs8.5 lakh for securing bail her son from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In her complaint, she also stated that she kept trusting all the accused blindly, including her sister and nephew who too were involved in the alleged racket.She said her conversation with Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer Manish Puri came as an eye-opener to her. She said while the accused (Lakhan) had sought Rs1.5 lakh for him (Manish Puri) from her, Puri had been paid only Rs 70,000.The complainant said she found that Rs6 lakh taken in the name of SHO in Amritsar too had been taken fraudulently from her. When she approached Axis Bank with FDR details, she was told that this too was fake. She said when she took on the accused over the matter, she was threatened and told that she should not take any step as they were politically well-connected. But she finally lodged the complaint in May this year after which an FIR was formally lodged on September 11.Meanwhile, Punjab and Haryana Bar Council Chairman Minderjeet Yadav wrote to the DGP, Punjab, alleging that the complaint was false and motivated. “Police personnel have misbehaved with the family of the advocate (Lakhan). The Bar Council condemns the conduct of Amritsar police,” he has written, demanding the release of Lakhan Gandhi and cancellation of the FIR against him.Bar council head writes to DGPPunjab and Haryana Bar Council Chairman Minderjeet Yadav wrote to the DGP, Punjab, alleging that the complaint was false and motivated. “Police personnel have misbehaved with the family of the advocate (Lakhan). The Bar Council condemns the conduct of Amritsar police,” he has written.The caseThe complainant, Charanjit Kaur, told the police that the accused cheated her of Rs28.44 lakh on the pretext of getting an FIR against her son, Lovepreet, cancelled and getting him released on bail. Lovepreet was booked by Division B Amritsar police in a case of rape lodged on March 8 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-28-lakh-fraud-jalandhar-bjp-legal-cell-chief-held-in-amritsar-310703
14-09-2021||---||Top smuggler nabbed in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 13In a big breakthrough, the Punjab Police today arrested an international smuggler, identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, a resident of Chawinda Kalan village in Amritsar, and confiscated 1kg heroin from his possession.Terming it a “big catch”, the police claimed Happy was instrumental in the smuggling of 40 kg heroin consignment that was recovered in the Ramdas area along the Pakistan border last month.In a statement, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Amritsar City police arrested Happy from the Chheharta area. The police have also impounded a motorcycle, he added.The Amritsar Rural police had earlier foiled a drug smuggling bid by recovering 39 packets of heroin, weighing 40.81 kg, in the Panjgraian border outpost area of Amritsar on August 21.Investigations revealed Happy was having links with smugglers in Pakistan and smuggler Jagga, who operated from Malaysia.Commissioner of Police Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police were carrying out further investigations to unravel the international drug supply network operating in the state.A case under Section 21 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the Chheharta police station in Amritsar.2 kg heroin seized along borderMoga: In a joint operation with the Border Security Force, the Moga police have recovered 2 kg heroin along the Pakistan border in Fazilka sector, a senior police officer said Monday. Inspector Tarlochan Singh said the drug was recovered from Pillar No. 232 of the Border Observation Post at Jodha Bhaini village||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/top-smuggler-nabbed-in-amritsar-310791
14-09-2021||---||Drone spotted; two boxes seized in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 13Security and intelligence agencies have been put on alert after two empty boxes dropped by a drone were found at Bharopal border village falling under the Gharinda police station here early today.The jawans spotted an UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) while it was returning after making the drop. The troops opened fire but it hovered back into the Pakistan territory.A search operation was launched by the Border Security Force and the Punjab Police in the border villages where drone movement was noticed. Two empty boxes were later found near Bhaini village. The police suspected the consignment sent from across the border was apparently taken away by smugglers.“It could be anything — heroin, weapons or hand grenades,” said an official part of the search operation.Recent recoveriesAug 8: A tiffin bomb with 2kg RDX, 4 grenades dropped by drones found near Daleke villageAug 10: Tiffin bomb seized after drone spotted at Mullankot village, near Bachchwind and Daleke villagesSept 10: BSF seizes 6 kg heroin smuggled using drones near Havelian border outpost in Tarn Taran areaThe police said an FIR was being registered and further investigations were on to identify the suspects who retrieved the consignment.“We haven’t ruled out anything. Police teams are still searching the area. We hope to get some clues about the suspects who retrieved the consignment. It is a serious issue and we are trying to identify the smugglers,” said Amritsar rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana.Sources added each of the two boxes, measuring one square feet, could contain up to 4 kg heroin or nearly 10 weapons.A BSF official said agencies concerned besides the Punjab Police were informed about the drone sighting and subsequent seizure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-spotted-two-boxes-seized-in-amritsar-310789
14-09-2021||Amritsar||Heritage tampered with, says Laxmi Kanta Chawla at Jallianwala Bagh; MP Shwait Malik differs||BJP leaders are divided over the renovated Jallianwala Bagh. Former Cabinet Minister and senior BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla today visited the Bagh. Pointing out the flaws, she said it was an act of “tampering with the heritage in the name of modernisation”.BJP Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik however countered Chawla’s claims, saying the site’s heritage was intact. Also read: Rectify Jallianwala Bagh facelift ‘lapses’ to avoid flak, Trustee asks CentreAutomated barriers at Jallianwala Bagh: Martyrs’ kin against entry feeSection 144 clamped at Jallianwala BaghThe Jallianwala Bagh makeoverRestore Jallianwala Bagh’s old look, panel writes to PM ModiJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeChawla said she would bring it to the notice of PM Narendra Modi that how the Jallianwala Bagh committee had changed the ambience of this historic site and made it a recreation garden.On the e-ticketing machines installed at the entrance, she said: “This shows that a paid entrance to the Bagh is next to be introduced.... The narrow street from where General Dyer had gained entry with his troops has got murals of people in joyous mood.The ‘martyrs well’ has also lost its identification that was there in our minds with the old structure. Now, it looks like a glass box. Similarly, the new exit gate mismatched with the history. There was no separate gate other than the narrow street. The Amar Jyoti has been shifted backside where there were toilets. I will ask Modi ji to take cognisance and direct the members of the Jallianwala Bagh committee to restore its originality.”She also reiterated her demand that the PM-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust should make public the details of Rs 20 crore spent on the project. Malik, one of the members of the Trust, said Chawla was free to write to the Union Ministry of Culture which had executed the project.He stressed the heritage aspect of the Bagh was never touched. “The murals on both side walls of the narrow street depict that people from all walks of life were entering the Bagh to celebrate Baisakhi that fall on that particular day in 1919 too. Not all were there to attend the assembly against the Rowlett Act. The Amar Jyoti has been placed as per the requirement of the light and sound show,” he said.Malik claimed the separate exit gate was already there during the Congress regime. “We just refurbished the passage for safe visitors’ exit”, he said. On the paid entry, Malik said: “Being a Trust member, I assure you that the entry to Jallianwala Bagh would be free.” — TNSIdentity lostThe martyrs well has lost its identification that was there in our minds with the old structure. Now, it looks like a glass box. — Laxmi Kanta Chawla, BJP leaderIt’s intactThe originality of the martyrs’ well is intact. It has been upgraded so that visitors can get a clear view of inside the well. — Shwait Malik, BJP MP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heritage-tampered-with-says-laxmi-kanta-chawla-at-jallianwala-bagh-mp-shwait-malik-differs-310776
