15-09-2021||Amritsar||DAV School, Amritsar, celebrates Hindi Diwas||Students recite poems in hindiStudents and staff of Government Girls School in Katra Karam Singh on Tuesday marked Hindi Diwas on the school premises. Students made colourful placards with messages in Hindi to promote the language and also recited poems and essays about the importance of Hindi. Teachers engaged the students by informing them about evolution of Hindi and its history in shaping the culture and socio-political influences in our country.IIM to host IT, Analytics ConclaveIndian Institute of Management is all set to go live with Vyakriti, the Inaugural IT and Analytics Conclave on September 18. The conclave will be conducted in video conference mode with panellists joining from different parts of the country. Vyakriti aims to provide a dais where the veterans from the industry will interact and reflect with the budding managers on the recent trends and developments in IT and analytics. In the backdrop of the inauguration of a new batch of MBA- Business Analytics, the conclave will be a keystone in bringing the students closer to the industry expectations. The theme for the panel discussion this year would be ‘Evolving to Adapt; Digital Transformation in the Era of Disruption.’ IIM Amritsar would be hosting eminent panelists from diverse industries.NEP discussed at lengthTarn Taran: The New Education Policy was discussed at a meeting held by different school heads of Sri Guru Arjun Dev Sahodya, affiliated to the CBSE. Gurcharan Kaur, principal, Mamta Niketan School, said, the heads of Mata Gujri Convent School Sarhali, Guru Nanak Dev Academy, Noordi Road, Amarpuri Public School, Goindwal Sahib, local KD International School, St Kabir Convent School Valtoha and others participated in the meeting. The school heads stressed upon the overall development of students and organising cultural and educational competitions in their respective schools. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-school-amritsar-celebrates-hindi-diwas-311160
15-09-2021||---||NABH accreditation for Sri Guru Ramdas Charitable Hospital||Amritsar, September 14SGPC-run Sri Guru Ramdas Charitable Hospital, Amritsar, has got the accreditation by the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH).SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the accreditation by a national-level organisation has further enhanced the credibility and the commitment of the health services provided by the SGPC for the welfare of humanity. “This will motivate the staff to perform their duties with more zeal and commitment”, she said.During the assessment, various aspects such as hospital functioning, maintenance, patients’ care, responsibility for treatment and cleanliness were evaluated. “The SGPC staff have made a significant contribution in achieving this recognition by fulfilling their responsibilities. The medical, paramedical, security and sanitation staff have played an important role,” she said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nabh-accreditation-for-sri-guru-ramdas-charitable-hospital-311161
15-09-2021||---||Experts for conservation of Sikh architectural heritage||Amritsar, September 14Experts stressed on the need for conservation and proper documentation of the Sikh architectural heritage, during the second virtual session on historic perspectives held today as a part of the International Symposium on Sikh Architecture. It has been organised by the Saakaar Foundation, Chandigarh.Dr Harveen Bhandari, Deputy Dean of Chitkara School of Planning & Architecture introduced the theme of the session.Dr Balvinder Singh, former professor of Guru Nanak Dev University, who made a presentation titled as ‘Conservation of Sikh Architectural Heritage’, opined that to protect the Sikh architectural heritage, regular inspection and documentation of heritage buildings and areas should be maintained as a priority.“At the government-level, the concept of listed buildings and heritage areas need to be introduced with legal backing,” he said.Dr Subhash Parihar, a well-known name in the historical research on architecture of the North-Western India, spoke on the ‘Architecture of Faridkot’. He said, “During the mid-nineteenth to mid-twentieth century, the Punjab architecture remained ignored. I have attempted to cover Faridkot for this purpose.”Acclaimed architects Pervaiz Vandal and his wife Prof Sajida Vandal from Lahore, Pakistan delivered talks on work of legendary architect Bhai Ram Singh.Architect Pervaiz said, “The North-West of the subcontinent India is Punjab, a land of many faiths and people but linked together in Punjabi Language and Culture. Architecture is one expression of the regional culture of the area. Bhai Ram Singh is the first architect of the region to bring together a synthesis of the Western and the local architecture, giving distinct meaning to Punjab architecture. Recognition and study of his work is essential to delineate the present-day expressions of architecture in Punjab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/experts-for-conservation-of-sikh-architectural-heritage-311155
15-09-2021||---||Rise in cases of snatching, robbery in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 14Unchecked incidents of snatching and robbery have been a bane of the holy city. Most of such incidents are being reported from city and rural areas, instilling a sense of fear among traders and women.The police have failed to nab perpetrators even as they make claims of arresting them from time to time. The police need to think out of the box to check alarming rise in such incidents.In the fresh incident, two armed persons looted a grocery store in the posh Rani Ka Bagh area which also has the residence of Punjab Cabinet minister Om Parkash Soni. According to the victim, Sushil Kumar, the accused took away around Rs 25,000-30,000 cash and two mobile phones worth Rs 50,000.He said he reached his shop at around 10.30 am when the two bike-borne youths with covered faces entered the shop. They pointed a pistol at him and commited the robbery. Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa said investigation was in progress to identify the suspects and a case had been registered.In a similar incident, a cosmetics shop owner was looted by armed persons in the posh Ranjit Avenue B-block area here on Monday. The victim, Gaurav, told the police that at around 11.30 am, he along with his worker Narinder Kaur was present in the shop when two persons riding a bike snatched his purse and Rs 18,000 cash from the counter and his mobile phone.In another incident, two credit card firm employees were robbed of Rs 4.81 lakh in the Jandiala Guru area on Monday. Ashish Kumar Srivastva, who originally hails from Saharanpur in UP and works as branch manager of the firm at Patel Nagar in Jandiala Guru, told the police that he along with quality officer Pardeep Singh was going to deposit the amount in Punjab National Bank at around 10.40 am on a bike. He said when they reached near Mori Gate, two bike-borne persons intercepted them and snatched the bag after brandishing a sharp-edged weapon to them.Amarjit Singh Asal, a communist leader, said miscreants seemed to have no fear of the law-enforcing agency. “Such incidents needed to be taken seriously and a sense of fear should be instilled among criminals so that people especially, traders and women, feel safe,” he said.Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police had been taking several measures to nail the snatchers. Robbers were arrested by the police on a regular basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rise-in-cases-of-snatching-robbery-in-amritsar-311157
15-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: Hall Gate to Bhandari Railway Overbridge stretch lies in tatters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14Commuters travelling on the stretch from the Hall Gate to the Bhandari Railway Over bridge are an exasperated lot. Always a busy road, it is more difficult to navigate it in the morning and evening hours.Pardeep Kumar, a shopkeeper outside the Hall Gate, says the stretch has been lying in a dilapidated state for the past nearly two years. Though it is occasionally repaired, the patchwork lasts only for a couple of weeks.Bhupinder Singh, a commuter, says like many, he also commutes through this stretch every day. All tourists visiting the Golden Temple make use of this road. Besides, this is the patch which connects the walled city with the rest of the city. Even then, it does not figure in the priority list of any government. In addition, there are also many other infrastructure bottlenecks which do not get highlighted. There are many two-wheeler automobile workshops on the road being operated from tiny shops. Most of the times, they carry servicing on the road outside these workshops.“Of late, many people have started residing under the BRTS loop, passing parallel to the Bhandari ROB.Officials stated that they were carrying out the repairs from time-to-time. The entire stretch will be laid after the undergoing work for the extension of the Bhandari ROB is finished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-hall-gate-to-bhandari-railway-overbridge-stretch-lies-in-tatters-311162
15-09-2021||Amritsar||Talk to children, monitor their social media exposure: Jyotsna Mohan Bhargava||Author and journalist Jyotsna Mohan Bhargava participated in a web session hosted by Majha House on stress management among teenagers. She was in conversation with researcher and human rights activist Enakshi Ganguly and social scientist Monika Banerjiee, as she talked about her book ‘Stoned. Shamed. Depressed’ that deals with stories of teens facing multiple pressures and dealing with mental health issues.Jyotsna Mohan BhargavaI am shocked by the number of suicides taking place every day and by the public display of suicide on social media. These young children are so attuned to viral popularity that they do not hesitate in uploading videos of their suicide.While documenting pressures that teens go through today, Jyotsna said unprecedented exposure to internet ad social media at a young age has traumatised children in many ways. ‘I fail to understand why or how parents allow their children to join Twitter or Instagram and other sites when there is an age restriction. We don’t understand how much shaming and trolling these sites can bring which can be a reason for going into depression,’ she said. She said that the pandemic was one of the reasons when she realised that its important to incorporate all that was happening around and to bring it out as soon as possible.Talking about the increase in suicides among teenagers, Jyotsna said, “I am shocked by the number of suicides taking place every day and by the public display of suicide on social media. These young children are so attuned to viral popularity that they do not hesitate in uploading videos of their suicide.” She also remarked on the hesitation of parents to address personal or intimate issues concerning growing up and sex. She said we have a tendency to brush aside such issues as we feel awkward talking about such things. ‘Even in schools sex education is not taught comprehensively but is limited to a single lecture which children attend and leave giggling, not taking anything from it,’ she lamented.Jyotsna said in spite of all the bleakness around us there is still hope for both parents and teenagers. “The only solution I can envisage is to initiate a dialogue, an open conversation between parents and children. Children should be encouraged to engage in sports and arts so that they have a vent for their negative energy. The time on gadgets and social media should be monitored strictly and parents should also set an example by also limiting their own time online,” she concluded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/talk-to-children-monitor-their-social-media-exposure-jyotsna-mohan-bhargava-311156
15-09-2021||---||Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, students say no to paying mandatory diet bill||Amritsar, September 14Members of the All-India Students Federation (AISF), Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), handed over a memorandum to Dean Academic Affairs against the mandatory billing for food service at the hostel mess. The members said whether the students eat food served in the mess or not, they have to mandatorily pay the bill, which is not justified.All-India Students Federation, president, Punjab, Lovepreet Singh, while addressing the plight of university students, said GNDU doesn’t have a cooperative mess system where students manage their own mess and regulate services. “The contractors have been serving substandard food and each student has to pay more than a thousand rupees under the Mandatory Diet Bill rule, even if he has not eaten a single meal. Therefore, the Mandatory Diet Bill should be removed so as to reduce the financial burden on the students,” he said.The second demand of the students is that the results of the exit classes for several courses have not been declared yet. “It will jeopardise the future of students as not announcing the results has been causing a great difficulty to students in seeking further admission. We have requested the authorities to declare the results of old semesters of all departments,” he said.The third demand is to keep the library open for 24 hours a day for students and researchers. The reading room, where students and researchers come to study is open for 24 hours a day but the library is closed which causes a lot of difficulties to the students and researchers. The student leaders also demanded that clean water supply should be made available in hostels and the university as all these expenses are borne by students but they still remain devoid of such facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-amritsar-students-say-no-to-paying-mandatory-diet-bill-311154
15-09-2021||Tarn Taran||District & Sessions Judge at Patti jail||‘Eat Right Smart City’ trainingsAmritsar: The district Health Department has announced to start training of workers associated with all kinds of food businesses to apprise them of the food safety norms from September 16. District health officer Dr Bharti Dhawan said the trainings are a part of the ‘Eat Right Smart City’ project, so that residents get quality food. She said hotels, restaurants, dhabas would be covered under the project. She said the general public, too, must be aware of the food safety norms, so that they buy food which is safe for their health. TNSTwo nabbed for stalking girlAmritsar: The Golden Temple authorities today handed over two youths to the police for allegedly stalking a girl who had come to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib. In a statement issued here today, Gurinder Singh, manager, Golden Temple, said a complaint has been lodged with the police in this regard. He told that when employees observed the suspicious act of the accused and tried to enquire, they were attacked by the duo with sharp weapon. He urged the Galliara police authorities to take appropriate action against the duo. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-sessions-judge-at-patti-jail-311164
15-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Shopkeeper shot at in Patti town, injured||A shopkeeper was shot at and injured in Patti town by two unidentified car-borne assailants here on Tuesday. The injured shopkeeper has been identified as Balwinder Singh Billa (50) of Patti.He was attacked when he had just reached outside his shop to open it. The injured shopkeeper was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Patti, where his condition was stated to be out of danger.SI Parwinder Singh, SHO, Patti city, said a case under Sections 307 and 34, IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered. He said the police had recovered three empty rounds of 9 mm revolver from the spot.The SHO said the shopkeeper, who was running a furniture shop on the Lahore road in Patti, had come on his moped when Swift car-borne assailants appeared on the spot the same moment.One of the assailants came out of the car and opened firing on Balwinder Singh who received injuries on his lower parts of the legs. The assailants managed to escape from the spot after committing the crime. Asked about the possibility of involvement of persons in the attack, the injured pointed the finger, though not sure about that, at those persons with whom he had a property dispute. The police were analysing footages of CCTV cameras installed in the area. The word ‘Sarpanch’ in Punjabi language was written at the front and back of the car used in the crime. SAD leaders Gurcharan Singh Chann and councillor Dharminder Singh have demanded the arrest of the accused.The SAD leaders had taken a serious note of the poor law and order situation in urban and rural areas of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shopkeeper-shot-at-in-patti-town-injured-311152
15-09-2021||---||Covid-19: Amritsar district reports seven +ve cases||Amritsar, September 14The district reported seven positive cases on Tuesday with which the district tally increased to 47,271. The new cases include five influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients.The district health officials have also reported the recovery of two patients, with which the total recovery count improved to 45,665. The district at present has a total of 16 active cases.Meanwhile, in the ongoing vaccination drive, 16,487 residents were inoculated on Tuesday. Of these, 9,440 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 7,047 received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-reports-seven-ve-cases-311163
15-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Shakti teams to act as decoys to ensure safety of women in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14In order to ensure the safety and security of women and girls in society, Amritsar city police on Tuesday launched Shakti teams, which would work as decoy teams in public places, besides launching Women Safety Officers’ teams.Vikram Jeet Duggal, Police CommissionerWe have formed 20 Shakti teams under as many police stations under the jurisdiction of Amritsar city Commissionerate. These would be stationed at various public places, including outside educational institutes, which were designated as hotspots while observing the instances occurred in the past, besides in public transport. Each team would include two women cops and a policeman. They would be in civvies and equipped with spy cams to collect evidence against the offenders.Though instances of eve-teasing and harassment have taken place in society, only a fraction of the actual number of cases is reported to the police.“The main objective of the formation of Shakti teams is to address this problem,” said Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal while talking to this correspondent.As per the figures procured from the police department, only three cases under Section 509 (insulting by taunting, commenting, gestures) of the IPC and only 23 cases under Section 354 (molestation) of the IPC have been registered so far this year in the city.“We have formed 20 Shakti teams under as many police stations under the jurisdiction of Amritsar city Commissionerate,” he said, adding that these would be stationed at various public places, including outside educational institutes, which were designated as hotspots while observing the instances occurred in the past, besides in public transports. Each team would include two women cops and a policeman. They would be in civvies and equipped with spy cams to collect evidence against the offenders.Depending upon the crime, Shakti teams could register an FIR or take preventive action or if the need be, counsel the offenders by involving their family members. Joint Police Commissioner D Sudarvizhi and Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cybercrime and Forensics, Manpreet Shinhmar would be the nodal officers. He said each complaint would be documented and followed up in the future.The police also launched Women Safety Officers’ teams and a dedicated WhatsApp helpline number (9781101091) wherein the women in distress could call for help. “Besides calling at helpline number 181, the women in distress could also call at the given number,” said Duggal. People could also post video messages or pictures about such incidents at this number so that appropriate action could be taken against the violators.The police have also deputed around 80 personnel as Women Safety Officers or Shakti Officers who would spread awareness among girls and women in educational institutes. The number of Shakti Officers would be doubled in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shakti-teams-to-act-as-decoys-to-ensure-safety-of-women-in-amritsar-311149
15-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Decades-old ties help Amritsar importers in getting dry fruits from Kabul on credit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14Even though no fund transfer is taking place through the Bank of Kabul, a few importers, who have been into the trade for decades, are getting supplies of dry fruits from Afghanistan on credit due to their connections.The trade between the holy city and Afghanistan goes back to centuries. Most of the business houses in Majith Mandi, which is a hub of dry fruits and spices in the walled city, are involved in this trade.Anil Mehra, a city-based importer, said: “The entire business is taking place on credit now. No new import house is getting supplies as the employees of the Bank of Kabul have not joined duties after the change of guard.”A city-based importerInstead of covering costly eatables with tarpaulin sheets, some buckets were placed under the leaking roofs. Obviously, these are not adequate to prevent the seeping rainwater from reaching the bags. The authorities at ICP failed to protect the costly eatables from rainwater.Meanwhile, importers are busy assessing losses incurred after the imported Afghan dry fruit got drenched in the downpour from leaking roofs recently while being stored in warehouses at the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari-Wagah, 36 km from here. He said assessing the total loss would be an onerous task as the stored material was despatched to different parts of the country. He, however, made it clear that they would not get good returns on drenched imported eatables. He said: “Proper care is not being taken despite paying heavy maintenance and demurrage (charges).”Importers pay nearly Rs22,000 per truck as maintenance charges on the very first day, when the material is unloaded in godowns. In addition, Rs4 per tonne demurrage is given for the next two to three days. This is raised to Rs50 per tonne for the next five days and then it is increased to Rs150 per tonne.Importers said instead of covering costly eatables with tarpaulin sheets, some buckets were placed under the leaking roofs. Obviously, these were not adequate to prevent the seeping rainwater from reaching the bags. They are irked at the authorities at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) for failing to protect the costly eatables from rainwater.Though no official of the Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) came forward to clarify, sources said holes were made in the godown roofs to install solar panels. Work for the same is under way. However, the rainwater managed to make its way inside the godowns through these holes.BK Bajaj, a city-based dry fruit importer, said: “Though the Bank of Kabul is lying closed for want of staff, the Afghan exporters are dispatching material in good faith and on credit to clear their stock of freshly harvested crop. So, over 30 trucks are arriving at the ICP daily.”Recently, his counterparts in Afghanistan conveyed to him to pay for the imported material through third country. Most of the Afghan exporters have chosen the UAE for payments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/decades-old-ties-help-amritsar-importers-in-getting-dry-fruits-from-kabul-on-credit-311150
15-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar residents debunk Municipal Corporation’s claim of regular fogging||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14Though the Municipal Corporation (MC) has insufficient infrastructure for fogging, teams have started working in two shifts and are covering 12 wards daily, the MC officials claimed.They also claimed that now each MC ward gets fogging done after seven days. However, contrary to the claims of the MC, residents of several localities said they haven’t witnessed fogging in their respective areas.Sandip Rishi, Additional Commissioner, MCAfter the rise in dengue cases, we have been conducting fogging in every ward after seven days. Now, employees are working in double shifts and conducting fogging in the same locality after seven days. The infrastructure is sufficient. We require more hand-held machines and the number of jeep-mounted machines is adequate. We will regulate it soon.Vikrant Kumar, a resident of Indira Colony said: "The Municipal Corporation conducts fogging on the main road. Dengue patients are increasing in densely populated areas. Most of the times, the MC vehicles ignore streets."The MC health wing has only six jeep-mounted fogging machines for 85 wards in the city. Apart from this, they have six hand-held machines, which they mount on the scooter to make the process fast.Sandip Rishi, Additional Commissioner, MC, said: “After the rise in dengue cases, we have been conducting fogging in every ward after seven days. Now, employees are working in double shifts and conducting fogging in the same locality after seven days. The infrastructure is sufficient. We require more hand-held machines and the number of jeep-mounted machines is adequate. We will regulate it soon.”Experts claimed that fogging should be conducted every week to curb the breeding of dengue larvae and mosquitoes.There are several slums and villages on the periphery, which witnesses more dengue cases than posh areas. Residents of Indira Colony, Majitha Road, Ghanupur Kalle, Mustfabaad, Islamabad, Gumtala and several colonies on the Batala road claim that no fogging has been conducted in their areas so far. Even the localities on the outer bypass area are deprived of fogging.“The Health Department has been identifying hotspots and they are in touch with our health wing officials. We have spared a machine to conduct fogging at hotspots on a priority. Residents can contact us on the toll free numbers of the MC,” said Sandip Rishi.NGO leads from the frontIn the absence of proper fogging by the Municipal Corporation (MC), a local NGO has been conducting fogging in slums and periphery areas of the city. NGO Jai Ho Club, led by Vicky Dutta, has been conducting fogging for the last four years in slums. Dutta claimed that the NGO conducts fogging in those areas where dengue cases were reported. “Generally, the MC conducts fogging on main roads, but we visit the interior streets with small machines. Dengue prone areas, especially slums, are our priority. We have conducted fogging in the walled city areas,” said Dutta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-debunk-municipal-corporations-claim-of-regular-fogging-311153
15-09-2021||Manmeet Singh||Increasing dengue count rings alarm in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14The increasing number of dengue cases in the district has set alarm bells ringing and the Health Department is taking measures to contain the spread of the disease.The district has reported a total of 61 dengue cases in last seven days.With this, total 251 cases have been reported in the district during the current season. Dengue cases had witnessed a sudden spurt in the last week of August. The Health Department has already reported 134 cases in September so far.While the department has asked the Municipal Corporation to conduct regular fogging in all 85 wards, it has also initiated extensive inspections in residential areas to detect dengue larvae.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said residents must observe every Friday as a dry day to prevent breeding of dengue mosquitoes.“The general public must empty their air coolers, water pots and other items, especially kept in the open, once a week on Friday to prevent mosquitoes from breeding,” he said, adding that a meeting of the district dengue taskforce was held under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner to tackle the situation.District epidemiologist Dr Madan Mohan said 503 challans have been issued after dengue larvae were found at various buildings in the city. He said in case a patient is diagnosed as a dengue case, he must increase his fluid intake and ensure proper rest to avoid complications.He said dengue-causing mosquito usually bites during the day and proper precautions as mosquito coils, sprays, mosquito repellent creams, full sleeve clothes should be used to avoid mosquito bites. He said the Education Department has been roped in to create awareness about the disease, its causes and prevention among school students, so that they can pass on the information to their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/increasing-dengue-count-rings-alarm-in-amritsar-district-311148
15-09-2021||Amritsar||Martyrs’ families protest Jallianwala Bagh facelift||Civil societies of Amritsar, along with Jalandhar-based Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee and kin of martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, today conducted a protest march to convey their resentment against the recent renovation of the bagh.Amid heavy police barricading, the protesters had no option but to stage a sit-in some metres ahead of the bagh on the Heritage Street.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverKin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampThey were denied access towards the bagh as a preventive measure, since the Amritsar police have imposed Section 144. Committee assistant secretary Parminder Singh termed the lapses as an insult to those who laid down their lives for the nation’s freedom. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrs-families-protest-jallianwala-bagh-facelift-311214
15-09-2021||Faridkot||Amritsar rickshaw-puller gets ‘service to humanity’ award||The Baba Farid Society has announced names of winners of the 22nd Baba Farid Award for Honesty and Bhagat Puran Singh Award for Service to Humanity.Rajbir Singh, 45, is known for penning book ‘Rickshaw Tey Chale Zindagi’ — a compilation of 14 short stories on his 20-year experience as a rickshaw puller, meeting people of different ages and mindsets. While rickshaw-puller Rajbir Singh (45) of Chheharta town of Amritsar has been selected for Bhagat Puran Singh Award for Service to Humanity, Kumar Saurav Raj, former Deputy Commissioner of Faridkot, has been chosen for the award for honesty.Rajbir is known for penning the book ‘Rickshaw Tey Chale Zindagi’. The book is a compilation of 14 short stories on his 20-year experience as a rickshaw puller, meeting people of different ages and mindsets. The book has painful but inspiring stories of many poor mechanics, rickshaw-pullers and daily wagers who live a hard life to run their families. He has also installed a donation box in his rickshaw to collect money for the poor.Instituted in 2000, each award carries Rs 1 lakh and a citation. The awards would be presented on September 23, the concluding day of the Baba Farid Festival, said Inderjeet Singh Khalsa, chairman of the society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-rickshaw-puller-gets-service-to-humanity-award-311224
15-09-2021||Amritsar||Another suspect nabbed in heroin seizure case||Day after the arrest of alleged international smuggler Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, the rural police have arrested another suspect in the 40 kg heroin seizure case. A police official identified the suspect as Ranjit Singh, alias Bidi.Happy was produced in a local court, which remanded him in two-day police custody for further interrogation. Happy was arrested by the city police with 1 kg heroin from the Chheharta area yesterday. DCP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the police would bring his accomplice Hardip Singh on production warrant. Hardip was currently lodged in the Amritsar central jail. He would be interrogated to break the nexus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-suspect-nabbed-in-heroin-seizure-case-311233
