16-09-2021||Amritsar||Covid: Three test positive in Amritsar district||JEE Main: students score well in cityAmritsar: Several students from city scored 99 percentile and above in the consolidated result of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2021, despite a challenging, pandemic-hit year. Chaitanya Gupta scored 99.95, taking first position in the city, while Sparsh Goenka and Vaibhav Sobti scored 99.88 percentile. Other students who scored above 99 percentile were Manav Goyal (99.85), Aashish Rampal (99.87), Partik Singh Bumrah (99.81 percentile) and Vanshita (99.75). Over 10 lakh students registered for the four sessions of JEE Main 2021 from across the country. TNSPatient safety discussedAmritsar: A workshop to mark the Patient Safety Week’ was organised at the Civil Surgeon office. Patient Safety Week is being observed from September 11 to September 17. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the focus this year is on safe maternal and newborn care at government hospitals. He said safe child deliveries, care and safety of indoor patients, proper sitting and meal arrangements, cleanliness and hygiene, timely ambulance service, emergency services, labs and emergency medicines are important for patient safety. TNSproperty tax: MC to hold campsAmritsar: With last date for availing of 10 per cent rebate in property tax approaching near (September 30), the Municipal Corporation, has announced to organise tax collection camps to motivate traders to deposit the tax. The state government has offered 10 per cent rebate on property tax to public till September 30. Officials of the property tax wing said they would organise camps in markets of the city. The MC would get assistance from trader associations, including the District Shopping Complex shopkeepers’ Association, Hotel Association, Focal Point Association and Guru Bazaar Traders’ Association. Daljeet Singh, Nodal Officer, Property Tax Wing said, “We will provide technically equipped staff to facilitate traders on their doorstep. The objective is to motivate traders to avail 10 per cent rebate offered by the government. We have a target to collect Rs20 cr till Sep 30.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-three-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-311975
16-09-2021||Amritsar||Gurmat samagam held for Bhats at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall||A special ‘gurmat samagam’ was organised to commemorate the meet of Bhats (bards) with Guru Sahib at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall at the Golden Temple. Hazuri raagis connected sangat through kirtan.Giani Ranjit Singh Gohar-e-Maskin, Jathedar of Takht Sri Patna Sahib, and Giani Gurminder Singh, granthi at the Golden Temple, said Bani (holy writings) of Bhats have been recorded in Guru Granth Sahib, therefore, they were highly respected.The Bhat Youth Welfare Federation, the Bhat Kirat International, the Bhat Sikh Council, the New International Bhat Sikh Council (UK), the Bhat Sikh Ekta Sewa Society (UK), the International Bhat Sikh Community Trust (UK), the Bhat Sikh Organisation Mohalla Kot Baba Deep Singh and other organisations also attended the event.Office-bearers and members of various organizations associated with Bhats were honoured with siropas. Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, Gurinder Singh Mathrewal and Malkit Singh Beharwal, among others were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurmat-samagam-held-for-bhats-at-gurdwara-manji-sahib-diwan-hall-311974
16-09-2021||---||‘A Rude Life outcome of frustration’||Amritsar, September 15FICCI FLO Amritsar chapter hosted journalist, author and food critic Vir Sanghvi to talk about his memoir ‘A Rude Life’ at a special event here on Wednesday. Sanghvi shared interesting bits from his life which were included in the book while keeping the conversation as engaging as his writings.During the conversation, Sanghvi revealed that the book takes the readers through a kaleidoscope — personal life, stories of and about celebrities and politicians, middlemen and behind-the-scene life of a journalist. Throwing light on the inspiration behind the book, Sanghvi said it was the lockdown that sowed the seed.“I think it was boredom and frustration. I would not have written the book if there was no lockdown in 2020. I decided to write on one thing I knew about: myself,” Sanghvi revealed. The acclaimed journalist continued by sharing his love for his father, “I lost my father when I was 15. He was in his own way a very glamorous figure, because he went abroad more, which most Indians did not back then. He died succumbing to lung cancer. The money he left behind dried up soon enough and my life changed forever.”During his years as a journalist, Sanghvi had close encounters with several Bollywood personalities and eminent politicians. Sharing his experiences with Big B and Shahrukh Khan, Sanghvi called them ‘decent’ and ‘incredibly intelligent person’ respectively. He also expressed his love for the holy city. “I am quite familiar with the city’s food legacy and feel totally at home here,” he said.Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FLO Amritsar, who moderated the conversation said having Vir Sanghvi to interact with the city audience was quite an experience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-rude-life-outcome-of-frustration-311973
16-09-2021||---||Raj Babbar back on Punjabi silver screen with upcoming horror flick ‘Bhoot Uncle Tussi Great Ho’||Amritsar, September 15Actor and politician Raj Babbar is set to make a comeback on silver screen after a gap of five years with the upcoming horror flick ‘Bhoot Uncle Tussi Great Ho’. The actor today visited Golden Temple along with noted filmmaker KC Bokadia, who is helming the Punjabi comedy-horror flick scheduled for release this year.Babbar, who was last seen in ‘Tevar’, said he felt at home every time he visited Amritsar. “It’s been my home for long as I spent my childhood here. I had family here and still do. The holy city has a special place in my heart.”Babbar said the upcoming movie ‘Bhoot Uncle Tussi Great Ho’ is based on a family, who finds purpose and true worth of being a family through a ghost. “The movie is not just a spoof, but has elements of spirituality and message of gurus incorporated through its characters and storyline. Great effort has been made by the entire team to ensure that we bring good content on screen after this long gap.”Apart from Babbar, Bollywood veteran and his co-actor in many films, Jaya Prada is set to make her Punjabi film debut. The film also has popular stars of Pollywood Gurpreet Ghuggi, Karamjeet Anmol, Harby Sandhu, Ihana Dhillon, Sardar Sohi and Guggu Gill. The film was scheduled to release earlier this year, but got delayed due to the pandemic.This would be KC Bokadia’s second Punjabi production after ‘Meri Vahuti Da Vyah’. The filmmaker who has given memorable movies like ‘Teri Meherbaniyan’, ‘Naseeb Apna Apna’, and ‘Phool Bane Angarey’ has been positive about his entry into Punjabi film industry.“My treatment of directing any content remains the same, I always aspire to give wholesome experience to audience through my films and not stick to one genre. Horror comedies have performed well recently and is picking up as a popular genre in Bollywood and its still a new genre in Punjabi films. I am hopeful that audience will like our effort,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raj-babbar-back-on-punjabi-silver-screen-with-upcoming-horror-flick-bhoot-uncle-tussi-great-ho-311972
16-09-2021||---||GNDU to offer BEd special education course||Amritsar, September 15Rehabilitation Council of India, Ministry of Education, New Delhi, has approved BEd Special Education (Multiple Disabilities) course to be taught at Department of Education, Guru Nanak Dev University. The decision makes GNDU first public university in the state to offer a course in special education as most colleges offering the course are private.GNDU will offer the course from the session 2021-22 with an intake capacity of 30 seats. This course aims at developing teachers for differently abled children and for creating inclusive environment in the schools.Speaking about the development, VC Prof Jaspal Sandhu, said that there is a shift from special schools to inclusive settings and at the same time a dearth of trained special educators leading to gaps in realising inclusion in its true spirit. “As per the guidelines of CBSE, it is mandatory to have special educators in all schools and this course would definitely help to prepare teachers who can assume the role of counsellors and special educators in the schools, giving impetus to the vision of achieving inclusion as well as opening the doors of employment to the young trained graduates,” he said. For effective running of the course, the university has already signed an MoU with Pehal Resource Centre, Karampura, a government run institution for special children that offers inclusive education at Govt. Senior Secondary School, Karampura.Government of Punjab is paying special emphasis to appoint special educators in each school either affiliated with PSEB or CBSE to provide special care to the children with disabilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-offer-bed-special-education-course-311971
16-09-2021||---||Elevate Amritsar to new division: Residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 15Ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, the chorus for setting up a new administrative division headquartered at Amritsar is growing.At present, the holy city falls under the Jalandhar division, which has several districts. Each division is headed by a Commissioner who is a senior IAS officer.Residents of Àmritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot, who have some business with the divisional office at Jalandhar, will also be relieved of long travel.Manmohan Singh Brar, a retired executive officer, says there were five divisions in the state and the number of districts in each division is totally irrational. For instance, Jalandhar division with its jurisdiction across eight districts including, Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Àmritsar, Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr besides Jalandhar is heavily burdened. The smallest division is of Roop Nagar that includes only two districts – Mohali and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts.He pointed out that these two divisions — Jalandhar and Roop Nagar — show total irrationality regarding the number of districts governed by their respective commissioners.“To rationalise the number of districts in Jalandhar division, the government must create a new ‘Àmritsar division’ and the districts of Tarn Taran, Àmritsar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot should be included in this. Jalandhar division looks after Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr,” he said.Hardip Singh Chahal, another city resident, said the Beas river will be the common boundary of two divisions Àmritsar and Jalandhar. This decision will improve the administrative efficiency of tourism, business and trade of the holy city. The divisions, districts and sub-divisions with lesser areas and limited population is the need of the hour for providing effective and efficient administrative services.Other three divisions are Faridkot, comprising Faridkot, Bathinda and Mansa districts, Ferozepur division, which administratively controls Muktsar, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Moga districts, besides Patiala division, which has Patiala, Barnala, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/elevate-amritsar-to-new-division-residents-311970
16-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Anganwadi workers seek status of nursery teachers||Tarn Taran, September 15Workers of the All Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union lodged a protest against the state government today for not according them a status of nursery teachers.The workers of the union burnt an effigy of the state government and warned that they would be forced to intensify their agitation in case their demand was not met.Gurmeet Kaur, vice-president of the organisation, said the anganwadi workers working in the department for the past more than 20 years deserved the status of nursery teachers. The workers also took out a march in the town to highlight their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anganwadi-workers-seek-status-of-nursery-teachers-311969
16-09-2021||---||Shopkeeper robbed at gunpoint in Pawan Nagar of Amritsar||Amritsar, September 15Two motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed Rs12,000 from a shopkeeper at gunpoint at Pawan Nagar, Mohkampura area, here on Tuesday.Ramesh Kumar, victim shopkeeper at Pawan Nagar, said around 2.30 pm, he was sitting inside his shop and his worker Pardeep was working at the store in the backyard. Two motorcycle-borne youths came to his shop and robbed Rs12,000 from the cash box at gunpoint. He raised an alarm and the accused fled from the spot.ASI Sarbjit Singh, Investigating Officer in the case, said a case was registered against the accused persons under Section 379-B of the IPC. According to the information, one of the miscreants was wearing a blue shirt, while the other wore a red shirt. Both of them had covered their faces with handkerchiefs. The police suspect that the two were the same persons who robbed a shop in Rani Ka Bagh area. The police have collected the CCTV footage and are investigating the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shopkeeper-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-pawan-nagar-of-amritsar-311968
16-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Heritage status - Amritsar's Qila Ahluwalia: Original architecture missing, but colonial structures intact||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 15In 1762, when Afghan invader Ahmad Shah Abdali (Durani) attacked the Golden Temple and demolished the main building, the Misl sardars recaptured the city soon and secured the shrines and residential areas with military prospective. They constructed gates and military posts to secure the shrine and localities.Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia (1718-1783), one of the prominent leaders of Sikh Misls in 1763, had constructed the military fortress to protect the Golden Temple.A major portion of the historic Qila Ahluwalia, has faced demolition in the past. Now, only two of its gates and a small portion of the fort remains.Some other buildings in the historic qila were tampered with during the British era and later. Fortunately, a few more than one-and-a-half a century old buildings along with the wooden façades and frescos are intact. The decorated wooden balconies attract visitors. The original architecture of the qila is missing, but the colonial structures are in good condition.The Centre conduced restoration of these remaining buildings, gates and outer facade of Qila Ahluwalia under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) in 2020.The decedents of Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia of Kapurthala state used to stay in the qila till the death of Fateh Singh Ahluwalia in 1836. Later, during the regime of Maharaja Ranjit Singh (1780-1839), he invited Marwari businessmen from Sikar district of Rajasthan and settled them in Katra Aluwalia, a locality around the qila. During the initial years of the 20th century, the British government auctioned Qila Ahluwalia. The Marwari businessmen bought it and converted into houses and shops.“A major portion of the old structure of fort was demolished and new buildings were constructed. These buildings of colonial architecture have decorated shades and balconies. The frescos on the ceiling are still visible. The government has restored the frescos recently,” said Dr Balwinder Singh, ex head, Guru Ramdas School of planning, GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heritage-status-amritsars-qila-ahluwalia-original-architecture-missing-but-colonial-structures-intact-311967
16-09-2021||---||Amritsar: Expedite fogging, cover 20 wards daily, says OP Soni||Amritsar, September 15Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni held a meeting on Wednesday to review the efforts to check the spread of dengue. He asked the Health Department and Municipal Corporation officials to work in tandem for effective control on the situation. Soni also instructed the officials to expedite fogging in the city and cover at least 20 wards daily.He asked the health authorities to depute doctors with MC teams so that they can visit different areas and create awareness about the disease among residents, apart from identifying suspected patients. The minister also asked the civic body officials to ensure that any requests from the health officials regarding fogging in vulnerable areas are taken up on priority.Those coming to hospitals for tests or treatment should not face any problems. The Health Department must ensure reservation of beds for dengue patients in all government hospitals, Soni maintained.He also warned the officials against laxity in performing any duty related to dengue control and stated that strict action would be taken against erring employees. Soni asked the civil administration officials to visit areas under their jurisdiction and ensure that all instructions are complied with.City Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu was also present in the meeting. He said new fogging machines were being procured by the Municipal Corporation and a daily report regarding fogging was being filed. Fogging was being ensured in the congested markets of the city with the help of smaller machines, Rintu added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-expedite-fogging-cover-20-wards-daily-says-op-soni-311966
16-09-2021||---||Jallianwala Bagh: Naujawan Bharat Sabha to launch Morcha on September 28||Amritsar, September 15Criticising the flaws in the renovation of Jallianwala Bagh, the Naujawan Bharat Sabha members have announced to hold a morcha in front of the Bagh from September 28 to protest against the alleged tempering with the historic significance of the site and demand to restore its old look.State chief Rupinder Chounda and state general secretary Manga Azaad said the original historic look of Jallianwala Bagh was being tarnished by the BJP-led government at the Centre and the Congress government in Punjab in the name of renovation.Addressing a press conference, they said every year millions of people come to pay homage at the memorial to remember the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre, which took place on April 13, 1919.But now the historical heritage has turned into a tourist destination.“There was originally a narrow street to enter the Bagh, but now another exit passage has been created which was contrary to history. Since there was only one way to enter and exit the garden, which was blocked by British troops, people got stuck and fell to the bullets shot indiscriminately and hundreds were killed by jumping into the well,” he said, criticising that the entire history has been changed by the government by opening another path to the garden.Apart from this, the appearance of the martyr’s well has also been tarnished with a new structure over it.They said the saffron nationalism of the RSS has been promoted in the new galleries in the garden instead of the national freedom movement. The BJP’s election symbol lotus has also been planted in the pond in front of the Shaheed Memorial under the same agenda, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-naujawan-bharat-sabha-to-launch-morcha-on-september-28-311965
16-09-2021||---||Jallianwala Bagh tampered with under a well-thought-out conspiracy: AAP||Amritsar, September 15The Centre has been facing flak from historians, residents and families of martyrs regarding renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) took out a candlelight march on Wednesday and slammed the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA in the Centre.Also read: Naujawan Bharat Sabha to launch Morcha on September 28Restore ‘distorted’ Jallianwala Bagh to its original form, demands PSUThe Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampJivanjot Kaur, urban district chief, AAP, said the beautification of Jallianwala Bagh has been ‘tampered with’. “It is an attack on the history and heritage of Punjab by Bharatiya Janata Party, under a well-thought-out conspiracy. A society that does not knows its history is like a man who has lost his memory.” She said the Central Government has made a historic mistake by spending Rs 200 crore on something that has hurt the feelings of people, including families of the martyrs.AAP leader Prabhbir Singh Brar said a pistol in the hand of the statue of Shaheed Udham Singh inside the Jallianwala Bagh was a symbol of courage and bravery. “Now, it has been removed in the name of renovation,” he said.Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar, in charge, AAP south constituency, said changes made at the entrance of the Jallianwala Bagh has changed the entire experience. “The light and sound show that has been started now doesn’t seem to gel with the sentiment the Jallianwala Bagh invokes. It is a memorial not an amusement park,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-tampered-with-under-a-well-thought-out-conspiracy-aap-311964
16-09-2021||---||Kidnapping, murder: 11-year-old Sultanwind boy’s body dumped in canal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 15An 11-year-old boy, who was kidnapped from Sultanwind on Tuesday for ransom, was murdered by the kidnapper and his body was thrown into the Sultanwind Canal. The kidnapper has been arrested by the police and on the information provided by him, the police and divers were searching for the body. The accused has been identified as Nandan (28), a native of Bihar.Nandan made ransom call to the father of the victim and asked him to pay Rs3.5 lakh on Tuesday night. The father informed the police about the ransom call after which the police nabbed the accused.Mukhwinder Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, said: “We got the information in the morning and the Police Commissioner constituted the teams immediately. The accused Nandan confessed that he killed the boy and dumped the body into the canal. We are searching the body.How it all happened Eleven-year-old Ranjan went missing on Tuesday afternoon after returning from school. The accused Nandan, who works as a mason, was a friend of victim’s elder brother Deepak and used to visit the house frequently. Nandan took Ranjan with him and tied him at his house. In the evening, when Ranjan’s family started looking for him in the locality, Nandan was also helping them. He visited the railway station with his father to search him. Nandan returned home late in the evening and called Ranjan’s father from a newly bought SIM card and asked him to pay Rs3.5 lakh as ransom. Ranjan’s family went to the police station and reported the matter. Nandan again joined the victim’s family in the morning and accompanied the police to search the victim. Meanwhile, the police initiated probe into the call details and checked the CCTV cameras. Soon, the police got some clue about the accused and detained Nandan. Initially, the accused bluffed the police but when they got strict, he confessed that he killed Ranjan around 7 am as he was abusing him. After strangling him to death, Nandan put his body in a sack and threw it in the UBDC Canal at Sultanwind. The police have arranged the diver and also called a special diver from Harike. The canal officials were also requested to reduce the supply of water so that the body could be traced. The search of body was on till late evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kidnapping-murder-11-year-old-sultanwind-boys-body-dumped-in-canal-311963
16-09-2021||Amritsar||Respect hands that feed us: Raj Babbar||Actor and Congress leader Raj Babbar on Wednesday paid obeisance at the Golden Temple. Refraining from giving any political statement, Babbar did respond to questions regarding the farmers’ agitation on farm laws.He said he stands in solidarity with the farmers and said whatever was being done to them should not have happened. “If the farmers of the whole country are saying a thing, then they cannot be wrong. They are our annadata (food providers) and one must respect the hand that feeds us. The government needs to understand their point of view.” He condemned the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/respect-hands-that-feed-us-raj-babbar-311646
16-09-2021||Amritsar||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya visits Golden Temple||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya along with his family today paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.After his visit, Dattatreya said, “The Golden Temple is a spiritual centre for the mankind, from where the Sikh Gurus have conveyed the message of universal communion. The sacred atmosphere here gives peace.” Praising the Sikhs on the occasion, Dattatreya said, “The community has made a great contribution to the defence of the country which can never be forgotten.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-visits-golden-temple-311661
