17-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||2 booked for attacking cop on duty||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 16The Gharinda police have booked Harjinder Singh and Dharminder Singh, both residents of Dhanoe Khurd village, for allegedly thrashing and injuring a cop on duty. They were charged with murder bid and for objecting a government servant from discharging his duties.One is Prime suspect in narco-terror moduleHow it all happenedVictim Ranjit Singh, a Punjab Home Guards jawan, was going to Atalgarh village on Tuesday to examine the CCTV camera in the village. When he reached near the village at 6.10 pm, the two accused who were travelling on a scooter came from the opposite side and intercepted him. They were equipped with a datar and a hockey stick. To take revenge, they shouted saying that it was he (the cop) who had given information about them leading to their arrest. He said they attacked him with the datar and hockey stick. They also snatched his mobile and Rs5,000 from his pocket. As people started gathering, the accused fled on the bike.Dharminder Singh was one of the prime suspects in the narco-terror module busted by the Punjab Police, in which an Army man was also arrested in January last year. They used to fetch drugs from across the international border with the help of drones. He had recently come out on bail.According to Investigating Officer ASI Rajbir Singh, both accused had several cases registered against them under the NDPS Act.Victim Ranjit Singh, a Punjab Home Guards jawan, told the police that he was going to Atalgarh village on Tuesday to see the CCTV camera in the village. He said when he reached near the village at 6.10 pm, the two accused who were travelling on a scooter came from the opposite side and intercepted him. They were equipped with a datar and a hockey stick. To take revenge, they shouted saying that it was he (the cop) who had given information about them leading to their arrest.He said they attacked him with the datar and hockey stick. They also snatched his mobile and Rs5,000 from his pocket. As people started gathering, the accused fled with his bike. He was left seriously injured by the accused. A villager informed the police and rushed him to the Civil Hospital at Lopoke, where he was under treatment.ASI Rajbir Singh said a case under Sections 307, 379-B, 353, 186, 332, 333, 341 and 506 of the IPC was registered against Harjinder and Dharminder. Both were absconding after the incident and raids were on to nab them, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-booked-for-attacking-cop-on-duty-312392
17-09-2021||---||Teen gang-raped, 2 persons booked||Amritsar, September 16A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two youths in Avan Vasao village, falling under Bhindi Saida police station here. The incident occurred six days ago, while a complaint was lodged with the police on Wednesday.The victim told the police that on September 10 she had gone for a morning walk, when the accused came and dragged her towards the village cremation ground. She alleged that the accused forcibly removed her clothes and threw her on the ground. She alleged that the accused took turns to rape her.She said the accused were in an inebriated condition, adding that when her condition deteriorated, they fled from the spot. She said she somehow reached her home and informed her mother about the entire incident. She said due to fear of insult in society, they did not inform the police at that time.When it became unbearable to bear the trauma, she went to the police, who have registered a case under Sections 376-D and 506 of the IPC against the two accused unidentified as Goldy and Gurmej, both residents of same village. The police authorities said the girl’s medical was conducted and raids were on to nab the accused who were still at large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-gang-raped-2-persons-booked-312393
17-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Snatchers on prowl, target 3 shopkeepers at gunpoint||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 16The trading community is at the receiving end with the holy city reporting three robberies in which grocery and departmental store owners were targeted by armed robbers.The police have failed to find any clues about the perpetrators, who are having a free run. Though the police officials said the investigations were under way to nail the miscreants, shopkeepers were not at all impressed with their claims and sought their immediate arrest.Karan Mahajan, an owner of Mahajan Mini Mart located at main Basant Avenue market near Ajanta Public School, told the police that on Wednesday he was present in his shop, when around 11.15am, two unidentified persons came and pointed a pistol at him. He said they took away around Rs20,000 from the cash counter, a silver chain, an expensive Apple mobile phone and fled towards Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School in the posh locality.Similarly, Jatinder Kumar runs a shop Sai Departmental store at New Golden Avenue locality. He told the police that around 8.40pm, two unidentified persons snatched Rs40,000 from the cash box at gunpoint on Wednesday.In another incident, two unidentified persons took away Rs40,000 cash from Vishal Anand, who runs a shop Shubh Kaaz at posh Ranjit Avenue area, at gunpoint. He said the accused also snatched Rs1,000 from his brother Bhrigu Anand.Another resident Anand Kumar was robbed of his mobile phone from Dholli Mohalla by two unidentified snatchers. Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police have clues about the suspects and they would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatchers-on-prowl-target-3-shopkeepers-at-gunpoint-312406
17-09-2021||---||Ex-sarpanch’s death: Kin protest with body, seek arrest of accused||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, September 16Taking serious note of the death of Pal Singh (62), a former sarpanch of Kallha village, the family members and certain social organisations sat on a dharna in front of the Kang police post with the body demanding the arrest of the accused responsible for his death.The protesters also demanded a compensation of Rs10 lakh for the victim’s family.Pal Singh, member of a Dalit community, died in a scuffle with the team of the Excise Department and the associates of the wine contractors at his residence on Wednesday after they came to conduct a raid.As many as 12 persons have been booked under Sections 302, 452 and 149 of the IPC by the Goindwal Sahib police on Wednesday. Seven of them have been identified as Jatinder Singh, Excise Inspector; Sarwan Singh; Jagir Singh, both ASIs, Excise Department; Sahib Singh Head Constable; Maninderpal Singh Constable; Inderjit Singh, Wine Contractor; and Mukha Singh, helper of the contractor. Five of the other accused are yet to be identified. The Excise Department team had gone to the village to conduct a search operation regarding some objectionable material to manufacture illicit liquor.Dharminder Singh, son of the deceased, said the Excise team members entered their house to search some objectionable material for manufacturing illicit liquor, when his father Pal Singh objected to it. There was a verbal duel between both sides, which led to a scuffle. Pal Singh fell unconscious on the ground and was brought to a local private hospital, where doctors declared him dead.Dr Swaranjit Dhawan, SMO at the local Civil Hospital, where the post-mortem was conducted by a board of doctors on Thursday, said the post-mortem was videographed. He said the board of doctors included Dr Sandeep Kalra, Dr Neeraj Lata and Dr Harpreet Singh. The SMO said the viscera of the heart and other sensitive parts of the body has been sent to the forensic laboratory in Kharar and the exact cause of the death would be cleared after the report is received.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha and Dehati Mazdoor Sabha protested with the family. Preet Inder Singh, DSP Goindwal Sahib, reached the spot and held talks with the protesters but the issue has not been resolved so far. Jaspal Singh Chabal of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Baba Balaka Singh of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, and Baldev Singh Pandori of Dehati Mazdoor Sabha said they were demanding the arrested of the accused and compensation for the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-sarpanchs-death-kin-protest-with-body-seek-arrest-of-accused-312421
17-09-2021||---||Explosion in oil tanker: 4 terror suspects sent to 4-day police remand||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 16Three out of four terrorists arrested by the Punjab Police on Wednesday were produced before the Ajnala court, which sent them to four-day police remand on Thursday.Rubal Singh was produced in the court on Wednesday, while Vicky Bhutti, Malkeet Singh and Gurpreet Singh, were produced on Thursday.The state government had ordered high alert in the state following their arrest and had claimed to bust fourth ISI- backed terror module in Punjab in the last 40 days.A Pakistani intelligence officer identified as Qasim, besides International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) chief Lakhbir Singh Rode have been booked by the Punjab Police.Sources said Bhutti was in contact with Qasim and Rode for the last two years. He was a sleeper cell who linked all other suspects with him to carry out nefarious activities in Punjab.On August 8, the Ajnala police had received information that an oil tanker parked at Sharma Filling Station located on Amritsar-Ajnala Road had caught fire.Analysis of the CCTV footage showed that four unidentified persons had stayed at the petrol station for a few minutes before heading towards Amritsar at 11 pm.The suspects came back at 11:19 pm and placed some suspicious material on fuel tank of the oil tanker before fleeing.At 11:29 pm, two of the suspects reached the petrol station again and within a minute, there was an explosion.Sources said explosive material or weapons were smuggled through Indo-Pak border a few days ago. The police have been trying to identify those who retrieved the consignment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/explosion-in-oil-tanker-4-terror-suspects-sent-to-4-day-police-remand-312423
17-09-2021||---||Stubble burning: Beware! Violators to have  red entry in revenue records||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 16The Deputy Commissioner has asked the Revenue Department officials to make red entry in the revenue record of farmers, who flout ban on burning of crop residue in fields. The instructions are aimed at deterring farmers from burning stubble, which causes pollution. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira held a meeting with all 47 cluster officers and tehsildars from the district to issue directions to check stubble burning. He asked officials to coordinate with panchayats at village level and persuade farmers not to flout the ban orders. He said no government employee, panchayat member and nambardar in the district would burn stubble in their fields. Anil Sood, a scientist with Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana, who attended the meeting apprised the officials about the working of mobile application developed by it to make field officials aware about the field fires in their respective areas. The Agriculture Department officials said machines as Happyseeder, Superseeder, Super SMS, Paddy Chopper, Mulcher, Zero Till Drill have been provided to farmers at subsidised cost in the last three years. The government has provided 753 machines to individual farmers on 50 per cent subsidy and 946 machines to custom hiring centres or farmer groups and 650 machines to cooperative societies on 80 per cent subsidy. Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Ruhi Dug said smoke emitted from burning stubble in fields can prove problematic for the general public, especially Covid patients. She said all efforts would be made to check the practice to save environment from pollution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stubble-burning-beware-violators-to-have-red-entry-in-revenue-records-312424
17-09-2021||---||Patti first to achieve 100% target of first dose||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, September 16Patti has become the first town in the state to achieve the 100 per cent vaccination target of first dose against Covid infection, claimed Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh here on Thursday.Two new cases surface in AmritsarAmritsar: With two positive cases reported on Thursday, the total count of cases in the district increased to 47,276. The new cases include one influenza-like illness case and one contact of a positive patient. The health authorities reported recovery of four patients with which the total recovery count increased to 45,675. The district has a total of 11 active cases. A total of 28,398 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday. Of these, 20,639 received their first dose, while 7,759 were administered their second dose. TNSThe Patti town has 19 wards with 49,204 population. There were 30,506 eligible persons to be vaccinated against the disease, but 31,037 beneficiaries were vaccinated, which was above target. This figure includes those aspirants (children) who have to travel abroad.—  Dr Rohit Mehta, Civil SurgeonHe said all deserving citizens got the first dose of the vaccination voluntarily.The DC said the achievement was possible due to the cooperation of elders, Health Department and Department of Local Government.Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said the Patti town has 19 wards with total 49,204 population. There were 30,506 eligible persons to be vaccinated against the disease, but 31,037 beneficiaries were vaccinated, which was above target. This figure includes those aspirants (children) who have to travel abroad.Meanwhile, 5,689 persons have received both jabs in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patti-first-to-achieve-100-target-of-first-dose-312427
17-09-2021||---||Harassed for not paying Rs20K back, man ends life; 1 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 16A man identified as Harpal Singh (35) committed suicide by consuming celphos at the Lopoke area here. He succumbed at a private hospital here on Wednesday, following which the Lopoke police have registered a case against Manjinder Singh of Vairoke village on the charge of abetment to suicide.Dalbir Kaur (32), wife of the deceased, told the police that on Monday she was going to the hospital with Harpal for his surgery. He was suffering from acute pain in the stomach due to stones. She said they had just come out of the house and were leaving for the hospital, when the accused Manjinder arrived and started demanding money.She said her husband had borrowed Rs20,000 on daily interest from the accused. She said she tried explaining to him that due to illness, Harpal could not open the shop and therefore they were facing financial problems and could not pay the interest. She said they promised to return the amount with interest to him. However, he did not relent and continuously demanded money.Harpal felt humiliated and went in depression. He later consumed celphos. He was immediately rushed to the hospital, where he succumbed on Wednesday. The police have booked Manjinder Singh under Section 306 of the IPC and further investigations were on. The accused is at large after the registration of FIR against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harassed-for-not-paying-rs20k-back-man-ends-life-1-booked-312429
17-09-2021||Where there is tea||Tea trail||Tribune correspondent Neha Walia and lensman Sunil Kumar give you a glimpse of these landmarks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tea-trail-312431
17-09-2021||---||Farm unions to hold bike rally on Sept 20||Amritsar, September 16Farm unions under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha have announced a three-level preparatory exercise before ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27 to mobilise support from masses.Farm leaders said in the first phase, flag marches and meetings would be held at village and tehsil level. In the second phase, flag marches would be held in major towns. Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farm leader said, “During third phase, a motorcycle rally will be organised on September 20. The idea is to make people aware about the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.”He said Rayya, Kathunagal, Majitha, Ajnala, Chogawan, Attari, Bohru, Jandiala Guru and Mehta Road, would be blocked throughout the day on September 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-unions-to-hold-bike-rally-on-sept-20-312432
17-09-2021||Manjit Kumar (50)||A Cobbler with a golden heart||Recarpeted road cracks within 10 daysJandiala Road, which was repaired just 10 days ago, has started to break. The condition of the road had gone from bad to worse during the last five years and residents had been demanding recarpeting of this stretch. Jaspal Sharma, a resident of Gali Garment Wali, said the repair work was done so poorly that the road has broken at many points. He said the repair work was so shoddy that it could not last one rain. SDM-cum- Administrator Rajnish Arora and Executive Officer Sharanjit Kaur did not answered the calls.Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-cobbler-with-a-golden-heart-312433
17-09-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht jathedar gets fake penalty notice on UK visit||More than the significance of the occasion, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s recent UK visit has caught the attention after a “bogus” penalty notice, allegedly on a forged letterhead with a logo of the ACRO British Crime Records Office, against the management of Guru Nanak Gurdwara, Wednesfield, emerged on the social media.The official unveiling of Wolverhampton’s historic Saragarhi monument took place in Wednesfield on September 12. Giani Harpreet Singh had unveiled the statue of Saragarhi hero Havildar Ishar Singh in a park near the gurdwara. Many dignitaries, including Members of UK Parliament and high profile army officers of the Britain army, had attended the function.Had unveiled statueGiani Harpreet Singh had unveiled the statue of Saragarhi hero Havildar Ishar Singh in a park near the gurdwara. Many dignitaries, including Members of UK Parliament and high profile army officers of the Britain army, had attended the function.The notice, dated September 14 and addressed to the trustees of the gurdwara, alleged that Giani Harpreet Singh had violated the UK’s Covid-19 protocol of self-isolation before appearing for a public gathering.It read: “We have been made aware an individual named ‘Mr Harpreet Singh’ arrived in the UK from India… We are aware that Mr Singh (Giani Harpreet Singh) was ‘obliged’ under the coronavirus regulations to self-isolate for minimum of 10 days… we have been unable to contact ‘Mr Singh’ since his arrival... Please be advised that failure to adhere to the regulations is a serious offence, punishable with fines of up to 10,000 pounds. We are writing to you at this stage to formally request any contact details that you hold for Mr Singh or information as to where he is residing.”Snubbing it, the administrator of UK gurdwara Paramjit Singh Dhadi, through a video message, said the inquiry was being conducted to expose the mischievous elements. In a clarification, ACRO Crime Record Office said it was not genuine. “We do not address FPNs (fixed penalty notices) to groups or third parties and never request contact details,” it said — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-jathedar-gets-fake-penalty-notice-on-uk-visit-312247
17-09-2021||---||Amritsar 1st in North India to have visitors’ info system||Amritsar, September 16Amritsar has become the first city in the northern region to implement City Visitor Information and Record Management System (CVIRMS) under a pilot project which would not only alert the Police Department about nefarious elements entering the city, but also act as a deterrent.Though the system has been operational in many South Indian states, it is for the first time that it is being implemented in a city in North India.Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal, while giving details, said CVIRMS is a software which would help monitoring not only visitors but also vehicles entering the city. “All hotels or taverns, paying guest houses, arms dealers, dealers selling used vehicles, security agencies and owners of small industrial establishments where more than 10 workers are employed are required to register for the application,” he said.“The CVIRMS project requires that whenever one checks-in/stays in a hotel/PG, buys an ammunition from an arms dealer, buys/sells old vehicles, employed in security agencies and small industrial enterprises, as an ID proof their Aadhaar card, driver’s licence or voter card, etc, should be uploaded to the system,” he said.Whenever a criminal checks-in and enters his ID, an automatic alert will be sent to the police and a message would be flashed to the police officer concerned. “This real time information will be exclusively available to the police officer concerned,” he added. The hospitality industry will also benefit from it, as once registered it will legitimise registered hotels and other establishment and past record of a visitor can be verified on the spot, this will help check illegal harbouring of anti-social elements.The system is being developed on a PPP model. It also has a unique feature to report emergencies such as theft, fire incidents and casualties in real time. In addition, it has a potential to add advanced security features as required in future. Duggal said under the project, over 2,500 customers’ entries had been recorded so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-1st-in-north-india-to-have-visitors-info-system-312246
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab State Food Commission seeks report in wheat scam||The Punjab State Food Commission has sought a detailed report from the Food and Civil Supplies Department in the wheat scam within a fortnight.Chairman, Punjab State Food Commission, DP Reddy said it had come to the notice of the commission through media reports that Jasdev Singh, Inspector, Food Supplies Department, who is the main accused in the missing wheat scam case of Jandiala Guru (Amritsar), siphoned off crores of rupees given as MSP on wheat that was neither brought to mandis nor purchased. Fake entries for the purchase of 87,100 quintals of wheat valued at Rs 20 crore were made and it was shown to have been transported to godowns in Jandiala Guru.Accused in DubaiDP Reddy, Chairman, Punjab State Food Commission, said the accused inspector, who is believed to have escaped to Dubai, was allegedly in cahoots with Amritsar-based trader Ravinder Singh Bunty, who was arrested by the CBI recently.He said the accused inspector, who is believed to have escaped to Dubai, was allegedly in cahoots with Amritsar-based trader Ravinder Singh Bunty, who was arrested by the CBI recently. The commission has taken a serious note of the matter and issued a notice to the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department to send a detailed report within a fortnight.The commission has further issued advice to the department to take strict disciplinary action against delinquent officials, recover the loss caused to the state exchequer and to put systems in place (administrative and technological) to prevent recurrence of this type of scams.Meanwhile, Punjab has started making arrangements to get enough stocks of gunny bags ahead of the paddy procurement season. The state government has made arrangements for 3.50 lakh bales, Principal Secretary, Food and Supplies, Rahul Tiwari said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-state-food-commission-seeks-report-in-wheat-scam-312235
