18-09-2021||For the last few weeks Ashwani Sekhri||Batala gets state’s first e-clinic, thanks to Ashwani Sehkri||Who spoiled Bajwa’s party ?Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s three-day tour of Batala assembly segment turned out to be a blow hot, blow cold event. On Day one, he drew impressive crowds. Even district administration mandarins made it a point to attend his press conference. On the second day, while Bajwa was paying obeisance at the Gurdwara Kandh sahib to mark the occasion of the marriage anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev, it started raining cats and dogs. Proceedings scheduled for the rest of the day were called off. Word went around that Bajwa had been asked by agitating farmers to put on hold all his programmes. By this time, there was chaos and confusion all around. Was it the farmers who played spoilsport or was it the weather? On the third day, the MP was again in the field with all guns blazing. He drove to Dhariwal and laid the foundation stone of an oxygen plant, which is being established with funds provided from his MPLAD funds scheme. The next schedule of the MP is still awaited. If he comes out with it, then it was the weather which was the villain of the piece. And if not, then surely the farmers have asked him to call it quits till the elections are formally announced.A boy’s first hero is his dadParents who have sent their wards to foreign shores often complain that they have to ensure they keep up a continuous supply of money to them. Even after passing out from foreign universities, students keep on requesting money for their upkeep. However, former chairman of the Gurdaspur Improvement Trust Neeraj Salhotra has an interesting tale to recount. Last week, when he reached home, he saw some employees of the Royal Enfield agency standing outside. They had brought a brand new Bullet motorcycle with them. They told Neeraj to park the two-wheeler in his house as it belonged to him. Perplexed, Neeraj told them he had not ordered any such bike. Then came the knock-out punch albeit a lovable one. He was told that the Rs 2.67 lakh machine was paid for his son, Gandharv Salhotra, who studies in Canada. The man was overjoyed and so was his family. Indeed, a boy’s first hero is his dad!— Compiled by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-gets-states-first-e-clinic-thanks-to-ashwani-sehkri-312600
18-09-2021||Amritsar||Netherlands envoy opens health centre at Jandiala Guru||With the opening of a health centre in the holy city, now the Netherlands has close collaboration in agriculture and healthcare with Punjab. This was stated by Marten Van Den Berg, Ambassador of Netherlands to India, here on Friday.It was his maiden visit to the holy city since he assumed the office in New Delhi three years ago. He inaugurated a healthcare centre — Madan Lal Puran Devi Jain Trust — at Jandiala Guru. Later, he paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.He said Dutch organisations — PUM and Hans Bkankart — provided certain medical equipment to the centre. These organisations were providing medical equipment and expertise to health centres being run in various parts of the country.He said it was anticipated that the health centre would provide medical care to natives of nearly 80 villages. Improved healthcare was the need of the hour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/netherlands-envoy-opens-health-centre-at-jandiala-guru-312591
18-09-2021||---||Eat Right drive: Amritsar Municipal Corporation on a cleaning spree||Amritsar, September 17The Municipal Corporation conducted a cleanliness drive around food joints and rehri markets under the ‘Eat Right Project’ of the Smart City. The rehri market at Crystal Chowk was cleaned under this project here on Friday. With this, the MC initiated drive around food hubs and rehri markets all over the city.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, CEO, Smart City Project, stated that washrooms were being constructed near all eating joints. An awareness campaign should be carried out in this regard.Apart from this, bins for waste material should be laid near the eating joint. FBOS (Food Business Operators) are instructed to get the waste to be picked properly. Organisers of ‘Langars’, ‘Yugs’ and any other mass gathering have to take care of the cleanliness. For generating awareness, banners would also be displayed in the city. Hygiene rating of hotels, restaurants and all other eateries would be done soon.Under the Eat Right campaign, sampling and licenses would be checked and approved carefully. The MC would need police help for this. The awareness campaigns would be carried out even in the villages. Farmers would be made aware of healthy crops and how to avoid the use harmful pesticides and insecticides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eat-right-drive-amritsar-municipal-corporation-on-a-cleaning-spree-312588
18-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||ISBT road riddled with potholes in Amritsar; passengers irked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 17The approach road to Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra ISBT and the ones inside it are full of potholes, leaving the passengers harried and bus drivers irked.Arshpreet Singh, a daily commuter between Amritsar and Tarn Taran, said the very entrance to the ISBT was a painful bumpy ride. So, he preferred to alight outside it. However, the same norm could not be applied while moving out of the city. “Many times, a bus is filled to its capacity while exiting the ISBT. So, I have to board the bus inside the ISBT and cannot escape the wobbly travel.”Baljit Singh, a bus driver, said, “The moment the bus reaches near the ISBT, it starts swaying. It gives me an impression that I am sailing a ship, instead of driving a bus.” One does not find such deplorable roads even in remote parts of the district, he said.Raman, whose family has been operating a shop outside the bus stand for decades, said accumulation of rainwater was the main reason for early erosion of the road’s surface, besides continuous plying of heavy vehicles. The administration must put in efforts to efficiently discharge rainwater to secure the roads, he added.This stretch never restsOver 1,000 buses drop in and move out of the ISBT daily. This puts tremendous pressure on the infrastructure. Most of these roads were laid in May this year. The contractor concerned sought closure of the ISBT for three days to lay the road. Unfortunately, the construction coincided with continuous rainfall. Consequently, the three-day closure was extended to over a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/isbt-road-riddled-with-potholes-in-amritsar-passengers-irked-312589
18-09-2021||Amritsar||ASI arrested for taking Rs 5K bribe in Amritsar||Teen abducted, three bookedTarn Taran: A teenage girl from the Sarhali area has been abducted by three men. One of them has been suspected to be alluring her to marry him. The father of the victim, in his complaint to the police, said, the accused Baljit Singh of Dadehar Sahib village, in connivance with Baljit Singh and Gursewak Singh of Sarhali village, abducted his teenage girl on September 13 midnight. The matter came to the notice of the family the next morning. Sub-Inspector Parkash Singh, Investigating Officer, said a case has been registered in this regard under Sections 363,366 and 366-A of the IPC. OCHome science lab inauguratedTarn Taran: Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, inaugurated a home science lab set up at the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) in Booh here on Friday. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Associate Director, KVK, said setting up various food processing units, such as khoya-making machine, cream separator, pasta-making machine, solar dryer, packaging machine, sewing machines along with fish processing machinery, etc, would be made available in the lab. Textile corner has also been made available here with different types of embroidery techniques for farm women. The Vice-Chancellor suggested that moveable machines should be taken to the doorstep of farmers so that they could be benefited the most. A techn information unit was also inaugurated. OCTraining for street vendorsAmritsar: The government initiated training workshops for the street vendors about hygiene & waste management under street vending project at the MC office. A team of the PGI, Chandigarh, in association with Municipal Corporation, held a workshop for capacity building and training of street vendors at head office of the MC at the Ranjit Avenue yesterday. The first workshop was attended by 40 street vendors. Nodal Officer on the street vending project, Jaswinder Singh stated that they have targeted to provide training to 4,000 street vendors during next 100 days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-arrested-for-taking-rs-5k-bribe-in-amritsar-312595
18-09-2021||---||Dengue menace: Amritsar Municipal Corporation to buy 10 more fogging machines||Amritsar, September 17The Amritsar Municipal Corporation is going to buy 10 more hand-held fogging machines. At present, the MC has 16 fogging machines.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Municipal Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi held a meeting today with Municipal Health Officer Dr Saurabh Chawla, Dr Rama, Dr Munish and Chief Sanitary Inspectors to tackle dengue menace.Karamjit Singh Rintu, MayorThe MC can make arrangements for fogging and cleaning the streets and markets, but to prevent accumulation of water on roofs, pots and in coolers, is the responsibility of residents.Officials were instructed to take necessary steps for sanitation and detection of larvae.Rintu said the MC has always worked for convenience of residents, whether it’s pandemic or any other crisis.Currently, 16 fogging machines were being used to conduct fogging daily for the prevention of dengue and malaria in the wards of the city. Apart from this, the MC is also procuring 10 manual spray machines at emergency level.The health wing of the MC has been working day and night to clean stagnant water.Rintu said the MC can make arrangements for fogging and cleaning the streets and markets, but to prevent accumulation of water on roofs, pots and coolers is the responsibility of residents.The Mayor directed officials present on the spot to use all their staff and machinery to make this exercise a big success and create awareness among residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-menace-amritsar-municipal-corporation-to-buy-10-more-fogging-machines-312587
18-09-2021||---||Protesting farmer dies outside BJP MP Shwait Malik’s house||Amritsar, September 17A farmer died due to heart attack during an ongoing demonstration against farm laws outside the house of BJP leader Shwait Malik, here on Friday. He has been identified as Angrez Singh (45), a resident of Kamalpur village. He was sleeping in a tent outside the house of MP Shwait Malik last night but did not wake up in the morning.After this incident, the members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha gathered on the spot and awarded him the title of a ‘martyr’.Gurdev Singh, a fellow farmer sitting outside the house of MP Shwait Malik, said, “The farmers have been demonstrating in front of the houses of BJP leaders since September 2020. Angrej Singh used to visit the protest site very often. He was here for the last two days. The family of deceased has been informed. According to the information, the son of the farmer has been studying in Canada and his daughter is studying in a local college.Jatinder Singh Cheema, state press secretary of the Kirti Kisan Morcha, said, the state government had promised to give compensation to farmers, who died during the farmer’s agitation. Angrej Singh spent a long time at the Singhu border and has been a part of the farmers’ demonstration since long. The government should give job to one of the members of his family, they said.The farmer unionists condemned Shwait Malik for not showing any concern to the farmer who lost his life outside his house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesting-farmer-dies-outside-bjp-mp-shwait-maliks-house-312592
18-09-2021||---||Amritsar: Stage comes alive again after long Covid hiatus||Amritsar, September 17“Theatre is not just a source of earning for many but also a creative outlet. The pandemic-induced lockdown hit the artistes on both the fronts,” says Satwinder Singh, aka Sunny Masson, a theatre artiste and production designer from the city. Sunny is a mentor at the three-month free theatre workshop offered by Punjab Naatshala for aspiring artistes, especially children.Sunny says though theatre activity has resumed and given artistes a chance to come back on stage, the recovery from financial and creative losses that the industry faced during the pandemic is not possible. “Many from the theatre and acting field struggled to survive due to lack of resources and aid. Some changed professions, few managed with bare minimum. The industry also has faced a big loss of audience, since Covid restrictions and lost connection between theatre and its audience has hit the process of coming back on track,” he says.He has been training and mentoring kids in nuances of stage designs, production, acting and other details. Before the pandemic, Sunny was working as an art director in Punjab film industry and was part of films like Asees, Yaar anmule 2, Nikka Zaildar 3. He took up the opportunity at Punjab Naatshala as the work in Punjabi film industry remained suspended due to Covid 19. “I loved coming back on stage as it helped me break the creative stagnation, of not being able to perform or experience the excitement before any new project. For artistes, it is important to keep working as it helps in creative growth.”As far as his students are concerned, Sunny is teaching a batch of 20 children at the free-of-cost theatre workshop. Jatinder Brar, founder, Punjab Naatshala, and a playwright feels that audiences will be encouraged to come watch live theatre performances only after artistes and fraternity keeps the momentum going.“There is no time to sit and sulk for two years. Now, we have to try and bring the audience back by hosting plays that would bring some positivity and entertainment back in people’s lives. We have to keep organizing plays so that audience are encouraged to support us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-stage-comes-alive-again-after-long-covid-hiatus-312590
18-09-2021||---||Covid-19 SOPs go for a toss in hospitals in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 17Most hospitals in the city have lowered their guard as far as standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding the Covid-19 are concerned.Patients and their attendants can be seen without masks in the government and private hospitals.Rameshinder Singh, a resident, said he recently visited a private hospital to meet one of his relatives undergoing treatment. “I was shocked to find people loitering in lobby and corridor of the hospital without masks. Nobody was carrying sanitiser as well,” he said.Chance of spreading infection among patients increase manifold in hospitals and non-compliance of the SOPs speaks volumes.Similar is the situation in public places and the administration has gone in deep slumber.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said non-compliance of the SOPs was in his notice and he has already conveyed it to the Indian Medical Association (IMA).He said he would take up the issue in the next meeting with the IMA to prevail upon the hospitals to implement the Covid-19 health guidelines in the true sense of the word.Six test positive, no deathWith six positive cases, the district Covid tally increased to 47,282 on Friday. The new cases include four influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of a Covid positive patient in the district.The health authorities have reported recovery of a patient with which the recovery count increased to 45,676.The district has a total of 16 active cases. No casualty attributed to the Covid-19 has been reported. Meanwhile, 41,693 residents were inoculated on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-sops-go-for-a-toss-in-hospitals-in-amritsar-312586
18-09-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Shop robbed just 20 yards away from SSP residence in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 17Two masked-robbers looted Rs 27,000 and a mobile phone from a showroon situated just 20 yards away from the residence of the Senior Superintendent of Police on Thursday.Bhupinder Singh Chawla, owner of the showroom, told the police that robbers came on a motorcycle.Bhupinder Singh Chawla, owner of a mobile showroomArmed robbers came on a motorcycle. One of the miscreants held my workers at gunpoint and robbed Rs9,000 and a cell phone from a customer. Robbers also took away Rs18,000 from drawers.Chawla said one of the miscreants held his workers at gunpoint and robbed Rs 9,000 and a cell phone from a customer. Robbers also took away Rs 18,000 from drawers.Mobile location of robbers showed that they remained near Goindwal Sahib bypass for more than an hour, but cops failed to nab them.Assistant Sub-Inspector Inderjit Singh (Investigating Officer) said a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC has been registered in this regard.In another incident, three motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed Rs 2,500 and a two-wheeler from Baljit Singh of Saido village, on Wednesday.Baljit was heading to his farmhouse when robbers stopped him. The robbers threatened to kill me with sharp-edged weapon and took away Rs 2,500 and my moped before escaping from the spot, he said.Assistant Sub-Inspector Harjinder Singh (Investigating Officer) said, “We have identified two robbers (Nishan Singh Shana of Valtoha and Surjit Singh of Sabhra) while their third accomplice is yet to be recognised.”The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B, 323 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shop-robbed-just-20-yards-away-from-ssp-residence-in-tarn-taran-312585
18-09-2021||---||Amritsar Police crack seven burglary cases, 2 miscreants nabbed||Amritsar, September 17The police have nabbed two snatchers who were involved in robbing as many as seven grocery shops in the last four days. The accused have been identified as Prince, a resident of Sultanwind Road, New Azad Nagar, and Amandeep Singh of Bagh Ramanand.Cops recovered a country-made weapon (.315 bore) along with two live cartridges and three snatched mobile phones, Rs 9,100 and a motorcycle from their possession.Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said the accused were drug addicts. We got a tip-off, following which an operation was launched.“The accused used to work as truck drivers. We are ascertaining the source of weapon and trying to identify the person who provided the same to them,” said Duggal and added that the duo also confessed to have robbed a shop in Tarn Taran. He said owners of grocery stores were being asked to install CCTV cameras, which would help in detecting miscreants.Meanwhile, the police have arrested two vehicle lifters— Kuldeep Singh of Jindra colony and Karanbir Singh of Subhash colony—and recovered four stolen bikes from their possession. Their kingpin, Prince of Sant Nagar, was still absconding and raids were on to nab him.Another snatcher, Raju alias Gora of Pandori village, has been nabbed for snatching a mobile phone from a youth in Banke Bihari Gali on Batala Road on September 16. His accomplice Ravi was still on the run.Robbery & Snatching cases solvedSept 9: Mobile phone snatched from a girl in MaqboolpuraSept 13: Two robbers looted a cosmetic shop in B-block of Ranjit AvenueSept 14: Miscreants robbed a grocery store in Bharat Nagar on Batala RoadSept 14: A departmental store looted in Rani Ka BaghSept 15: Robbers looted another grocery store in New Golden AvenueSept 15: Grocery shop robbed in C Block of Ranjit AvenueSept 15: Karyana shop robbed in C-Block Ranjit AvenueSept 15: A grocery shop robbed on Majitha Road||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-crack-seven-burglary-cases-2-miscreants-nabbed-312599
18-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Despite high alert, three firing incidents rock Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 17Even as there is a high alert in the state in the wake of terror module busted by the Amritsar (rural) police, three firing incidents have been reported in the last two days in the city.An unknown person shot at Ranjodh Singh, a resident of Ranjit Avenue, on September 16. The incident occurred outside a bakery where he had gone to purchase a birthday cake. The police have booked an unkown person on charges of murder bid and the Arms Act. The victim has been undergoing treatment at a private hospital.Shamsher Singh, father of the victim, told the police that Ranjodh’s birthday was on September 16. He said Ranjodh had gone to the bakery in Ranjit Avenue and as he reached near his destination, a bullet hit his waist and blood started oozing out.The police said as per initial probe, two youths were quarrelling near the spot. Cops said after firing, they fled away from the spot. Later, the victim was admitted to the hospital, where he went under surgery and his condition was stated to be out of danger.The police said investigation was under progress to identify the suspects and motive behind the incident.In another incident, Sahilpreet Singh, sustained a bullet injury in the area falling under jurisdiction of Division B police station three days ago.The vicitm told the police that on September 14 around 10.30 pm, he was going to his customer’s house near Ghuman Dairy. He said he found heavy rush near the dairy where two groups were fighting. He said suddenly firing started and a bullet hit his left shoulder. Both the groups fled away and he was admitted to a hospital.The Division B police have registered a case of murder bid and the Arms Act against unknown persons and further investigation was under way to identify the suspects.Another incident of quarrel and firing was reported in Azad Nagar falling under the jurisdiction of Chheharta police station. Though the incident occurred on September 13, an FIR was registered on September 16 after recording the statement of the victim, Ankush Sharma, a resident of Subhash Road in Chheharta.Assistan Sub-Inspector Roop Lal (Investigating Officer) said the police have booked Taranpreet Singh alias Tanu, Raju and Sahbha, all residents of San Sahib Road, Karan of Rajasansi and Nishan of Chint Kot village.The Investigating Officer said they got information about firing between two groups. When the police teams reached at the spot, they found an injured person who was admitted to the Civil Hospital. Probe revealed that there was a quarrel between Ankush and the accused.An FIR has been registered in this regard.Duggal find lapses at nakas, seeks explanationPolice Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal on Friday found lapses at 20% nakas and sought explanations from cops. Duggal used a private vehicle to check the nakas set up at 80 points in the city. “I found lapses, including lesser strength at 20 per cent of checkpoints and called for an explanation from the duty officers,” he said and added that punitive action will also be taken if their reply is not found satisfactory. Force will remain on roads after 5.30 pm and ensure strict checking of vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-high-alert-three-firing-incidents-rock-amritsar-312598
18-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||ISI behind supply of tiffin bombs, say police||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 17Even as the Punjab Police are on a high alert after an oil tanker blast in Ajnala here turned out to be a terror attack, cops believe ISI-backed anti-national forces in Pakistan had supplied tiffin bombs in two empty boxes that were found in border village Bharopal four days ago.Search operations onAnother drone movement was sighted in the Saharn border outpost area in Ramdass on Thursday night following which BSF jawans opened fire. Immediately, a search operation was launched which continued during the day, said police officials.Two thermocol boxes wrapped with plastic tapes were dropped by drones near Bharopal village located near the Indo-Pak border four days ago. By the time the BSF and Punjab Police officials located the boxes, they were emptied by unidentified persons. “The packing was similar to the boxes recovered from Daleke border village from where the police had confiscated a tiffin bomb along with five hand grenades and weapons last month,” a police official privy to the investigations revealed.Security and intelligence agencies were put on high alert after two empty thermocol boxes were dropped by drones. Two days ago, the police claimed to have busted the fourth terrorist module in past over a month with the arrest of four persons – Rubal Singh, Vickey Bhutti, Malkeet Singh and Gurpreet Singh. They were acting as sleeper cells and had carried out the explosion in an oil tanker in Ajnala using a tiffin bomb.“Following their interrogation, we firmly believe that tiffin bombs were supplied by drones in the boxes which were emptied by miscreants before the arrival of BSF teams,” the official said. The police suspect those who retrieved the tiffin bombs were still hiding in the border belt and a manhunt was on to identify and nab them.Meanwhile, another drone movement was sighted in the Saharn border outpost area in Ramdass on Thursday night following which BSF jawans opened fire. Immediately, a search operation was launched which continued during the day also, said police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/isi-behind-supply-of-tiffin-bombs-say-police-312661
18-09-2021||Amritsar||Court reinstates Takht Patna Sahib former Jathedar Giani Iqbal Singh||In a major relief to former Jathedar of Takht Sri Patna Sahib Giani Iqbal Singh, the Patna court has directed the Takht Patna Sahib Management Board to reinstate him.The court has directed the Takht management to extend him all benefits applicable since March 2019, when he was unceremoniously removed from the post.Meanwhile, board president Avtar Singh Hit could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. A petition was filed by one Manmeet Singh, under Article 77 of the Constitution and Bylaws of Sri Takht Harimandir Ji, Patna Sahib, Patna city, challenging the grounds of Giani Iqbal Singh’s expulsion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/court-reinstates-takht-patna-sahib-former-jathedar-giani-iqbal-singh-312680
18-09-2021||GS Paul||Attari Retreat opens after 18 months, maximum visitors 300||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 17Following relaxation in Covid curbs, the BSF has allowed 300 spectators to witness the traditional Beating the Retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post (JCP). The joint parade, which would attract thousands of spectators every evening, had been on a prolonged hiatus as India and Pakistan had shut their borders to curb the virus spread.A BSF official said visitors would be allowed on first-come-first-serve basis. They would have to procure passes from the BSF’s headquarters at Khasa. The Retreat is held at 5.30 pm every day.A special window has been opened from where visitors can get the passes after furnishing their details. A notice board has been placed near the window which carries detailed information on Covid guidelines to be followed.The Union Health Ministry had suspended the entry of spectators at Attari, Hussainiwala (Ferozepur) and Sadiqi (Fazilka) borders on March 7 last year.Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Deputy Commissioner, Amritsar, said the Retreat ceremony with full capacity of 25,000-30,000 could not be allowed with curbs still in place. “There are no specific orders for the ceremony. We have forwarded to the BSF the general SOPs capping outdoor gatherings at 300,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attari-retreat-opens-after-18-months-maximum-visitors-300-312728
