20-09-2021||GS Paul||Amritsar Central MLA OP Soni was a surprise pick as deputy CM||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20Amritsar Central MLA OP Soni was a surprise pick for the Congress as Deputy Chief Minister. Soni was nowhere in the picture till the eleventh hour when his name emerged for the post.A close confidante of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Soni, despite being a five-time MLA, had to wait for a year before becoming part of the Amarinder cabinet as the education minister in April 2018.Soon, during the cabinet reshuffle he was divested of his portfolio, to which he had revolted ‘silently’. After two weeks, he accepted the charge of medical education and research in June 2019, but not before speaking out on record that he was punished instead of being rewarded as the school education standards had shown improvement and the Congress had performed well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from his constituency.Later, he consoled himself saying it was ‘the CM’s prerogative’.Soni seldom shared cordial ties with the then BJP parliamentary polls nominee Navjot Singh Sidhu against whom he lost his life’s only election in 2009.Soni challenged the result and filed two cases - a defamation case in the court of the Civil Judge (Senior Division) in Amritsar against Sidhu for his alleged remarks that Soni was embroiled in drug peddling and another case filed in the Punjab and Haryana High Court on June 29, 2009, where Soni challenged the Lok Sabha election result. Sidhu had defeated Soni by 6,858 votes then. As the trial in the High Court was under way, Sidhu challenged it in the Supreme Court.However, with the change of political equations when Sidhu joined the Congress in 2017, the Congress leadership asked Soni to reach a compromise with Sidhu and he withdrew both the cases as Sidhu had to contest the Amritsar East seat on a Congress ticket.Yet, the sweet-sour relation between them continued and both maintained distance from each other. During the course of friction between Amarinder and Sidhu, Soni sided with the former.Soni was also conspicuous by his absence when Sidhu, after getting appointed as PPCC chief, visited Amritsar and, along with his supporting MLAs, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.Nonetheless, Amritsar’s first mayor Soni (1991-1996) remained popular among the residents of the holy city and was still fondly referred to as ‘Mayor Saheb’. He was elected to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha four times independently in 1997, 2002, 2007 and 2012, before contesting successfully again in 2017 on a Congress ticket. His USP is his ‘easy accessibility’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-central-mla-op-soni-was-a-surprise-pick-as-deputy-cm-313760
20-09-2021||---||Fight against dengue on a war footing, claims MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19The Municipal Corporation (MC) has claimed that fogging is being conducted in 32 wards every day and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that he was personally supervising it.The MC can make efforts for cleanliness and prevention of dengue in streets, markets, localities, but residents should not allow water to accumulate in refrigerator trays, rooftops, pots and coolers. The responsibility lies with citizens. The MC also needs their full cooperation to fulfil its responsibility. —  Karamjit Singh, MayorSymptomsThe symptoms of the disease include high grade fever above 102°F, headache, pain in the eyes, general body aches, vomiting, skin rashes which must be monitored for 7 to 10 days by medical expertsDosDon’tsMC health wing officials said they have deployed all machinery and personnel on fogging and the fight against dengue was on a war footing in the city. Fogging is being conducted in 32 wards of the city every day.Disclosing this here on Sunday, Health Officer Dr Saurabh Chawla and Assistant Medical Officer Dr Rama said as per the directions of the Mayor and Commissioner, fogging was being carried out in all 32 wards of five Assembly constituencies to save residents from dengue and malaria. For this, 16 fogging machines are conducting the exercise daily in 32 wards and in the coming days, no street will be left.On the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh said the Municipal Corporation’s health wing was performing its duty with utmost diligence and the city was being kept clean and tidy. Even before this, during the Covid pandemic, the MC safai karamcharis had performed their duties without caring for their lives. Apart from this, the Municipal Corporation has also made a significant contribution in the work of vaccination. He said all personnel and machinery of the health wing have been deployed on roads to save people from dengue and malaria and the fog spray would be carried out in 32 wards of the city daily. Apart from this, 10 manual fogging machines are being procured for fogging in narrow streets.He appealed to people that the MC can make efforts for cleanliness and prevention of dengue in streets, markets, localities but residents should not allow water to accumulate in refrigerator trays, rooftops, pots and coolers at homes. The responsibility lies with citizens. The Mayor said the MC also needs full cooperation of citizens to fulfil its responsibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fight-against-dengue-on-a-war-footing-claims-mc-313658
20-09-2021||---||Terror module: Rubal’s remand extended||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19The local court on Sunday extended the police remand of Rubal Singh, who was nabbed by the Amritsar rural police in connection with the terror module busted by the police five days ago. In a nutshellHe was produced before the duty magistrate after expiry of his police remand.He along with Vicky Bhutti, Malkeet Singh and Gurpreet Singh were nabbed by the police in connection with the bid to blow a truck in Ajnala. They would be produced in court tomorrow.They allegedly used tiffin bomb in their bid to blow the truck. The police had also booked a Pakistani intelligence officer, identified as Qasim, besides International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) chief Lakhbir Singh Rode in the case.Sources said intelligence agencies and security agencies were also arriving to interrogate them, while the police were ascertaining any link between the four with the terror attack in Jalalabad, in which an alleged terrorist was held by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/terror-module-rubals-remand-extended-313659
20-09-2021||---||Old Sabzi Mandi turns into garbage dump||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19The trash and filth in the old Sabzi Mandi outside the Hall Gate belies tall claims of cleanliness by the civic body here. Heaps of garbage, leftovers, rotten fruit, accumulation of debris and slush caused by various spells of rain during the monsoon can be noticed all over its prime land.Gurmeet Singh, who daily commutes over the road to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, says the Hall Gate is the main road leading to the holiest of Sikh shrines. Most of the VVIPs, VIPs and tourists pass the gate to reach the Golden Temple and Jallianwala Bagh. So, maintaining abandoned land of the old Sabzi Mandi should be a priority. Piles of garbage are not only an eyesore but also pose a threat to the health of people. Such places become a breeding-ground for mosquitoes and flies.Nishant Kumar, a trader, says that a well-maintained road passes through the abandoned Sabji Mandi, which offers a shortcut between the Hall Gate and Gha Mandi. “At times, I prefer this stretch over the maddening traffic rush of Rambagh Road.”Sandeep Singh, Superintendent Engineer of the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA), said over five acres of prime land belonged to the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Corporation (PMIDC). “As per the norms, the MCA can only maintain it,” he said, adding that slush over its kutcha surface would be removed. A proposal has been dispatched to the government to replace its surface with good earth and the moment the fund arrives, the work will be undertaken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/old-sabzi-mandi-turns-into-garbage-dump-313660
20-09-2021||---||Army recruitment scam: Three booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19The Kathunangal police have booked three persons, including two women, for allegedly duping several persons of Rs21.80 lakh on the pretext of getting their siblings recruited in the Army.Rs21.80 lakh fraudThe accused have duped a number of persons in the area on the pretext of getting them jobs in the Army. However, he neither got them the jobs nor returned the money. — Baldev Singh, The ComplainantThough the police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC against the suspects identified as Sandeep Singh, his wife Pinki and Balwinder Kaur, all residents of Fattubhila village, no arrest has been made till now.The victims had lodged a complaint with IG border range office seeking action against the accused. The case was registered following a probe by Deputy Superintendent of Police (Crime against property).Baldev Singh (48), the complainant, alleged that the accused duped a number of persons in the area on the pretext of getting them recruited in the Army. However, he neither got them the job nor returned the money. Following this, a complaint was submitted with IG border range and an inquiry was marked to DSP Crime against property, in which the accused were found guilty.ASI Jatinder Singh, chowki in-charge Chawinda Devi village, who was designated as Investigating Officer after registration of the case, said he was yet to get the FIR registered. He said efforts would be made to nab the suspects once he gets the report file.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/army-recruitment-scam-three-booked-313661
20-09-2021||---||Ensuring zero stubble burning on their mind||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19The administration has roped in Guardians of Governance (GOG) to keep a check on stubble burning in fields after harvesting paddy. Officials said the GOGs have been acting as ‘eyes and ‘ears’ of the government in getting feedback of various government schemes.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira conducted a meeting with tehsil heads of the GOGs and asked them to make farmers aware of the harms of smoke, which gets emitted by burning paddy residue. He asked them to achieve the target of zero stubble burning.The district has a total of 298 GOGs who ensure that benefit of all the government schemes reach masses.The administration has made the Department of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare as a nodal agency to keep a tab on stubble burning.Further the power utility, cooperatives, pollution and revenue, have been assigned duties to help the nodal departments in ensuring implementation of ban on burning crop residue.The Deputy Commissioner said, “All the departments have been asked to take an immediate action on all reports received from the GOGs. Heads of the departments will be directly responsible to ensure that action is taken on all the reports.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ensuring-zero-stubble-burning-on-their-mind-313662
20-09-2021||---||Getting his ‘grabbed’ property vacated a daunting task||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19Mukhtiar Singh (53), a resident of Ranjit Pura of Chheharta, is a dejected lot.Reason: He has been making rounds of the offices of district administration and the Police Department for three years to get his property vacated from a dairy owner, but to no avail.The caseMukhtiar Singh is a sewadar at Gurdwara Tahli Sahib located on the Amritsar-Attari Bypass. He along with his wife lives alone at a rented accommodation in Guru Amar Dass Colony in Naraingarh area. He said he had borrowed money from the accused and he returned twice the amount but still they were not vacating his property. He said the department cancelled the property documents (Mukhtarnama and Intequals) forged by the accused. However, no case was registered against them for this fraud.“Deputy Commissioner and Sub-Divisional Magistrate has written a number of times to the police officials to get the property vacated, but nothing has been done,” he rued.Mukhtiar is a sewadar at Gurdwara Tahli Sahib located on the Amritsar-Attari bypass. He along with his wife lives alone at a rented accommodation in Guru Amar Dass Colony in Naraingarh area.“All my household goods are in the possession of the dairy owner, who grabbed my property by forging documents,” he alleged. He said he had borrowed money from the accused and he returned twice the amount but still they were not vacating his property. He said the department cancelled the property documents (Mukhtarnama and Intequals) forged by the accused. However, no case was registered against them for this fraud.In the latest development, in a communique to Police Commissioner on September 6, the SDM asked him to get the property vacated. The Police Commissioner has marked the same to the ACP (west) on September 9.Mukhtiar Singh has urged police officials to provide him justice by getting his property vacated and give the possession of the same to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/getting-his-grabbed-property-vacated-a-daunting-task-313663
20-09-2021||---||Overcharging begins at parking lots||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19Even though the Municipal Corporation is yet to allot the parking contract to successful bidders, the practice of overcharging has already begun outside Amandeep Hospital parking lot on GT Road.Varun Sarren, a local activist, uploaded a live video on his Facebook page claiming that the contractor at Amandeep Hospital was charging Rs50 instead of Rs30, which is the rate fixed by the MC.Sareen claimed that the parking contractors were fleecing residents by overcharging. He alleged that the MC’s estate officials were hand in glove with contractors.When contacted, Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh said: “On Saturday, during the F&CC meeting, nod was given to contractors for the respective parking lots. But we will allot the parking lots to bidders on Monday after they make the payment. If any contractor is found overcharging or violating other rules, action will be taken as per law.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/overcharging-begins-at-parking-lots-313664
20-09-2021||---||2 die in separate road accidents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19A youth lost his life when he was run over allegedly by a rashly driven Bus Rapid Transport System bus near the Golden Gate area here late on Saturday evening.The victim identified as Lovepreet Singh, alias Labhi, was returning from his work at a tyre shop, when the incident took place. Sita Devi, mother of the deceased, told the police that since some relatives had arrived at home, she brought her son from the shop early.She said as they were crossing the road, a BRTS bus (PB-02-CR-4225), which was being rashly driven, came from the Golden Gate side and hit her son. He sustained grievous injuries and died on the spot.The driver of the bus fled from the spot leaving the bus behind. He was later identified as Sarwan Singh of Khara village in Tarn Taran. A case under Sections 304-A, 337 and 338 of the IPC was registered against him, while efforts were on to nab him.Meanwhile, in another incident, a Punjab Home Guards (PHG) jawan succumbed to his injuries in a private hospital on Saturday. He was hit by a speeding car four days ago, when he was returning home on his cycle late in the evening. The deceased identified as Bhupinder Singh was rushed to a hospital by the onlookers.Sukhdeep Kaur, wife of the deceased, told the police that on September 14 around 8.45pm, he was returning from his work on cycle. When he reached near Ram Talai Chowk, a rashly driven vehicle hit him leaving him seriously injured. He was admitted to Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital at Vallah where he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday.Following this, a case was registered against unidentified persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-die-in-separate-road-accidents-313665
20-09-2021||Waterlogging behind bad condition of roads||Open House:  What should be done to improve the poor condition of roads ?||The main reason behind the bad condition of roads is waterlogging, which needs to be addressed urgently. It also decreases the life of roads and leads to recurrent repair work. Doing the same work again and again puts financial burden on people and the government. Hence, it’s better to improve sewerage.Kirsan Ravinder SanghaToo many cooks spoil the brothThe most suitable proverb to explain the deterioration of the city roads is “Too many cooks spoil the broth”. To provide the basic infrastructure in the holy city there are too many agencies working like the Amritsar Municipal Corporation, Amritsar Improvement Trust, Amritsar Smart City Ltd and Amritsar Development Authority. Moreover, some department of centre and state governments are responsible for road infrastructure in and around the city. But the poor state of affairs in this regard proves their inefficiency and carelessness. Moreover, state and central governments are paying more attention to the beautification of the holy city rather than starting cleanliness drive. They should ensure neat, clean and smooth roads in the holy city.Nityanshi ChopraLong-term planning is always requiredMainly, two factors are responsible for poor condition of the roads in the city. To begin with, while making new roads or recarpeting work, level of the roads are not checked, which causes accumulation of water during rains hence damages the road. To avoid the same, part payment of the said work to the contractor concerned should be withheld and released after the first shower in the area concerned. Alternatively like Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, a specific machine should be used to scratch the uneven part of the road and simultaneously layer of new material is put on the road to recarpet the same. Secondly, the overflowing sewerage lines do damage the roads thus become major source of the problem. All sewerage pipes should be cleaned on regular basis.Harsh JoharNeed to Frame road maintenance rulesOn the one hand poor condition of roads causes inconvenience to commuters and on the other, it becomes a cause for many accidents. The government has a set of rules for vehicle owners and violators are fined accordingly. Similar rules should be framed for proper maintenance of roads. A high-powered committee should be formed in district level to see the implementation of such set of rules and in case of poor maintenance of roads the officer concerned should be fined accordingly and the amount should be deducted from his/her salary.Naresh JoharRope in responsible contractorsIn order to improve the condition of roads, the government should give contracts for making roads to only those contractors who assure quality work and give guarantee of repairing roads within stipulated time frame. The authorities concerned should make separate inspection team for roads whose main responsibility should be maintain quality of roads throughout the city. The inspection team should inspect all roads of the city on a daily basis and pursue repair of bad roads at the earliest so that there are least chances of accident caused by bad roads and potholes. The authorities concerned should also make speed-breakers on roads where ever they feel essential to avoid accidents.SANJAY CHAWLASubstandard material behind this messOnce upon a time, before the British left, I remember most city roads in Amritsar were properly maintained. Residents never dug up holes anywhere. Heavy penalty for a leaking water pipe was inevitable. The Municipal Committee had a meagre budget of a few lakh and later on it levied a token tax of Rs 2 per annum on bicycles plying on city roads just to augment it. The present miserable state of most city roads, after 75 years of Independence, is rooted in wrong surveys, absence of proper repair work and poor drainage system. Even where adequate thickness of macadam is laid, it is not given time to settle and braking of heavy vehicles near a roundabout creates uneven and dangerous waves. On the other hand, the authorities do not believe in the adage ‘a stitch in time, saves nine.’ Small gaps occurring on the wafer-thin road crust are allowed to assume dangerous dimensions, no matter if they cause broken bones, broken axles or accumulate rain water to breed dengue. The trapezium-shaped speed breakers on the circular road are in fact back breakers, totally ill designed. If any road is widened and paved, its full width is not available for travelling, thanks to brick and sand businesses going on GT Road and 100ft Road, openly, for decades. Hundreds of roadside vendors complicate the issue. Until, we have an authorised body of citizens or NGOs to supervise road construction and maintenance, roads will continue to get washed out in rains.Prof Mohan SinghRoads not levelled after repair workBoth national and state highways are now totally in the grip of the private players and people, while travelling have to stop intermittently to pay the toll. Over and above this, heavy road tax has to be paid at the time of registration of any vehicle. Why the government cannot build, widen, maintain and repair roads, when they charge tax for it? So, highway network is in total control of private players. Many rural link roads are broken and potholed. These roads are taken up for repairs only at the instance of local legislators and administrators act only like uncoiled machines. So, the politics does not allow certain roads to be repaired. As far as city roads are concerned, these roads are dug at the whims of the corporate and government forgets about these later. A year back cables were laid at the E block of Ranjit Avenue, but the pits were never filled and levelled. For about past over eight months, a well known gas company, while laying the pipeline, has further damaged the roads and deep potholes are visible all around, causing accidents off and on. When people approached the company management for repairs, its officials told that they have deposited the amount with the Improvement Trust. The Improvement Trust has not been paying any attention to this work since long. Many roads are generally repaired during the rainy season which creates more problems for residents.Hardish SandhuShort and long-term measures requiredIndian roads can successfully be compared to a circus, lunatic drivers, chaotic horns of different sounds from every direction, animals roaming on the street, people walking in the middle of the roads, roads themselves being on the verge of rupturing to their core. It is often said anyone who is able to drive safely and soundly on Indian roads unofficially attains a certificate for the most immaculate driver. There are multiple reasons why India finds itself as numero uno for road accident-related deaths and is accountable for 11 per cent of total global road accident-based deaths. Some of the reasons have been addressed above in a nutshell. However, the one reason I would like to shed more light upon is the poor pitiful condition of the roads. Deep potholes, uneven construction and waterlogging make it difficult for commuters to have a smooth and safe journey. Now, I see a two-fold solution to the problem, for the short term it includes filing up of potholes with hard-wearing material, clearly marked lines along roads and restoring speed breakers. However, for the long term the government needs to take responsibility and make sure the contractors use long lasting material for making roads and then the administration needs to make sure people are compliance of the traffic rules including speeding and such. The public deserves roads which don’t crumble off after a single session of rain.Gurjas SinghLaxity of civic body officials to blameRoads are the lifeline of every city. They reflect the ambience of the township they run through, besides its lifestyle, civic sense, civic responsibility, mindset and a lot more. Dilapidated roads are a universal phenomenon in India. Some pockets of metro cities too have their own share of potholes. While we marvel at the buttery smooth roads in other countries, the poor state of the Indian roads is attributable to more than just weathering and the laxity of the civic authorities concerned. Heavy traffic coupled with indiscriminate digging of roads for laying cables, water or sewerage connections, flaws in carpeting, poor quality of materials used for the same, treating only the cracks are some of the reasons why roads develop potholes. While assigning the responsibility of maintaining the boulevards to top corporate of the city could definitely be considered as a viable option, roads are public property. Though it is the right of every Indian citizen to have access to a good road network, it’s also our duty to ensure that our pathways are well-maintained and it does not end just at paying our taxes on time. Instead of waiting for the civic authorities to act and moping around and complaining when they don’t, it would be advisable to take initiative to form a group of like-minded neighbours and individuals to conduct the repairs wherever and whenever required.Shaheen P ParshadContractors should be taken to taskRoads make a significant contribution to the economic development and growth of a city. Hence, road infrastructure is the most important of all the public assets. It requires constant maintenance, renewal and modernization. When this is not done, roads remain in poor miserable condition and particularly during the rainy season, assume a catastrophic form. It has been seen that often the city roads present a deplorable condition becoming a nightmare for the drivers and road accidents are the leading cause of casualties because of the humps, speed breakers and potholes on the roads poorly maintained and inadequately filled. Poor quality of material is used in road construction. That is why the roads can’t bear the brunt of a single monsoon spell. The contractors who use substandard material in road construction should be taken to task without any leniency. If roads are properly constructed with space for pavement, bus bays and smoother bends, chances for road accidents will be reduced considerably. Besides ditches are a chronic problem that spoils city roads. They should be immediately taken care of. Often accidents occur because of the sheer violation of road safety rules. Therefore road rules should be strictly implemented. Deputing police personnel at various points may not work all the time. So the aid of traffic technologies such as speed guns should be sought. In addition to that roads should be monitored through CCTV cameras. It will make the road users conscious that they are being watched and can be hauled up if they breach the traffic rules. Road maintenance work ought to be categorised into three types - routine, periodic and emergency- to make roads user friendly. Also roads should have sufficient capacity, good sidewalls, and limited crossings and should not lack road equipment and safety measures. The authorities concerned should pay prompt attention to mitigate the inconvenience of the public caused by the dilapidated stretches of roads crying for emergent repairs. The city has been designated as a smart one but its roads don’t reflect smartness. The words and actions should match each other. For that all encroachments from roads should be removed. Service lanes along the main roads should be constructed. Public transport should be streamlined to put an end to the hardships being faced by commuters. The onus is on the administration to make roads ‘ lifelines ‘ of the city in the real sense of the term to provide the public a hassle-free commuting experience.Tarsem S BumrahReasons for potholed roads and the way forward...QUESTIONWith the district reporting a surge in dengue cases, what steps should be taken by the Health Department and civic body officials to stop breeding of dengue larvae and how should they raise awareness among the public to stop the numbers from rising?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 23)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-improve-the-poor-condition-of-roads-313669
20-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Fatehgarh Churian Road widening hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19The roads leading to border areas are in a pathetic condition. The widening of Fatehgarh Churian Road heading towards Dera Baba Nanak is hanging fire for the last two years. Situated close to Amritsar, Fatehgarh Churian falls in Gurdaspur and the 24-km stretch connects both the districts.On August 15, 2019 Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, had announced that the road from Amritsar to Dera Baba Nanak, connecting Kartarpur Corridor, would be widened at a cost of Rs 88 crore.The Public Works Department (PWD) took two years for shifting electric poles.Initially, the road up to Fatehgarh Churian was to be widened following which the project would cover Dera Baba Nanak.Due to delay in getting approvals regarding shifting of electricity poles and axing trees, work on the project had stopped soon after its inauguration. The PWD had dug trenches for a few kilometres alongside the roadside.Moreover, a narrow bridge at Nawan Pind on the same stretch has become accident prone. Instead of installing railing or widening the bridge, the PWD installed a red flag alongside the drain.Inderjit Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD, said, “The work was stopped due to shifting of electricity poles. Now, they have been removed. We will restart the work soon. Sufficient funds have been released. Bridge at Nawan Pind will alsobe constructed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fatehgarh-churian-road-widening-hangs-fire-313671
20-09-2021||---||Free cancer screening camp held||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19The World Cancer Care Charitable Society collaborated with Anand Group of Colleges, Amritsar, to hold a free medical camp with the National Commission for Minorities and the Government of India. The initiative was supported by Phulkari CAN, the philanthropic wing of Phulkari WOA.Free screening for different types of cancers was done, including breast, cervical, prostate, and oral and blood cancers. Free medical advice was also given to cancer patients and free medicines were distributed for common ailments and lifestyle diseases such as diabetes and blood pressure.Priyanka Goyal, programme head from Phulkari CAN, was the facilitator and coordinator of the camp. The Phulkari WOA team comprised founder, Praneet Bubber, president Phulkari CAN, Nidhi Sindhwani, president, Deepa Swani, vice-president, Sheetal Khanna, programme heads Dr Rashmi Vij, Dr Neeru Gupta, Dr Richa Thaman and Neha Sharma. Harminder Kaur, president, Thathya NGO, was also present.The wheelchairs and walkers were provided to those in need. The camp, inaugurated by chief guest Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, was held under the aegis of Kulwant Singh Dhaliwal, chairman, World Cancer Care Charitable Society. Also present at the event were Dharminder Singh Dhillon, director, World Cancer Care Charitable Society, Dr Jaswinder Singh Dhillon, chief advisor, World Cancer Care Charitable Society.The camp was held under the supervision of MM Anand, chairman, Anand Group of Colleges, Surya Prakash Anand, MD, Dr Kawalbir Kaur, principal of education, Dr Usha Sareen, principal of nursing Renu Thakur, administrator.Panchayats from more than 60 villages hailing from Verka, Majitha and Tarsikka blocks participated actively in mobilising people and spreading awareness in the rural areas. Many villages were represented by their sarpanches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-cancer-screening-camp-held-313672
20-09-2021||Amritsar||Missing 'saroops': SAD (A) rally at Chabba on Sept 28||District reports 2 positive casesAmritsar: With two positive cases reported on Sunday, the district tally increased to 47,286. The district Health Department has reported recovery of one patient with which the recovery count increased to 45,679. The district at present has a total of 17 active cases. The district health authorities said total 6,449 residents were inoculated on Sunday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of these, 3,656 received the first dose of the vaccine and 2,793 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-sad-a-rally-at-chabba-on-sept-28-313674
20-09-2021||GS Paul||Devotee to present Rs 1.73-cr ‘kalgi’ at Sri Hazur Sahib||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19A Sikh devotee, Dr Gurwinder Singh Samra, who runs Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital at Kartarpur (near Jalandhar), will present a diamond-studded gold ‘kalgi’ (an ornament usually worn on the front of the turban and consists of a single feather or a cluster of feathers) at Takht Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded (Maharashtra).Takht jathedar may attend event in PakistanAkal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh may attend the ‘Jyoti Jot’ diwas of Guru Nanak in Pakistan. The three-day event from September 20 to 22 has been scheduled at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur (Pakistan).Costing around Rs 1.73 crore, the ‘kalgi’ and ‘chandoa’ (special decorative fabric hung above the Guru Granth Sahib) will be presented to the Jathedar of Takht Sri Hazur Sahib at the gurdwara tomorrow. Sikh scholars Giani Jaswinder Singh Dardi and Jagjit Singh Jaggi will be present on the occasion.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Samra said the ‘kalgi’ was made of about 2.5 kg of gold, in which a large number of gems including ruby, topaz and sapphire have been studded.“Its crust has been inlayed with about 2,000 pieces of diamonds by Delhi-based jewellers. Artisans from Ahmedabad, Surat and Jaipur were engaged for the task and it took them a year’s span to complete the task,” he said.The Samra family reached the shrine today with the ‘kalgi’ that would be kept for sangat darshan. A special canopy, too, has been made at a cost of Rs 7 lakh. Earlier too, the Samra family had presented a ‘kalgi’ worth Rs 1.3 crore to Takht Sri Patna Sahib and another one at the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/devotee-to-present-rs-1-73-cr-kalgi-at-sri-hazur-sahib-313455
