21-09-2021||Amritsar||International Ozone Day observed||Engineer’s Day Celebrated at KCETTo commemorate the birth anniversary of Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya, the Engineer’s Day was celebrated at Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology (KCET). An E-Conclave ‘Advancement in Engineering Career Post Covid-19’ was organised under MHRD and Institution Innovation Council and AICTE during which speakers including Rajiv Sajdeh, CII Chairman, Dr Shweta, an expert on Intellectual Property Rights, Dipanshu Parashar, a cyber security author and many entreprenuers participated. The speakers stressed that it is the time that engineers move towards start-ups and entrepreneurships so that they can create jobs.Students’ Induction ProgrammeGlobal Group of Institute organised a students’ induction programme on Monday to welcome the new students who have joined various courses in the Institute. The new session got going with the induction of new students attending the orientation programme held to apprise them of the important information in their new educational journey. The programme was held to make them understand the rules and regulations. Importance of assignments, the teaching methodology, academic, sports and cultural activities held in the campus. The students were made aware about the accomplishments of the Institute. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-ozone-day-observed-314039
21-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Husband, mother-in-law booked in dowry case||Mandeep Kaur (22), a resident of nearby Bugha village, has filed a complaint against her husband and mother-in-law for torturing her to bring more dowry. The victim alleged that she moved from pillar to post for more than two years to get a case registered against her husband and mother-in-law, which was finally registered on Sunday (September 19).The victim, in her complaint to the police, stated that she married Harpreet Singh of Maqboolpur locality of Amritsar on December 18, 2018. Soon after, Harpreet and his mother Gurvel Kaur started torturing her physically and mentally to bring more dowry. The victim lodged a complaint with the higher officials of district police on June 18, 2019, but the police denied action.ASI Sarabjit Singh said the accused had been booked under Section 498-A of the IPC while no arrest had been made yet. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/husband-mother-in-law-booked-in-dowry-case-314038
21-09-2021||---||Cricket: Amritsar beat Muktsar by 104 runs||Amritsar, September 20Amritsar outplayed Muktsar by 104 runs in the Senior Katoch Shield cricket tournament being played at the Gandhi Ground here on Monday. After winning the toss, hosts Amritsar chose to bat first. Riding on the knocks by Salil Arora (61), Abhinav Sharma (62) and Rohan Marwaha (48), the host team scored 235 for eight wickets in 50 overs. Chasing the target, Muktsar boys were all out for paltry 131 runs in 36.3 overs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cricket-amritsar-beat-muktsar-by-104-runs-314004
21-09-2021||Our Correspondent||5 SAD families join BJP in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 20The district unit of BJP claimed that five SAD families had joined the party at a function organised here on Monday. Ram Lal Hans, district president of the party, informed mediapersons that the families, which joined the party, were of Hardev Singh, Balwinder Singh, Rajnbir Singh, Daljit Singh and Sukhneet Singh.The families were persuaded to join the BJP by Jai Kunwar Singh Sandhu, district president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, said the district president.The families were honoured by Reena Jetli, district in-charge (Prabhari), and others at the function. While addressing on the occasion, Jaitli, Ram Lal Hans and others appreciated the Narendra Modi-led Union Government’s policies and termed these pro-people and farmers.The leaders said the BJP would contest the Assembly elections from all the 117 seats to be held next year in the state. By winning the majority of seats, it would form its government in the state. The BJP had not even a single municipal councillor nor sarpanch or any other public representative like a block samiti or zila parishad member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-sad-families-join-bjp-in-tarn-taran-313989
21-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Jobless youth find Capt Amarinder’s exit excuse to deny them jobs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20Job-seeking educated unemployed youth of the state are finding former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s exit as another political manoeuvre to deny them employment.Jagroop Singh, a member of the B.Ed, TET Passed Union, said qualified youth had been the biggest sufferers of the policies of successive governments. His organisation would continue to hold agitations, despite the change of guard in the state. “Our parents paid through their nose to foot our education bills. Instead of helping the aging parents, we continue to be dependent on them”. Private schools did not pay them adequately and many of them issued pink slips to teachers during the Covid-19 period, Jagroop rued.Jagroop Singh, a member of the B.Ed, TET Passed UnionQualified youth had been the biggest sufferers of the policies of successive governments. We will continue to hold agitations, despite the change of guard in the state. Our parents paid through their nose to foot our education bills. Instead of helping the aging parents, we continue to be dependent on them. Private schools did not pay them adequately and many of them issued pink slips to teachers during the Covid-19 periodCapt Amarinder only utilised youth as a ladder to get votes and exited when the protests from job aspirants were at their peak in his hometown, he maintained.Manpreet Singh Bhatia, a qualified but unemployed youth, said his hopes of finding a regular job were dashed during Capt Amarinder’s tenure. Before the last Assembly elections, the promise of a job in each family was a big assurance. However, it proved to be another lie, like the BJP’s announcement of releasing Rs 15 lakh in the account of each Indian and bringing back black money stashed in foreign banks, Bhatia alleged.About 8,000 posts of patwari were lying vacant in the state and people were facing hardships due to non-availability of officials, yet the government was reluctant to fill these posts. The government advertised only 1,090 posts of patwari, which elicited response from 2.33 lakh applicants.Vikas Kumar, another job aspirant, said government policies had left only one option for the youth — to migrate overseas. “Instead of giving employment to youth, governments preferred to re-employ retired employees,” he maintained. This trend could be easily noticed in the boards constituted independently from the department. He also cited the example of 1,766 retired patwaris being re-employed at Rs 25,000. Notably, youngsters were being employed at a monthly salary of Rs 9,200, Kumar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jobless-youth-find-capt-amarinders-exit-excuse-to-deny-them-jobs-313988
21-09-2021||GS Paul||OP Soni once took on Navjot Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20Amritsar Central MLA OP Soni was a surprise pick for the Congress as Deputy CM. Soni was nowhere in the picture till the eleventh hour when his name emerged for the post.Soni, 64, is the second MLA from Amritsar after Balramji Das Tandon, who occupied the seat of Deputy CM in the state government. Tandon, the founding member of Jan Sangh and a legislator from Amritsar for five times from 1960-77, had served on the same position during the Justice Gurnam Singh (retd) Akali Dal-Jan Sangh ministry in 1969-70. Interestingly, both represented Amritsar Central as a lawmaker.Soni, the five- time MLA, never tasted defeat, except for once in the 2009 LS polls against then BJP candidate Navjot Sidhu, who had won by 6,858 votes. During the course of friction between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu, he had backed the former.Despite his flourishing career, Soni had to wait for a year before finally becoming the part of Capt Amarinder’s Cabinet as the Education Minister in April 2018. During the reshuffle, he was divested of his portfolio, to which he had revolted “silently”. After two weeks, he accepted the charge of medical education and research in June 2019 but not before speaking out on record that he was punished instead of being rewarded as the school education had shown improvement and the party had done well in the 2019 LS polls from his constituency. Amritsar’s first mayor, Soni (1991-1996) remained popular among residents and was still fondly referred to as “Mayor Saheb”. His USP is his “easy accessibility”.Lost once in 30 yrsAmritsar’s first mayor Soni (1991-1996) never tasted defeat in politics, except for once in the 2009 Lok Sabha polls against then BJP candidate Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had won by 6,858 votesStood by Ex-CMThroughout the fiasco between ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu, Soni was seen standing tall beside the former. He was also conspicuous by his absence when Sidhu, after being appointed PCC chief, visited the Golden Temple||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/op-soni-once-took-on-navjot-sidhu-313854
21-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Roller-coaster for Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, September 20Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has successfully managed to manoeuvre innumerable tight turns, steep slopes and political reversals in what has been a roller-coaster ride for the Dera Baba Nanak MLA in his three-decade-long career.He commenced his electoral career in 1997 with a loss but with political insight and wisdom over the years, he weathered many a storm to become the Deputy CM.In 2017, after becoming an MLA for the third time, he stepped on the gas-pedal. He started consolidating his position by ushering in developmental initiatives.The Kartarpur Corridor, built in 2018-19, acted as a catalyst in elevating his stature. In the wake of its construction, Randhawa quietly brought in developmental works amounting to Rs 172 crore to his Assembly seat. He played a key role in its planning and execution and often camped at the site for days. He was made the Cooperation and Jails Minister when ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh expanded his Cabinet six months after winning the polls. Considered to be a no-nonsense politician, his hold over his department’s bureaucrats was such that nobody dared to ask him any questions even if those were convenient ones.His ‘Man Friday’ in his constituency is Kamaljeet Singh Tony, a progressive vegetable farmer. He is Randhawa’s go-to man. The brashness and brazenness which earlier were central to his personality are now relics.“Earlier, the man was feared. Now he is revered,” said a Cabinet colleagueReined in mining mafiaRandhawa was the one who reined in the mining mafia after it started selling sand at exorbitant rates and when farmers refused acquisition of their land, he donned the role of a negotiatorSaved MarkfedAs Cooperation Minister, Randhawa did what none of his predecessors could do. He took several fiscal measures to pull Markfed out of the red. The Rs809.85-crore debt, accrued over the past 60 years, was reduced by almost 50%||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roller-coaster-for-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-313866
21-09-2021||---||Farmers take out bike rally in Amritsar to gather support for September 27 bandh call||Amritsar, September 20Farmer organisations took out a bike rally in the city on Monday to mobilise support for the September 27 bandh call, given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). The rally started from Company Bagh and culminated at the Bhagatawala Grain Market after passing through different market and residential areas.The farmers also held a meeting with arhtiyas and labourers and asked for their help in forcing the Central Government to repeal the three controversial agriculture laws.The farm leaders stated that the government was trying to hand over agriculture into corporate hands, which would force lakhs of farmers and their families away from their only source of livelihood. Over 700 farmers had lost their lives in the nearly 10-month-long protest but the government was more concerned about winning elections and toppling the opposition, instead of listening to the concerns of the general public.The protesters also criticised the government for privatising public sector units for the benefit of a few corporate houses. Their agitation would continue till the government repealed the three farm laws and brought a bill to ensure minimum support price (MSP) for crops, they maintained.Balkar Singh Dudala, Sawinder Singh Meerankot, Rattan Singh Randhawa, Dhanwant Singh Khatrai Kalan, Bhupinder Singh Tirathpura, Sukhrambir Singh Loharka and Davinder Singh Chattiwind addressed the protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-take-out-bike-rally-in-amritsar-to-gather-support-for-september-27-bandh-call-313987
21-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||A hardy plant lover, Amritsar CA takes out time religiously to nurture her greens||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20Harminder Kaur, a chartered accountant, is fond of hardy plants in her small lawn. Her lush and well-tended garden has truly transformed her house into a home.The cynosure of all eyes in her lawn is a big nolina palm, also known as the ponytail palm or elephant foot palm. It has a big caudex and is several decades old. Harminder Kaur is helped by her mother-in-law Nirdosh Kaur Gill. When asked about her love for hardy plants, she says, “Hardy plants are easy to maintain. And they are evergreen plants,” she said.Also adorning her entrance is a big plumeria tree. “Its shadow gives us immense relief from sweltering heat during summer,” she said, adding that she would soon plant winter blooms. Neelkanth vine with beautiful flowers is an added attraction.Another distinction to the house is ‘Hero of Rani Ganj’, Engineer Jaswant Singh Gill, who was awarded with the President’s bravery award for saving 65 miners during 1989 coal mine collapse in Raniganj, West Bengal.Dr Sarpreet Singh, her husband, with a tinge of pride, says: “Harminder religiously takes out time to nurture the garden. It is now a part of her routine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-hardy-plant-lover-amritsar-ca-takes-out-time-religiously-to-nurture-her-greens-313986
21-09-2021||Amritsar||1-kg heroin seized from border||Three held with 375-gm heroinTarn Taran: Three persons have been arrested with 375 gm of heroin from different places, on Sunday. The consignment would be worth Rs 1.87 cr in the international market. The police said the Bhikhiwind police arrested Jagjit Singh of Bhikhiwind and recovered 255 gm of heroin from his possession. The police officials said Sitara Singh of Chuslewar was arrested with 70 gm of heroin by the local CIA staff led by ASI Charanjit Singh and the police party led by Sub-Inspector Satnam Singh of the anti-narcotic staff has arrested Manpreet Singh with 50 grams of heroin. The accused have been booked. OCTerror module: Custody extendedAmritsar: The court has extended the police remand of three terror module suspects by two days. Those produced in the court included Vicky Bhutti, Malkeet Singh and Gurpreet Singh. The court had earlier extended the police remand of their fourth accomplice Rubal Singh by three days. All accused would be produced in the court on Monday. The Amritsar rural police busted the terror module with their arrest after they were found involved in the bid to blow a truck using tiffin bomb smuggled from Pakistan through drone. The police had also booked a Pakistani intelligence officer identified as Qasim besides International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) Chief Lakhbir Singh Rode in the case. TNSExpert dwells on nutrition & foodAmritsar: The Krishi Vigayan Kendra (KVK), in association with IFFCO, organised an event to mark Poshan Maah under the National Nutrition Mission to spread awareness on the importance of nutritious diet. KVK deputy director Dr Bikramjit Singh said the purpose of the event was to ensure a nutritious diet, especially for the pregnant women, lactating mothers, adolescent girls and children. Shamsher Singh from IFFCO reiterated the need for planting more trees and judicious use of fertilisers, which is crucial for producing nutritious food. He also urged people to grow vegetables and fruits at their homes. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-kg-heroin-seized-from-border-313985
21-09-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: After 16 months, Amritsar reports no new +ve case||It’s been a rare day as the district health authorities reported no positive case on Monday. The district health authorities reported the recovery of two patients, with which the total recovery count increased to 45,681.It is after nearly 16 months, that a day has come when no new positive case was reported from the district. Last time, it was on May 18, 2020, when the district had reported no new positive case.With two Covid waves since then and the threat of third one looming overhead, the district has reported 47,286 positive cases and 1,590 deaths due to the disease so far. Meanwhile, 9,864 residents were given the injections for Covid-19 on Monday during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of these, 6,911 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 2,953 received the second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-after-16-months-amritsar-reports-no-new-ve-case-313983
21-09-2021||---||Bibliophiles unhappy with shifting of library in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 20District Library, one of the two surviving public libraries in the city, has a new address — the old DC office building.The process of shifting has begun from its previous premises at Rani Ka Bagh to the heritage building as district librarian Prabhjot Sandhu said the development will bring in infrastructural upgrade of library.The decision to shift the district library from its current building at Rani Ka Bagh to the new location had not gone down well with some visitors and members. A few had also shared their views on social media, citing accessibility issues and other factors for opposing the move.But Sandhu said the move will be beneficial. “The previous building at Rani ka Bagh had space constraints for stocking books and using the library for exhibits. We even did not have a toilet for almost three decades. The district library has over the years attracted many readers and members including young and old. We needed better space for bringing in more facilities and increasing our book collection. I do not know why people are not okay with this decision,” she said.The District Library was established in 1982 at Rani Ka Bagh as the only public library at the time in city. It has a large collection of books related to Punjabi literature. Some of the books are first edition and rare copies of classic English writers translated in Punjabi. Among its collection is a rare Punjabi translation of Rabindranath Tagore’s Gitanjali, which is considered a milestone in the Indian literature history.The old DC office is a 150-year old heritage building that has been recently restored and will house the library. “We have already set up the children’s section and are in process of setting up our digital section. We hope to increase the scope for library by making it into a community learning hub as we now have good space and amenities,” Sandhu said.VOXPOPSudarshan Sharma, 58, who was a regular visitor to the District Library, in his Facebook post, said the new premises was far for senior citizens. “Rani Ka Bagh was a central place and a lot of residents from nearby colonies used to come by walking. Also, it was a quiet place. Now, members will require a conveyance to reach the new office.”Hansraj Arora, another resident, said the shift will impact students and senior citizens who visit the library. “Many senior citizens and students will suffer. Moreover, they will have to pay scooter stand charges on every visit, while at Rani Ka Bagh, parking was free. They should make parking free for library visitors at the new building,” he commented.Jagdish Pruthi, another visitor, too, commented that the shift was not conducive as the old DC office was situated in the District Courts Complex, which is a noisy and crowded place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bibliophiles-unhappy-with-shifting-of-library-in-amritsar-313907
21-09-2021||---||Now, a psychological gym for your soul in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 20Sparing a thought about mental fitness and promoting the activities that help in better mental health, a team of doctors from the city have come up with a psychological gym.Dr JPS Bhatia, a neuro-psychiatrist, who has been working in the field of de-addiction and rehabilitation, along with his team, has designed activities that impact mental health based on psychotherapy. Dr Bhatia said the psychological gym will help in digital detoxification that has become a concern post the pandemic.Dr JPS Bhatia, a neuro-psychiatristThe gym has been designed to help workout the central muscles of the psyche, the core, through mental exercises that include activities to combat stress, anxiety, depression, self-esteem issues and other mental health problems. We are also hoping to provide digital detoxification, especially for kids, through activities using music therapy, concentration building games and other alternative methods.“The gym has been designed to help workout the central muscles of the psyche, the core, through mental exercises that include activities to combat stress, anxiety, depression, self-esteem issues and other mental health problems. We are also hoping to provide digital detoxification, especially for kids, through activities using music therapy, concentration building games and other alternative methods,” said Dr Bhatia.He said psychology interns are present to take care and help people, who come at the gym. He stressed on the need to encourage mental, emotional and behavioural health. “Extreme digitalisation has got us hooked to technology like never before and in this process, we have lost the intra-personal communication and bonding. Several mental and behavioural issues being observed in adults as well as children are a result of this. As experts, we are trying to offer some alternative to the problem,” he said.Dr Bhatia and his team had previously launched the state’s first internet de-addiction programme for children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-a-psychological-gym-for-your-soul-in-amritsar-313906
21-09-2021||---||Snatchers on prowl: J&K residents, local robbed in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 20Snatchers are on the prowl in the holy city, with three cases being reported in the past two days. Three persons, including two Jammu and Kashmir residents, were robbed by unknown persons here on Sunday evening.Manjur Hussain Jaitu, a resident of J&K, said that he, along with his brother Ashab Hussain and a friend, had come to Amritsar to take Ashab’s medicine from a private hospital, located on the Circular Road here. Around 2.30 am yesterday, they started from the hotel for their return journey.ASI Heera Singh, in charge of the Court Complex police chowki, said they forgot the way to Batala road and reached Bhandari Bridge instead, from where they asked two motorcycle-borne men for help. The latter asked the three to follow them, claiming that they would take them from a shortcut. But the accused took them near the District Corporation Office and on seeing a secluded place, attacked them. They smashed their car’s window and also snatched their mobile phones, purse and Rs 2,000 cash before fleeing.In another incident, a motorcycle-borne person snatched the purse of a Jammu resident, who along with her husband and daughter had come to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. The incident occurred late on Saturday evening. Satish Kumar Saraf, the victim’s husband, stated that on way back from the gurdwara, the purse was snatched from them near vegetable market. It contained Rs 35,000 cash, gold earrings, a mobile phone, ATM cards, and identity proofs.Mohit Kumar alias Monty, a city resident, has stated to the police that on Saturday evening, he was returning home from a relative’s house when two motorcycle-borne persons snatched his mobile at pistol-point near Dhapai railway crossing. They also took away Rs 10,000 cash and his scooter. Sources said three separate cases were registered while further investigations were under progress to identify and nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatchers-on-prowl-jk-residents-local-robbed-in-amritsar-313908
21-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Not like ‘Icarus’, Sukhjinder Randhawa says he will work within his limitations||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak , Sept 20Whenever newly elected Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is with his near and dear ones, he often recounts the legend of Greek mythological creature Icarus — the one who flew too close to the sun and burnt his wings.Unlike Icarus, I always work within my limitations. At times, I have been short of funds, but nevertheless, I have not let development suffer in my area. I have now brought in two mega projects in Kalanaur, which is part of my Assembly seat. These are a government college and the Rs45 crore state-of-the-art Guru Nanak Dev Sugarcane Research and Development Institute. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, newly appointed Dy CM“Unlike Icarus, I always work within my limitations. At times, I have been short of funds, but nevertheless, I have not let development suffer in my area. I have now brought in two mega projects in Kalanaur, which is part of my Assembly seat. These are a government college and the Rs45 crore state-of-the-art Guru Nanak Dev Sugarcane Research and Development Institute (GNDSRDI). It has been modelled on the lines of one of Asia’s premier sugarcane institute —Pune-based Vasantdada Sugarcane Institute (VSI). I personally went to Pune with my team of officials last year to study its working. This venture will give employment to hundreds of youth hailing from my area,” he said.Once funds were allocated, difficulties arose on identifying land for the prestigious sugarcane project. Randhawa says he managed to convince the Kalanaur Panchayat to earmark 100 acres out of the 1,600 acres lying vacant with it.“Not many eyebrows were raised as the venture was seen as a major developmental initiative that will provide employment opportunities through allied units,” he said.Observers recall how during the construction of the Kartarpur Corridor, farmers refused to let the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) acquire their agricultural land and how Randhawa played the role of a negotiator.“He took up the farmers’ cause with the NHAI through the local SDM. In one instance, he even managed to convince a farmer whose land holdings were located just close to where the Integrated Check Post (ICP) was to come up to give his land for free. He brought a truce between farmers and the NHAI. Had he not intervened, the Corridor project could not have taken off,” said Rachpal Singh, an agriculturist.Supporters led by Kamaljeet Singh Tony of Talwandi Rama village are planning a massive celebration, when the Deputy CM arrives at his native village of Dharowali this Saturday. Tony is a long-time loyalist of Randhawa family and manages all their affairs — political and social — in the area. He said he had also brought in several developmental initiatives for Dera Baba Nanak town in the wake of the construction of Kartarpur Corridor.“The state government sanctioned Rs172 crore to beautify the town. A new 500-metre long heritage street was established on the lines of one near Golden temple,” he said.Political inningsRandhawa started his political career with a loss in the 1997 Assembly elections from the Fatehgarh Churian seat. In 2002, he defeated Nirmal Singh Kahlon to make his debut in the Vidhan Sabha. In 2007, he lost the seat to Kahlon. Later, after the delimitation exercise, a new seat of Dera Baba Nanak was carved out. Dharowali falls in this seat. He won the 2012 and 2017 elections on both occasions defeating Akali strongman Sucha Singh Langah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-like-icarus-sukhjinder-randhawa-says-he-will-work-within-his-limitations-313909
21-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||With two Deputy CMs, Majha region takes the pie||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20Supporters of five-time MLA OP Soni erupted in joy as he took oath of office as the Deputy Chief Minister on Monday. His residence here was abuzz with celebrations as he took the oath of office in Chandigarh.Dholis played Punjabi numbers, while his supporters danced to the beats. His nephew Vikas Soni was attending visitors coming to greet the family over the elevation of Soni’s residence in posh Rani Ka Bagh locality.Wazir Chand, Soni’s neighbour, said: “Soni’s work speaks for itself. He is holy city’s first Mayor who brought about visible changes in the city.” He hoped that the long-pending demands of the business fraternity will be addressed with his elevation as he resolved several issues concerning the community during his four-and-a-half year rule as the Cabinet minister.Soni has taken up various matters of the business community in the Cabinet in the past and we hope he will put in similar efforts in future as well Piara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar MandalManmohan Chauhan, another neighbour, said: “Soni has already made Rani Ka Bagh a paradise and city’s model locality. Its parks, roads, civic amenities and others are up to the mark.” He said he would bring more positive changes to the locality. “Soni is a popular leader who efficiently handled the Covid-induced lockdown and oversaw the vaccination drive,” he said.Congress workers celebrate at newly appointed Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni’s residence in Amritsar on Monday. Photo Vishal Kumar Neeraj BaggaPiara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), while welcoming the elevation of Soni as deputy chief minister, congratulated Chief Minister SS Channy and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.He recalled that Soni had taken up various matters of the business community in the Cabinet in the past and hoped that he would put in similar efforts in future as well. He said the proposed meeting of the PPBM with the CM on September 21 has been cancelled with the change of guard in the state. He anticipated that Soni would re-arrange the meeting and will help in resolving all pending matters of the entrepreneurs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-two-deputy-cms-majha-region-takes-the-pie-313905
