22-09-2021||GS Paul||CM Channi along with his deputies and Navjot Sidhu visits Golden Temple, vows justice in sacrilege cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with his deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple on Wednesday morning.They participated in the morning ritual of departure of Sri Guru Granth Sahib from the Akal Takht to the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple where the 'saroop' is enshrined, as per the Sikh 'rehat maryada'.Amidst the recital of the Gurbani kirtan, the CM and Sidhu gave shoulder to the Palki Saheb where the holy 'saroop' was placed in the temple.Later, the CM’s cavalcade proceeded towards Jallianwala Bagh to pay tributes to the martyrs. This was followed by a visit to the Durgiana Mandir and Ram Tirath Asthal.They also made an unexpected brief halt at Amritsar's popular Giani Tea Stall. Projecting the image of an 'aam aadmi', the Chief Minister interacted with the locals at the tea stall.He also obliged them with selfies. He also indulged in 'shairo shayari' and casual talk with his colleagues.Sitting on a wooden stool, he had tea and kachoris at the tea stall.Channi visits Dera Sachkhand BallanJalandhar: Channi along with other Congress leaders visited Dera Sachkhand Ballan. The Dera has a huge following of Dalits and a huge gathering of devotees has reached to have a glance of the CM from their community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cm-channi-along-with-his-deputies-and-navjot-sidhu-visits-golden-temple-vows-justice-in-sacrilege-cases-314662
22-09-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Award of Honour for DAV Public School principal Anita Mehra||MDP on Business CommunicationIIM Amritsar conducted a short-term Business Communication Management Development Programme (MDP) titled Communicating with Happiness customised for the senior officers of HPCL between September 8 and September 21. This personalised customised programme for 45 officers of HPCL laid emphasis on enhancing participants’ communication awareness and skills by imbibing techniques of effective spoken and written communication, by learning how to balance empathic and assertive communication and by aiming to be more inspiring and persuasive communicators. The programme’s objectives included learning professional communication competencies to influence and persuade internal and external stakeholders and practising communication techniques and strategies aimed at diverse communication scenarios.15 DAV students get jobsIn the latest placement drive, a total of 15 graduate students from DAV get offer letters from different companies. The entire hiring process was held virtually because of Covid-19, where students had a written test, followed by TR & HR rounds. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar congratulated the students, who bagged jobs in eClerx. This job had most of the students placed from the Commerce Department with 12 students, while Economics Department stood second with 2 students placing in the same and one student from Bsc IT. With a pay package of Rs 2.35 lakh per annum for most of the students, the college training and placement cell is keeping the students industry-ready and nurturing their coding skills.Students excel in online contestTarn Taran: Students of Guru Gobind Singh Convent School, Sohawa (Sarhali), excelled in an online international competition held recently. Anu Bhardwaj, school principal, said here on Tuesday that 42 students of the school who participated in the international level competition were honoured at a function organised in the school premises on Tuesday. Baba Sukha Singh, patron of the school, extended his best wishes to the students and prayed for their bright future. SK Duggal, director of the school, gave away the prizes to the students for their performance in the competition. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-award-of-honour-for-dav-public-school-principal-anita-mehra-314278
22-09-2021||---||Amritsar man dies under mysterious circumstances||Amritsar, September 21Keemti Lal, a resident of Haripura area, was found dead under mysterious circumstances here on last evening. The body bore injury marks while the police said as per a preliminary probe, he died after falling off his own cycle rickshaw.However, Gate Hakima police on Tuesday booked Kartik, a resident of Vadda Haripura area, following the statement of Pammo, sister of the victim. In her complaint, she stated that the accused was quarrelling with her brother and hit him with bricks killing him on the spot.The police said a case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered against Karik and further investigation was under progress. “We have registered a case on the statement of the victim’s sister and further action would be taken as per the postmortem report,” said the police.As per the preliminary probe, Keemti Lal was an addict and fell off his own rickshaw and therefore, sustained injury. But we cannot rule out anything until we get the autopsy report to ascertain the nature of injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-dies-under-mysterious-circumstances-314274
22-09-2021||---||Innova snatched at gunpoint, 1 booked||Amritsar, September 21A taxi driver was robbed of his four-wheeler (Innova) in Jandiala by youngsters who hired the vehicle on September 19. Mukesh Kumar, the victim, belonged to Bulandpur in Jalandhar.The police have booked Sandeep Singh, a resident of Wadala Johal village, who had hired the taxi on the pretext of taking her aunt to Jalandhar from Amritsar.The victim told the police that two youngsters came to the taxi stand on Sunday and one of them introduced himself as Sandeep of Wadala Johal.Mukesh said the duo booked the taxi by giving advance payment of Rs 3,500 and asked to pick up their aunt from Rana Kalan village in Jandiala and drop her at Lambra in Jalandhar.He said as they reached near Rana Kalan village, Sandeep asked to stop the taxi, as he had to answer nature’s call.Mukesh said as he stopped the vehicle, both the accused stepped out, and Sandeep pulled out the pistol.He said the accused threatnend him of dire consequences and fled with the four-wheeler towards Mallowal village along the canal.A case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC has been registered in this connection with the Jandiala police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/innova-snatched-at-gunpoint-1-booked-314276
22-09-2021||Amritsar||Two injured in assault; 7 booked for murder bid in Amritsar||The Beas police have booked seven persons on the charge of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act after they attacked a group of youths at Liddhar village here on Sunday evening. An FIR was registered on Monday evening following the statement of one of the victims.Those booked were identified as Santokh Singh, his son Karan, Raman Hammu, Gora, Rajandeep Singh, Baldev Singh and Malkeet Singh, all residents of Husanpur village.The complainant, Lovepreet Singh, told the police that on Sunday evening at around 8.30 pm, he along with his brother Arshdeep Singh, Onkardeep Singh and two other youths of the village was standing near Baba Beriala in the village when the accused arrived there.He said they were armed with a double-barrel gun, pistols and traditional sharp-edged weapons. Immediately after reaching the spot, Santokh fired in the air and challenged them. He said they immediately attacked Arshdeep with a datar (a farm implement) on his head and when Onkarjit tried to save him, they thrashed him also. He said they attacked another youth and when the people started gathering, the accused fled from the spot.SI Amritpal Singh said a case under Sections 307, 324, 323, 336, 148 and 149, IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against the suspects while raids were on to nab them.He said the condition of Arshdeep was stable, but he was unfit to record his statement. He had suffered grievous head injuries in the assault. He said before the incident, they had a quarrel in the village and in the evening, they attacked them for taking revenge.Lovepreet Singh alleged that the accused had a criminal record and were in possession of illegal arms. However, the police authorities said they were yet to confirm their background. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-injured-in-assault-7-booked-for-murder-bid-in-amritsar-314277
22-09-2021||---||Create fund for conservation of Sikh architecture: Experts||Amritsar, September 21Sikh institutions, businessmen, and government organisations should join hands together to create a Sikh heritage fund on the pattern of World Heritage Fund to undertake research, publication, documentation and conservation of Sikh architecture and heritage. These were the observations of experts at the three-part virtual international symposium on Sikh architecture, which concluded today.The theme of the symposium was contemporary architecture and was organised by Saakaar Foundation. Architect Ramneek Gharial gave the opening remarks. Internationally-renowned Israeli architect Moshe Safdie’s presentation on his project Khalsa Heritage Complex, Anandpur Sahib, was enlightening.Dr Jyoti Pandey Sharma, professor, School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, spoke on “Modernising Colonial Punjab”. She said: “Set against the backdrop of a rapidly modernising colonial Punjab, this talk examines the architectural exploits of the ruler of Kapurthala state, Maharaja Jagatjit Singh. It focuses on a mosque built by the Sikh patron for his Muslim subjects demonstrating a feisty spirit of humanism. Kapurthala’s Jama Masjid bears testimony to its patron’s egalitarianism that was truly exceptional for its time”.Prof Charanjit Singh Shah from New Delhi, who designed Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, talked about the significance of the architecture at the corridor, said: “Dera Baba Nanak Kartarpur Complex is dedicated to Guru Nanak’s mission based on ‘Khanda’, indicating peace, harmony and universal oneness. The holistic approach of integrating art, architecture, interior, display and landscape gives life to the dead brick and concrete and makes the environment lively and puts soul in architecture. The Sikh art and architecture is being experienced as a travel journey of 550 years of Guru Nanak Dev and the Sikhs.”Architect Surinder Bahga, founder, Saakaar Foundation, while summing up the discussions in three sessions, said: “All experts were of the view that we need to stress on creating a Sikh heritage fund to undertake research, publication, documentation and conservation of Sikh architecture and heritage. We would take up the issue with businessmen, Sikh organisations and different governments”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/create-fund-for-conservation-of-sikh-architecture-experts-314279
22-09-2021||---||Amritsar Mayor visits Ram Bagh to review ongoing development works||Amritsar, September 21The Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) claimed that the historic Ram Bagh (Company Bagh) was being developed at a cost of crores of rupees here on Tuesday.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu visited Ram Bagh with MC officials and instructed them to complete all works on time. The Mayor claimed that crores of rupees were being spent on the overall development of Ram Bagh for the convenience of city dwellers.He reviewed the projects undertaken by various departments of the civic body and issued instructions to the officials to complete all the development works on time.On the occasion, the Mayor said he had been receiving complaints for a long time that employees at Ram Bagh were not doing the cleaning work properly. He found some employees absent during his visit and sought disciplinary action against them.The Mayor said around 55 safai karamcharis were deployed for the cleanliness and maintenance of this garden. He said 3,000 saplings would be planted every month under his supervision to beautify the garden. He said our main objective was to provide all kinds of basic amenities to the people of the city.“Arrangements have been made for the maintenance of the garden in which a team has been deployed to plant new trees on the sides of the walkways,” said Rintu. He said mini high mast lights had been installed in the company garden, which were of great help to the visitors. At the same time, arrangements had been made for the parking of vehicles.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said there were about 150 to 200-year-old trees in the Company Garden for which a separate team had been set up to take special care of them. The Mayor said in order to enhance the beauty of the garden, a multi-crore musical fountain and fence was being constructed.The Mayor appealed to the city dwellers to cooperate with the MC in maintaining the beauty while visiting the company garden. Sandeep Singh, Superintending Engineer, Sukh Amrit Singh, JE, Raman Kumar and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-visits-ram-bagh-to-review-ongoing-development-works-314280
22-09-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar district reports 3 positive Covid cases||Sewadar dies at Langar HallAmritsar: A sewadar of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Bhai Balraj Singh, lost his life after he accidentally got stuck in a flour machine at Langar Hall on Tuesday. SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur expressed deep grief over the incident. “The tragic death of Bhai Balraj Singh has come as a great shock to the SGPC family,” said the SGPC chief and added that they would fully support the family of Bhai Balraj Singh. TNSAAP women hold march in PattiTarn Taran: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a rally in Patti on Tuesday. Surinderpal Kaur Bhullar along with her associates appealed to residents to vote in favour of the AAP to bring an overall change in the system. Laljit Singh Bhullar, husband of Surindepal, has been nominated as the AAP’s Patti in-charge. Surinderpal said, “Voters have already made up their mind to vote in favour of the AAP as they have seen functioning of Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party for 10 years and Congress in the last almost five years.” OC58 staffers found absentTarn Taran: As many as 58 government employees were found absent during a surprise raid by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh at the Tarn Taran District Administrative Complex on Tuesday. Show-cause notices have been issued to the absentees and late comers. Charanjit Singh Channi, the newly-sworn Chief Minister, had instructed government employees to be present at their respective offices at 9 am to provide better services to residents. The team led by the Deputy Commissioner conducted surprise raid at 9 am, which continued for 25 minutes. The Deputy Commissioner said the surprise raids would be held again and those found absent or coming late would be dealt with sternly. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-3-positive-covid-cases-314281
22-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Ammunition found hidden under earth in Tarn Taran village||Tarn Taran, September 21As many as 336 cartridges of different calibres were recovered from Dasuwal village, on Sunday, hidden under the earth.ASI Balwinder Singh from Patti Sadar police station said land owner Satnam Singh was digging up the land, when he recovered the ammunition packed in a plastic container.The recovered cartridges are of AK-47, SLR and 3x3 calibre. The ASI said the recovered ammunition was useless and had rusted.The police have registered a case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ammunition-found-hidden-under-earth-in-tarn-taran-village-314282
22-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Car-free day: Amritsar neither pedestrian nor cycle-friendly||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 21World Car Free Day is observed on September 22 to encourage motorists to give up their personal vehicles for a day and opt for cycling, walking or public transport, but the holy city doesn’t have much to offer it seems.The environment programme of the United Nations claims that giving up personal cars for a day will help the public in opting for public transport, cycling or walking.Giving up cars is a good initiative. But the policies are being carved by the elite section of society. They plan infrastructure as per the requirement of car-driving people. The common man is fine with cycling and walking but need safe commuting as well. Gopala Dhawan, Traffic expertIronically, the city doesn’t have good infrastructure for cyclists and pedestrians. As per the data collected by the traffic experts, victims in 23 per cent accidents were pedestrians in the city. Though the BRTS is available on three major routes, it is also facing several issues and despite efforts, has not been much popular among residents. A number of roads leading to highly populated areas including Majithia Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Mehta Road, Airport Road, Chogawan Road and Taran Taran Road don’t have city bus facility. Auto-rickshaws are the only option there.According to information, around 30 per cent commuters in the city commute on bicycles. However, the road infrastructure is not designed as per their requirement.Cycle tracks are being developed for leisure activities and fitness at posh areas. However, cyclists from economically weaker sections are being ignored while planning the road infrastructure. It is risky to commute on a cycle or walk on roads. The city needs major reforms in road infrastructure to adopt car-free commuting. Harkrishan Singh, a residentTraffic expert Gopala Dhawan, who studied traffic patterns and issues of the city at Guru Nanak Dev University, said: “Car free day is being observed to make the public aware about environment, traffic and health. Giving up cars is a good initiative. The car-free road stretches such as Heritage Street should be extended. The Hall Bazaar should be a car-free zone as it is the need of the hour. But the policies are being carved by the elite section of society. They plan infrastructure as per the requirement of car-driving people. The common man is fine with cycling and walking but need safe commuting as well.”Ironically, the city roads are not fit for pedestrians. There is no road where footpaths are free for pedestrians. The BRTS lanes were planned for pedestrians and cyclists, but most of the BRTS footpaths are also encroached by vendors. Pedestrians are forced to walk on road, where they often meet with accidents.Harkrishan Singh, a resident, said: “Cycle tracks are being developed for leisure activities and fitness at posh areas. However, cyclists from economically weaker sections are being ignored while planning the road infrastructure. It is extremely risky to commute on a cycle or walk on city roads. The city needs major reforms in road infrastructure to adopt car-free commuting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/car-free-day-amritsar-neither-pedestrian-nor-cycle-friendly-314283
22-09-2021||---||120 dengue cases reported in 7 days in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 21With 120 dengue cases being reported in the last seven days, the total count of cases during the current season has increased to 371.The Health Department has not reported any death due to the disease till date.Apart from patients reported by the district Health Department, many patients were getting treatment for the illness with symptoms similar to dengue from private hospitals. As these are not specifically tested for dengue, they are not officially counted as dengue cases.While abundant showers for the last three days and a brief spell on early Tuesday morning has resulted in water-logging in low-lying areas, it has further increased the chances of mosquito breeding.Meanwhile, the Municipal Corporation has already started intensive fogging in all wards of the city. Apart from this, the Health Department, too, has a mandate to conduct fogging in the locality of a person, who has tested positive for dengue.The health officials said people must take ample precautions to avoid mosquito bites especially during the day. They said people should get tested if they develop any symptoms associated with the disease.The officials said in case of a positive report, there is no need to panic and disease can be managed at home under the guidance of a physician. The patient needs to be hospitalised if the platelet count goes too low or he develops any other complication.“Increasing fluid intake along with fruits or juices having Vitamin C along with proper bed rest will result in recovery in five to seven days. There are no specific medicines for the disease and it is managed symptomatically,” a doctor said.Symptoms: The symptoms of the disease include high grade fever above 102°F, headache, pain in the eyes, general body aches, vomiting, skin rashes which must be monitored for 7 to 10 days by medical experts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/120-dengue-cases-reported-in-7-days-in-amritsar-314284
22-09-2021||---||Burglary at AAP leader’s house in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 21Two thieves, in connivance with a servant, burgled the house of AAP leader Rishi Agarwal in New Garden Colony and decamped with gold ornaments worth Rs30 lakh besides Rs2 lakh cash.The Civil Lines police have started probe and found CCTV footage of the suspects. Those booked were identified as servant Raju and his two unidentified accomplices.A case under Sections 381, 380, 454 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against them, while raids were on to nab the suspects, the police said.Agarwal told the police that as per his routine, he went to his office at 10 am. He said his wife and daughter lived on the upper floor of the house, while his elder brother and his family lived on the ground floor. He said around 20 days ago, his elder brother kept a servant name Raju.He said yesterday around 4 pm, his wife and daughter went to the market by locking the upper portion. He said when they returned two hours later, they found the doors opened and the lock broken. They called him and he immediately rushed home and found the locks of the wardrobe in the store broken. He claimed that Rs2.10 lakh and gold ornaments, diamond jewellery and silver coins worth over Rs30 lakh were missing.He said when they found Raju also missing from the house and asked about his whereabouts from another domestic help Anand, he told that Raju along with two unidentified persons had gone out of the house.Agarwal told the police that the family had demanded Aadhaar Card from Raju for police verification but he said he lost the same when he came to Punjab. He was kept in the house following reference from a gardener, who used to work at a nearby park.The police authorities said investigations were under way and efforts were on to find the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/burglary-at-aap-leaders-house-in-amritsar-314266
22-09-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Hapreet Singh in Pakistan||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Hapreet Singh attending a three-day event organised to mark the ‘Jyoti Jot’ diwas of Guru Nanak at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur in Pakistan can be termed as an ‘indirect endorsement’ of the original Nanakshahi calendar.Giani Harpreet Singh, his family members and a raagi jatha crossed over to Pakistan to attend the event as per the “amended” version of the calendar, through Attari-Wagah joint check post. The same event will be observed on October 1 by the SGPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-jathedar-giani-hapreet-singh-in-pakistan-314437
22-09-2021||Amritsar||Gurdwara Bangla Sahib shut: Delhi administration flayed||SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur termed the orders of Delhi administration to close Gurdwara Bangla Sahib as a ‘Nadirshahi’ (dictatorial).Also read: Gurdwara Bangla Sahib asked to close over Covid-19 norm violation; DSGMC chief fumes“The orders to close Gurdwara Bangla Sahib are a testament to the dictatorial attitude of the Delhi Government, which the Sikh community cannot tolerate. These should be withdrawn immediately and the administration must apologise,” she said.She said the contribution of gurdwaras in provided langar (food from community kitchen), oxygen, and other services to public during the Covid pandemic shouldn’t be forgotten. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdwara-bangla-sahib-shut-delhi-administration-flayed-314436
22-09-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to Centre: Act swiftly on Balwant Singh Rajoana’s plea||The SGPC has accused the Centre of “deliberately delaying” action on the mercy plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted of assassinating former Chief Minister Beant Singh, despite the Supreme Court’s directions to take an early decision in this regard.The SGPC will write to the Home Ministry for an early decision in the case, said its president Bibi Jagir Kaur.Rajoana sister’s Kamaldeep Kaur today visited the SGPC headquarters to meet the president and asked her to approach the Centre for an early resolution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-to-centre-act-swiftly-on-balwant-singh-rajoanas-plea-314434
