23-09-2021||Traffic signals at four crossings in Tarn Taran have never been functional during the past five years. Balwinder Singh||Tarn Taran Diary: Dysfunctional traffic signals||Doctor seeks justiceDr Manwant Singh Sood (in pic), a Tarn Taran-based homoeopathic doctor, has waited for eight years to take action against a Medical Officer of the CMC, Ludhiana, for alleged negligence and violation of medical ethics. Manjit Kaur, mother of Dr Sood had succumbed at the CMC on September 24, 2013, due to the negligence of the Medical Officer. It’s alleged the Medical Officer took Rs 1.5 lakh from him against the norms. However, it was returned to him after the death of his mother. Dr Sood alongwith his mother had gone to the CMC to know the condition of his relative who was admitted to the hospital. Dr Sood got his mother examined from the Medical Officer who suggested that one of her heart valve had to be replaced immediately. She was admitted to the CMC on September 20, 2013. As per directions of the Medical Officer, Dr Sood deposited Rs 2 lakh and handed over Rs 1.5 lakh to the doctor and promised to pay him the remaining amount of Rs 3 lakh. The family recorded the entire episode on camera. Dr Sood had lodged a complaint with the Indian Medical Council on January 1, 2014 and alleged that the Medical Officer took Rs 1.5 lakh from him in violation of the professional conduct, etiquette and ethics. The Medical Council of India referred the complaint to the Punjab Medical Council on January 28, 2004, to taken action against the Medical Officer within six months. The Medical Officer in his reply to an RTI reply on November 26, 2013, said he took the money as a collateral security. However, the CMC authorities on March 19, 2015, said the hospital did not allow anyone to do monetary transactions without receipts. Dr GS Grewal, the then chairman of the Medical Council, in a letter dated July 31, 2016, said, “Your case is of very serious nature, but when you get surrounded by corrupt people, then limitations are unavoidable.” Dr Sood approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court to seek justice, which in its order dated January 18, 2021, directed the MCI to take action within four months. Dr Sood had approached the Chief Secretary and demanded a high-level probe.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-dysfunctional-traffic-signals-314829
23-09-2021||Amritsar||DAV students shine in Badminton Championship||Two Teachers feted in citySukhpreet Kaur and Harpreet Kaur, the educators of Bhavan’s SL Public School have been honoured with the prestigious CBSE Teachers Award (MHRD) for 2020-21 in the online CBSE felicitation award ceremony conducted through NIC, National Informatics Centre on September 21. The award comprises a merit certificate of commendation, monetary reward of Rs 50,000 and a shawl. The award was presented by Annapurna Devi, Minister of State for Education. This award has been given to 22 teachers, out of 15 lakh teachers from 25,000 different CBSE schools across India, two of which belong to Bhavan’s SL Public School, Amritsar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-students-shine-in-badminton-championship-314827
23-09-2021||Amritsar||DC office employees begin stir in Amritsar||On the call given by the DC Office Employees’ Association it’s members went on two-day strike from Wednesday. Its leaders said they were constrained to go on the strike as no progress was made on the assurances given on their demands by the government’s high powered committee during the meeting held on September 8. So the decision was made by senior leadership to go on strike.Asunil Kumar, a leader of the association, said their demands were to repeal the orders discontinuing four posts of senior assistants and nine posts of clerks in DC offices. This order had affected the seven clerks who were promoted to the posts of senior assistants. He said the government assured that these clerks would not be reverted to their previous positions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-office-employees-begin-stir-in-amritsar-314824
23-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Indian hockey players Varun Kumar, Dilpreet Singh visit Nishan-E-Sikhi institute, Khadoor Sahib||Tarn Taran, September 22Indian men hockey players Varun Kumar and Dilpreet Singh  , on Wednesday. The players also met Baba Sewa Singh, a renowned international environmentalist, also the patron of the Nishan-E-Sikhi.The players shared their experiences of Olympics with Baba Sewa Singh and got some valuable information regarding the institution’s work in environmental and educational sectors. The star players also visited the sister institutes related to Nishan-E-Sikhi.It was worth noting that hockey star Varun Kumar had got his preliminary coaching for hockey in Baba Uttam Singh national hockey Academy, Khadoor Sahib, and the sister concern of Nishan-E-Sikhi, in the initial years of his career. Balwinder Singh, father of Dilpreet Singh, is coach of this hockey academy. Both the players were honoured with Baba Sewa Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/indian-hockey-players-varun-kumar-dilpreet-singh-visit-nishan-e-sikhi-institute-khadoor-sahib-314821
23-09-2021||---||Artistes apprised of theatre techniques at NSD workshop in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 22Theatre thespian Kewal Dhaliwal conducted masterclass on set design and direction at the 40-day theatre training workshop being held in collaboration with National School of Drama and Virsa Vihar here on Wednesday. The workshop is being attended by 25 theatre artistes from different cities of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.The workshop has been conceived by Dastak Theatre’s Rajinder Singh and Amita, both alumni of NSD.Dhaliwal is among the first of the five mentors invited to teach at the workshop. With his expertise in larger-than-life sets that he has conceived and created for many of his productions, Kewal Dhaliwal talked about the important details of set design, lighting and sound techniques. “Light and sound is as much part of the live performance as the actor themselves. The help to build up the emotion, the impact around a particular act or sometime, in solo acts, become the main narrator of the story on stage,” said Dhaliwal.The students also undertook some theatre exercises with him. Rajinder Singh, who is also a director himself, said that the workshop will also host Bismillah Khan Awardee Rajesh Singh, former director of NSD, Devinder Raj Ankur, renowned dancer and choreographer Manju Sharma and Ravinder Sheen. The workshop will also host actor Mahabir Bhullar, Pritpal Rupana and other prominent theatre personalities from region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artistes-apprised-of-theatre-techniques-at-nsd-workshop-in-amritsar-314822
23-09-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Dengue menace: Goat milk costs Rs 300 per litre||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22With around 400 dengue cases reported in the district, price of goat milk has reached Rs 300 per litre as people believe that it boosts platelet count and helps in faster recovery.The other myths associated with dengue include drinking coconut water and eating papaya leaves. Experts believe that coconut water and goat milk certainly help in hydrating body, but there’s no scientific evidence to prove that these could specifically help in treatment of dengue.People prefer goat milk when they are sick. During normal days, there’s no demand for milk. I am selling goat milk at Rs 200 per litre. Bachan Singh, a goat herderDoctors said body requires more fluids and vitamin c when recovery from dengue. A lemon could be as good source of vitamin c as any other exotic fruit.While the goat milk has become a obsession for those with any family member with low-platelet count, the fact that goat farms are not very much popular in the state means that it’s a scarce commodity.Bachan Singh, a goat herder from Tarn Taran said, “People prefer goat milk when they are sick even in villages.” He said during normal days, there’s no demand for goat milk. Bachan has been selling milk at Rs 200 per litre.Gurnam Singh, whose wife tested dengue positive, said, “Price of goat milk around the city are too high. It depends on your location.”District Epidemiologist Dr Madan Mohan said, “There is no vaccination to prevent dengue and there is no particular treatment for it.”He said one should consume a healthy diet, lot of fluids and vitamin C. He added that people should not believe in rumours regarding tablets, which can prevent dengue.“The only prevention is to not let dengue larvae breed in and around your house,” added the District Epidemiologist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-menace-goat-milk-costs-rs-300-per-litre-314825
23-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar farmer establishes agro brand||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22Yadwinder Singh of Tarsika block has established his own agro brand ‘Majha Foods’ at Chogawan Sadhpur village in the last 10 years.Responding to the call of Punjab Agricultural University and Agriculture Department for diversification of crops, Yadwinder had sown turmeric in 2008 instead of wheat and paddy.“We had good yield first time, but I got disappointed, when there was no buyer in the market. So, I decided to set up my own processing unit to make turmeric powder. We got good response for organic turmeric powder as products available in the market were not able to compete with our turmeric. People started visiting directly on our doorstep to get turmeric powder.”In 2010, Yadwinder initiated Kisan Hut on Tarsika link road. “Now, it has become a landmark. Visitors on road stop to buy our products. We also sell gur and honey products. Then we registered our own brand Maja Foods. The turmeric powder of our brand is famous in the region. People use our turmeric as medicine because it is organic,” said Yadwinder.Awarded by various state and the Central Government agencies, Yadwinder has shown a way forward to several farmers as to how they can also make farming a profitable venture. “Marketing is a major challenge for farmers. They often go for diversification of crops on the suggestions of agriculture experts, but when it comes to marketing, they face several problems and challenges. I fought against all odds in these 10 years, and even now believe that every new morning comes with a new challenge. So, it is important that the product is marketed properly,” said Yadwinder.He is using paddy straw instead of mulching paper for weed management and contributing to environment by not burning straw.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-farmer-establishes-agro-brand-314818
23-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Woman dies in road accident in Tarn Taran||Sukhchain takes charge as cpAmritsar: Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill took charge as the Commissioner of Police (CP) here on Wednesday. After joining the office, he said his priority would be to maintain law and order and smooth flow of traffic in the Commissionerate of Police, Amritsar. In addition, a special focus on cyber crime will be launched against online scammers so that the general public does not fall prey to such scams and such applications will be disposed of giving priority to public complaints. Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill is a 2003-batch IPS officer. Before assuming the post of Commissioner of Police, Amritsar, he served as SSP Hoshiarpur, SSP Ludhiana, SSP Bathinda, SSP Chandigarh and DIG Ferozepur Range, DIG Patiala Range and Commissioner of Police Ludhiana, Commissioner of Police, Amritsar, and Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-dies-in-road-accident-in-tarn-taran-314823
23-09-2021||---||Covid-19: 1 death, four cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 22With one death reported in the district due to Covid-19, the toll has increased to 1,591 on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Vijay Kumar, a 62-year-old resident of New Jawahar Nagar.The Health Department has also reported four positive cases on Wednesday, with which the total count has increased to 47,293.With the recovery of one patient, the recovery count has also increased to 45,683. The district at present has a total of 19 active cases. Meanwhile, 2,357 residents were inoculated for Covid-19 during the vaccination drive on Wednesday. Of these 1,273 received the first dose of the vaccine while 1,084 received the second.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-1-death-four-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-314826
23-09-2021||---||Bargari-Behbal Kalan firing: Take stern action against accused, says Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh||Amritsar, September 22AAP leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who took pre-mature retirement from the post of IG, asserted that if the Charanjit Singh Channi government failed to take action against the accused in the 2017 Bargari-Behbal Kalan firing, then it would be clear that not only former CM Capt Amarinder Singh but also the Congress was hand in glove with the Akalis.He asserted that the new SIT formed to probe the Bargari-Behbal Kalan firing would not find anything new. He stated that if the new CM was sincere to deliver justice in the firing incident, he should pick up the report he had submitted to the Sessions Judge at the Faridkot court.Congratulating Channi on becoming Chief Minister of Punjab, he hoped that he would fulfil all those promises, made to electorate before the last assembly election, which could not be fulfilled during the past four and a half years.The former IG questioned the Congress high command about acting against Capt Amarinder Singh too late. He held it responsible for playing divisive politics in a state like Punjab which is a land of Sikh masters.On the AAP party’s stand for appointing a Sikh as its Chief Minister face, he said since his party was new, it just wanted to continue with the tradition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bargari-behbal-kalan-firing-take-stern-action-against-accused-says-kunwar-vijay-pratap-singh-314828
23-09-2021||GS Paul||Punjab CM's surprise halt at Giani Tea Stall in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22Famous Giani Tea Stall on Cooper Road here had an unexpected guest this morning when the cavalcade of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi took a brief halt at the spot.Projecting the 'aam admi' (common man) image, the Channi interacted with early morning walkers already present there. He also obliged the passers-by to click 'selfies'. Sitting on an ordinary wooden stool outside the tea stall along the road, Channi and his team were offered tea in glasses.His colleagues, including PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Deputy CMs Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni and Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, were sitting beside him.Over a cup of special 'masala tea' served in ordinary glasses, along with the 'kachori' session, visibly joyous Channi could not resist from mesmerising the audience by reciting 'shero-shayri' (poetry) as“Chalte firte hue mehtab dikhaenge tumhen, humse milna kabhi, ye Punjab dikhaenge tumhen. Chand har chhat pe hai, suraj hai har aangan me, neend se jaago, naye khwab dikhaenge tumhen (Walking around, we will show you the moonlight, meet us sometimes… will show you the real Punjab where the moon is at every terrace and sun in every yard…wake up... will show your new dreams)." Channi too complimented tea stall owner Gurmeet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-cms-surprise-halt-at-giani-tea-stall-in-amritsar-314830
23-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Navjot Singh Sidhu loyalist Damandeep appointed as AIT Chairman||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu’s loyalist Damandeep Singh as the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) Chairman by replacing Dinesh Bassi. This decision was taken during the CM’s visit to the city on Wednesday.Dinesh Bassi is active in the politics since 2000 and was elected as District president of Youth Congress in 2008. He remained district president till 2011. Newly appointed AIT Chairman Damandeep was also the youth Congress leader and Bassi defeated him in the president elections.Bassi was an aspirant for the party ticket from Amritsar East constituency in 2012 and then in 2017. Meanwhile, Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the Congress and party high command asked Bassi to support Sidhu in 2017. Bassi claimed that he made efforts for Sidhu’s victory in 2017.But in December 2017, when Bassi asked to contest for the election of ward councillor, the party denied. This caused differences between Sidhu and Bassi on the ticket. However, in June 2019, Sidhu resigned from the Punjab Cabinet after being sidelined by then CM Captain Amarinder Singh and Bassi being close to former CM Amarinder Singh, Bassi had appointed as AIT Chairman on July 8, 2019.“I don’t have any issues with my removal but it is an unhealthy practice in the party. We are associated with the Congress for the past three generations. I am loyal to the party and will work for it with same zeal,” said Bassi.Damandeep had left the Congress and joined the BJP in 2012 when Navjot Kaur Sidhu had contested from the East constituency. He later became close to Sidhu and when Navjot joined the Congress in 2017, he also changed his loyalty. He contested election from ward number 26 and won.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-singh-sidhu-loyalist-damandeep-appointed-as-ait-chairman-314816
23-09-2021||---||Man held for operating MC parking lot illegally in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 22The estate wing of the Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, nabbed a person for collecting parking fee illegally at a space outside Amandeep Hospital.Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh received the information from the area councillor on phone that the parking fee was being illegally collected by unidentified persons by allowing people to park the vehicles on MC’s parking lot outside the Amandeep Hospital.A team led by Estate Officer visited the spot and nabbed a man, while two of them managed to flee. The person operating parking has been identified as Nikhal Jain, a resident of Sultanwind. The MCA officials handed over him to the custody of Rani Ka Bagh Police Station.The MC had received tenders for allotment of total 12 parking stands of the city through e-tendering and out of these 5 parking stands have been allotted through e-tendering last week.A resolution was passed by the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar through the meeting of Finance and Contract Committee on September 18 to issue allotment letters to the successful bidders of these 5 parking stands. It has been passed in the meeting and as per the decision of the meeting the process of issuance of allotment letter to the successful bidders by the estate department is in progress.Estate Officer Dharminderjit stated that if any parking lot of the MC is found to be operated by anyone else than the MC, workers should immediately inform the Estate Wing, so that legal action can be taken against the person concerned.Two accomplices manage to fleeEstate Officer Dharminderjit Singh received the information from the area councillor on phone that the parking fee was being illegally collected by unidentified persons by allowing them to park the vehicle on MC's parking lot outside the Amandeep Hospital on Tuesday. A team led by Estate Officer visited the spot and nabbed a person, while two of them managed to flee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-operating-mc-parking-lot-illegally-in-amritsar-314817
23-09-2021||---||A Monumental danger: Kos Minars, a victim of clash between heritage & urbanisation||Amritsar, September 22Two Kos Minars, which are remnants of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s era and stand right in the middle of GT Road (near railway station), are a classic example of clash between heritage and urbanisation.Kos Minar, were a concept of building milestones by Pashtun emperor Sher Shah Suri, on his journey through the original Grand Trunk Road in north India.Several Kos Minars present in parts of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, were being maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India.The ones in the holy city were built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh and present a bleak picture. Built in the early 18th century as markers from Ajnala to Gobindgarh Fort, only two among several Kos Minars survived the test of time and urbanisation.The administration had never taken up the conservation of Kos Minars. The only work done on the two-heritage structures was carried out around two years ago. It involved building a concrete support structure around the Kos Minars to ensure strength and stability.During the development of the Bus Rapid Transit System corridor, it was decided to remove these minars in order to widen the road. It was only after the protests by conservationists that the decision was taken back.Former head of Sri Guru Ram Das School of Planning at Guru Nanak Dev University, Dr Balwinder Singh, had once shared his views on relocation of the Kos Minars for their preservation. He had said from the heritage point of view, the two Kos Minars of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s era, were very important.He had suggested that the best option was to relocate these two Kos Minars to the side of the road and install a plaque explaining their importance to make people aware.Meanwhile, the two Kos Minars can be seen defaced by posters. While their history and heritage has been reduced to suit the rapid urbanisation, the Kos Minars still stand tall, with a faded pride and reminder of the glorious past.IN A STATE OF NEGLECT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-monumental-danger-kos-minars-a-victim-of-clash-between-heritage-urbanisation-314814
23-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||‘Unofficial bus stops’ choke Amritsar roads||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22In addition to the government established ISBT, three more unofficial ‘bus stands’ have sprung up in different parts of the city.Air-conditioned, video coach and ordinary buses by private transporters remain parked in these bus stands where passengers are seen boarding and de-boarding. These unofficial bus stands are situated at the old vegetable market outside the Hall Gate, on the Railway link road (outside the Railway station) and on the roads outside the Guru Nanak auditorium.Several buses remain parked on these roads and open spaces. Most of these buses are owned by influential private transporters.By not parking their passenger transport units in the Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-state Bus Terminal (ISBT) they deny the government its dues. The ISBT charges Rs 94 per AC coach for an entry and exit and Rs 50 from a mini bus. While extra money is charged for the night parking.A number of private buses are being parked on the prime land of old Sabji Mandi belonging to the PMIDC. As per the norms, the Municipal Corporation cannot levy any fee so these remain parked over there for a relatively long time during day and night.Most of these buses ply to destinations such as Chandigarh, Delhi and Jammu. Sources in the state run transport Punjab Roadways say that these private transporters deny government buses equal business opportunities. For instance, passengers do not come to the ISBT, they can charge any amount of tariff while the state-run buses have fixed tariffs.Besides, the boarding and de-boarding of passengers on the roadside causes huge congestion on the road, thus causing huge traffic bottleneck. The roads become messy when the passengers alight and board buses. While autos and rickshaw pullers further accentuate the problem as they compete among themselves to get the passengers.Rajinder Kumar, in charge at the ISBT, said there were about 100 such buses, which had been parked outside the ISBT for the past many years. He accepted that they do send a departmental report to their head office to bring it to their notice.Jyoti Bala, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), said, she would write to the traffic police to remove buses from the roadsides and they must be parked inside the ISBT. She said a meeting with General Manager Punjab Roadways and ADCP Traffic will be called over the matter.Jaswant Kaur, ADCP Traffic, said these buses had been parked at these places for the past many years. Even before she joined here. If concerted efforts are made to remove these, then the traffic police would also contribute its bit. She said already she made it a point that no bus resorts to pick up and drop off passengers on the main roads outside the Hall Gate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unofficial-bus-stops-choke-amritsar-roads-314815
23-09-2021||---||Will ensure justice in sacrilege cases: Punjab CM||Amritsar, September 22Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday paid obeisance at the Golden Temple here and stated that justice would be done in the sacrilege incidents.Also read: SIT ex-head Prabodh Kumar seeks central deputationBargari-Behbal Kalan firing: Take stern action against accused, says Kunwar Vijay Pratap SinghPunjab CM's surprise halt at Giani Tea Stall in AmritsarFlanked by his deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and other colleagues, Channi participated in the early morning rituals of installation of Sri Guru Granth Sahib at the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple.Amid the recital of Gurbani kirtan, Channi and Sidhu gave shoulder to the ‘palki’ carrying the holy saroop from the Akal Takht as per the Sikh ‘rehat maryada’.“I have come to seek the blessings of the Almighty. Religion will be victorious… Raj dharam de anusar chalega… dharam de wich reh ke raj chalaya jayega…har dharam da sube wich satkar hoyega…aapsi pyar mel milap vadaiya jayega,” he said.Referring to the 2015 sacrilege incidents at Bargari, Channi said the government’s priority would be to bring justice. “Guru nu insaaf dwaiya jayega’, he said.Sidhu said the real issues in today’s politics were ignored. “Our CM will bring politics back on real issues. If we cannot solve the people-oriented issues, then we are not real Sikhs. Religion speaks of providing food to hungry, making the crying laugh and providing shelter to those who do not have one. That’s the true religion,” he said.Sidhu said merit will be honoured. “Every Congress worker will fight for the truth, which will be victorious.”A humble CM: Navjot SidhuWhat I have experienced in the past two days with the humble Chief Minister, I have never felt so in the past 17 years of my political career. I feel for the first time that now the Congress can serve people without any distress. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefThe Chief Minister and other dignitaries received siropa (robe of honour) and a replica of Golden Temple by SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka and manager Gurinder Singh.Later, the Congress leaders visited the Jallianwala Bagh to pay homage to the martyrs of the 1919 massacre. This was followed by a visit to the Durgiana Mandir and Ram Tirath Sthal.They also visited the residences of OP Soni, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and MLAs Dr Raj Kumar Verka and Sukhwinder Singh Danny.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-ensure-justice-in-sacrilege-cases-punjab-cm-314772
23-09-2021||Chandigarh/Batala||Navjot Singh Sidhu aide Damandeep Singh Uppal to head Amritsar Improvement Trust||The Charanjit Singh Channi government on Wednesday appointed Damandeep Singh Uppal, a Sidhu loyalist, as Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust, replacing Dinesh Bassi, and reinstated Kasturi Lal Seth as Chairman, Batala Improvement Trust, days after he was replaced by Pawan Kumar Pamma.The removal of the political appointees, made by former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, has the stamp of PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu in case of Amritsar and Tript Rajinder Bajwa in case of Batala.Sources said the move hadn’t gone down well with party leaders, with many terming it a witch-hunt. Bassi, a Sidhu baiter, said he would abide by the CM’s orders. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa had only last month got Pamma appointed as Batala Improvement Trust Chairman after removing Seth.By removing the two political appointees, the new dispensation has hit out at Capt Amarinder Singh and his close associate Bajwa, who recently joined hands with the former CM against Tript Rajinder Bajwa.Capt Amarinder, apparently in an attempt to clip Tript’s wings, had not only appointed Ashwani Sekhri as Chairman of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation, but also gave him a free hand to transfer and post officials. Likewise, Bajwa, too, was given a long rope with officials being ordered to accompany him on his visits to Batala. Recently, he undertook a three-day tour accompanied by the SSP, SDM and Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation (MC). He had made it clear that he was a ticket contender.In Batala, all three senior Congressmen Partap Bajwa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Ashwani Sekhri are all in the race for the Assembly ticket. Officials are confused as to whom to follow. In the coming days, the civil administration and police may witness a change, with MLAs, who were part of the coup against Capt Amarinder, getting officers of their choice. — TNSCaptain appointee ousted in BatalaDamandeep Singh Uppal replaces Dinesh Bassi, a Sidhu baiter, as Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust. Kasturi Lal Seth has been reinstated as Chairman, Batala Improvement Trust, days after he was replaced by Pawan Kumar Pamma. Tript Rajinder Bajwa is seen behind the Batala move.Sidhu bulldozing Cabinet, alleges BJPThe BJP has said CM Charanjit Singh Channi is being “bulldozed” by PCC president Navjot Sidhu. BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said the way Sidhu had been guiding the CM and Deputy CMs was a clear indication that he would be calling the shots and the Cabinet would play second fiddle to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-singh-sidhu-aide-damandeep-singh-uppal-to-head-amritsar-improvement-trust-314773
23-09-2021||---||Sidhu’s close aide Damandeep Singh Uppal replaces Dinesh Bassi as Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman||Chandigarh/Amritsar, September 22Damandeep Singh Uppal has been appointed Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman in place of Dinesh Bassi.Amarinder loyalist Bassi was on Wednesday removed from the post. Bassi reportedly did not have good terms with PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.During his visit to the city, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi replaced Bassi with Sidhu's close aide Damandeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sidhus-close-aide-damandeep-singh-uppal-replaces-dinesh-bassi-as-amritsar-improvement-trust-chairman-314679
