24-09-2021||To call Amritsar just a spiritual abode of Sikhism will be an understatement. The holy city is also a treasure trove of street shrines||In pictures: A spiritual voyage through the Holy city of Amritsar||Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranDens of belief: Akharas of AmritsarDargah Hazrat Baba Zahra PeerWHILE for many of us, Amritsar is just synonymous to Golden Temple, there is much more that the city offers. At several intersections of the holy city, one is likely to come across the ‘street shrines’ where the reverberating sound of qawwalis transports you to a different era. A visit to these shrines presents a beautiful sight of cultural inclusivity. These sufi hubs have nothing to do with any particular religion. They rather serve as a symbol of brotherhood. Though named as pir di jagah, khangah, dargah and darbar, do not be surprised if you find a picture of lord Shiva hanging besides that of Khwaja Khizr. Untouched by the present-day polarisation; these sacred spaces have their doors open for everyone who visits here to seek relief from distress.Blurring the lines of religious identities, these masjids and maseets were once either shut or converted into temples and gurdwaras as a larger chunk of the Muslim population migrated to Pakistan during the Independence era. Now, the street shrines have flourished more and become popular with time.Many of these shrines have come up more recently at several chowks such as Hussainpura and Celebration Mall. At many places, even the extensions of age-old banyan trees have served as the street shrines.According to the locals, a few such structures as the one at the Hall Gate Chowk existed even prior to 1947; others came up in the post-Sikh militancy era. Many claim that the government took a keen interest in organising melas at these dargahs to promote peace and harmony in the border state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-pictures-a-spiritual-voyage-through-the-holy-city-of-amritsar-315450
24-09-2021||Amritsar||3 persons test positive in Amritsar district||One +ve in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported pne positive case and no death in the district on Thursday. A total of 378 persons have lost their lives to the virus in the district so far. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said 22,243 persons were vaccinated at different places. He said the Health Department collected 1,411 samples today. OCNew AIT Chairman takes chargeAmritsar: Newly appointed Chairman of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) Damandeep Singh joined his office here on Thursday. He took over the charge in the presence of the senior leaders of the Congress. Thanking the MLAs and other Congress leaders, he said he would perform the service of the city after taking over the charge of AIT Chairman. The overall development of the city would be his priority. “I would do my best to uplift the face of the city,” he added. Sunil Dutti, MLA North, Joginderpal Dhigran, state general secretary district Congress rural president Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar, councillors Sukhdev Singh Chahal, Mamta Dutta, Ashwani Kumar Pappu, Motia Bhatia, Jatinder Sonia, Mithu Madan and other Congress leaders were present on the occasion. TNSThree booked for murder bidAmritsar: An old enmity turned ugly when three persons shot at a youth outside a restaurant in Ranjit Avenue on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Varinder Singh of Rajasansi, who suffered bullet injury on his thigh. According to police, doctors operated upon Varinder today and his condition was stated to be stable. The police have registered a case of murder bid against Puneet Singh of Airport road, Sukhdeep Singh Grewal of Moga and Ranvijay Singh of Bathinda. Jatinderbir Singh, the complainant, told the police that the accused opened fire at Varinder with an intention to kill him. He said he got him admitted to a private hospital and informed the police. Sub-Inspector Kulwinder Singh (Investigating Officer) said a case under Sections 307, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the accused. He said raids were on to nab the accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-persons-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-315449
24-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Clash between brothers turns fatal in Tarn Taran||A clash between two addict brothers claimed the life of one in Bodalkeeri village, falling under Verowal police station, on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Mehal Singh (45), who was hit on his head with a brick by his younger brother Roop Singh Roopa and his wife Harjit Kaur of the same village.Varinder Singh, DSP/SHO Verowal, said the accused trespassed the residence of the deceased on Tuesday night and indulged in a verbal duel, which led to a clash. Harjit Kaur caught hold of Mehal Singh and her husband Roop Singh hit him with a brick on his head.Surjit Kaur, wife of Mehal Singh, admitted him to Jandiala Guru Hospital in a serious condition. The doctors, after giving him medical treatment, discharged him soon. But his condition deteriorated on Wednesday again and as they were on their way to the hospital, he succumbed to his injuries. A case under Section 302 and 34 of the IPC was registered against Roop Singh and his wife Harjit Kaur by the Verowal police.DSP Varinder Singh said the accused have been arrested and were produced in court on Thursday. The court sent them in 14 days’ judicial custody. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/clash-between-brothers-turns-fatal-in-tarn-taran-315207
24-09-2021||---||To increase footfall, tourist hotspots in Amritsar mull adding new attractions||Amritsar, September 23To increase the scope of tourism in the city, prominent tourist attractions are hoping to increase activities by adding new attractions after the September 31 deadline for Covid-19 travel restrictions ends.With RTPCR test being made mandatory for tourists entering the state, places such as Gobindgarh Fort and Punjab State War Heroes Memorial and Museum will be reviving some of their facilities like live performances and live galleries.Gobindgarh Fort had resumed its galleries and exhibits when it had opened back in July. It resumed its audio-visual gallery and light and sound show recently, when tourist footfall became consistent. It is yet to begin with its live cultural performances.“We had reopened the fort a few months ago but were not hosting live performances on the premises due to Covid-19 restrictions. We hope to start it from October 1 onwards,” said Upinderjit Singh, GM, Gobindgarh Fort. The footfall, however, will only begin to increase when Wagah reopens for visitors, he said.The Punjab State War Heroes Memorial and Museum, too, has been upgrading its exhibits to attract more tourists. The Kargil War Gallery that is among one if its prominently displayed exhibits, has been opened for tourists after completion, post pandemic.“The Kargil gallery had been a work in progress before the pandemic and later, due to the pandemic the museum remained shut. Post re-opening, we have resumed most of our activities, including beginning work on three more galleries dedicated to World War I and World War II and Jallianwala Bagh,” said Col HP Singh, director.The Kargil Gallery had displayed replicas of Bofors Guns, recreated Tiger Hill capture and displayed memorials of Capt Vikram Batra and other martyrs. The war memorial used to get an average footfall of 2,000 daily before the pandemic, but its current footfall is down to 200-300 per day on weekdays and 500 visitors on weekends. With upgraded galleries and new attractions, Col Singh hopes that people will have something new to look forward to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/to-increase-footfall-tourist-hotspots-in-amritsar-mull-adding-new-attractions-315209
24-09-2021||---||Safai sewaks hailed for working all night ahead of Charanjit Singh Channi’s visit||Amritsar, September 23The Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner met the sanitation workers and praised them for their services ahead of the CM’s visit here.The administration came to know of the newly appointed CM’s visit to the city on September 21 evening, on which Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi immediately called the sanitation workers to ensure cleanliness in the city.Responding to the call, the sanitation staff led by officials of the health wing and Chief Sanitary Inspectors started cleaning the city around 5 pm. During the intervening night of September 21 and 22, the safai karamcharis remained on duty and cleaned the main roads of the city.MCA Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi and Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi inspected their work during the night. “The workers took the call seriously,” said Jaggi.A special meeting and tea party was organised today to acknowledge their work.On this occasion the Commissioner Municipal Corporation addressed the officers and employees and thanked for their efforts.Sandeep Rishi Additional Commissioner, health officers Yogesh Arora, Dr Sorav Chawla, Chief Sanitary inspectors Malkeet Singh Khaira, Ranjit Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Sahil Malhotra, Nirbhai Singh, Jyotinder Pal Singh Jagdeep Singh and Sanitary Inspectors, Vijay Gill, Vijay Sharma, Rajan Balwinder Singh, Ravinder Kumar, Brahm Das, Mangat Ram, Sanjeev Diwan, Sanjeev Arora, Dilbag Singh Randhawa, Satnam Singh, Anil Dogra, Sham Singh, Chandan Puri, Harjinder Singh Bedi, Ravinder Pal Singh, Tajinder Kumar, Ashok Kumar were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safai-sewaks-hailed-for-working-all-night-ahead-of-charanjit-singh-channis-visit-315210
24-09-2021||---||Reach office by 9am or face music, Amritsar municipal staffers told||Amritsar, September 23During a surprise checking of attendance at Municipal Corporation offices, MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi found 96 employees absent from office on Thursday morning. On the directions of newly appointed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the MC Commissioner along with additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi checked the attendance of staff at various offices at the Ranjit Avenue headquarters.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, MC Commissioner There are clear instructions from the Chief Minister to ensure that government employees reach office on time so that the public doesn't face any inconvenience. Those who will not take these directions seriously will face the music. Surprise checking will be held in future too and absentees will face departmental action.The officials started checking attendance at 9.10 am. As many as 96 employees were found absent without any prior permission from their department heads. A number of employees reached late as per routine.Jaggi issued show cause notices to all employees who were found absent during checking. He also instructed officials and employees to reach office on time.Soon after assuming office, newly appointed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had issued directions to the government employees to reach office by 9 am and remain available for the public till office hours in the evening.Aiming to bring discipline in government offices Channi asked department heads to conduct surprise checks twice a week to ensure availability of officers and employees at the offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reach-office-by-9am-or-face-music-amritsar-municipal-staffers-told-315208
24-09-2021||---||BJP Yuva Morcha leader Ashok Sareen records statement before STF||Amritsar, September 23BJP Yuva Morcha Punjab vice-president Ashok Sareen on Thursday appeared before the Special Task Force for investigations into the role of a prominent Punjabi singer and his links with alleged drug peddler Gurdeep Rano.Rano was held by the STF in November last year in connection with an international drug cartel seizing 5.39-kg heroin, illegal weapons and eight luxury cars from his palatial house.Rano allegedly amassed huge moveable and immovable properties in a span of four years. In March 2021, the Punjab Government had suspended five senior police officials, including an IG-rank officer, for their alleged collusion with him.Sareen was summoned by the STF for recording his statement at his border-range office here on Thursday. After recording his statement, he told the media that the Enforcement Directorate was also investigating into the links of Punjabi singer with the international drug cartel suspects following his complaint. He said the singer used to shoot films in the farmhouse of Rano. He said while investigating into the international drug racket, the STF had found the involvement of politicians, police and certain civilians and sought approval and further action from the Punjab Government in this regard.“If he had paid for the shooting, then he should show the transactions and receipts,” he said, adding that the STF will look into the possibility that Rano might have paid him to convert his ill-gotten money from drug trade into white money through foreign programmes of Punjabi singer and his group. Rano might have invested his money in making films also and the STF must look into this, he said.Arun Sharma DSP, STF, said Sareen’s statement was recorded and his allegations would be investigated into. The STF may summon Punjabi singer in the near future for investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-yuva-morcha-leader-ashok-sareen-records-statement-before-stf-315211
24-09-2021||---||Burglary solved in 24 hours, 3 arrested in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 23The Mehta police have nabbed three burglars and recovered Rs 2 lakh and stolen gold ornaments from them within 24 hours of the theft committed by them at a jeweller’s house.They were identified as Daljit Singh of Chung village, Paramjit Singh and Jasbir Singh of Khabbe Rajputa village. Harpreet Singh, a jeweller in his complaint had said that his family members had gone to Ambala for a function and he was alone at home. He said on Tuesday, Daljit Singh, who was known to him, came to him and they had tea and snacks together in his house located behind his jewellery shop. He said he told Daljit that he was alone at home.He said at night, he went to sleep and when he woke up the next morning, he saw his house ransacked and the almirah locks broken. He said he found gold ornaments and Rs2 lakh missing.Mukhtiar Singh, SHO Mehta police station, said during probe and victim’s statement, the police got suspicious about Daljit. He was arrested and later his two accomplices were also nabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/burglary-solved-in-24-hours-3-arrested-in-amritsar-315212
24-09-2021||---||Amritsar shopkeeper robbed at gunpoint, cops clueless||Amritsar, September 23In yet another robbery incident, a shopkeeper was looted by two unidentified persons at gunpoint in the Maqboolpura area here on Wednesday.Complainant Joginder Singh Upadhya alleged that he was at his shop, when two unidentified persons pointed a pistol at him. He alleged that they snatched Rs30,000 from the cash counter and fled with the DVR of the CCTV camera. One of their companions was waiting outside. He said they fled towards Khande Wala Chowk.The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act in this connection. Investigations are under way.On September 14, a shopkeeper was robbed in the Rani Ka Bagh area. Victim Sushil Kumar told the police that the accused took away around Rs25000 to Rs30,000 cash and two mobile phones worth Rs50,000 from him. A day earlier, a cosmetic shop owner was also looted by armed persons in the posh Ranjit Avenue B-block area here. Gaurav, the victim, said robbers snatched his purse and cash to the tune of Rs18,000 from the cash counter besides his mobile phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-shopkeeper-robbed-at-gunpoint-cops-clueless-315213
24-09-2021||---||There’s no stopping crime in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 23The Mehta police arrested a woman with her paramour for allegedly killing her husband who used to object to their relationship.The family of the deceased, identified as Guljit Singh (35), got suspicious after they found strangulation marks on his neck, while going through his pictures. Those arrested include Baljit Kaur, wife of Guljit, and her paramour Inderjit Singh of Rasulpur Kalan.Mehta police station SHO Mukhtiar Singh said the duo confessed to their crime.Raj Kaur, mother of the deceased, said Guljit along with his wife and two children used to live separately. He used to run a grocery shop, besides selling wood. She said on September 20, when she went to his house, she found him lying unconscious on his bed. She raised an alarm and her younger son Sajjan Singh and Baljit also came. They tried to wake him up, but he was dead.The next day Sajjan got the body videographed and clicked pictures before cremating Guljit. Raj said on Wednesday, when they were going through pictures, they spotted strangulation marks around his neck. She said Inderjit and Baljit had illicit relations and Guljit used to object to this. Enraged over this, the duo allegedly killed him, said Raj.During preliminary probe when the police analysed the CCTV cameras, they found that Inderjit was there in the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theres-no-stopping-crime-in-amritsar-315214
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||KTF module busted, 3 held with tiffin bombs in Bhikhiwind village||Tarn Taran, September 23The district police have busted another militant module allegedly backed by the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) with the arrest of its three activists from Bhagwanpur village in Bhikhiwind (Tarn Taran) on Wednesday night.The police recovered two boxes packed in foam which appeared to be tiffin bombs, two hand grenades (86P) and three 9-mm pistols from their possession. This is the sixth tiffin bomb recovered in Punjab in the past one and a half months.The district police said the arrested suspects had been identified as Kanwarpal Singh, Kulwinder Singh and Kamalpreet Singh, all residents of Moga. Kanwarpal disclosed that he had returned from Canada two weeks back.Bhikhiwind SHO Navdeep Singh Bhatti said the accused were produced in the court of Guarav Gupta, JMIC, Patti, which sent them in three-day police remand till September 25.SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman revealed the suspected were between the age of 22 and 23 years. Though no case has been found to be registered against them, theircriminal backgroundwas being verified.The development came four months after the Punjab Police arrested three activists of the KTF, involved in several heinous crimes, including the murder of a Dera man and firing on a priest. The trio had been found acting on the directions ofKTF’s Canada-based chiefHardeep Singh Nijjar.The suspects were arrested when a police party intercepted a Swift car bearing and arrested the trio. One of the suspected pointed his revolver at the police party. SSP Opinderjit Singh said preliminary investigations revealed the module members had reached Tarn Taran to retrieve some dumped militant hardware consignment, on the directions of Canada-based Arshdeep Dalla, who is a close aide of Hardeep Nijjar.The suspects recovered a hand grenade from Mari Kamboke and the second from Chung village, which were buried under the soil. Notably, Kamaljit and Lovepreet, who were earlier arrested in Moga, had introduced the accused to Arshdeep.A case under Section 307 of the IPC, Section 475 of the Explosives Substance Amendment Act, Sections 13, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act has been filed at the Bhikhiwind police station.Hand grenades, pistols seized||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ktf-module-busted-3-held-with-tiffin-bombs-in-bhikhiwind-village-315345
