25-09-2021||A day before the name of Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa started doing the rounds as the Chief Minister||The monk replaces the Ferrari driver in Majha||Voices to make Batala a district die downA direct fall out of the change in dispensation in Chandigarh has been that voices to make Batala a district have died down. Earlier, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa had handed over a letter to then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh urging him to elevate the status of the subdivisional town to a full-fledged district. Two powerful dissenting leaders Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, too, wanted the demand to be met. In between, salvos were fired from both sides apparently in what was slowly turning out to be a credit war. All eyes are on Randhawa and Tript as these two are now in power. However, people in the know claim that the move may not fructify till the elections are over. The division, if at all it happens, is likely to hit the lawyers’ community of Gurdaspur. The advocates fear they will have to face a loss of clientele. For the time being, it is peace that prevails instead of politics.Aarushi does city proudYoung Aarushi Mahajan has done the city proud by becoming one of the teachers selected to teach prospective candidates who will be appearing for an exam to recruit constables in Punjab Police. Even SSP Nanak Singh was impressed by her teaching skills following which he felicitated her at a simple ceremony held in his office. Aarushi says most of the candidates she teaches at the Sukhjindra College belong to the lower strata of society and hence are unable to afford the exorbitant fees taken by local tuition centres. She is a postgraduate in social sciences from Panjab University, Chandigarh. The SSP was scouting for a young teacher when somebody told him about Aarushi. The girl was quick to make up her mind as “she wanted to do something for the upliftment of society.” As things stand, she is turning out to be a success story of Gurdaspur. “Every educated person is not rich. But every educated person is capable of keeping himself or herself out of poverty,” she says. And that is what she intends to do. She wants all these candidates to get a good education so that they can manage things on their own. Aarushi surely must have heard about the adage: “Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime”.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-monk-replaces-the-ferrari-driver-in-majha-315749
25-09-2021||Amritsar||DAV students shine in badminton||Bhagat Singh’s birth anniv celebratedAmritsar: The Punjab Students Union (Lalkar) celebrated the 114th birth anniversary of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh at GNDU. An exhibition of books related to the biographies and writings of revolutionaries was put up and a poster gallery was set up introducing the revolutionary movement. Students were informed about the Ghadar Movement, martyrs of the Kakori incident, the history from the Hindustan Republican Association to the formation of the Hindustan Socialist Republican Association and the life of Bhagat Singh. Students remembered Shaheed Bhagat Singh through revolutionary songs and poems.International webinar on agricultureAmritsar Group of Colleges (AGC) organised an international webinar titled ‘Agriculture and Use of Satellite/Drone Imagery’, presided by Dr. Indermohan S. Rawal (PhD Prof. and HoD (Science) University Department, Northlands College, La Ronge Saskatchewan Canada. Ragini Sharma- Director Finance AGC, and Dr VK Banga, Principal AGC said that the college is going to introduce a new technique of drone imagery to the students, which will be a new step towards technology learning. Dr Banga added that the development in agriculture is one of the interventions, which have a potential in improving the standard of living of rural peoples.DAV institutions’ election meetingPrincipal Dr Rajesh Kumar held an election meeting in college campus, with heads of various DAV institutions of Amritsar district. DAV staff and other members have been assigned election duty at different polling booths in the upcoming PU senate elections. Dr Rajesh informed that PU administrative and academic decisions requires the approval of the Senate. After the new senate, the national education policy will be adopted and later the proposal of senate reform etc. will be passed.Webinar dwells on Hindi languageThe Department of Hindi, BBK DAV College for Women, Amritsar, hosted a webinar on global perspective of Hindi language. Dr Harmohinder Singh Bedi, Chancellor, Central University, Dharamshala, Himachal Pradesh, was the chief guest and resource person for the same. Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia, in her address, said that although English literature is her forte, yet Hindi literature has always fascinated her since her childhood. Dr Walia dwelt upon the contribution of top-notch Hindi writers, such as Munshi Prem Chand, Bhisham Sahni and Mohan Rakesh in the proliferation of Hindi language and literature. Dr Harmohinder Singh Bedi said Hindi has helped India gain international recognition.Lecture on hair, skin integrityThe Department of Lifelong Learning organised an extension lecture on “Hair & Skin Integrity Approach’ in which the resource person was Mukti Arora, Head of the Department of Cosmetology, Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar. Prof Saroj Bala, Director, Dept of Lifelong Learning said that the lectures enable students to sharpen and refine their skills and become entrepreneurs. Mukti Arora, in her lecture gave detailed overview of different methods of analysis of skin & hair etc. She also emphasised on herbal care of skin and hair and told the students about the importance of relation of internal health with skin and hair beauty. She also gave the practical demonstration with hands on training about the basic facial massage manipulations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-students-shine-in-badminton-315751
25-09-2021||---||Civil Surgeon inspects Community Health Centre||Amritsar, September 24As per directions of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Amritsar Civil Surgeon conducted surprise inspection at the Manawala Community Health Centre on Friday. The Civil Surgeon took review of various health services and attendence of paramedics.He along with Dr Sumit Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Manawala Community Health Centre, visited the hospital and checked OPD services, operation theatre, vaccination drive, Covid testing and training of ASHA workers.The Senior Medical Officer apprised the Civil Surgeon regarding ongoing development works at the hospital.The Civil Surgeon emphasied on importance of reporting on time, Covid-19 vaccination and creating awareness regarding dengue in urban and rural areas.Dr Rajnish, Dr Sahil Batra, Dr Bavkirat Singh, Dr Gurpreet Kaur, Dr Shubhpreet Singh, Sourav Sharma and Pritpal Singh Bajwa, among others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-surgeon-inspects-community-health-centre-315750
25-09-2021||---||350 students participate in painting competition in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 24The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) organised an annual painting competition for school and college students dedicated to the Prakash Purb (birth anniversary) of the fourth Sikh master, Guru Ramdas, at Bhai Gurdas Hall here today. In all, 350 students from 75 schools and colleges participated in the competition in three categories, including Class VI to VIII, Class IX to XII and graduates.Among subjects given for painting to students included picture of Darshani Singhni (Sikh women wearing Sikh traditional attire, including turban), Sikh instruments Rabab/Dilruba, scene of langar sewa (community kitchen service), Sham Singh Attari, Baba Baghel Singh, Bhagat Puran Singh, Bhai Lachhman Singh Dharowali, S Teja Singh Samundri Hall and scenes depicting the Guru Ka Bagh Morcha (of 1922).Judges of the painting competitions included Hardeep Singh, Jaspal Singh and Mandeep Singh. The SGPC additional secretary, Partap Singh, and the Golden Temple manager, Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, said, “Every year on the birth anniversary of the fourth Guru, various competitions are held in which students display their skills in painting and art.” Students would also be given certificates and round-trip travel expenses, they added.SGPC officials said a written test scheduled to be held on September 27 would now be held on October 1 at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall. Malkit Singh Beharwal, Baghel Singh, supervisor Kabal Singh, Dr Ranjit Kaur Panwan, Dr Simranjit Kaur, Dr Harpreet Kaur, Bibi Gurmeet Kaur, Bibi Kirandeep Kaur, Armanjit Singh, Surjit Singh Rana and Jaspal Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/350-students-participate-in-painting-competition-in-amritsar-315752
25-09-2021||Our Correspondent||ASHA workers hold protest, raise slogans against govt||Tarn Taran, September 24On a nationwide strike call, members of the district unit of the ASHA workers and Facilitators’ Union took out a rally here on Friday. They marched through the town and laid stress on the fulfilment of their current demands. They also raised slogans against the Centre and the state government.Kulwant Kaur Mianwind, Seema Sohal, Asha Workers The government should implement the recommendations of the 15th Labour Conference, give Rs27,000 as monthly salary and Rs2,500 remuneration.Addressing on the occasion, Kulwant Kaur Mianwind and Seema Sohal demanded the implementation of the recommendations of the 15th Labour Conference that they should be given Rs27,000 as monthly salary and till that as per the assurance of the state Health Minister they should be awarded Rs2,500 as monthly remuneration.While addressing on the occasion, leaders Balkar Valtoha and Devinder Sohal extended their support to the agitating workers and demanded the fulfilment of their demands, which included four sets of uniforms every year, Rs10 lakh Life Insurance cover, six-month maternity leave and other demands. Other leaders of the union also addressed on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asha-workers-hold-protest-raise-slogans-against-govt-315753
25-09-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Tarn Taran can be an export hub’||Tarn Taran, September 24Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kulwant Singh has called upon the entrepreneurs of the district to gear up as the border district of the state is soon going to open its doors for the international trade. The DC said Tarn Taran was going to be converted into a trade corridor with several countries. He also said due to the change in the global circumstances, the borders coul not remain closed for long.The Deputy Commissioner was addressing a conference of the entrepreneurs here on Friday which was organised with the collaboration of the Foreign Trade Ministry and the state industry department dedicated to the country’s 75th Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. Deputy Commissioner said the industry and the trade would create more avenues for the district.He said linking Tarn Taran to link other countries by road was the need of the hour. He said instructions had been issued to the concerned offices to provide every possible facility to the entrepreneur aspirant to initiate export.Prithvi Raj, Director-General, Foreign Trade, in his address, said the entrepreneurs would just get necessary code and licence by applying online, within three minutes. He added that 96% goods to be exported would be exempted from taxes and there would be negligible tax on the other remaining items to be exported. The Union Government has been facilitating the exporters by giving subsidies to the exporters, said the director.Bhagat Singh, General Manager, Industry, said the entrepreneurs must take advantage of the avenue as the Union Government, under the ‘One District-One Product’, had chosen pear fruit, grown widely in Tarn Taran district, for processing and export.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-can-be-an-export-hub-315754
25-09-2021||Amritsar||Four booked under SC/ST Act in Amritsar||Four booked for murder attemptAmritsar: The police booked four persons for barging into a house and injuring members of a family in the Bharariwal area falling under Gate Hakima police station here on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Deepak aka Sonu Bullet, Nishan Singh, alias Sunny, Khazan aka Nikka and Nishan Singh, all residents of Bharariwal. The complainant, Jaswinder Kaur, said when the accused knocked at the door of the house, she opened it and found them carrying sharp-edged weapons, baseball bats and bricks in their hands. She said the accused shouted to nab Lovepreet and entered her house. The accused attacked and injured her and her family members while ransacking the house, she added. Efforts were on to nab the accused. TNSNo fresh case reported in distAmritsar: The health authorities reported no new case and death in the district on Friday. The number of positive cases stand at 47,296. The authorities reported recovery of seven patients in the district. With this, the number of recovered patients increased to 45,692 from 45,685. The district has 13 active cases. A total of 36,568 people were vaccinated in the ongoing drive on Friday. Of these, 23,276 received their first dose and 13,292 were jabbed against Covid for the second time. TNSNew shooting range at GNDUAmritsar: The construction of 25m and 50m shooting range commenced at Guru Nanak Dev University. The new shooting range will boost the university’s sports programme. Various players, including Divyansh Singh Panwar, who represented India in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, practised at the GNDU. A formal ceremony was also held to start construction of MYAS GNDU Department of Sports Sciences and Medicine. Prof Shweta Shenoy, Head, MYAS GNDU Department of Sports Sciences and Medicine, formally commenced the extension work of the department. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-booked-under-sc-st-act-in-amritsar-315755
25-09-2021||---||KTF module: Arms dropped through drones, claim police||Amritsar, September 24The two tiffin bombs, hand grenades and three 9-mm pistols recovered from three activists of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) were smuggled from drones reportedly in the Khalra area, where movements of a UAV were noticed a couple of days ago.Kanwarpal Singh, Kulwinder Singh and Kamalpreet Singh, all residents of Moga, arrested by the Tarn Taran police, were produced in the court yesterday, which sent them in five-day police remand. The police probe revealed they had been working as couriers.Though police officials are tight-lipped over the investigations being carried out in the case, it has been learnt the police were trying to identify those who had retrieved the explosives near the International Border.“The explosives were dumped somewhere in the Bhikhiwind subdivision from where the three had retrieved these on the directions of Canada-based Arshdeep Dhalla,” said Tarn Taran SSP Opinderjit Ghuman while adding the consignment was sneaked into the Indian territory with the help of drones. He said they were yet to get the directions on where and to whom to deliver the consignment.The Tarn Taran police teams had intercepted a car at a checkpoint near Bhagwanpur village in Bhikhiwind and arrested the trio yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ktf-module-arms-dropped-through-drones-claim-police-315684
25-09-2021||Amritsar||Ahead of National Achievement Survey, Education Department amplifies efforts||Modern teaching equipment, including computers and projectors, have been provided to government schools to make learning process simple and ensure preparation for the National Achievement Survey (NAS).Satinder Bir Singh, District Education Officer, said, “With availability of projectors and other gadgets, government schools have been able to provide education on the lines of private schools.”He said, “It’s observed that with the help of projectors, teachers are conducting the National Achievement Survey and practice tests for students. Detailed information on each subject is being provided effortlessly.” Availability of modern teaching aids would have an impact on performance and the NAS of students. he added.Schools would also hold two-day meet on September 29 and 30, in which parents of middle, high and senior secondary students would be informed about students performance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ahead-of-national-achievement-survey-education-department-amplifies-efforts-315756
25-09-2021||Amritsar||Jagda Zameer wants Navjot Singh Sidhu to cut power tariff||With Navjot Singh Sidhu completing two months as president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), a local NGO staged a demonstration outside his residence and asked him to fulfill the promise which he had made before being elected as the Punjab Congress chief. Activists of NGO Jagda Zameer raised slogans against Sidhu and demanded to reduce the power tariff immediately.Subash Sehgal, President, Jagda ZameerSidhu has been fooling residents for the last 17 years by making false promises. We want him to be accountable for his statements.Subash Sehgal, president, Jagda Zameer, said, “Navjot Singh Sidhu had promised to reduce the power tariff to Rs3 per unit after attaining power. Now, the CM is Charanjit Singh Channi, but Sidhu is indirectly running the government. If he can remove AIT Chairman Dinesh Bassi to settle his score, he can also take a decision on power tariff.”The activists also demanded justice in the incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and to check the drug menace. Sehgal alleged that hoardings and billboards to welcome the CM in the city were displayed by the drug mafia and fraudulent persons.“Sidhu is fooling the residents for the last 17 years by making false promises. He has not fulfilled even a single promise till date. We wanted him to be accountable for his statements. He should immediately reduce the power tariff and punish the culprits behind the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. The sand and drug mafias should be curbed otherwise we will intensify the struggle and stage demonstrations across the state,” said Sehgal.It is worth mentioning here that in a tweet on July 4, Sidhu had stated, “Punjab already provides a subsidy of Rs 9,000 crore, but we must do more for domestic and industrial consumers by giving power at Rs 3-5 per unit instead of surcharge inflated Rs10-12 per unit, along with 24-hour supply with no power cuts and free power (up to 300 units). It is definitely achievable.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jagda-zameer-wants-navjot-singh-sidhu-to-cut-power-tariff-315757
25-09-2021||---||Joint Teachers Front terms National Achievement Survey a farce||Amritsar, September 24Calling out the Education Department on sidelining formal classroom teaching in preparation for National Achievement Survey (NAS), the Joint Teachers Front (JTF) has called for a statewide protest. The district unit of JTF also lodged protest at the recent visit of Education Secretary to various schools to access the NAS preparations.Terming NAS as a ‘farce’, District Convener Gurdeep Singh Bajwa, said the normal classroom teaching was being ignored as teachers were being forced to shun teaching work and prepare questions and mock test papers.“Taking into account the essence of actual education and curriculum, children who have already suffered academically due to suspension of classroom teaching due to pandemic, are now being forced to focus only on the NAS preparations. Although, the syllabus for NAS is from the curriculum followed by various classes, the time being wasted in preparations for just one test is going to impact the pace of normal teaching later,” he said.He said there was a method to formal teaching, to which most students, especially those from rural belt are used to. “Their assessment process is being limited to multiple choice questions and preparation for the survey, eliminating creativity from the students.”He also raised several issues, which also said many posts were being abolished by placing the burden of several schools on one principal, teacher and clerk without resolving the issues of transfers, pending promotions and victimisations. The corporate model of education is being set up by closing all small scale schools, including middle and high under the name of merger,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/joint-teachers-front-terms-national-achievement-survey-a-farce-315758
25-09-2021||---||Amritsar Civic body removes illegal structures, encroachments||Amritsar, September 24A team of the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) led by Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh conducted a demolition drive during which encroachment by a religious sect outside Shri Guru Ram Das Hospital were removed. The violators had illegally occupied the road by installing pillars and claimed ownership of the area. The estate wing team removed encroachment with a ditch machine.Similarly, an illegally constructed kiosk on the road near Rambagh Chowk was removed by the MC. Several temporary encroachments were also removed on Majitha Road by estate wing employees.Dharminderjit Singh said encroachments were removed and vioators warned on directions of Mayor Karamjit Singh and MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi.Inspector Raj Kumar, Arun Sehajpal, the department staff and the police personnel were also part of the estate wing team that removed encroachments from various areas of the city.Meanwhile, the Municipal Town Planning (MTP) wing of the MC also demolished illegal buildings and encroachments on Airport Road yesterday evening. The MC Commissioner had identified 16 illgal buildings on Airport Road and gave directions to take action in this regard.A team of the MTP wing led by Narinder Sharma, Municipal Town Planner, and Angad Singh, building inspector, inspected five buildings on Airport Road. The facades and roofs of the five illgal buildings were partially demolished in the anti-encroachment drive.Sharma said no illgal construction would be allowed in the city. The drive would continue in the coming days and more illgal buildings would be demolished, Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-removes-illegal-structures-encroachments-315759
25-09-2021||---||CRPF cycle rally reaches Amritsar||Amritsar, September 24In order to mark the 75th Independence Day, a cycle rally, under the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, has been organised by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). It commenced from Jammu and Kashmir and will culminate in Delhi.It reached Amritsar today and the participants – CRPF Jawans — were welcomed by CRPF officials, including IG CRPF Moolchand Pawar and DIG Bhanu Partap. They paid homage at the Jallianwala Bagh where Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal welcomed them. He also honoured the participants.CRPF officials, while speaking on the occasion, said, the rally was organised from four corners of the country. He said the rally, which started from J&K, would end at Raj Ghat in New Delhi on October 2.It is evident to mention here that the Union Home Ministry had decided to celebrate the year 2021 as ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, aiming at making people aware of sacrifices made by the freedom fighters to attain the freedom.DIG CRPF Harjinder Singh said the CRPF organised cycle rallies from different parts of the country from Wednesday. This rally passed through Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Batala before reaching Amritsar. After paying homage at Jallianwala Bagh, it would continue its journey and would visit Jang-E- Azadi, Kartarpur, Group Kendre at Jalandhar and Ludhiana, Shaheed Udham Singh Smarak at Sarhind (Fatehgarh Sahib), Ambala, Kurukshetra, Sonepat, Gurugram and would end at Raj Ghat at New Delhi. The CRPF jawans also paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crpf-cycle-rally-reaches-amritsar-315760
25-09-2021||---||Robbers target woman, loot Rs 7,000 at gunpoint in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 24The city witnessed one more incident of snatching that took place inside a shop here on Friday. The incident also raises a question mark over the functioning of the Punjab Police, which has miserably failed to check crime. This time, a woman customer was looted by two unidentified persons at gunpoint.The incident has caused a sense of fear among shopkeepers, trading community and residents. With the arrest of a gang recently, the police had claimed that it would curb the robberies, especially wherein shopkeepers were being targeted.As per information, Shama Sharma, a resident of Guru Nanak Avenue located on Majitha Road, had gone to a cloth house situated in Shaheed Udham Singh Colony. She said as she entered the shop, two unidentified persons entered the shop and pointed a pistol at her and asked to hand over whatever she had.The victim said as the shop owner, Arun Kumar, started arguing with them, they snatched her hand bag containing Rs 7,000 cash and other IDs and fled from the shop. The police have registered a case in this regard.On September 17, the police had claimed to have arrested two robbers involved in robbing as many as seven grocery and departmental stores. The police had hoped that it would curb such incidents. The police had arrested the duo, identified as Prince, a resident of Sultanwind Road, New Azad Nagar, and Amandeep Singh of Bagh Ramanand area.However, again a couple of instances were reported to the police in which shopkeepers were looted. Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said efforts were on to nab the accused. They would be behind bars soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-target-woman-loot-rs-7-000-at-gunpoint-in-amritsar-315745
25-09-2021||---||36-year-old stabbed to death over parking row, 15 booked in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 24A man was stabbed to death by a group of persons on Thursday at Varpal Kalan village falling under the jurisdiction of Chatiwind police station after a spat over parking of an auto-rickshaw. The deceased has been identified as Kulbir Singh, alias Kanta (36). He is survived by his wife and four children.Though the police claimed that a tiff over parking of an auto-rickshaw in front of the house of Kanta was the reason behind the incident, family members alleged that the deceased had objected to nefarious activities of the accused, who were allegedly involved in drug peddling.Those booked have been identified as Jatinder Singh, Varinder Singh, Malkeet Singh, Jagtar Singh, Nishan Singh, Jagga Singh, Jasbir Singh, Sandeep Singh, Lakhwinder Singh, Avtar Singh, Gopi, Kanti Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Jagroop Singh and Happy, all residents of Varpal.Niranjan Singh, father of the deceased, told the police that around 8 pm, the accused parked their auto- rickshaw in front of their house and were selling drugs. He said the accused stabbed his son with a sharp-edged weapon repeatedly.The Chatiwind police station SHO, Vikrant Sharma, said allegations of the family of the deceased were being ascertained.He said a case under Sections 302, 452, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered against the accused and raids were on to nab them.Sonu, a relative of the deceased, said if cops fail to arrest the accused till Friday, they would hold an agitation against the police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/36-year-old-stabbed-to-death-over-parking-row-15-booked-in-amritsar-315742
