26-09-2021||---||‘Rules violated to allot Verka booths’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25RTI activist and AAP leader Suresh Sharma on Saturday alleged that Verka milk booths were allotted by former Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) Chairman Dinesh Bassi in violation of rules. Suresh Sharma demanded to re-allot these booths to unemployed youth as per the list of unemployed persons in the Employment Office.A number of booths were allocated to Bassi's near and dear ones. The establishment of kiosks in public parks was also illegal. The removal of Bassi has brought relief to needy persons, who were sidelined during allotment. — Suresh Sharma, RTI activist & AAP leaderFormer district president of Aam Aadmi Party, Suresh Kumar Sharma said Dinesh Bassi, former chairman of the AIT, violated the rules while allotting the booths. “A number of booths were allocated to Bassi’s near and dear ones. The establishment of kiosks in public parks was also illegal. The removal of Bassi has brought relief to needy persons, who were sidelined during allotment,” said Sharma.The booths were mostly set up illegally on sidewalks and parks in localities of the north constituency in the district. The booths were set up in Ranjit Avenue, Nehru Shopping Complex and New Amritsar.Suresh said from the year 2019 till removal of Bassi, former chairman and general manager, Verka milk plant, had allotted the Verka milk booths by violating the government rules. The booths should be re-allotted to those persons who applied for employment in the District Employment Office. The AIT can help some physically challenged or elderly persons, who do not have other means of livelihood.Suresh claimed that he would meet newly appointed AIT Chairman Damandeep Singh and ask him to re-allot the kiosks to the unemployed persons registered with the District Employment Office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rules-violated-to-allot-verka-booths-316363
26-09-2021||---||Improving air purity on their mind, Amritsar admn to prepare database of old trees||Amritsar, September 25Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira has directed the District Environment Committee to put up a large signboard indicating air purity at the District Administrative Complex to draw the attention of general public towards environment.Addressing a meeting of the environment panel, the Deputy Commissioner said, “The administration is going to initiate measures to counter air and land pollution. Though this information can be found on everyone’s mobile phone these days, we are ignoring this important issue as we are busy in other works. A large signboard would be put up in the DAC in such a way that it would be updated online and in a place where the maximum number of people can see it. This would raise awareness of the environment among the general public.”Khaira said,“We are also working to compile database of old trees in the city, including a large number of sacred trees (bohar and peepal). Whenever a tree is cut down, it comes to our notice, but if such data is generated, we can inform the general public by putting up a warning sign near such trees.”The environment panel was recently constituted by the the Deputy Commissioner to monitor eco-issues in the city, which decided to set up small forests on vacant areas, including school and college grounds, focal points and areas under the Punjab State Industry Corporation.The Deputy Commissioner asked landscape expert Dr Krishna Kumar to work out a strategy for relocating trees of the old office of the Irrigation Department.Khaira assigned the responsibility of preparing the best landscape in the DAC to GS Bilga. He asked the committee members to include in their team such persons who would not be limited to mere advice or grievances, but would also devote their time to protecting the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/improving-air-purity-on-their-mind-amritsar-admn-to-prepare-database-of-old-trees-316364
26-09-2021||---||Amritsar reports two positive cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25With two positive cases reported on Saturday, the district Covid tally increased to 47,298.The new cases include one influenza-like illness case and one contact of a positive patient.The Health Department has also reported the recovery of three patients, with which the recovery count increased to 45,695.The Jalandhar district at present has a total of 12 active cases.A total of 25,813 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Saturday.Of these, 17,335 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 8,478 received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-two-positive-cases-316365
26-09-2021||---||2 persons booked for firing at Lopoke panchayat member||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25The Lopoke police have booked two persons on the charge of murder bid after they fired at Jagjit Singh, member of Lopoke panchayat. The accused have been identified as Sukhbir Singh, alias Sukha, and Sukhbir Singh, son of Randhir Singh, both residents of Lopoke.Jagjit Singh told the police that on Thursday evening, power supply to his house went off suddenly. He said he came out and saw that the electricity supply to neighbouring houses was on.He said he went to the meter box and got to know that someone had disconnected the power supply to his house.He said when they were connecting the supply, the accused came there while shouting to teach him a lesson for connecting the power supply on his own.He said Sukhbir Singh fired two gunshots from his .315 bore rifle at him, but he narrowly escaped in the firing. He said on hearing the gunshots, the villagers gathered at the spot and the accused fled from the place.The police recovered empty shells from the spot. Both the accused were booked under Sections 307, 336 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The police said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-persons-booked-for-firing-at-lopoke-panchayat-member-316366
26-09-2021||---||Owner, insurance firm told to pay Rs1.03 crore||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal has directed the owner of a car and an insurance firm to pay Rs1.03 crore to family members of a Havildar of the Indian Army, who was killed in a road accident involving the same vehicle.The Tribunal has directed the car owner and insurer to pay the amount within three months of the announcement of the decision.Failing to do so, they would be liable to pay 7.5 per cent interest per annum from the date of filing of complaint by the victim’s family till the amount is realised.The complaint was filed by deceased’s wife, parents and two minor sons against owner of the Swift Car Harbhajan Singh and the National Insurance Company with which the vehicle was insured.Advocate Swarndeep Singh, legal counsel for the complainant, said Amarjit Singh (29) working with the Army had died in a hit and run case while he was jogging near his home during his holidays. He added that the driver of the car had fled from the place but the registration plate had fallen at the place from which the vehicle was tracked.He said brother-in-law of the deceased was also with him when the accident had occurred. He added that the tribunal has directed the opposite party to deposit the amount with it in three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/owner-insurance-firm-told-to-pay-rs1-03-crore-316367
26-09-2021||---||Man booked for raping minor niece||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her maternal uncle at Bhullar village falling under the Lopoke police station area.Husband, father-in-law accused of sexual harassmentAmritsar: A married woman has accused her husband and father-in-law of sexual harassment and dowry. The police have registered a case in this regard while no arrest has been made till now. The victim lodged a complaint with the police on July 22 while a case was registered on Friday following a probe conducted by Assistant Superintendent of Police Abhimanyu Rana. In her statement to the police, she alleged that her husband Gupreet Singh and father-in-law Salinder Singh who were drug addicts and used to sexually harass her and also tried to rape her. She said Salinder Singh used to come naked in front of her. The police registered a case under Sections 498-A, 354, 354-A and 509 of the IPC against Gurpreet and his father Salinder, both residents of Mahal Colony in Ajnala, after taking legal opinion. Further investigation was under progress, said the police, adding that efforts were on to nab the suspects. TNSThe police have registered a case after a complaint was lodged by the victim even as the incident occurred five days ago. The accused was identified as Daler Singh of Chainpur village in the Rajasansi police station area. She told the police that on Monday, she was going to the residence of her relative, when the accused, who was her maternal uncle met her. She said he made her sit on his bike. She said he took her to some secluded place near the canal distributary in the village, where he raped her.She alleged that the accused was forcing her to get married with him and earlier also had harassed her physically and sexually.She said Daler Singh parked his bike at Khiayla bus stand and took her to Ludhiana on bus. She said they stayed there at a gurdwara for three days. She said she then escaped and reached home by bus. She narrated the entire incident to her parents and a complaint was lodged. The police said a case under Sections 376, 363, 366-A and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-raping-minor-niece-316368
26-09-2021||---||Amritsar farmer: A master of hybrid chillies||Charanjit Singh TejaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25Gurbir Singh, a marginal farmer of Bhorshi Rajputan village, has made a mark in progressive farming. He is a well-know vegetable seed and nursery seller in the area.Narrating his story of struggle, Gurbir said he was unable to continue his studies, due to unfortunate death of his father in a road accident in 2000. He said he was 19-year-old and his family was under debt.He said he had to take care of his mother, two younger brothers and a sister. As a result, he started sowing vegetables on his 2.5 acres.Later, Gurbir contacted Dr Narinderpal Singh, In-charge Farm Advisory Service Scheme of Punjab Agricultural University, and got training in making chilli hybrid seeds.Gurbir became a master in hybrid chillies and cytoplasmic male sterility technique used for breeding of new varities. He established Gobinpura nursery for quality production in vegetable and did several experiments. During rabi season, nursery is raised on 8.5 acres while during kharif season it’s reduced to 3 acres.Gurbir has developed a vermicompost unit to supplement essential nutrients for nursery. He constructed a moveable net house in 1 kanal, where he grows tomato, brinjal, capsicum and cauliflower.Net-house cultivation increases quality and quantity of nursery. In order to improve water efficiency, Gurbir uses drip irrigation system.A biogas plant has been installed to optimise the use of cow dung. The biogas is used in kitchen and slurry in fields. Gurbir was awarded by the PAU in 2010. He also got ‘Best Nursery Grower’ award in 2009 and got many awards in addition to ‘Farmer Award’ by Amritsar Deputy Commissioner under the Agriculture Technology Management Agency scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-farmer-a-master-of-hybrid-chillies-316369
26-09-2021||---||Illegal hoardings deface Tarn Taran||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, September 25The Tarn Taran Municipal Council has failed to keep a tab on illegal hoardings installed by different political parties, thus leading to defacement.Two such hoardings have been installed on both sides of the main gate of the Civil Surgeon’s office.Posters and banners dot the entire city and civic body officials were least bothered to act against the violators.Not just private establishments, but many government offices, too, have been defaced by political parties with their hoardings and bill boards.Posters of Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akal Dal can be seen in every nook and corner of the city ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections.As the AAP has a maximum number of ticket aspirants in this constituency, a sort of poster war has begun among them. Similar is the situation in villages.Rajnish Arora, SDM-cum-Administrator, Municipal Council, and Executive Officer Sharanjit Kaur failed to revert despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-hoardings-deface-tarn-taran-316371
26-09-2021||Amritsar||Over 2,000 take part in orthodontics conference||The three-day conference of Indian Society of Indian Orthodontic Society (IOS) is being held here from September 24 to September 26. The event was formally inaugurated by MP Gurjit Singh Aujla and Vice Chancellor GNDU Jaspal Singh Sandhu.The event is being attended by over 2,000 delegates from all across the globe.President IOS Dr Silju Mathew, Secretary Dr SrIdevi Padmanabhan, president elect Dr Shrikrishna Chalasani, Dr Pradeep Jain and prominent members of the organisation are attending the conference.Dr Jagpreet Singh Sandhu, a prominent orthodontist said, the conference is being conducted in both offline and online modes. “While members from Punjab and nearby states are attending the conference physically, those from far including those in other countries off places joined on online platform,” he said.Dr Amanish Singh, Organising Secretary and Principal Adesh Dental College, Bathinda, said with new advancements in medical sciences, such events help physicians stay up-to-date.“With the theme ‘Smiles 2021 and Beyond: a prism of opportunities’, we are inspired to expand our reach further beyond the borders of this region by bringing together orthodontists and partners in the industry,” said Dr Jagpreet Singh Sandhu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-2-000-take-part-in-orthodontics-conference-316372
26-09-2021||---||Residents seek repair of road linking 12 villages, write to CM||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, September 25Residents of as many as 15 villages around the Chohla Sahib township have submitted a letter to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi seeking repair of one-and-a-half-kilometre stretch of a road in the township.The road links over 12 villages of the area to the township. Dalbir Singh of Chohla Sahib said residents of Chohla Sahib, Sarhali, Billianwala, Dhunn, Gharka, Chamba, Pakhopur, Ruriwala, Gandiwind, Dhattal, Karmunwala and others sent the letter to the Chief Minister on Thursday.Residents, including Jarnail Singh, Hardeep Singh, Avtar Singh, Alam sandhu, Dharminder Singh, Hardev Singh, Surjit Singh, Rajwinder Singh Sarpanch Ruriwala, among others said knee-deep water can be seen in the middle of the road for the past over 13 years. They had approached local politicians and officials but to no avail. The residents had requested the Chief Minister to take personal interest in the matter and issue strict instructions to the redress the problem of the area residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-seek-repair-of-road-linking-12-villages-write-to-cm-316373
26-09-2021||Amritsar||Sports committees’ meeting at GNDU||An annual general meeting of Guru Nanak Dev University Sports Committees’ (men & women), chaired by VC Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, was held at the Senate Hall of the university. Dr Tarsem Singh, Principal, SN College, Banga, was elected as the president of GNDU Sports Committees’ (men) and Dr Indu Bala, Principal, Mata Ganga Girls College, Tarn Taran, was elected as the president of the women committee.Besides, GNDU Overall General Championship (Men) ‘A’ division 2019-20 trophy was awarded to Khalsa College, Amritsar, runners-up trophy was awarded to Lyllpur Khalsa College (LKC) Jalandhar. GNDU Overall General Championship (Men) ‘B’ division trophy was awarded to SSM College, Dinanagar, and runners-up trophy was awarded to SMDRSD College, Pathankot.GNDU overall general championship (Women) ‘A’ Div. trophy was awarded to BBKDAV College for Women, Amritsar, and runners-up trophy was awarded to HMV College, Jalandhar. GNDU Overall General Championship (Women) ‘B’ division trophy was awarded to Hindu College, Amritsar and runners-up trophy was awarded to Doaba College, Jalandhar. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Yadgari Trophy 2019-20 was awarded to Khalsa College, Amritsar, and runners-up trophy was awarded to LKC Jalandhar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sports-committees-meeting-at-gndu-316375
26-09-2021||Amritsar||Fit India Freedom Run flagged off||In commemoration of India’s 75 years of Independence and birth anniversarty of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, Fit India Freedom Run was flagged off from the Jallianwala Bagh here on Saturday.On the theme of “Jan Andolan from Jan Bhagidari”, it was organised at the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan with the active support from various sports clubs.The participants of the run headed to Jung-E-Azadi memorial at Kartarpur. En-route they halted at Bania village where an elaborate programme was held.At the beginning of the programme, Rohil Kumar Katta, Accounts and Programme Assistant of Nehru Yuva Kendra, Amritsar, explained the purpose of the programme, he motivated the youth to be healthy in life.Under the leadership of sarpanchs and Youth Clubs of different villages of Tarsika block. The programme was organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra, Amritsar, in Bania village of Tarsika block of district Amritsar through youth club of village Bania Shaheed Udham Singh Sports and Youth Welfare Club. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fit-india-freedom-run-flagged-off-316376
26-09-2021|| Amritsar||Pharmacy Day celebrated||An event to mark National Pharmacy day was organised at the Civil Surgeon’s office here on Saturday by Punjab State Pharmacy Officers Association. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh along with other programme officers and members of the association attended the event.Prof Amandeep Singh Bhatia from Khalsa College of Pharmacy discussed the role and services of pharmacists in health services. He also discussed the role played by pharmaceutical industry in battling Covid-19 pandemic.The event was attended by retired and serving pharmacists, chemists working in private sector and students. Association leader Shamsher Singh Kohri and Ashok Sharma said issues being faced by the pharmacists were discussed.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pharmacy-day-celebrated-316377
26-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Majha college organises book fair||DAV boys shine in varsity examsAmritsar: Students of B Voc, Web Designing and Development (IT), from DAV College have scored good ranks in the GNDU results. Piyush Sharma and Deepak of (Sem II), have secured second and third positions by securing 360 marks and 357 marks out of 400, respectively. Principal of the College Dr Rajesh Kumar, while expressing happiness over the success of the students, said the Computer Department of the College is doing its best for the students. Prof Vikram Sharma, Head, Computer Department, said that the students have achieved the positions due to their hard work and the dedicated staff. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majha-college-organises-book-fair-316378
26-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Man booked on rape charge||Licenced revolver stolen from houseTarn Taran: Unidentified persons decamped with a licenced revolver of a Khadoor Sahib resident from his home by breaking the window of the house on Friday. Jagdeep Singh in his complaint to the Goindwal Sahib police said he was at his shop and his wife and other members of the family had gone to the gurdwara to pay obeisance from the house in the afternoon, when some unidentified persons entered their house and stole his licenced 32-bore revolver, 10 live cartridges and Rs4,000 from the locker. ASI Sukhdev Singh said a case under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC has been registered in this regard. OCProperty tax:Rs12 cr collectedAmritsar: The property tax wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) has collected Rs 12. 62 crore so far. The MC, which has set a target of Rs 20 crore, has been offering 10 per cent rebate to depositors till September 30. The MC has been organising tax collection camps in various markets. Civic body officials said major firms were expected to deposit tax during the last three days. The MC offices would remain open on Saturday and Sunday as well. Residents could pay property tax at the MC’s Ranjit Avenue and CFC Centres in all the zones. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-on-rape-charge-316379
