27-09-2021||Amritsar||Complete bandh in rural areas in Amritsar; good response in Gurdaspur, Batala||The farmer unions blocked most of the rail and road routes leading to the city during the Bharat Bandh protest on Monday as a result of which the public faced inconvenience.The bandh call received a huge response in rural areas as markets were completely closed. In the city, the farmers staged a road block at Golden Gate while several marches were taken out to appeal to the shopkeepers to keep their shops closed.The farmers also held protests in nearby towns Ajnala, Baba Bakala, Rayya, Kathunagal, Attari, Chogawan, Majitha, Chehharta and Jaintipur. At Devidaspura railway crossing, the farmers removed their clothes to protest against the government.Railway officials said the routes of several trains had been diverted. Besides farmers, other sections of society also observed the bandh. Many schools and colleges suspended teaching. At Guru Nanak Dev University, the student organisation, Students for Society, gave a call for boycott of classes and held a protest.   Complete bandh in Gurdaspur, BatalaGurdaspur: A complete bandh was witnessed in Gurdaspur and Batala.Office-goers faced inconvenience as all modes of transport remained off the roads.The Gurdaspur-Batala and Gurdaspur-Pathankot national highways were blocked. However, ambulances were allowed to ply.Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh stationed himself at the Babri by-pass where the cops had set up an impromptu check post. He said nearly 500 policemen were put on duty to ensure there was no untoward incident. “As many as 17 points have been identified where trouble can take place. Adequate security arrangements have been made at these sites,” he added.In Batala, SKM activists blocked traffic at Gandhi Chowk and also near VMS educational institute on the Batala-Amritsar road.Farmers pitched a tent on the rail tracks near Mandi Chowk in the process blocking the Gurdaspur-Dinanagar-Pathankot road. Similarly, a tent was pitched on the Gurdaspur-Sri Hargobindpur road near Sathiali bridge. Police had been deployed near the bridge.Satbir Singh Sultani, general secretary, Punjab unit of the Kirti Kisan Union, is the main coordinator for the SKM in this district.Batala SSP Ashwani Kapur said farmers were holding protests at 19 different points in the town. “We have covered all these sites. There has been no trouble till now,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complete-bandh-in-rural-areas-in-amritsar-good-response-in-gurdaspur-batala-316879
27-09-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Bharat bandh from 6am to 4pm today||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has called farmers to remain peaceful and calm during the Bharat bandh call on Monday.The bandh, which would involve road blocks, closure of shops and rail route blocks from 6am to 4pm, would certainly disrupt public life.While 32 farmer unions, which are a part of SKM, have not announced to block rail traffic, the Kisan Sangharsh Committee has announced to block different railway lines.The farmer leaders said the ongoing protest at the Delhi borders have completed 10 months and the Central Government under the pressure of corporate houses was adamant on not repealing the three controversial agriculture laws.Joining hands with farmers, the arthiyas and labourers at the grain markets in the district have also decided to participate in the protest and keep grain markets closed. Apart from this, shopkeepers, factory workers and many from other sections of society would be joining, the farmer leaders said.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader, said: “Medical services will remain unaffected. We have instructed our volunteers to make passage for all patients, including emergency cases, at road block sites, so that they can get treatment. We have also asked them not to force anyone if someone wants to open a shop.” He said participation in the bandh was voluntary and not forced.Farmers would be setting up road blocks on roads to Attari, Chogawan, Majitha, Ajnala, Rayya, Beas, Mehta, Tarn Taran and other destinations. The SKM leaders have appealed to the general public to participate in the protest to make it successful.Meanwhile, the Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC), which is not a part of the SKM, too, has announced to block rail and road traffic at 30 points in the district. KSC leader Sarwan Singh Pandher said traffic would be blocked at the Golden Gate, Devidaspura railway crossing, Butala, Mehta Chowk, Udoke, Adda Tahli Saab, Saido Lehal, Bandala, Jaintipur, Chamiari, Ram Tirath, Khasa, Lopoke, Kathunangal railway crossing and Batala railway line among other places. The KSC members, too, have announced not to disrupt medical services. They also took out a march at the Hall Gate area on Sunday and appealed to shopkeepers to cooperate with farmers.All arrangements in place, Cops on toesFarmers to block Outer bypass, GT Road and some other intersectionsAmritsar: In view of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s call of Bharat bandh on Monday, the police have made all arrangements to maintain law and order in and around the city. Senior police officials held a meeting with farm leaders and asked them to ensure that the bandh remains peaceful. Farm unions had announced to exempt emergency and other essential services during the bandh. Amritsar Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said, “We have held a meeting with farm leaders. Farmers will block Outer bypass, GT Road and some other roads in the city. They will allow movement of emergency vehicles and other essential services. We have constituted various police teams to conduct patrolling in the city.” Farm leaders said they would urge traders to shut down their shops in their support. They would also try to close the Central Government offices for the day. Senior police officials said they would not allow disruption in supply of milk, bread, vegetables and other essential commodities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bharat-bandh-from-6am-to-4pm-today-316779
27-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Vehicle lifting becomes the order of the day in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26The lifting of vehicles, especially two-wheelers (motorcycles and scooters), has become the order of the day in the city. Though the Police Department claims to nail miscreants involved in such activities from time to time, but the menace has been going on unabated.“Only those motorcycles are targeted by thieves, which are in maximum demand,” said a police official on condition of anonymity and added that around four to five vehicles get stolen daily.Around 550 vehicles have been stolen by unscrupulous elements since January and just over 300 could be recovered by the police.Though incidents of vehicle lifting were reported from all over the city, Ranjit Avenue and Civil Lines police station topped the list where maximum thefts took place. The police have miserably failed to control the crime as they remained busy in VIP movements.Gurmeet Singh Bablu, an RTI activist and chief of the Shaheed-E-Azam Bhagat Singh Youth Front, said: “Petty crimes, including snatchings and vehicle liftings, have been an order of the day.”On Friday, three vehicles, including two motorcycles and a scooter, were stolen from different parts of the city.The police have arrested two vehicle lifters identified as Captain Singh, alias Sonu, of Krishna Nagar and Navpreet Singh, alias Shera, of Milap Avenue.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said the police had busted a number of gangs involved in vehicle lifting and put the miscreants behind bars. However, once they get bail, they again indulge in such acts, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vehicle-lifting-becomes-the-order-of-the-day-in-amritsar-316780
27-09-2021||---||Amritsar MC gets 5 hand-held fogging machines||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26The Municipal Corporation got five new hand-held fogging machines. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the MC had been doing fogging with hand-held machines in various areas of the city.To tackle dengue and malaria, fogging machines have been handed over to workers. Assistant Medical Officer Dr Rama said the Mayor and MC Commissioner were monitoring fogging exercise. She said five new manual fogging machines have been procured for the city, adding that the machines will prove helpful in narrow lanes where vehicle-mounted machines can’t reach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-gets-5-hand-held-fogging-machines-316781
27-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran ASI dies in road accident||Tarn Taran, September 26Assistant Sub-Inspector Sarwan Kumar (54), who was posted at the city police station, died in a road accident, which took place on the Tarn Taran-Amritsar road, on Sunday.The deceased was heading towards Tarn Taran from Amritsar on his car. His vehicle was hit by a private bus near Chabba village.As a result, the ASI lost control over his car, which further rammed into another vehicle. It took over half an hour to pull the body out the ill-fated car. The body of the deceased has been sent to the Civil Hospital for a post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-asi-dies-in-road-accident-316782
27-09-2021||---||Amritsar shopkeeper robbed of Rs 15 lakh at gunpoint||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26Four armed persons robbed a cloth merchant and his son, a money exchanger, of Rs10 lakh cash and foreign currency worth Rs5 lakh at gunpoint on Sunday morning. It took them just a few seconds to commit the crime and the accused managed to flee from the spot, which is just 100 yards away from the police station.Ranjit Singh runs a cloth shop, while his son is into money exchange business at the same shop located outside the B Division police station at Sultanwind Chowk.Four armed persons entered the narrow street and checked the surroundings. Then, three of them entered the cloth shop, while one stood outside to keep a check.The shop owner claimed that immediately after entering the shop, they pointed pistols at them and asked them to give cash and foreign currency. Ranjit suspected that robbers were well aware as to where they had kept the cash and other things in the shop. They took Rs10 lakh cash from the trader and Rs1lakh from a customer, who was at the shop. Then the accused also snatched the gold chain from his son, who was sitting in the shop. The robbers did this all in 45 seconds.The incident has been captured in a CCTV camera outside the shop. The cameras installed inside the shop were defunct. On being informed, a police team led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) Harpal Singh reached the spot and started the probe.After the incident, the police sounded alert in the area but found no clues.“All four accused were wearing masks. We have got the CCTV footage and recorded the statement of the trader. The investigation is on. We will trace the robbers soon,” the ADCP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-shopkeeper-robbed-of-rs-15-lakh-at-gunpoint-316783
27-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Celebrations break out at Raj Kumar Verka’s residence||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26Celebrations broke out at Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka’s residence after the announcement of his induction into the Cabinet. His supporters kept visiting his residence situated in posh Kennedy Avenue to greet his family members. Sweets were distributed among people as soon as he was sworn in as the Cabinet minister.His induction into the Cabinet is being seen as another deft move to draw Dalit voters from the Majha region to the party in the forthcoming Assembly elections.The three-time MLA has been projecting himself as the face of the Valmiki/Majhabi community in the Majha region. Other community leaders from the Congress — Attari MLA Tarsem Singh DC, Baba Bakala MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur and Jandiala MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, popularly known as Danny Bandala, too, are vying to project themselves as the community leaders. In July, Danny Bandala, 43, was appointed as the PPCC working president, overlooking three senior community leaders.Verka has been inducted in the Cabinet in the government heading to the last quarter of its tenure, but such rumours were doing the rounds for the past many years as well. His brother Pawan Kumar aired his discontent over the matter and told the media that clear indications had been coming from the Congress high command to appoint Verka in the Cabinet, but former CM Capt Amarinder Singh thwarted this for inexplicable reasons.During his entire political career, he contested the Assembly elections four times. Of these, he won thrice and lost once. He was mentored by late Congress stalwart RL Bhatia. He had remained successful in his maiden Assembly election contested from the Verka constituency in 2002. For the next Assembly election, his party shifted him to the Amritsar West Assembly segment after it was reserved. He lost the 2007 Assembly election and won during the 2007 and 2012 legislative elections. He was the longest serving vice-chairman in the National Commission for Scheduled Castes from 2010 to 2016. He was also appointed as the chairman of Punjab State Warehousing Corporation (PSWC) during the erstwhile Capt Amarinder Singh government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/celebrations-break-out-at-raj-kumar-verkas-residence-316784
27-09-2021||check mosquito breeding in city||Open House:  What steps should be taken by the Health Dept & MC officials to stop breeding of dengue larvae?||With dengue cases rising in the city at a much faster pace as compared to the previous years, it’s time to take this disease seriously. Dengue is a quick spreading vector borne disease which can lead to mortality in severe form. As there is no effective vaccine against it and no specific treatment for the disease, controlling and preventing dengue fever out breaks are essential steps for keeping people healthy. To control the rise and prevalence of dengue infections, it is essential to control mosquito population. Where ever there is water collection, the female Aedes aegypti mosquito can lay its eggs. The Health Department and city residents should work together in curbing the mosquito source population. Public has to be made aware by the department and also through electronic and print media, of their role in prevention of spread of dengue infection. Unnecessary container habitats that collect water in homes, such as, buckets, pots, bottles, etc should be drained. Other measures which can be adopted at homes are to get rid of stagnant water, cover windows and doors with net screens, usage of mosquito repellents, spraying of pesticides in corners of the house etc should be practiced. The Health Department along with the Municipal Corporation also has to keep a check on water collection habitats on roads, ponds, and other areas. Vector control measures such as applying insecticides as space spraying during out breaks may be used by health authorities. Dengue is a preventable disease, if adequate measures are taken to control mosquito population.Dr KS ManchandaMC, health dept must realise responsibilityThe problem of dengue outbreak is not new for the city residents. The departments concerned routinely issue guidelines to curb the spread of dengue mosquitoes, but unfortunately problem remains the same. Rather than making public aware of the problem, we should make the health and civil body departments aware of their responsibilities in this regard. They pay no attention to the damaged or uneven city roads where rainwater gets accumulated during the monsoon and become a breeding ground for the dengue larvae. They are paying attention to small spots whereas big plots like old sabzi mandi outside Hall Gate measuring about 5 acres of land with lot of heaps of garbage here and there is a fertile spot for breeding of dengue larvae, which escape their attention. No doubt regular fogging is a better solution to control the problem from spreading but the better way is to eradicate it from roots. Hence, the civil body should pay attention to the damaged and uneven city roads and clean areas prone to mosquito breeding.Naresh Joharcarry out foggingin the entire cityAedes aegypti, the dengue causing mosquito, is also known to be a carrier of Zika virus that can cause paralysis and birth defects in babies born to mothers infected by it during pregnancy. It breeds wherever it finds stagnant water including containers, bottle caps and potholed roads filled with sewage too. Amritsar is a veritable breeding ground for these considering its poor road, sewage and sanitary infrastructure. The littered, potholed roads filled with rain water and sewage throughout the year offer a veritable breeding ground to the aedes mosquito. These should be cleaned and repaired at the earliest. Every nook and cranny of the city should be duly fogged and sanitised, while water should not be allowed to stagnate in any area including inside the houses. People should be encouraged to use mosquito repellents and mosquito nets besides covering their windows with net screens. The district health authorities and the Municipal Corporation should hold awareness drives in this regard through TV, social media, personalised phone calls, ringtones and dedicated helplines, besides ‘Nukkad Nataks’. Natural mosquito repellants as tulsi should be grown inside the houses and on vacant public land.Shaheen P ParshadRaise awareness among peopleThe civic body officials should first of all get fogging done at different areas of the city for killing of mosquitoes. Secondly, where there is an accumulation of water in public places it should be done away with on top priority basis. Awareness must be created amongst the public through local news channel, advertisements in newspapers and banners at various places guiding general public how to prevent spreading of dengue by taking cautious steps around your environment.SANJAY CHAWLADon’t confuse it with common flu or CovidMosquitoes carry some of the most fatal pathogens and parasites, which have been bugging humanity for eons. Around 700 million contract mosquito-borne illnesses each year some of which are malaria, dengue, West Nile virus, chikungunya, yellow fever and Zika. However the disease which needs to be addressed in the city is dengue. With over 100 cases in the city and many more on the rise it’s essential to deal with the problem immediately. I think the first step would be to counter the threat at sight, how do u get rid of weeds? By pulling the roots so we attack the root of the problem. Dengue larvae needs to be destroyed on sight, might sound harsh but isn’t that what survival is about. Authorities as well the public need to make sure if they spot dengue larvae they destroy it on sight. Stagnant water should be drained as soon as it’s detected. People need to make known of the symptoms of the disease so they don’t confuse it with common flu or Covid. This conundrum can easily be averted but with joint efforts of both administration and the public.Gurjas SinghStart fogging with the advent of monsoonAmritsar witnessed sharp rise in dengue cases due to lack of preparedness on the part of the Municipal Corporation (MC) and health authorities. Despite the early warning and full-fledged malaria wing at its disposal, no fogging and spray work was undertaken in vulnerable habitats to check dengue spread especially after onset of rainy season. Most of the areas were left un-attended even after reporting of dengue cases citing manpower shortage leading to spread of deadly disease. Both the MC and nodal district malaria officer should work in tandem to deal with dengue menace by earmarking zone/ward wise work operations to avoid overlapping. Procure more fogging and spray machines at present in limited numbers to deal with rise in cases. Rope in private players to undertake house to house survey and awareness campaign by distributing pamphlets citing steps to check larvae formation in and around of residential areas. Outsource the fogging work on contractual basis at the beginning of monsoon. The government and private hospitals be advised to report dengue cases immediately to concerned health authorities to check breeding source to save others from being infected with deadly disease. Impose fines and issue challans to errant residents who failed to follow the guidelines in taking preventive measures.Anil VinayakRegular checks must be conducted by MCThe outbreak of dengue and its other vector-borne diseases has become an annual ritual that wreaks havoc on many precious lives. But it is a wrong notion to indict the mosquitoes alone. Actually the real culprits are us the human beings who generate tons of garbage, allow it to accumulate and lie dumped in the open letting it become the breeding ground of mosquitoes. It becomes imperative on the part of Health Department and civic body officials to take preventive measures to stop breeding of dengue larvae and to raise awareness among the public to stop the number of dengue cases from rising. The combined impact of dengue and Covid-19 can potentially result in devastating consequences for the city residents. So the authorities concerned should know that dengue prevention and control depends upon effective vector control measures and sustained community involvement which can improve vector control efforts substantially. Hence, frequent fogging in streets, markets and localities should be conducted. Stress should be laid on cleanliness. A well-meaning campaign should be started to educate the public about the perils of mosquito borne dengue. Active mosquito and vector surveillance should be carried out to determine the effectiveness of control interventions. Besides prevalence of virus in the mosquito population should be prospectively monitored along with active screening of sentinel mosquito collections. If mosquitoes are stopped from breeding, the cases of dengue will diminish to a large extent but it is regrettable that despite the all out efforts of the Health Department, the cases of dengue are on the increase in the city. Therefore, every household should be made aware that stagnant water in ponds, coolers, ditches, unused drums, flower pots, overhead tanks and containers provides an ideal breeding ground for aides and anopheles mosquitoes which spread dengue. Civic body officials need unstinting support and cooperation from the public to fulfil their responsibility of eradicating the dengue larvae. On personal level, people should get rid of stagnant water, should cover their windows and doors with net screens, should spray pesticides in the corners, and use camphor as a mosquito repellent to help stop the spread of dengue.Tarsem S BumrahImprove servicesto prevent dengueThe state of public health of a city is dependent on the priority it draws from the political authority and the budgetary provisions for it. But it has an interface with some other municipal departments as well. For example, in spite of the best efforts of doctors and the paramedical staff who are busy in treating critically ill patients of dengue, typhoid, hepatitis, malaria etc. and providing required surgical services, they are helpless in preventing them. Long unoccupied and dilapidated houses and unconstructed ‘Kholas‘ in the city, unattended parks with overgrown grass and shrubs, become a habitat for mosquitoes and rats. Again, covered galleries allowed in narrow streets, say 10-ft wide, make them dark, and long ramps on each side obstruct water dripping from ACs to flow, again an attraction for mosquitoes. Public latrines always have stagnant water around them. But flooding of low lying areas after a downpour leaves that water stagnating for weeks, thus triggering a spurt in dengue cases. Just like Covid-19, it is also a viral disease, with high fever, painful eyes, body aches, lingering weakness etc but in most cases, it goes after a mild increase in body temperature. Hospitalisation is usually not required and there are hardly any fatalities. Unlike Covid, it is not transmitted from person to person directly, but needs a carrier, like mosquito, that transfers it from the infected person to others. The best antidote against seasonal spurts of dengue is neat and clean localities with adequate drainage and not dug up streets for laying pipe lines left to accumulate rain water and generate Dengue as it happened in areas outside Sultanwind Gate. Thus, by and large, deficiency in municipal services is the root cause. Fogging/spraying the whole city is a challenging task, which I think had better be carried out during the night for more speed and efficacy. The citizens should not panic but avoid water stagnating anywhere in the house and keep their arms and legs protected.Prof Mohan SinghChange Water kept for birds daily QUESTIONAre transfers/postings of police commissioners/IAS officers after the change at the helm of affairs in a state justified? How does it affect their functioning?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 30)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-what-steps-should-be-taken-by-the-health-dept-mc-officials-to-stop-breeding-of-dengue-larvae-316785
27-09-2021||---||Free skill courses for unemployed youth in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 26A free skill development course was introduced at the Multi Skill Development Centre (MSDC) in Amritsar on Sunday.The centre, set up by the Sun Foundation, in collaboration with the Punjab Skill Development Mission, is an initiative to train the youth in various courses in field sales executive, fitter-mechanical assembly, customer-care executive, data entry operator, home health aid, food & beverage steward.The courses were formally inaugurated by Deputy CM OP Soni (in pic). “It was a good initiative to tackle unemployment among youth. The students would be trained under experts and after completion of the course, they would be awarded government certificates,” he said.Philantropist Vikramjit Singh Sahney, Padma Shri, chairman, Sun Foundation, said the foundation had established MSDC with state-of-the-art new labs and infrastructure“The centre will train more than 500 students to start with and will go up to 1,000 students per year. Apart from main skill courses, students will also be provided soft skill classes and computer classes. After completion of courses, students will get assistance in job placements also,” he said.Apart from skilling, the foundation also provided massive Covid relief in last two years and donated 2,000 oxygen cylinders and concentrators, mobile testing clinics and life ambulances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-skill-courses-for-unemployed-youth-in-amritsar-316786
27-09-2021||---||Gurta Gaddi divas of Sri Guru Anged Dev celebrated at Khadoor Sahib gurdwaras||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, September 26Hundreds of devotees arrived at Khadoor Sahib on Sunday on the holy occasion of annual ‘Gurta Gaddi’ divas of second Sikh Master Sri Guru Anged Dev.Religious congregations were organised at gurdwaras in the town and the main congregation was held at Gurdwara Tapiana Sahib. Knowledge was imparted to devotees regarding Sikh history and traditions. Prof Parminder Singh conducted the stage.Also read:Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Amritsar‘Panj Piaras’, students of MA (final year) of Sri Guru Anged Dev Institute of Religious Studies, Khadoor Sahib, baptised (Amritpan) 116 persons.The township was decorated beautifully. Tiny-tots enjoyed at the swings. Tight security arrangements were made by the police and medical teams, too, were deployed by the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurta-gaddi-divas-of-sri-guru-anged-dev-celebrated-at-khadoor-sahib-gurdwaras-316787
27-09-2021||---||Covid: 1 tests +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 26With one positive case reported on Sunday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,299. The Health Department has reported recovery of two patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,697. The district has a total of 11 active cases. Meanwhile, 7,399 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Sunday. Of these, 4,472 received their first dose, while 2,927 received their second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-1-tests-ve-in-amritsar-district-316788
27-09-2021||---||‘e-commerce hurting brick-&-mortar retailers’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26Senior functionaries of the Amritsar Distributors Association (ADA) raised their concern over the fact that the government was preferring e-commerce over conventional trade. They maintained that the government, with the objective of garnering more FDI, has been giving more preference to e-commerce, a move which is detrimental to the local dealers.Members of the ADA assembled to observe its 10th anniversary here on Saturday, while Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni was the chief guest.Anil Kapoor, president of the ADA, stated, “The government does not have any roadmap to provide employment to such a huge population of the country. However, it is hell bent upon putting an end to the conventional business mechanism of manufacturers-dealers-wholesalers-retailers. This chain offers employment to a large number of people.”He demanded pension and mediclaim for dealers who have been paying taxes regularly for past many decades.He said they were already highly inconvenienced with the circuitous GST format and urged the government to deduct tax at sources such as manufacturing and importing points. He said for the registered traders, tax compliance was of much serious concern than selling the merchandise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/e-commerce-hurting-brick-mortar-retailers-316789
27-09-2021||Amritsar||Author Sanjeev Paliwal interacts at Kalam initiative||Kalam, an initiative by Prabha Khaitan Foundation to promote Hindi literature, held an interaction with noted writer Sanjeev Paliwal.Hosted by Ehsaas, a literary group from the city, the session had Paliwal sharing the intricacies of writing thrillers for Hindi genre readers. Paliwal’s latest novel ‘Pishach’ has received good reviews as it explores the psych of a serial killer and makes for a thrilling read for readers.Among the few best-selling writers of Hindi thriller and crime genre, Sanjeev said there was no dearth of readers for Hindi literature, but most writers of the genre stick to clichés. “I think the genre of crime and thriller has always been one to click instantly with readers if the story is gripping and the narrative kept tight,” he said. He also shared that the popularity of Hindi literature has picked up with popular English books now being translated in Hindi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/author-sanjeev-paliwal-interacts-at-kalam-initiative-316790
27-09-2021||Tarn Taran||14-yr-old missing from Uppal village in Tarn Taran||Asr in Katoch Shield finalAmritsar: Amritsar made it to the final of Punjab Katoch Shield (one-day cricket tournament) after defeating Mohali in semifinal match played on Sunday. Sharad Lumba (100 not out) and Abhay Chaudhary (101 not out) enabled Amritsar to beat Mohali by nine wickets. Mohali won the toss and elected to bat first at Gandhi Ground. Vishwanath Pratap Singh scored 118 runs for Mohali, which gave a target of 240 runs in 50 overs. Kamal Passi took four wickets for Amritsar. In reply, Amritsar won the match by nine wickets and scored 243 runs at the loss of one wicket. Tilak Raj, manager, Amritsar cricket team, said final will now played in Mohali on October 7. TNSDrone spotting: KMO seeks probeTarn Taran: Khalra Mission Organisation (KMO) has demanded a high-level probe into the incidents of drone movement in the border area, recovering of arms-ammunition and arresting of Sikh youths in this regard. Bibi Paramjit Kaur, Khalra patron, and other leaders at a joint press statement released here on Sunday said it was clear that all these were well-planned move of ‘Manuvadi’ elements (pro-RSS) to create situation on the fictitious background to defame Sikhs, Muslims, minorities, farmers, downtrodden sections and other deprived sections. They alleged that this was responsible for attack on the Harmandir Sahib and ’84 riots. They condemned the NIA for arresting Sikh youths and also alleged that incidents like the arrest of three youths from Bhikhiwind area a few days ago and killing of two Nihangs near Sursingh village were among a series of such moves. They alleged that during the last few months, drugs worth Rs1,75,000 crore had arrived at the Adani Port and had been delivered at different parts of the country. The NIA had done nothing against this, the KMO leaders alleged. They demanded a high-level probe into all their incidents. They supported the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on September 27 given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/14-yr-old-missing-from-uppal-village-in-tarn-taran-316791
27-09-2021||---||On way to Singhu, Tarn Taran farmer killed in road accident||Karnal, September 26A 35-year-old farmer was allegedly killed, while two others were injured when their tractor-trailer was hit by a canter on the National Highway-44 near Baldi bypass in the wee hours of Sunday.The incident took place around 4 am when the farmers were going to the Singhu border to join the agitation, which has completed 10 months.The deceased farmer has been identified as Harjinder Singh of Tarn Taran district in Punjab, while the injured are Kanwaljeet Singh and Sharvan Kumar, also from Tarn Taran. They are undergoing treatment. Harjinder was driving the tractor.The driver of canter, however, fled the spot after leaving the vehicle behind.“We have registered a case against the canter driver under Sections 279, 304-A and 337 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are probing the case,” said Vijay Kumar, investigation officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/on-way-to-singhu-tarn-taran-farmer-killed-in-road-accident-316712
27-09-2021||GS Paul||Raj Kumar Verka’s induction in Punjab Cabinet adds to Majha clout in Congress||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26The induction of Amritsar’s West MLA leader Raj Kumar Verka in the Cabinet has further strengthened Majha’s image of being the “power centre” of the Congress.Also read: Celebrations break out at Raj Kumar Verka’s residencePCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala (Jandiala MLA), two deputy CMs OP Soni and Sukhjinder Randhawa (representing Amritsar Central and Dera Baba Nanak, respectively), along with ministers Sukhjinder Singh Sarkaria (Rajasansi) and Tript Randiner Singh Bajwa (Fatehgarh Churia) all belong to Majha. Born on March 20, 1962, to a Valmiki family he emerged as a strong Dalit leader from Majha region. He was conferred with a Cabinet ‘rank’ and status in the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government, but without any portfolio.He ‘diplomatically’ indulged himself actively in Capt Amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu camps. He sided with Sidhu, revolting for a change in the state leadership on the grounds of inaction in Kotkapura firing issue, and when encountered by media, he deftly held Capt Amarinder in high esteem and called him the real ‘Captain’.Unlike other Congress MLA, he was the one who went to see Sidhu at his residence when the latter got incommunicado after quitting the Capt Amarinder’s Cabinet. To bring truce between the warring factions within the party, he had raised the demand for a Dalit CM candidate for the Assembly elections.Verka shares a good rapport with BJP leaders also. He was reappointed as vice-chairman of National SC Commission in 2013 and continued till 2016. At present, he is the chairman of Punjab State Warehousing Corporation. He successfully contested from the Verka constituency in 2002. In 2007, he was defeated but bounced back and in 2012 and 2017 from Amritsar West.Having a knack of acting, he has authored songs with social or patriotic messages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raj-kumar-verkas-induction-in-punjab-cabinet-adds-to-majha-clout-in-congress-316558
