28-09-2021||---||Amritsar: No headway in money exchanger robbery case||Amritsar, September 27The police remained clueless in the robbery case in which a cloth trader and his money exchanger son were looted by some unknown armed persons on Sunday.Davinder Singh, a cloth trader at the Golden Cloth market, near Sultanwind Gate, and a license holder of the Western Union, was looted by four armed robbers with their faces covered. His uncle Wazir Singh and his cousin were also there. He told the police that at 11.15am, a customer Simranpreet Singh came to seek UK pound worth Rs 1 lakh.In the meantime, four unknown persons came and three of them were equipped with pistols. He said they pointed pistols at them and took away the bag containing cash. “We have not got any clue in the case so far as the police teams were busy ensuring law and order in the city in view of the Bharat bandh,” said a police official.Since the accused were wearing masks, the police are having a hard time in identifying the robbers.Meanwhile today, various farmers’ organisations and Communist parties also staged a protest in different parts of the city and blocked national highways in the outskirts and some roads inside the city.Heavy police force was also deputed near the spot where farmers held the protest while the police teams remained on alert in view of the recent smuggling of bombs from across the International border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-no-headway-in-money-exchanger-robbery-case-317297
28-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Three vehicle lifters arrested in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 27The police have arrested three vehicle lifters along with two stolen motorcycles near Kakka Kandiala village. Assistant Sub-Inspector Gajjan Singh said the accused have been identified as Chand, Vishal Singh and Jarmanjit Singh Dhillon, of Muradpur.The ASI said the accused used to steal vehicles from busy areas and used to sell these to innocent persons.A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered against the accused. The accused were produced before the court on Monday, which sent them to two-day police remand.The ASI said more stolen vehicles were expected to be recovered from the possession of the trio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-vehicle-lifters-arrested-in-tarn-taran-317296
28-09-2021||Amritsar||5 fresh Covid cases in Amritsar district||With five fresh Covid cases on Monday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,304. All patients are influenza-like illness cases. The Health Department has reported recovery of six patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,703. At present, the district, has a total of 10 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-fresh-covid-cases-in-amritsar-district-317295
28-09-2021||---||Amritsar: Salt trader booked on rape charge||Amritsar, September 27A salt trader allegedly raped a woman after offering her a cold drink laced with intoxicants. The complainant alleged that the accused then recorded the incident and threatened to circulate it on social media. He later continued to rape her repeatedly.The accused has been identified as Krishan Arora, a resident of Bhagtanwala, who was booked by the police under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC. He was yet to be arrested, said the police, while adding that the investigation in the case was under progress.The 42-year-old victim stated to the police that for the past four months, she, along with her family, was living on rent in the upper portion of the accused’s accommodation. She said Krishan Arora ran a salt business. She said she also started working in the unit. She alleged that the accused kept a bad eye on her and around two months ago, when she was alone, he offered her a cold drink.She said, unaware of his malicious intentions, she consumed the same and got unconscious. She said on gaining her consciousness, she learnt that the accused had raped her and recorded it. She alleged that the accused threatened to circulate the video on the social media in case she told anything to anyone in this regard. She said she preferred to keep quiet over this.On September 8, while she was working in the packing unit, the accused offered her sweets after which she felt dizziness. She said the accused came from somewhere and took her towards the bus stand. She alleged the Krishan Arora took her to Jalandhar. She said he forcibly took her to a hotel and again made physical relations with her. After that, he took her to different places and raped her repeatedly.The police said a case has been registered and further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-salt-trader-booked-on-rape-charge-317294
28-09-2021||---||Shopping worth Rs 1.03 lakh done on Amritsar ASI’s credit card, cop clueless||Amritsar, September 27Unidentified swindlers did shopping worth Rs1.03 lakh on a cop’s credit card. Interestingly, as per the complainant, he did not receive any OTP or message from the bank in this regard.Satwinder Singh, an Assistant Sub-Inspector, said he came to know about the incident when the amount was deducted from his salary account. The division B police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC and Sections 66-C and 66-D of the Information Technology Act against unidentified persons for now, while the cybercrime wing has started probe in the case. Initial probe revealed that unidentified persons did shopping in Mumbai on the said account.The complainant said when the amount was deducted from his account, he rushed to the bank and enquired about it. It was then, that he found about the fraud. He said he immediately filed a complaint with the bank but nothing concrete was done by the authorities to recover the money.He said he then lodged a complaint at the division B police station and informed about the same to his senior authorities. Satwinder Singh is currently posted with the Hall Gate police chowki.He said he was getting calls from the bank to get a credit card and he finally visited the bank and got a credit card around three months ago. He said on September 9, he did shopping worth Rs20,000 but got a message that Rs1.23 lakh have been deducted from his salary account. He said the accused did online shopping in Mumbai. He said he filed a complaint with the bank and the authorities promised to take appropriate action within 10 days but nothing was done after which a criminal complaint was lodged with the police.The police authorities said investigations have begun.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shopping-worth-rs-1-03-lakh-done-on-amritsar-asis-credit-card-cop-clueless-317293
28-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Projects announced for Amritsar district in limbo||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 27Numerous prestigious projects announced by the Centre in the last eight years (UPA and NDA) for Amritsar have yet not materialised.Residents said instead of announcing new projects, the Centre must ensure that previous projects see the light of day. The Indian Institute of Management-Amritsar has been running from a rented structure, steps should be taken to construct its own building, said locals.Even slow progress on Patti-Makhu railway track, which would pave the way for Amritsar- Ferozepur rail link, has perturbed residents. The gazette notification for the land acquisition for the Patti-Makhu rail link was done in April (70.1 hectares in Tarn Taran and 95.68 hectares in Ferozepur). The railway link was conceptualised by the then Railway Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal in 2013, which would shorten the distance between Amritsar and Mumbai by 240 km.The then Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had announced to establish Post-Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education in the city in 2015 and later, he announced to come up with Software Technology Park of India in Amritsar. Both the projects have yet not operationalised.Last year, the Centre had proposed Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway, which would include the Sikh circuit with stoppages at Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran and Amritsar. Locals said the city lost various projects, including All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Special Economic Zone in the past due to vested interests.Irked residents said the Centre must chip in financially and get the state government on board to sort out the issues at the earliest.Nothing in sight||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/projects-announced-for-amritsar-district-in-limbo-317292
28-09-2021||Amritsar||Bharat bandh: Cops on toes in Amritsar||The Punjab Police remained on their toes in view of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s Bharat bandh call. Various farmers’ organisations and communist parties held demonstrations at around 12 to 13 spots in the outskirts of the city.Though a majority of shops remained closed and there was less traffic on road, the police teams diverted traffic of essential services.“We made sure that the supply of emergency services are not disrupted,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police, Parminder Singh Bhandal, adding that as many as 2,500 cops were deputed at key points and near the spots where agitations were held. Senior police officials were deputed at the points and security arrangements were supervised by DCP Bhandal himself.Gulneet Singh Khuranna, SSP, Amritsar rural, said elaborate arrangements were made at the agitation sites. Farmers’ organisations held demonstrations and blocked highways in Attari, Majitha, Chogawan, Rayya, Beas and Mehta said Khuranna. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bharat-bandh-cops-on-toes-in-amritsar-317291
28-09-2021||Amritsar||Bharat bandh: 6 trains cancelled, 3 rescheduled from Amritsar railway station||The Bharat bandh call given by the farmers’ organisations caused inconvenience to a large number of passengers as the Northern Railway’s Ferozepur division cancelled six trains and rescheduled three from the Amritsar railway station on Monday.The cancelled trains were Amritsar-Howrah (02054), Amritsar-Pathankot (04489), Amritsar-Nangal Dam (04537), Amritsar-New Delhi Railway Station (02030), Pathankot-Amritsar (04490), Amritsar-New Delhi Railway Station (04068).The trains that were rescheduled were Train No. 02926 from Amritsar to Bandra Terminus Railway station; Amritsar-Katihar Junction (05734) and Train No. 01058 from Amritsar to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus.A large number of passengers had to reschedule their journey and other commitments due to the bandh call given by farmers to protest against the three farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bharat-bandh-6-trains-cancelled-3-rescheduled-from-amritsar-railway-station-317290
28-09-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Phenomenal response to bandh call in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 27The Bharat bandh call by farmer unions protesting against the three controversial agriculture laws received a massive response from the general public as shopkeepers, traders and other businesses kept their establishments closed on Monday.The farmers blocked road and rail traffic at various points in the district from 6 am to 4 pm. Even the BSF vehicles, which move frequently from one place to another in Ajnala and Attari sectors, were intimated about the road blocks in advance. As a result, their vehicles stayed off road.In the city, the Metro bus service and auto-rickshaws also remained off road during the day. Even the number of private vehicles seen on the roads was negligible as compared to normal days. Farmers had blocked all main roads leading to the city from different towns. While the 32 farmer unions, united under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), had not announced to block rail routes, activists of Kisan Sangharsh Committee, which is not a part of the SKM, blocked railway lines at Devidaspura and other places. At Devidaspura, farmers removed their clothes to protest against the Centre Government.The SKM organised massive protests at 10 different places, including Attari, Chogawan, Majitha, Rayya, Kathunagal, Jaintipur, Ajnala and others. Apart from SKM and KSC, a local organisation of city residents, Holy City Farmers’ Group, too, mobilised city dwellers for the protest and blocked Gumtala Chowk.While the bandh call received complete support from shopkeepers, as they voluntarily kept their shops closed, in the city, too, over 80 per cent shops remained closed till 4 pm. Apart from the activists of farmer unions, the active members of the Congress, SAD and AAP, too, were seen at most of the protest sites.“It is not clear if the workers of political parties have come on their own or their respective parties had asked them to join the protest. The response to the SKM call was phenomenal,” a farmer leader said.Students boycott classes, stage protest at GNDU entrance Amritsar: Students of Guru Nanak Dev University boycotted classes on Monday to participate in the Bharat bandh call given by the farmers’ association and staged a protest at the university’s entrance. The protest was supported by all student associations at GNDU, including Students for Society (SFS), Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkar), Sath, Punjab Students’ Union and All-India Students’ Federation. The university entrance was blocked at 8 am and remained closed till the afternoon. Student leaders criticised the Central government for three controversial agriculture laws and demanded that these be repealed without further delay. They also criticised the government for privatisation of public sector units. Leader of GNDU Pensioners’ Association Amarjit Bai, Tarksheel Society’s Sumit Singh, Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee’s Dr Parminder, Bhartiya Kisan Union Krantikari leader Sawinderpal Singh and Kirti Kisan Union leader Prof Barinder Singh also participated in the protest and lauded the role of students for supporting the protest. TNSMassive attendance of protesters in Tarn TaranThe Bharat bandh call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha against the three contentious agri laws evoked a massive response as the agitating farmers, supported by other sections of society, staged dharnas on roads on Monday. The women folk and the youths, too, participated in the demonstrations against the farm laws. Shops and other commercial establishments including rehris and farhis, too, remained closed. Commission agents (arhtiyas), too, downed shutters at the grain markets and farmers preferred not to bring their paddy produce. The farmer organisations affiliated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha organised dharna at the local T-points on Sarhali Road and blocked National Highway No.54. Leaders of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Kot Budha), Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Pannu), Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee including Jaspal Singh Chabal, Bakar Valtoha, Baldev Singh Pandori and others addressed on the occasion and warned the Union Government to repeal farm laws or face agitation. Kar Sewa Sect led by Baba Jagtar Singh Tarn Taran Wale served Guru-Ka-Langar to the participating farmers. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, staged dharnas at the Usman Toll Plaza, Gohalwar, Chabal, Harike, Toll Plaza Mannan, Gaggo Bua, Sursingh, Patti, Sheikhchakk, Nagoke, Dialpur, Harike, Bhikhiwind, Dhand and in villages. Satnam Singh Manochahal, Harpreet Singh Sidhwan and Tejinderpal Singh were among other leaders who addressed on the occasion. The entry points to the district at Goindwal Sahib and on the Bhoewal bridge connecting Ferozepur, too, were blocked by the agitating farmers. The workers of the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), too, participated in the protests. — Gurbaxpuri Centre, farmers should sit together to end logjam: PPBMAmritsar: The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has requested the government to hold talks with farmers to diffuse the prolonged deadlock over the three farm laws. It claimed that a day-long strike causes a loss to the tune of Rs500 crore to the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and that too when the state is yet to come out of financial losses incurred on account of Covid-19 lockdown. The entire GSDP of Punjab stands at Rs6lakh crore, in which agriculture contributes 27 per cent and the rest 73 per cent is contributed by the trade and industry. So, for the overall development of the state, the government should focus on the service sector, trade and industry. PPBM president Piara Lal Seth said strike and shutdowns were not long-term solutions to the logjam between farmers and the Union Government. Instead, agitating farmer unions and government must sit together with farmer leaders to find a permanent solution. Strikes have only accentuated financial troubles of the government, which is yet to come out of the losses incurred during Covid-19 pandemic. Closure of trade and travel will only add to the losses, he said. TNSBacchus lovers have a field day Tarn Taran: People from different sections of society extended their support to the Bharat bandh call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) by not opening their shops and boycotting work. However, some wine shops remained open and salesmen were seen selling liquor. A wine shop on the Amritsar road remained open the whole day and salesmen were seen selling liquor to their regular customers through a half-open shutter. Salesmen at another wine shop at the local bus stand were also found attending their customers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/phenomenal-response-to-bandh-call-in-amritsar-district-317289
28-09-2021||---||Bharat Band: Industrial activity comes to standstill in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar||Chandigarh, September 27Amid farmers’ protest across the state, industrial production and dispatches came to a standstill, affecting all major industrial clusters — Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar.Though it’s difficult to quantify the losses, industry veterans claim it may run into crores and it would also affect investor sentiments in near future.“Not only normal life, but the industrial production and dispatches also came to a standstill as transporters did not operate amid Bharat Bandh. This is peak time for industries. Many goods produced by Ludhiana industries have to be delivered in time considering the festival season,” said Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations (FOPSIA).Contrary to other industrial cities, a majority of the industrial units in Mohali were operating, sources said.Farmers across the state blocked highways and railway tracks at many places to mark Bharat Bandh on the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of farmers’ unions, to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three agricultural laws. At various places, transport services were also suspended. Besides, shops and commercial establishments remained shut at many places.“It’s a double whammy for industry. Initially, the industry had to shut operations for a few days in July amid power shortage. Now, again a day was lost. The worst-affected are the exporters as they have to deliver the export consignments in a time-bound manner. Amid bandh, they were not in a position to produce or dispatch the finished goods,” said an exporter from Amritsar.As many industries are striving hard to survive after recovering from the pandemic-induced crisis, the bandh has further aggravated the problem. “Normally, on an average, we have 24-25 working days in a month. Due to protest and bandh, almost 5 per cent of the industrial production was affected across the state. This may have serious implications on domestic as well as export market,” said another industrialist who did not wish to be named.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bharat-band-industrial-activity-comes-to-standstill-in-ludhiana-jalandhar-amritsar-316980
