29-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Youth injured in attack in Tarn Taran, 9 booked||Thief escapes from lock-upAmritsar: A thief arrested by the Mattewal police for allegedly stealing a weapon, dodged cops and fled away from the lock-up on Monday. The police have booked Assistant Sub-Inspector (munshi) Bachan Singh and constable Sukhdev Singh for dereliction of duty, besides the accused who has been identified as Sharanjit Singh. Tarsem Singh, SHO, Mattewal police station, said raids were on to nab Sharanjit and further investigations were under progress. According to police, Sharanjit was to be produced before the court today. ASI Sawinder Singh had lodged him in the lock-up. He said Sharanjit came out of the lock-up on the pretext of answering the natures’ call in the night. ASI Bachan lodged him back in the lock-up,but forget to lock it. Thus,taking the advantage, Sharanjit fled away. TNSOne death, Seven test +ve in distAmritsar: With one death reported due to Covid-19, the toll in the district increased to 1,592 on Tuesday. With seven positive cases reported today, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,311. The new cases include six influenza like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. The Health Department reported recovery of two patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,705. The district has a total of 14 active cases. Meanwhile, 8,204 residents were inoculated today. Of these, 5,765 received their first dose of the vaccine, while 2,439 received second dose. TNSDrug menace: AAP holds rallyTarn Taran: The youth wing of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) organised a district-level rally against drug menace in Tarn Taran on Tuesday. The march was dedicated to Shaheed Bhagat Singh, in which youth workers participated. The rally passed through different areas of the town. Sewakpal Singh of AAP youth wing, Laljit Singh Bhullar district chief, Sarwan Singh Dhunn, Harpreet Singh Dhunna and Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, among others, were also present on the occasion. They alleged that those running the state government from time to time had been hand in glove with drug peddlers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-injured-in-attack-in-tarn-taran-9-booked-317778
29-09-2021||Amritsar||GNDU extends date of some courses||Shaheed Bhagat Singh rememberedDAV Public School, Lawrence Road, conducted a special assembly to pay tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary. The teacher of the school highlighted the sacrifices of Bhagat Singh. They read out a few inspiring excerpts from his life, sang patriotic songs and recited poems. Regional officer, Punjab, Zone A, Neelam Kamra and the manager of the school Pushpinder Walia sent their best wishes to students and advised them to take inspiration from the life of Bhagat Singh and be loyal to their country and work towards its progress. Anita Mehra, principal of the school, in her address, said the youngsters needed to introspect and revive the patriotic values and sprit of nationalism as demonstrated by Shaheed Bhagat Singh.Khalsa College students get placedAs a part of a campus placement drive, at least 17 students of Khalsa College were selected by MNC De Heus Pvt Ltd and asked to join their duties at the earliest. The company that deals with the animal feed hired them at a promising salary of more than Rs 3 lakh per annum. Principal Mehal Singh said the graduates and post-graduate students from the commerce and agriculture background were selected after the written test and an interview by the company officials. The principal thanked the company authorities and placement director Harbhajan Singh who is the head of the Computer Science department.Tips on studying abroadAn online seminar on ‘Tips to apply for universities worldwide’ was organised by the PG Department of Physics, DAV College, in collaboration with the Department of Physics, GNDU, Amritsar. The speaker of the event was Shankar Dutt, a PhD scholar from the research school of physics, at the Australian National University. The event aimed at helping students grab the career opportunities in India and abroad. Shankar Dutt talked about various summer schools and internships available to graduate and post-graduate students within India and worldwide. He said, “Once we decide to study abroad and become an international student, we need to do our research and apply for a university.” He said applying for any foreign university was not as complicated as one thought. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-extends-date-of-some-courses-317775
29-09-2021||---||Tributes paid  to Shaheed Bhagat Singh in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28Various organisations and political outfits on Thursday paid tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh on his 114th birth anniversary. The youth wing of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) carried out an awareness march, which passed through Hall Bazaar and Katra Sher Singh, and culminated at the party office at Bhandari bridge.Iqbal Singh Bhullar of the AAP said Punjab has been facing a daunting challenge of drug menace, while consecutive governments had made it an election issue, but failed to deliver on the ground. AAP’s district chief Jeevan Jot Kaur said Shaheed Bhagat Singh had never dreamt of a Punjab where a large number youth were hooked to drugsActivists of BJP led by Jarnail Singh Dhot and Rajesh Kandhari paid homage to Shaheed Bhagat Singh at party’s office in Khanna Samark near the Durgiana Temple.Meanwhile, the Lok Bhalai Manch held a discussion on life and philosophy of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. Activists of the Naujwan Bharat Sabha and the Punjab Students Union paid homage at Jallianwala Bagh while the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee paid tributes outside the DC office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-shaheed-bhagat-singh-in-amritsar-317773
29-09-2021||---||Tarn Taran: Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee launches 3-day morcha in front of DAC||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, September 28On the first day of the three-day pakka morcha launched on the current issues of farmers and labourers, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee (KMSC), Punjab, staged a dharna in front of the District Administration Complex (DAC), here on Tuesday.The women folk also joined in large numbers. The organisation had earlier warned the administration to block the rail tracks from September 30 if their demands were not met.Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Satnam Singh Manochahal, was among the others who addressed on the occasion.The leaders said the current demands of the organisation included granting compensation to the families of the farmers who died during the farmer’s agitation, waiving the total debt of the farmers and mazdoors, repealing of the power accord with the private companies, giving residential plots to the homeless labourers, jobs to the youths, controlling the drug cartels, etc.The leaders alleged that the party leaders had done nothing for the welfare of the society except amassing wealth for themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-kisan-mazdoor-sangharash-committee-launches-3-day-morcha-in-front-of-dac-317770
29-09-2021||---||Cows fed low-quality fodder at Naraingarh gaushala on Chheharta bypass: AAP||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28RTI activist and Aam Aadmi Party’s former urban chief Suresh Kumar Sharma alleged that a gaushala in Naraingarh on Chheharta bypass is in a dilapidated condition.Sharma, who visited the gaushala, said, “The condition of cows is not good. Three cows have been found dead and more are on the verge of dying.”“There is no cleanliness and low-quality fodder is being fed to cows. Several cows are sick and no one is there to take care of them,” said the AAP leader.The gaushala has 275 cows, which is being operated by the Municipal Corporation. The MC has deployed a doctor, an inspector, supervisor and 12 safai sewaks.Sharma claimed that during his visit only one supervisor and two safai sewaks were present. “Despite having good number of staff, the condition of cows is bad, which indicates that the authorities are embezzling funds,” he said.The APP leader said the MC claimed that they buy 12 quintals of green fodder in the morning and 12 quintals in the evening, but only husk and straw was being fed to cows. Sharma urged Cabinet Minister Raj Kumar Verka, the Deputy Commissioner and the Mayor, to visit the gaushala and get things in order at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cows-fed-low-quality-fodder-at-naraingarh-gaushala-on-chheharta-bypass-aap-317766
29-09-2021||---||Medical college gets 13K litres O2 plant, health staff honoured at Vallah in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 28After several hiccups, an oxygen plant, with a capacity of 13,000 litres, was finally commissioned at the SGPC-run Sri Guru Ramdas Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (SGRIMSR), at Vallah, in Amritsar.The development came as a part of the preparatory measures amid apprehension of a third wave of Covid-19. The plant will now benefit the patients in the hour of the need. Inaugurating the oxygen plant, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the plant would make the region self-reliant to meet the demand for oxygen.“During the second wave of Covid-19, Sri Guru RamDas Hospital was completely reserved for the treatment of Covid patients. Also, free healthcare services with oxygen through concentrators were provided to the patients in Punjab as well as in Haryana and Mumbai. Free Covid vaccine was also provided to the people by setting up free vaccination camps in parts of Punjab”, said Bibi Jagir Kaur.SGPC President said a facility of 100 ventilators was also in place ready at the SGRIMSR.Meanwhile, she also honoured the health workers who served during the pandemic. “The dedicated spirit with which the SGPC’s health workers served during the pandemic had boosted the morale of the Covid patients and they returned to their homes after recovery,” she said.Hockey Olympian fetedThe SGPC honoured Surender Kumar Palad, a of hockey player, who represented India men’s team that won bronze medal in the Tokyo Olympics. SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur handed over a cheque for Rs 5 lakh to Surender in Amritsar. On August 11, this year, SGPC had awarded the hockey India team with Rs 1 crore at a special event organised at the Golden Temple, during which a cheque for Rs 5 lakh was given to each team player.Surender could not attend the event during that time and was given a cheque of award today. On this occasion, Bibi Jagir Kaur said the performance of the Indian hockey team had enhanced the pride of the entire country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/medical-college-gets-13k-litres-o2-plant-health-staff-honoured-at-vallah-in-amritsar-317763
29-09-2021||Our Correspondent||One killed in firing between two groups at Chohla Sahib village in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 28A person was shot dead and another injured in cross firing that took place between two groups at Chohla Sahib village here on Tuesday. The incident took place over the so-called election of the student union of Sri Guru Arjun Dev (SGAD) Khalsa College, Chohla Sahib.Sources said the two groups supported by two factions of the ruling Congress party had called their supporters outside the college at Chohla Sahib to elect the president of the students union of the college.Supporters of one group came to the spot first and ‘elected’ its president while supporters of the other group too appeared on the spot on vehicles. According to eyewitnesses, there were around 50 persons who were armed with guns and sharp-edged weapons. Both the groups challenged each other which led to cross firing.The deceased has been identified as Sarwan Singh (22) of Sarhali Kalan and the injured as Sadak (20) of Bhattal Bhai Ke, who was admitted to the Community Health Centre, Sarhali Kalan, and was later referred to the Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran.As Sadak received gunshots, the local doctors referred him to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar.The eyewitnesses said there was an exchange of indiscriminate firing between the two groups and more than one hundred gunshots were fired.Goindwal Sahib DSP Preetinder Singh said a case under Sections 302, 201, 307, 34, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered.The DSP said a number of accused had been identified and claimed that none from both the sides was a student of the said college. He said no one had been arrested as yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-killed-in-firing-between-two-groups-at-chohla-sahib-village-in-tarn-taran-317758
29-09-2021||---||Tourists back in Amritsar as Wagah Retreat ceremony resumes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28Ten days after the resumption of the popular Beating Retreat ceremony of the Border Security Force (BSF), the holy city is again teeming with tourists from the nearby areas.With this, the weekend occupancy has doubled in comparison to the ordinary days. Piyush Kapoor, general manager of a hotel-cum-restaurant, the oldest in the city, says the weekend tourists used to sustain the hospitality industry. Room occupancy shoots up to 80 per cent during the weekend, which remains between 35 to 40 percent during the normal days. “It infused a fresh lease of life into the hospitality industry, which was struggling to revive after the Covid-induced losses.”Narinder Singh, a hotelier from the walled city, said, “Frequent agitations, road and rail blockades do not allow the long distance tourists to come here.” He hoped that they would come from the Western and Eastern parts of the country in the forthcoming season.Travel sector experts claim that since the suspension of all scheduled international commercial passenger flights till September 30, domestic tourists are the only contributors in helping it bounce back to normal.According to Paramveer Singh, general manager of Taj Swarna, “With the domestic travel resuming in the country and tourist destinations receiving a large numbers of visitors, the tourism industry is now hopeful of recovery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tourists-back-in-amritsar-as-wagah-retreat-ceremony-resumes-317757
29-09-2021||---||Encroachments cleared on service lanes by Amritsar MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28In the view of upcoming festive season, a team of the estate wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation, removed encroachments on both sides of service lanes near Chheharta, Khandwala, Putlighar and Kachihari Chowk on GT Road today.The counters set up on service lanes by a private hospital were demolished and illegal encroachments on the footpaths were also removed from Kachheri Chowk.Dharminderjit Singh, Estate Officer, Municipal Corporation, said, “We removed several encroachments from the footpaths. The drive has been initiated ahead of the festive season.”It’s worth mentioning that fruit vendors at Chheharta Chowk had encroached upon the service lane on both sides. However, soon after the MC drive, fruit sellers surfaced again on the same spot.The Estate Officer said, “We appeal to residents to not illegally occupy the government land, corridors outside shops and and the footpaths. If any person is found doing this, legal action will be taken against him/her.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/encroachments-cleared-on-service-lanes-by-amritsar-mc-317756
29-09-2021||---||Protest on Bhandari bridge in Amritsar brings traffic to a standstill||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28Traffic remained affected after chief of Valmiki Samaj Rishi Mattu held a demonstration on Bhandari bridge today over the police inaction against a cop who allegedly slapped him.Mattu said he had filed a complaint with the Police Commissioner in this connection, but alleged no action has been taken against Assistant Sub-Inspector Prem Singh, who is posted at Majitha Road police station.The dharna was lifted after Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh reached the spot and assured him of appropriate action while stating that the statement of the Mattu was being recorded.Police personnel had a tough time in streamlining the traffic at Crystal Chowk, Hall Bazaar, Court Road and Bus stand road.An ambulance was also stuck in the jam at Tylor Road chowk. Traffic from Tylor Road and Mall Road and commuters coming from Novelty Chowk converged at the chowk, thus leading to massive blockade. Mattu said a few days ago two auto-rickshaw drivers had a spat. He said he had come to the police station for striking a compromise between the warring groups. Mattu alleged that the ASI (Investigating Officer) used foul language and slapped him.Agitated over this, Mattu had held the protest outside the police station, while senior police official promised to take action against the rring cop. The Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police said he has asked for a departmental probe against the ASI after recording the statement of Mattu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-on-bhandari-bridge-in-amritsar-brings-traffic-to-a-standstill-317755
29-09-2021||---||Renovation row: Restore Jallianwala’s old look, says Naujwan Bharat Sabha||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28The Naujwan Bharat Sabha and the Punjab Students’ Union while condemning the alleged tinkering with the historic character of the Jallianwala Bagh monument in the name of renovation started an indefinite morcha outside the bagh here on Tuesday.Also read: The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampA delegation of the two organisations reached to mark the 114th birth anniversary of the great martyr Shaheed Bhagat Singh here and they declared that their agitation would continue till the original structure of the historic bagh was restored to its previous shape.Rupinder Singh Chonda and Ranvir Randhawa, presidents of the Naujwan Bharat Sabha and the Punjab Students’ Union, respectively, alleged that the Central Government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party were hell bent on destroying the traces of those who fought against fascism and corporate culture.They said the Jallianwala Bagh memorial was a symbol of struggle against the British Empire. The Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13, 1919, gave birth to a great freedom fighter — Shaheed Bhagat Singh. The memorial was also a symbol of unity.Manga Azad, general secretary of the sabha, said the Modi government and the Punjab Government had deliberately distorted the historic character of the monument and the ticket counters were opened in it to mint money.He said another door was opened in the bagh, which had deeply hit the historic character. He said the names of Muslim martyrs and their pictures were removed from the gallery and the martyrs’ well was beautified.He said the Shaheedi Smarak was shifted to another place and the embossed figures were prepared on the entry street which was the only entry and exit point of the bagh. The leaders of the two organisations announced to hold a permanent dharna outside the historic bagh until their demand of restoring it to the original structure was met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/renovation-row-restore-jallianwalas-old-look-says-naujwan-bharat-sabha-317754
29-09-2021||GS Paul||Balwinder murder: Medal of no significance if demands not met, says wife||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28The family members of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu were intercepted by the Delhi Police on their way to the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi today.They sought time to meet the President to express their anguish over the “insufficient” security provided to them and non-fulfilment of their demands. They intend to return the award and seek permission of willful death from the President.As they tried to gain access to the Rashtrapati Bhavan, they were stopped at the Vijay Chowk and the President’s security personnel allowed them to submit their memorandum undersigned by Balwinder’s wife Jagdish Kaur Sandhu, also Shaurya Chakra awardee.Bhikhiwind (Tarn Taran)-based Balwinder, who had taken on militants at the height of insurgency in the 1990s, was shot dead at his house, six months after his security was withdrawn, on October 16, 2020.Jagdish condemned the Centre and the state government for not providing adequate security cover to the family. “Ours is the only family in the country whose four members were conferred with Shaurya Chakra by then President Shankar Dyal Sharma for showing unique courage and valour against militants. We were provided security by the government, which was withdrawn afterwards,” she said.While the family demanded paramilitary cover, they had been provided with a handful of security men. Demanding job for her educated unemployed sons and suitable compensation, she said: “If our demands don’t suit the criteria, the national honour holds no significance. We urge the President to accept our medals back and allow us to kill ourselves.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/balwinder-murder-medal-of-no-significance-if-demands-not-met-says-wife-317519
29-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Harvesting begins, 2 Punjab districts Amritsar, Tarn Taran see 96 farm fires already||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28As the paddy harvesting season begins, there seems to be little hope of relief from farm fires. The political instability in the state and the upcoming Assembly elections, where farmers as a vote bank are crucial, will once again lead to high incidence of farm fires.This is evident from the fact that even as paddy had been harvested selectively in just two districts of Amritsar and Tarn Taran, 96 cases of farm fire have been reported till yesterday. As the paddy harvesting begins in full swing within the next 10 days, these incidents are only going to increase further.Last year, the number of stubble-burning cases had risen by over 44 per cent (from 52,991 in 2019 to 76,590 in 2020). This was mainly because of the anger among farmers over the three farm laws and the government shutting its eyes to the farm fires for fear of aggravating and alienating the farmers from the ruling Congress.The issue of how the drive to check the farm fires “had proved to be an exercise in futility” had also come up for discussion at the Cabinet meeting last month, with at least two ministers — Brahm Mohindra and Manpreet Singh Badal — demanding to know how the money meant for in situ management was used.Officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board disagree and say that they have already challaned some miscreants and given them recovery notices for Rs 37,000, besides appointing 8,000 nodal officers to check stubble-burning. But, with the change in political guard and the farmers’ agitation continuing, it is unlikely that there would be any action on stopping farmers to burn the residual straw.What further threatens to aggravate the crisis is the inability of the balers in Punjab to get a higher price from the units that use paddy straw as raw material. Balwinder Pardhan from the Balers Association said they would not be able to operate the balers at the rates offered to them.“If the issue is not resolved, there will be a rise in pollution because of farm fires, as balers are not given proper rate for selling stubble. In 2012, bale was compensated at Rs 145 per quintal, when the rate of diesel was Rs 45, while in 2021 the rate of diesel is Rs 90 but they are compensated at Rs 125 per quintal by the biomass plants,” he said.Experts say paddy is cultivated in 30 lakh hectares in Punjab and every year 20-22 million tonnes of straw is produced. Of this, balers process around 8.8 lakh metric tonne of stubble annually and sell it to the biomass plants, which produce 97.5 MW electricity annually. “If balers are not given apt rate, they will be forced not to procure and process stubble to bales from farmers, which would force the farmer to burn stubble,” he said.Book machinery on ‘i-Khet’ app||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harvesting-begins-2-punjab-districts-amritsar-tarn-taran-see-96-farm-fires-already-317484
