30-09-2021||Amritsar||Tourism Day marked at GNDU||Farmers leave for SinghuAmritsar: A group of 332 farmers, including several women, left for the Singhu border on Wednesday. The farmer leaders associated with Samyukt Kisan Morcha said the group would stay at the Singhu border for the next days after which another group would replace them. Leading the group, Arjan Singh Nagar, Nirmal Singh Modhe, Satnam Singh Chak Aaul said participation of farmers at Delhi border would be raised in the next few weeks. Jamhoori Kisan Sabha leader Rattan Singh Randhawa said the last Bharat bandh had established the fact that the public supported the cause of farmers. He added that over 700 farmers in the state had died during the ongoing protest, which had caused the resentment among the farmers and the public. While leaving for Delhi from railway station, the farmers shouted slogans against the government. TNSTeen abducted, youth bookedTarn Taran: A teenage school-going girl was abducted by her classmate from the border area. On the statement of the father of the victim, Khalra police on Tuesday booked Anmol Sabharwal of Khemkaran. Investigating officer ASI Narinder Singh said the accused abducted the girl on September 26 on the pretext of marrying her. The ASI said a case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC had been registered against the accused who was still at large. ocDist logs one fresh caseAmritsar: With one positive case reported on Wednesday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,312. The Health Department has also reported the recovery of two patients, with which the recovery count has increased to 45,707. The district at present has a total of 13 active cases. Meanwhile, 3,574 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Wednesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tourism-day-marked-at-gndu-318200
30-09-2021||The district administration has given a mobile vending e-cart to a woman horticulturist Rajwinder Kaur of Khadoor Sahib||Tarn Taran diary: Now, take your produce from fields to market||How long does it take to repair a road?The Congress had been claiming that the state government had released grants worth crores for the development of Tarn Taran for the past more than four years. But the town has been in a bad shape since then. The sewerage system is also not well developed while the drinking water is also not available to 70 % of the population. The residents say even the four-and-a-half-year period was not enough to repair potholes in Tarn Taran. The shopkeepers say they have been a witness to several accidents on this road and have even written to the SDM, Tarn Taran, to do the needful. The residents said it was ‘repaired’ last year and filled with sand which used to create huge clouds of dust after vehicles passed through the stretch. The residents said since the pothole was near the divider, sometimes, the drivers of the vehicles lose control over their vehicles which has led to several accidents. CPI Leader Tara Singh Khehra, in a letter to the Charanjit Singh Channi, demanded to take serious note of the indifferent attitude of the officials concerned.Gearing up for Jor MelaResidents of the district had been eagerly awaiting the holy annual fair (Salana Jor Mela) which is celebrated at Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha (Tarn Taran). The mela could not be organised last year with fanfare due to the pandemic. Lakhs of devotees visit the place to pay their obeisance on the occasion of the mela. The administration of the gurdwara is managed by the SGPC. The place is of extreme importance to the childless couples who pay obeisance here. Large number of couples reach here from foreign countries too. The four-day mela this year would be started from October 4 with the beginning of Akhand Path Sahib and would be concluded on October 7 with the Amrit Sanchar (baptising Sikhs to be Amridhari). Colourful Nagar Kirtan too would be organised in the villages of the area as per the programme chalked out. The people of the nearby areas also offer their services during the fair. They also organise langar for the visitors.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-now-take-your-produce-from-fields-to-market-318199
30-09-2021||Tarn Taran||Workshop on  personality development||A seminar on personality development was organised at Guru Gobind Singh Convent School, Sohawa (Sarhali), on Wednesday for the overall development of the students to make progress in life. The students of the secondary school participated in the seminar.SK Duggal, director of the school, presided over the seminar while Rajpal Singh, chief organiser of Sri Sehej Path Sanstha, Amritsar, was the chief spokesperson on the occasion. Rajpal Singh advised the students to follow the fundamentals discussed at the seminar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workshop-on-personality-development-318198
30-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||This Amritsar entrepreneur infused his decades-old trade with flavours||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 29Mannu Sareen (45) has overhauled his 70-year-old family business of food chemical and preservatives. He brought this change in a short span of three years by foray into the businesss of flavoured syrups.Belonging to the third generation of his family business, he says mocktails such as mojito, hazel nut and grenadine are new a fad among youngsters. Made from natural extracts such as vanilla, hazel nut, coffee, lemon and others, these drinks have been replacing the conventional beverages.Flavoured syrups have been approved by the FSSAI. Qualified and trained food technologists have been hired for the project. His firm has the manufacturing unit in the designated industrial area of the city where about 25 employees are engaged in the manufacture and packaging of the product.In addition, Mannu Sareen makes it a point to take part in relevant seminars to keep abreast with the latest trends taking place in the concerned field.He had entered into the family business about 25 years ago. Learning the tricks of the trade, he felt that diversification was the need of the hour.His customers are spread far and wide across districts like Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Pathankot and even Jammu and Kashmir besides the holy city. His future prospects are to increase the the production across the country. Drinks made from natural extractsA third generation in his family business, Mannu Sareen (45) says mocktails such as mojito, hazel nut and grenadine are new a fad among youngsters. Made from natural extracts such as vanilla, hazel nut, coffee, lemon and others, these drinks have been replacing the conventional beverages. He brought this change in a short span of three years by foray into the business of flavoured syrups. Flavoured syrups have been approved by the FSSAI. Qualified trained food technologists have been hired for the project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-amritsar-entrepreneur-infused-his-decades-old-trade-with-flavours-318197
30-09-2021||---||Ahead of Assembly poll, election officials take stock of polling booths in Ajnala||Amritsar, September 29Ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, the district election officials have started checking polling booths. On Wednesday, the district election officials, led by Ruhi Dugg, Additional District Election Officer-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner, carried out checking of booths falling in the Ajnala Vidhan Sabha constituency in the district.During the checking, they inspected polling booths at Government Secondary School, Ajnala, Government High School, Bhala village, Government Elementary School (Boys), Rajasansi, Government Elementary Schools (Boys), Ghah Mandi, Rajasansi, and Government Secondary Schools in Attari and others. Polling booths to be set up at Government Elementary Schools at Kamboh and Heir villages were also checked.They also evaluated the essential facilities available to the voters at each booth as per the EC’s instructions. During the checking, they found that all facilities provided by the EC to the voters were available. Election Tehsildar Rajinder Singh and other staff were also a part of the visiting team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ahead-of-assembly-poll-election-officials-take-stock-of-polling-booths-in-ajnala-318196
30-09-2021||---||Meet a young Samaritan from Amritsar!||Amritsar, September 29Ruhani Verma, a Class XI student, collected Rs one lakh and donated the same to the Red Cross Society through the district administration here on Wednesday. She studies at Wood Stock School, Mussorie. She said the collected fund intended to provide relief to those who suffered during the Covid-19 period.The fund, in the form of a cheque, was handed over to Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira to be deposited with the Red Cross Society. He called upon the people to donate funds to the Red Cross Society which has been serving the needy and the destitute. “During the pandemic, it helped people financially and also provided them with medicines,” he quipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/meet-a-young-samaritan-from-amritsar-318195
30-09-2021||---||Plastic-free Amritsar: Give plastic waste, get a gift in return!||Amritsar, September 29In an initiative to keep the environment of the city clean, a ‘Plastic-Free Amritsar’ campaign has been launched by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu under the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) here today. The objective of the campaign is to free the city dwellers of the plastic.In this campaign, the residents of the city have been invited to bring plastic and get gifts in return. The residents of the city will collect plastic items and give them at a booth constituted for purpose and they will be given a gift as an honour.Addressing the gathering Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said they were making efforts to make Amritsar a clean and developed city. He said the Municipal Corporation and the UNDP were working together to tackle the problem of plastics which was becoming the biggest threat to the environment. “The Punjab Government has launched the Plastic-Free Amritsar campaign to free the city of plastic. In this move, residents of the city should extend their full cooperation in making this campaign a success,” added Rintu.The Mayor called the residents to use jute or cloth bags when go for shopping in the market to eliminate the need of plastic envelopes from the outset. “Protecting the environment has become a need for our survival. The people should also contribute in this campaign for the betterment of the country,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/plastic-free-amritsar-give-plastic-waste-get-a-gift-in-return-318194
30-09-2021||---||Work on Gurdwara Shaheedan to Hall Gate road inaugurated||Amritsar, September 29Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Wednesday inaugurated the work of recarpeting the main road of Sultanwind Gate which leads from Gurdwara Shaheedan to Hall Gate. It would be developed as a smart road. The smart road, once constructed, would be a great help to pilgrims visiting Gurdwara Shaheedan and residents of the area would also get a lot of relief.Speaking on the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said this main road of the city was in a dilapidated condition for a long time. The road is used by devotees and pilgrims to reach the gurdwara and they would face inconvenience. “The carpeting work on the road was started today. The road is being developed as a smart road from Sultanwind Road to Hall Gate. This would facilitate the residents of Amritsar city,” said the Mayor.Rintu said development works had changed the face of every area of the city and to keep every street, every locality of the city clean and tidy, officials, employees and safai karamcharis of the Municipal Corporation worked round the clock.He said in view of the current health crisis triggered by the rising cases of dengue, fogging was being conducted in every street of the city. He urged the city dwellers to keep their surroundings clean. On the occasion, Supervising Engineer Sandeep Singh, Executive Engineer SS Malhi and area residents were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-on-gurdwara-shaheedan-to-hall-gate-road-inaugurated-318193
30-09-2021||---||Kisan sangharsh panel members’ stir enters second day; meet ministers in Chandigarh||Amritsar, September 29Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee continued with its indefinite dharna outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office for the second day on Wednesday to putting forth various demands of the farmers.The farmer leaders also held a meeting with senior functionaries of the state government, including Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Agriculture Minister Randhir Singh Nabha and Lok Sabha member Jasbir Singh Dimpa in Chandigarh on Wednesday to discuss the issues.Committee’s general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the meeting, which lasted over two hours, was held with the Agriculture Minister and others from the ruling government during which the issues faced by the farmers were discussed.He added that issues of payment of dues of sugarcane, compensation for cotton growers, withdrawal of FIRs against farmers, jobs for kin of the farmers who died during the farmers’ agitation, waiving of Rs 1,200 electricity bills and increase of condition of one kilo watt to two kilo watt for labour families had been accepted by the state government.Pandher said so far the government had not accepted the demands of complete loan waiver for farmers and labourers and constitution of Basmati Trading Corporation.He said the committee’s core leadership would be meeting on Thursday to chalk out the future course of action and the assurances given by the Congress leaders would be put before the members after which a decision would be taken.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, a farmers’ organization which has its roots in the Majha belt, is not a part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a consortium of 32-farmer unions to fight against the three agriculture laws. While it had participated in the Bharat Bandh call given by SKM for September 27, it also continued with its parallel actions.Even during the bandh, it had resorted to blocking railway tracks, which was not a part of the SKM’s plan. The organisation is trying to preserve its independent identity along with toeing the line set by SKM when it feels necessary.Women stage dharnaTarn Taran: Several women protested on the second-day of the three-day Pakka Morcha launched by the Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrsh Committee, Punjab. The women, with yellow coloured duppatas on their heads, participated in the morcha and staged a dharna organised in front of the office of the District Administration Complex (DAC) here.Ranjit Kaur Kallha, Devinder kaur, Ranjit Kaur Kot Budha, Kulwinder Kaur Walipur, Jaspinder kaur Manochahal were among the others who addressed on the occasion. The women leaders expressed their views regarding the three contentious farm laws.Lashing out at the prevailing drug menace, unemployment, lawlessness, police atrocities, discrimination with the women everywhere, the leaders called women folk to be united.They also challenged that they were ready to make any sacrifice to save their land and livelihood.The leaders said in case the meeting called by the state government under the chairmanship of Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy Chief Minister, failed to resolve their issues, the morcha would be shifted to the rail tracks from September 30. The women leaders called all sections of the society to be united.The current demands of the organisation include government jobs with compensation to the families of the farmer who died while participating in the Delhi farmer agitation, security to women, 50 per cent reservation to women in the Parliament, waiving the total debt of the farmers and the mazdoors, cheap rate power to the domestic consumers, repealing of the power accord with the private companies, residential plots to the homeless labourers, jobs to the youths filling all the vacant posts in the government departments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kisan-sangharsh-panel-members-stir-enters-second-day-meet-ministers-in-chandigarh-318192
30-09-2021||---||Two young writers, two books put interests of youth under the spotlight||Amritsar, September 29Two young writers, Sakoon Singh and Rana Preet Gill, participated in a literary session hosted by Majha House.In conversation with Belinder Dhanoa, renowned author, artist and teacher of English literature, the two discussed their latest books, which showcase their social and political concerns. Rana Preet, who is a veterinary officer in Hoshiarpur and author of three books, discussed her latest book Maya, while Sakoon, who is a teacher of English literature in Chandigarh, has raised subjects like drug addiction, memories of Partition in her first novel In the Land of the Rivers: A Punjab Qissa.Both have young protagonists, who deal with the conflicts and interests of youth. Talking about the title of her book, Sakoon said, “Initially, the title was Nanaki: A Punjabi Qissa, as my protagonist is named Nanaki. But my editor thought people would associate it with the historical Bebe Nanaki. So, slowly I arrived at this title as Punjab is also a land of romance. And Qissa is a favourite genre of storytelling for Punjabis, still thriving after all these years.” She clarified that the book was not just about Nanaki but about all Punjabis. “If I am talking about today’s generation, I am also talking about Partition and displacement. I inherited these stories from my grandparents and also the disappointment they felt as their idea of a nation went awry,” she said.Rana talked how she tries to make her protagonists and stories more relatable to young readers as they are her target readers. “Maya, the protagonist of my book, is very concerned about her looks because today’s youngsters are really obsessed with physical beauty. She is constantly trying different things in to ‘look better’. It is also centred around an infamous MMS scandal so technology also plays an important role. I mostly draw inspiration for my characters and stories from everyday life,” she explained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-young-writers-two-books-put-interests-of-youth-under-the-spotlight-318191
30-09-2021||---||Two former GNDU students clear UPSC exam, felicitated||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 29The department of School of Social Sciences of GNDU organised a felicitation ceremony for two of its former students, Amritpal Kaur and Amritpal Singh, who cleared the UPSC exam this year. Amritpal Kaur secured AIR 435 and Amritpal Singh secured AIR 639.The two were honoured by Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, who talked about the achievements of the School of Social Sciences that has so far produced 21 state and Centre-level bureaucrats. He also expressed his concerns about reducing the number of civil servants from the state. Both Amritpal Kaur and Amritpal Singh come from humble backgrounds. They will be the first civil servants in their family. “We were classmates while pursuing BA Social Sciences at GNDU in 2014. Later, we got selected to pursue masters in social sciences at JNU,” shared Amritpal Kaur. She said dedication and hard work were the only requirements for success in the UPSC exam.Prof Rajesh Kumar, head of the department, School of Social Sciences, said the school was established to tap the potential of students aspiring for UPSC. “Amritpal Kaur had sociology as her optional subject and Amritpal Singh had political science as his optional subject. So far, many of our students have cleared the civil services examination as we offer competitive training and classroom teaching on the UPSC pattern.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-former-gndu-students-clear-upsc-exam-felicitated-318190
30-09-2021||---||Waste segregation a distant dream in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 29The segregation of waste at the point of generation (home) is still a distant dream in the city. Despite tall claims made by the civic body and the solid waste management company, it has not been implemented so far.Lack of infrastructure by the solid waste management firm and awareness among people regarding the segregation at source level is affecting the proper disposal of garbage. The solid waste management firm, SL Infra Projects, had initiated the project in July 2016 and the source segregation was one of the main objectives of the door-to-door collection.However, during the last five years, the firm failed to develop infrastructure for segregation. A number of door-to-door collection vehicles do not have partition to keep the wet and dry waste separate. MC officials conducted awareness drives and asked the residents to keep separate containers for dry and wet waste.However, most of the households do not pay heed to their advice of MC. “All the waste we generate in the form of leftover food, peels and leaves of vegetables and fruits could easily be decomposed. The dry waste of plastic, glass, cardboard and other items are not easily decomposable. We will streamline the process and assure the segregation of waste,” said the MC health officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waste-segregation-a-distant-dream-in-amritsar-318189
30-09-2021||---||RAAHI Project: Subsidy on replacement of diesel autos with electronic ones in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 29Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) is starting the RAAHI (Rejuvenation of Auto-Rickshaw in Amritsar through Holistic Intervention) project soon for which a cash subsidy of Rs 75,000 will be given for replacing the old diesel auto with an e-auto to improve the city’s public transport and to reduce pollution levels.Announcing the subsidy under the RAAHI project here on Wednesday, Amritsar Smart City CEO and Municipal Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi said under the RAAHI scheme, there is a plan to replace around 12,000 old diesel autos in the city with modern and eco-friendly e-autos. For that, a cash subsidy of Rs 75,000 will be given to each beneficiary.It is worth mentioning here that Amritsar Smart City working on RAAHI project for a long time under the CITIIS (City Investment to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain) programme run by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, French Development Agency (AFD), the European Union and the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA).Apart from this, Amritsar Smart City Limited has tied up with State Bank of India to provide loans to e-auto buyers on easy rates. Under which, the loan will also be given by the State Bank at a rate of 9.9%. He said Amritsar would be the first city in the country where e-autos would be made part of the public transport system on a large scale and the government was giving a huge subsidy to buy e-autos. Apart from that, installation of e-vehicle charging stations and programmes for welfare of auto rickshaw drivers is also being planned under the RAAHI project.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, CEO, Amritsar Smart City, said, “Earnings of rickshaw drivers will increase after the adoption of e-autos. As the current cost of driving diesel auto has gone up to more than Rs 4 per km at the current diesel price and it is only 0.68 paise per km in the e-auto. At the same time, adoption of e-autos will decrease the level of air pollution as well as noise pollution also. Amritsar smart city has already started the empowerment of OEMs of e-autos and the project will be started before Diwali”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raahi-project-subsidy-on-replacement-of-diesel-autos-with-electronic-ones-in-amritsar-318188
30-09-2021||GS Paul||Party’s image, workers’ morale hit: Congress leaders||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 29Congress leaders believe Navjot Singh Sidhu’s sudden move of stepping down as Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president would adversely impact the party’s image and morale of party workers in the state.Even as Sidhu, in a video message, has tried to justify his move, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla is of the view that all differences should be resolved across the table, instead of making it public and giving an opportunity to the Opposition to strike back.Why interfere?His interference in Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s daily affairs led to commotion in the state unit. The allegations over Capt-Badal alliance were frivolous. Darbari Lal, Cong leader“Sidhu’s decision to resign and make it public is unexpected and hasty. He should have raised the issues at the party platform. I think the issues could have been resolved amicably if he had taken into confidence certain colleagues with whom he was comfortable. Now when the damage to party’s image has been done, MLAs have been frequenting his place and persuading him to reconsider the decision,” he said.Hasty, unexpectedSidhu’s decision to resign and make it public is unexpected and hasty. Since he heads the state unit, he should have raised his issues at the party platform. Gurjeet Singh Aujla, MPFormer Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker and three-time Congress MLA Prof Darbari Lal said: “Sidhu’s political aspersions have led the high command to dislodge undisputed leader like Capt Amarinder Singh unceremoniously. Sidhu should have realised that the PCC president’s task is to organise party’s structure whereas the chief minister has constitutional rights to run the government and make appointments. The sand and drug mafias with political connivance or Bargari sacrilege incidents were a matter of investigation and the government has constituted special investigation teams for the same”.Amritsar rural party president Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar said attempts were being made to settle the issues at the state-level amicably. “Resignation is no solution, rather it will further dent the morale of the workers and the party’s image. He could have raised his point of view with the senior party leaders before making any move,” he said.Echoing identical views, party’s district urban president Jatinder Sonia and councillor Rajesh Madan said, “We cannot afford to lose him. Things will be sorted out soon.”Can’t lose him||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partys-image-workers-morale-hit-congress-leaders-317979
