01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Artificial limbs distribution camp||Ludhiana doctor gets awardChandigarh: Dr Sarit Sharma, Professor of Community Medicine, DMCH, Ludhiana. was awarded Fellowship of Indian Association of Preventive & Social Medicine (FIAPSM) during the 48th Annual Conference of IAPSM conducted online at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, recently. Dr Sharma had been working in the areas of infection control, prevention of communicable & non-communicable diseases, maternal & child health etc. He was also awarded with a certificate of appreciation by Varinder Sharma, Deputy Commissioner, Ludhiana, for his contributions during the pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/artificial-limbs-distribution-camp-233112
01-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man hacks live-in partner to death||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-hacks-live-in-partner-to-death-233111
01-04-2021||Ludhiana||Session on job avenues for graduates||Poshan Pakhwada-2021 celebratedShree Atam Vallabh Jain College organised and online cycling event to celebrate ‘Poshan Pakhwada 2021’. The NSS unit of the college put in the efforts so that the students can be made aware about the healthy living in this time of pandemic. The students did the cycling to aware the general public and to bring the change in their lifestyle amid the Covid crisis. “The event not only encouraged healthy living but also focused on practicing social distancing and management of chronic diseases,” said college principal Dr Sandeep Kumar.Workshop on nutrition heldDesh Bhagat Ayurvedic College & Hospital celebrated Poshan Pakhwada starting from March 16 to March 31. A workshop was organised for the faculty members on training and teaching them about the importance of nutrition for children, lactating mothers, and women. Chancellor of DBU Dr Zora Singh congratulated the faculty of DBU for organising the workshop. He said a well-balanced diet with regular physical activity is a recipe for good health.Webinar on guru tegh bahadur’s lifeTo celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur, Guru Nanak National College, Doraha, in collaboration with the Youth Welfare Department of Panjab University, Chandigarh, organised a national webinar on the theme ‘ Shri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji: Life, Philosophy and Contribution’. Dr Sanjay Kaushik, DCDC, Panjab University, Chandigarh, was the chief guest and Paramjit Singh, DPI Colleges graced the occasion as representative of the Punjab Government. Prof Dalbir Singh and Dr Kuldeep Singh were the resource persons for the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/session-on-job-avenues-for-graduates-233110
01-04-2021||Our Correspondent||PEDA holds awareness camp on biogas plant at Chhandra village||Doraha, March 31The Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) on Tuesday organised a camp to raise awareness on setting up a biogas plant in Chhandra village.Suresh Goyal, Joint Director, PRDA, gave details about the plant and it’s functioning to the villagers. “ Apart from saving the environment from pollution, the biogas plant would also protect residents from different sorts of diseases,” Goyal said.He added that the capacity of the plant ranges from 1 to 6 cubic metre and the cost of installing a biogas plant ranges from Rs28,000 to Rs40,000 according to the capacity. He said the government also provides a subsidy of Rs7,500 to Rs12,000 and anyone interested can contact 94174-94900 for additional information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/peda-holds-awareness-camp-on-biogas-plant-at-chhandra-village-233108
01-04-2021||---||8 dead, 328 new cases in  Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 31Eight more persons have lost their lives due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours in the district. The Health Department on Wednesday confirmed 381 fresh cases — 328 from Ludhiana and 53 from other districts or states.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar informed that 76 patients visited OPDs, 143 with influenza like illness visited Flu Corner and 25 came in contact of Covid-infected patients. Five virus-infected patients were suffering from severe acute respiratory infection. Four teachers — one teacher each from BCM School in Shastri Nagar, GSS School in Dehlon, GPS School in Sherpur Kalan and GMS School in Partap Pur — tested positive for virus.The Health Department confirmed today that 12 persons — eight from Ludhiana and one each from Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Sangrur and Jalandhar — died of virus.In Ludhiana district, the persons who died of virus were 88-year-old woman from Rajguru Nagar, 52-year-old woman from Baba Namdev Colony, 84-year-old man from Millerganj, 63-year-old woman from Sarinh village, 34-year-old woman from Lohara, 73-year-old woman from Machhiwara, 64-year-old woman from Aliwal village and 67-year-old man from Prem Nagar.At present, there are 2,937 active cases in the district. A total of 23 patients — 10 from Ludhiana and 13 from other districts or states — are on ventilator support.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases belonging to Ludhiana district is 34,410 and 5,414 cases belong to other districts/states. In Ludhiana, 30,329 patients (88.14%) have recovered till date.Besides, 1,144 persons from Ludhiana and 590 from other districts have died due to Covid-19 till date.The district administration appealed to the residents to adhere to all the safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently. College Ex-principal succumbs to virus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-dead-328-new-cases-in-ludhiana-233064
01-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Toilets built under HT cables, PSPCL blames MC,  LIT||Ludhiana, March 31The controversial construction of a toilet block going on in Kitchlu Nagar under the ‘Smart City’ mission has taken a curious turn with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) squarely blaming both the Municipal Corporation (MC) and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) for encroachment on the right of way (ROW) of high-tension power cables at the site.Taking up a civil writ petition (CWP) 36-2020 filed by the Humanist Welfare Society against state of Punjab and others on March 27, 2021, the double Bench of Justices Ravi Shankar Jha and Arun Palli issued notice of motion to the MC through its Commissioner and other parties while issuing directions to the PSPCL to take action in the mater in accordance with law in the meantime.In his written statement submitted to the High Court during the hearing, the Additional Superintendent Engineer, Protection and Maintenance, City Division, PSPCL, stated that the 66-KV HT Haibowal-GT Road circuit (1 & 2) line was commissioned in June 1986. “The maximum width of the ROW corridor for a 66-KV transmission line is 18 m — 9 m from the centre of tower on either side of the tower is reserved as ROW of transmission line,” said the PSPCL official.The official averred that any permanent construction activity under the HT lines could cause fatal accidents and was illegal.“Such construction activity is also in breach/violation of Section 61 of the Central Electricity Authority Regulations-2010. PSPCL has not given any permission to construct toilets directly under existing 66 KV lines to the MC or LIT but on the contrary notices were issued to the LIT, MC and GLADA in February 2020 and again in February 2021 terming the construction activity as illegal and an encroachment upon the ROW of 66-KV transmission line,” the PSPCL maintained.The matter will come up for next hearing before the HC on July 22, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/toilets-built-under-ht-cables-pspcl-blames-mc-lit-233067
01-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana to be among top six worst-hit districts: CMC||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 31Ludhiana will be among the six districts to be worst-hit when Punjab will touch peak of fresh Covid cases around April 6 and it will be more alarming than the surge witnessed in the last September and October.Punjab is among five states accounting for over 80 per cent of the total new daily Covid cases being reported in the country for the past several days.8 dead, 328 new cases in LudhianaThe other worst-hit districts will be Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, and Kapurthala.This was projected by experts in the Department of Community Medicine at Christian Medical College (CMC), Ludhiana.In a report on estimated projections submitted to the state government, a copy of which is with The Tribune, the CMC experts have predicted that the new cases will tail off by the mid or late May. “The number of daily new cases will be more than the peak witnessed in last September and October,” they warned.55 more die in Punjab as nation sees 72,330 new Covid casesLast year, the state had reported a maximum number of 2,896 cases in a day on September 17.The prediction has revealed that the daily new cases can go as high as 6,500 during the ensuing peak and will come down to 1,500 as the cases will tail off by mid or late May.According to the report, nearly 50 per cent of the total cases in the current surge were less than 40 years of age. However, there were no significant reinfection cases (based on the data available), the experts reported.The experts have recommended strict enforcement of restrictions, including religious and political meetings, besides keeping the schools shut till the end of April.Rising trendThe official data revealed that the positivity rate and number of active cases have increased manifold this month. While the positivity rate touched an all-time high of 6.96 per cent on March 25, which was mere 2.26 per cent on February 25, the number of active cases shot up 553 per cent from 3,870 on February 25 to 21,405 on March 25.Similarly, the case fatality rate (CFR) rose to 2.9 per cent with 6,517 deaths as on March 25, which had touched 1.4 per cent on March 11.Testing upThe state government has ramped up the testing with a record 2,54,049 sampling between March 19 and 25, which was almost double than 1,34,611 done between February 19 and 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-to-be-among-top-six-worst-hit-districts-cmc-233068
01-04-2021||Ludhiana||On last day, Ludhiana MC collects Rs 3-cr property tax||A large number of residents deposited their property tax on Wednesday — last day of financial year 2020-21.The civic body collected over Rs 3 crore as property tax today, said the MC’s Superintendent Vivek Verma. According to the officer, around 5,200 persons deposited property tax either by visiting MC Suvidha Kendras or through the MC’s official website. Verma said the actual income generated from property tax during the financial year would be calculated tomorrow as the residents could deposit the tax through the MC’s website. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/on-last-day-ludhiana-mc-collects-rs-3-cr-property-tax-233070
01-04-2021||---||Garbage fire guts 2 cars at Feroze Gandhi market||Ludhiana, March 31 Panic spread in the Feroze Gandhi market after four cars caught fire on Wednesday morning. Alert people saved two cars as they broke window glasses and dragged the vehicles away. While two cars — a Swift and Santro — got gutted in the fire. The reported cause of fire was a garbage dump which was set on fire by someone. The vehicles caught fire through sparks under them. The Swift car belongs to a advocate, while the Santro car belongs to an employee of a private company. As per the eyewitnesses, the fire broke out around 10.30 am. Four cars were parked there and initially two (Swift and Santro) caught fire. While sparks had also reached under the two other cars parked there but people standing there broke the driver-side glasses of the cars and steered them away to safety. People also tried to douse flames of the two cars by putting water over. Investigation officer Sub-Inspector Kulwinder Singh, in-charge Kochar Market police post, said someone had set the garbage on fire and it led to the accident. He said it was not sure who put the garbage on fire and investigation was on in this regard. Both the car owners demanded that since the garbage was put on fire by staff of the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, so the MC should give them compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/garbage-fire-guts-2-cars-at-feroze-gandhi-market-233071
01-04-2021||---||Rally to reopen schools||Ludhiana, March 31 Students of various schools today organised a rally outside the DC office today. During the rally, they requested the authorities concerned to reopen schools.  Meanwhile, a protest was staged at Jatindera Greenfield School, Gurusar Sudhar, by the teaching and non-teaching staff, drivers, conductors and Class IV employees of the school, against the decision of the government to close all schools. The demonstrators were wearing black badges and raised slogans against the decision to close schools.  They appealed to the government not to close schools again. They said schools were their only source of livelihood. At the time of opening of the school, they have been taking full care of regular sanitisation on the premises and other instructions and will continue to follow all government guidelines.  The staff also appealed to the Chief Minister and the Education Minister for accepting their demands. Members of the Federation of Association of Punjab Schools said school managements cannot afford to pay the remuneration to the teaching and non-teaching staff and this will lead to rise in unemployment. The schools are much safer place for the students as compared to shopping complexes, amusement parks, restaurants or holiday resorts.  The federation has requested the authorities to keep in mind the entire scenario and the negative effects of the decision of closure of schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rally-to-reopen-schools-233072
01-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Parents, pupils in favour of offline classes, say teachers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 31Management of private schools claimed that they are facing pressure from parents and students of higher classes for reopening of schools. Teachers said though Covid cases are rising in the district, parents and students are regularly meeting the school managements demanding reopening of schools.Harmit Kaur, Principal, Nankana Public School, said parents and students want school to reopen. “We are not the authority to take decision on this. Many principals have submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner today on the issue. Everyone wants schools to be reopened for the benefit of the students”, she said.The school authorities believe that if schools are closed for longer duration, parents will be reluctant to deposit the fee. Another principal, on the condition of anonymity, said she had again enrolled the full staff as Covid situation was improved in January/February and classes had started.“Now, there are orders of closure and we are worried. Parents will never give fees for the month of April whereas we have to provide full salaries to the staff hired again. It took us long to convince the parents to get their wards admitted to playway schools but now we have come from where we had started,” rued the principal.“The students studying in higher classes are worried more. The entire future depends on the marks of Class XII but if classes will not be taken physically, we will not be able to understand much”, said Priyanka, a student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parents-pupils-in-favour-of-offline-classes-say-teachers-233073
01-04-2021||Lovleen Bains||PYDB chairman inaugurates two vaccination camps at Sahnewal||Sahnewal, March 31The Punjab Youth Development Board shall leave no stone unturned to speed up the process of vaccination thereby promising full support and assistance to the administration which is making all round efforts to make the public free from this deadly virus at the earliest, said Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, Chairman, Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB), while inaugurating two vaccination camps in Gurdwara Reru Sahib and on 33-ft road in Sahnewal today.After kicking off the inoculation camps under the ‘Vaccination on doorstep’ drive of the district administration, Bindra said the administration is making all-out efforts to vaccinate the beneficiaries and the PYDB would stand in full support to ensure that the maximum number of people receive the vaccine in shortest possible time.He said the PYDB would facilitate the industries in organising the immunisation camp on the premises to inoculate labourers and all from the prioritised category age-group.Bindra also exhorted the people to come forward and take the vaccine. He said the vaccine is completely safe and effective to contain the spread of the virus by creating herd immunity.Prominent among present occasion included Mandeep Singh, Harminder Kumar, Satwinder Singh, Kulwinder Singh Kala, Sandeep Bhatia, Manjinder Singh Bhola, Harpreet Kaur Grewal, Harjit Kaur, Malkiat Singh, Paramjit Singh, Baba Joga Singh, Kamal Sharma, Jarnail Singh, Harvinder Kumar Pappi, Nitin Tandon, Hardeep Mundian, Sunita and Surinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pydb-chairman-inaugurates-two-vaccination-camps-at-sahnewal-233074
01-04-2021||Mahesh Sharma||MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha lays foundation stone of road reconstruction project||Mandi Ahmedgarh, March 31Payal legislator Lakhvir Singh Lakha today laid the foundation stone for reconstruction of potholed portions of Jagera-Bija Road that connects the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road with Ludhiana-Khanna National Highway.The project , when completed, would save residents from adopting alternative narrower and longer routes to reach their destination. The road is a part of the shortest route to Sharee Naina Devi, Anandpur Sahib, Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib and Rauza Sharif at Sirhind besides Chandigarh and Delhi.For decades, commuters had been urging the government to impress upon the authorities in the Public Works Department ( Bridges and Roads) to get the road reconstructed and prevent losses being caused due to extra consumption of fuel and damage to government and private vehicles. The Tribune had highlighted the plight of residents due to the dilapidated condition of the road.Addressing a gathering after laying the foundation stone at Jagera Bridge on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road, Lakha said a special project to repair potholed portions of the road had been approved after intervention of the Chief Minister.“Having received reports about the dilapidated condition of some of the major roads of my area I had requested CM Capt Amarinder Singh to impress upon authorities in the Public Works Department of Punjab Government to get the roads reconstructed. The CM asked Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and the Punjab PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla to get potholed portions on Bija- Jagera Bridge road reconstructed as a special case,” said Lakha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mla-lakhvir-singh-lakha-lays-foundation-stone-of-road-reconstruction-project-233075
01-04-2021||Doraha||2 arrested with 500 intoxicating injections||The Doraha police have recovered 500 intoxicating injections from two car-borne youth at Doraha yesterday. Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh, along with a police party, were checking the suspected vehicles and persons during the Nakabandi at Rajwant Hospital Naka GT Road, Doraha. A white Baleno (bearing number PB 08ER 0117) coming from Khanna side was stopped on suspicion. The person sitting on the rear seat was holding a blue-coloured bag. During the search, it was found that the bag contains 500 intoxicating injections and both men were arrested. Those arrested have been identified as Deepak Kumar, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar Bhagpur, and Jatinder Kumar, a resident of Muslim Colony Lamma Chok, Jalandhar. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Doraha police station and the accused have been arrested. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-arrested-with-500-intoxicating-injections-233076
01-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi to start normal run from April 15||Ludhiana, March 31The Northern Railway has announced that another New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express train (04053/54) would also start its normal run from April 15 (operating once a week on Thursdays).The train 04053 would leave New Delhi at 7.20 am and arrive in Amritsar at 1.30 pm (with a three-minute stoppage of 11.08 am to 11.11 am at Ludhiana). On return journey, the train 04054 would depart from Amritsar at 4.50 pm and reach New Delhi at 10.50 pm with a five-minute halt 6.50 to 6.55 pm at Ludhiana. The train would fill the gap left by 02029/30 Swarn Shatabdi Express which runs on all six days of the week except Thursday.The Railways have also announced two more summer special trains to provide additional connectivity of New Delhi/Delhi to Jammu Tawi and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra.The (02265/66) Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto Tri-weekly Special Express would go into operation from April 11, 2021 till further notice on every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday from Delhi and from April 12 on every Wednesday, Saturday and Monday from Jammu Tawi.The train (02265) would leave Jammu Tawi at 10.20 PM and reach Jammu Tawi at 7.15 am with one halt on the way at Ludhiana (2.37 to 2.47 am) while on return journey, the train 02266 would depart from Jammu Tawi at 7.15 pm and reach Delhi Sarai Rohilla at 3.55 am with a 10 minute stoppage at Ludhiana (11.20 to 11.30 pm).The (02445/46) New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Superfast Special Express would operate daily from March 31 and April 1, 2021 from New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra respectively till further orders.The 02445 train would leave New Delhi at 8.50 pm and reach Shri Mata Vishno Devi Katra at 8.05 AM the next day with a 10 minutes stoppage at Ludhiana (1.05 to 1.15am). On return journey, the train 02446 would depart from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra 7.55 pm and arrive New Delhi at 6.55 am with a 10 minute halt at Ludhiana (2.10 to 2.20am).Other commercial halts of the train would be at Panipat, Ambala Cantt, Jalandhar Cantt, Pathankot Cantt, Kathua, Jammu Tawi, Ramnagar and Udhampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delhi-amritsar-shatabdi-to-start-normal-run-from-april-15-233077
01-04-2021||Ludhiana||SCD Government College principal retires||After the completion of 33 years of his service, Dr Dharam Singh Sandhu, today retired from the post of principal of SCD Government College, Ludhiana.“The college got NAAC ‘A’ grade accreditation during his tenure as principal. Dr Sandhu had carried out many developmental works in the college to improve the infrastructure of the college,” said a college professor.Notably, Dr Sandhu was awarded UGC Major Research project entitled ‘Growth of Urbanisation and its Ecological Consequences: A Case Study of Ludhiana city’. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scd-government-college-principal-retires-233078
01-04-2021||Ludhiana||Modified silencers: 153 challans issued||The Ludhiana traffic police under the leadership of DCP (Traffic) Soumya Mishra launched an extensive drive against illegally-fitted silencers in bullet motorcycles. During the drive, the police issued 153 challans. The DCP said cases were also registered against mechanics who modify the silencers at Basti Jodhewal and Moti Nagar police station. DCP Saumya said the campaign will continue and action will be taken on merit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/modified-silencers-153-challans-issued-233079
