02-04-2021||---||Free bus travel service launched for women||Ludhiana, April 1The state government’s free bus travel facility was launched here today.The Ludhiana (Central) MLA, Surinder Dawar, and the Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, dedicated the free bus travelling facility to women in all government-owned buses here today.According to the notification issued by the Punjab Government, all women can avail free travel service in any government-owned buses, including Punjab Roadways Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways Buses (PUNBUS) and City Bus Services, operated by the Local Bodies Department.They disclosed that women need only any Punjab domicile ID card to travel free within boundaries of the state. All these buses had safety measures, including GPS, panic buttons, reserved seats, and CCTVs, they said. Women sleuths had been deployed to ensure safe environment for women, they added.The MLA and the DC also flagged off a Punjab Roadways bus from Amar Shaheed Sukdev Interstate Bus Terminal.“In consonance with the commitment of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to ensure women empowerment, the state government has been making all efforts in this direction. This facility will help girls/working women immensely, who travel considerably on these buses,” they said.A woman said the bus fare was too high as she was paying Rs85 daily to travel from Ludhiana to Jalandhar. Now, with the launch of free travel facility for women, she would save money, the woman added.Confusion over IDOn day one of the launch of the scheme, a few women could avail the free travel facility. A man travelling in government bus said, “I had shown copy of my wife’s Aadhaar card saved in my mobile to the bus staff, but they refused to accept it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/free-bus-travel-service-launched-for-women-233530
02-04-2021||---||No clarity on free travel for women in buses operated by Ludhiana MC||Harshraj Singh Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 1 The government has ordered that women can travel free on city buses operated by the Local Bodies Department. At present, MC’s city buses are being run by a private contractor.  “Only 35 out of 120 city buses are plying on roads. Rest of the buses are either lying defunct or not being run by the contractor concerned,” said sources.   Residents want that the Municipal Corporation (MC) should start all city buses and provide free travel facility for women in these vehicles.  Notably, there is no city bus or auto service for many colleges in the city. Around five years ago, a demand was raised before the MC to start direct city bus service to all local colleges, but to no avail.   Most students, particularly those coming from far-flung villages, cover a long distance on foot to reach their college.   Although SCD Government College is one of the oldest colleges of the city, it has no direct bus or auto service to or from the campus. As there is no bus or auto service, girl students generally walk to SCD Government College from Bhai Bala Chowk and Fountain Chowk. Similarly, there is no city bus service for girl students studying in colleges located in Ghumar Mandi, Model Town and other areas of the city.   The Punjab Medium Industries Development chairman, Amarjit Singh Tikka said, “The government has launched free bus travel service for women. It is good step. The MC should run all city buses and provide free travel facility to women in these vehicles. I will raise a demand before the MC authorities to start city buses on all routes.”  The MC Commissioner, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, said that they would take required steps in this regard. Earlier, MC's Ludhiana City Bus Service Limited (LCBSL) was running the service on its own. Later, it signed an agreement with a private firm to run the city buses till July 2014.  In January 2015, the LCBSL signed new agreement with another firm, which now operates and maintains city buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-clarity-on-free-travel-for-women-in-buses-operated-by-ludhiana-mc-233531
02-04-2021||---||Civic body removes 45 encroachments along Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah||Ludhiana, April 1The building branch staff of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today removed 45 encroachments along Buddha Nullah here today. Some owners had allegedly encroached the area at backside of their dairies.Sewer pipes are to be laid on both sides of the Buddha Nullah. The MC has also planned to construct roads on both sides of the Buddha Nullah.The Assistant Town Planner, Mohan Singh, said, “Encroachments have been removed with JCB machines. We have also marked other encroachments along Buddha Nullah, which will be removed in the coming days.”Earlier, the MC had identified around 965 encroachments along the Buddha Nullah. The civic body had conducted a big anti-encroachment drive along Buddha Nullah last month.Work to lay sewer pipeline to start soonUnder the rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project, sewer pipes are to be installed on banks of the Buddha Nullah. Several big pipes have reached a site on Tajpur Road. MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the work to lay sewer pipes would be started soon.Notably, the construction of 225 MLD sewerage treatment plant (STP) in the Jamalpur area of the city has already started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-removes-45-encroachments-along-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-233532
02-04-2021||Mahesh Sharma---||Free vaccination at Pohir health centre||Mandi Ahmedgarh, April 1 The region received another healthcare centre where all eligible residents will be given free vaccination against coronavirus. The Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner (DC), Varinder Kumar Sharma, launched the immunisation drive at the DMC rural health centre in Pohir village today. The Gill MLA, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, took the first jab at the centre today.  The facility would be available for all residents above the age of 45 irrespective of their domicile, said Sharma. “There is no restriction about domicile of beneficiaries. Even people living or working in localities falling under jurisdiction of Sangrur district can get vaccinated here free of cost,” Sharma added.   “The administration has already organised 250 vaccination camps at various centres, including civil hospitals, sub-divisional and private institutions, health and wellness centres,” said Sharma. Appreciating gesture shown by the DMC Hospital management for providing free of cost immunisation facilities in rural parts of the district the Gill MLA, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, called upon residents to get vaccinated without any fear as it was necessary for overcoming fresh wave of the pandemic.  Vaid urged elected members of rural local bodies to associate with the coordinated movement launched by the administration for spreading awareness about preventing the spread of the coronavirus and the significance of the vaccine against the disease.  Kila Raipur market committee chairman Ranjeet Singh Mangat, Pohir sarpanch Ravdeep Singh, DMC Hospital and College management committee secretary Prem Gupta, SIL executive director Anil Aggarwal and cardio surgeon Dr Vishaw Mohan were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/free-vaccination-at-pohir-health-centre-233533
02-04-2021||---||Ludhiana boy found infected with Japanese encephalitis||Ludhiana, April 1A one-and-half-year-old boy from Tibba Road has been found infected with Japanese encephalitis. Culex mosquito through which the disease spreads has also been found nearby.The boy was suffering from fever from some days. When his tests were conducted he was found infected with Japanese encephalitis.“The boy’s test was conducted at the CMCH and it came out positive for Japanese encephalitis. We have sent one more sample to the PGI for testing and the report is awaited,” said district epidemologist, Dr Ramesh.“Nobody in the boy’s family is unwell. Entomological survey has been conducted in the area and Culex mosquitoes through which the virus is transmitted to humans has been found in the nearby sewerage,” he added. “Fogging was done and larvae destroyed. We are now waiting for the report sent to PGI, Chandigarh,” he said.There is a pig farm nearby Tibba Road. Samples of pigs have also been collected to rule out if virus has spread from pigs to humans.Japanese encephalitis is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected Culex species of mosquitoes. Pigs and wading birds are the main carriers of Japanese encephalitis virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-boy-found-infected-with-japanese-encephalitis-233534
02-04-2021||Ludhiana||16 of family booked for clash at health centre in Koom Kalan||Sixteen members of an extended family and seven unidentified persons were booked by the police under Sections 307, 323, 506, 148 and 149, IPC, for an alleged attack on Nachhattar Singh, a resident of Dholanwal village and his friend Joginder Singh at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Koom Kalan, on Tuesday.In his complaint to the police, Nachhattar said Mangat Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Gurmukh Singh entered into a scuffle with him and his friend. The accused also issued threats and fled from the spot, he added.Later, Nachhattar learnt that the accused persons, along with some others, had assaulted his brother Surjit Singh and nephew Yodha Singh. “When we took the injured to the CHC at Koom Kalan, more than a dozen persons attacked us while hurling abuses and threats,” Nachhattar added.The accused held a grudge against his friend Joginder Singh due to a land dispute, Nachhattar added.The police said the assailants booked in the case include Sukhdev Singh, Piara Singh, Maniner Singh, Amarjit Singh, Gurjant Singh, Daika Singh, Yugraj Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Jagtar Singh, Harinder Singh, Mangal Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Makhan Singh, Satpal Singh, Mangat Singh, Bikram Singh and their seven unidentified accomplices. No arrests had been made, the police added.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/16-of-family-booked-for-clash-at-health-centre-in-koom-kalan-233535
02-04-2021||---||8 dead, 376 test +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 1As many as 376 persons tested positive for Covid, while eight persons lost their lives to the virus today. The total number of positive cases in the district has now reached 34,786 and there are 2,937 active cases at present.COVID-19 Control RoomWeblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-districtThe death count of Ludhiana district has reached 1,152 since March last year.Those who tested positive today include a policeman, two healthcare workers, a pre-operative case and a teacher from Government School, Cemetery Road.Those who lost their lives today were six men and two women in the age group of 60-80 years. The deceased belong to Ekolaha village, Pakhowal Road, Khanna, Moti Nagar, Dhamot village, Tarkhana, Bhattian Kalan and Rajguru Nagar.At present there are 19 patients on the ventilator support, out of which 10 belong to Ludhiana district and nine to other districts.Today 5,049 samples were collected and result of 295 is awaited.As per the guidelines from the state government, Covid-19 vaccine is now available for all people who are above the age of 45 years.Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “Anyone above the age of 45 years can now take vaccine. Various camps are also being organised by the government at PHCs, Sub-centres and health wellness centres. The number of vaccination sites has been increased by the government.”Today, Surinder Kumar Dabar, MLA, got himself vaccinated in the Civil Surgeon office, Ludhiana.Sharing views on this, Rajinder Singh, Block Extension Educator, Koomkalan, said everyone should get himself/herself vaccinated as per the schedule. He said vaccination drive was going on in the state all the seven days of the week and any valid identity proof was considered as a valid document for inoculating the eligible person in the state. Meanwhile, further spearheading the ‘Vaccination on Doorstep’ drive in the interiors of the city, three Covid vaccination camps were held in various parts of Ludhiana.The camps were organised on the premises of Dera Radha Soami Satsang Beas at Hambran road, Mundian Kalan, and CICU Focal Point.The Civil Surgeon said, “People must not believe in the rumours surrounding the vaccine as our scientists have left no stone unturned to develop the vaccine for making people safe from the deadly virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-dead-376-test-ve-in-ludhiana-233536
02-04-2021||Nitin Jain||WB approves $ 105 million for canal water supply project in Ludhiana, Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 1Finally, the much-awaited 24x7 canal-based surface drinking water supply project for Ludhiana has got the financial support from the World Bank (WB).The project will quench the thirst of the state’s two Maximum Cities within the next three years. Following negotiations, the World Bank has formally approved the project. The work on the scheme has been taken up on a priority basis to benefit the citizens at the earliest. — Vini Mahajan, Chief SecretaryThe World Bank has approved a $105 million funding for the Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project to strengthen urban services in Ludhiana and Amritsar, the two largest cities in Punjab.A decision to this effect was taken at the meeting of the World Bank Board of Executive Directors held in Washington DC on Wednesday, a top government functionary told The Tribune here on Thursday.She said the $105 million loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has a final maturity of 12.5 years, including a grace period of three years.A major focus of the project will be on providing efficient water supply and sanitation services in Ludhiana and Amritsar, cities that are the engines of economic growth for the state. The improvements in the water supply will benefit more than three million people in 2025 and an estimated five million projected population in 2055. Industrial and commercial users would also benefit from the good quality reliable water supply.“Punjab’s rapid urbanisation has been creating thirsty cities. Overexploitation of groundwater is the inevitable casualty,” said Junaid Ahmad, World Bank Country Director in India. “This project aims to tackle the challenge of urbanisation and ensure access to sustainable and safe water for Ludhiana and Amritsar. The focus is on municipal capabilities to plan, finance, and deliver services and to tap into the potential of surface water,” he added.The Punjab Government has launched slew of initiatives to address urban service delivery gaps and strengthen the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in the state. The government has devolved authority and responsibility for infrastructure development and service delivery to large municipal corporations. Several schemes to improve waste management, water supply, sewerage, streetlighting, and public transport are presently underway.“The Punjab Government has prioritised urban reforms and investments to address rising urban challenges. Through this project, we hope to address the broader governance and institutional gaps at multiple levels of the local government system in Ludhiana and Amritsar for an effective and responsive, and over time, efficient municipal service delivery in the two cities,” said Yarissa Lyngdoh Sommer, Senior Urban Specialist and World Bank’s Task Team Leader for the project.He said the focus on administrative and e-governance improvements, especially those with a public interface (such as improved systems for permits, payments, and grievance redress), would benefit the users of municipal services in both cities.Shift in water supplyPresently, Ludhiana and Amritsar draw their water by pumping out groundwater from hundreds of borewells dug up across the two cities. Pumping groundwater directly from these borewells leads to significant water loss and wastage as households are not incentivised to save. Studies have also revealed that Ludhiana’s groundwater is contaminated with nitrates and other heavy metals while Amritsar district’s with arsenic. The project will shift water supply from rapidly depleting and highly contaminated groundwater sources to a centralised treatment plant drawing water from local canals.Funding patternThe project will finance all new raw water systems, water treatment plants, transmission systems and reservoirs to supply clean water to cover entire cities under a Design, Build, Operate and Transfer (DBOT) contract. The DBOT operator will manage the operations and maintenance of these water supply systems under the direct supervision of the MCs in the two cities through city-level water utilities. The project will also provide sub-grants to all MCs to finance critical non-medical interventions that address impacts of Covid crisis.Site selectedThe site selection committee, headed by DC Varinder Kumar Sharma, has approved 54 acres at Bilga village in Ludhiana for the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wb-approves-105-million-for-canal-water-supply-project-in-ludhiana-amritsar-233537
02-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Gang of truck thieves busted, two arrested||Ludhiana, April 1The city police claimed to have busted a gang of truck thieves with the recovery of a truck looted at gunpoint from Samrala Chowk in the city and arrest of two members of the Amritsar-based gang.Giving this information here today, Joint Police Commissioner, City, Deepak Pareek said a truck (No PB-11AR-8632) loaded with more than 20 tonnes of iron bars (saria) and looted in wee hours on March 28 from Samrala Chowk, was recovered on the basis of information provided by one of the arrested accused, identified as Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, resident of Bhindian Aulakh village, under Chogawan police station, Amritsar, and presently residing at Ranike village, under Gharinda police station, Amritsar.Driver of the truck Amar Singh, resident of Roopa village, near Samrala, had said in his complaint lodged with the police that four persons, one of them wearing police uniform and carrying a firearm, came in a Honda Amaze car (PB-04Z-9868), woke him up in the middle of night on March 28 while he was sleeping in the truck and took him along with them in the car while claiming that they were from the GST/Sales Tax Department.The accused dropped him near Samrala Chowk at around daybreak, claimed the driver, while alleging that in the meantime, one of the accused drove the loaded truck away.Pareek said after registration of the case under Sections 379-B/365/171/34 of the IPC and Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act on March 28, the city police had carried out intensive investigation and a police party had nabbed one of the accused Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, on March 30 from Charchari village, near Goraya, who later confessed to the crime.The police had also recovered the looted truck loaded with iron bars from near Beas bridge in Goindwal and information provided by the arrested accused (Rana) also led to arrest of his accomplice Lal Singh, resident of Bhullar village, under Lopoke police station, Amritsar, and recovery of police uniform from his possession, said the police official. He added that the police were conducting raids on the suspected hideouts of the two other accused, identified as Guriqbal Singh, alias Roopa, resident of Hoshiar Nagar in Amritsar, who was the owner of the Honda Amaze car used in the crime, and Amandeep Singh, alias Bholu, resident of Rangarh village, under Gharinda police station, Amritsar. “At least two of the accused persons, Amandep and Guriqbal, had a past criminal record and were involved in several crimes of similar nature,” said Pareek.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-truck-thieves-busted-two-arrested-233538
02-04-2021||---||Couple held for attempt to rob jeweller in Ludhiana||Our Correspondent Ludhiana, April 1 The police have arrested a couple after their unsuccessful attempt to loot gold ornaments from shop of a jeweller on Noorwala Road here on Wednesday. The couple was booked under Sections 379-B/457/511 of the IPC. The suspects have been identified as Dev Das and his wife Arvinder Kaur, both residents of New Shivpuri Colony. The complainant Jatinder Kumar, who owns a jewellery shop on Noorwala Road here, told the police that the couple came to his shop on Wednesday afternoon to purchase gold ear rings. “As I was showing ear rings to them, the suspects threw red chilly powder on my face with the intent of looting gold ornaments. Since I was wearing glasses, the chillies had a little effect on me and the duo was overpowered on the spot,” said Jatinder.  The investigating officer, Surinder Kumar, said the matter was being probed. --------------------------------------   Theft at ESI dispensary   Thieves broke into ESI dispensary No. 7 in Shimlapuri on the intervening night of March 30 and 31 and decamped with laptop, 32 inch LED, big and small batteries, printer, battery stand, microwave and tablet. Medical officer in-charge of the dispensary, Dr Sangeeta, reported the theft to the police. On her complaint the police registered a case under Sections 457/380 of the IPC in this regard.   -----------------------------------  Car stolen   A resident of Sector 32-A on Chandigarh Road reported theft of his Innova SUV (bearing registration No. PB-10ET-0970), which was parked outside his house, on Tuesday night. The complainant, Tanvir Singh, said he parked the SUV in street along his house late in the evening on Tuesday, but found it missing the next morning. The police said it was established from the footage of CCTV cameras installed at the complainant’s house that a person riding a Baleno car (bearing registration No. DL-10CN-0455) had stolen Innova. “A case under Section 379, IPC, has been registered and efforts are on to trace the thief,” the police added.  -----------------------------  Bid to loot jeweller lands couple in police net||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/couple-held-for-attempt-to-rob-jeweller-in-ludhiana-233539
02-04-2021||Ludhiana||Car stolen from Chandigarh road||Two held with 35-gm heroinLudhiana: The police have nabbed two persons identified as Chander Pal, a resident of Bazigar Dera Bahadarke, and Vijay Kumar, a resident of Gagandeep Colony, and booked them under Sections 22/61/85, NDPS Act, after recovery of 35 gm of heroin from their possession. The police said the duo was stopped at a naka near Bhattian cut on suspicion while they were coming towards the city on a motor cycle (PB-10GE-5828). During search the contraband, along with Rs2,850, supposedly the drug money, was seized from them. TNSSeven booked for assaultLudhiana: The police have booked seven persons under Sections 323, 341, 324, 506, 148 and 149, IPC, for beating up three persons, who had intervened in an ongoing brawl at Samat Colony in Sahnewal on Monday. In a complaint lodged with the police one of the victims Kishore Kumar, a resident of Ambedkar Colony, stated that he had gone to his sister’s house at Samrat Colony to celebrate Holi. He said in the afternoon, they heard loud noises of a brawl between two groups outside their house in the street. “When we intervened, seven assailants carrying sharp weapons attacked me, my sister Kiran and my friend Jai Parkash,” the complaint added. The police are investigating the matter. TNSFour booked for assault, lootingLudhiana: The police have booked four unidentified persons under Sections 323 and 379-B (2), IPC, on the complaint of Sham Malhotra, a resident of GK Estate in Mundian Kalan. According to the complainant, a person riding a motorcycle hit his two-wheeler when he was going towards Jamalpur Chowk along with his tenant Robin Kumar on Monday. Malhotra said he ignored the incident and went inside an ATM in Jamalpur Chowk to withdraw money from his bank account. The accused, along with three other persons followed him inside the ATM, and beat him up. When Malhotra raised an alarm, the assailants snatched his purse containing Rs9,200 and some important documents from him and fled from the spot. The police are investigating the matter. TNSTwo teenaged girls go missingLudhiana: Two girls have been reported missing from the city. Lachhmi Devi of Sardar Nagar stated in her complaint to the police that on March 26, she and her husband had gone to work. On returning home, they found their daughter Khushboo (19) missing. The police have registered a case under Section 346, IPC, and started probe. Elsewhere in the city, Minoo (18), working as a domestic help at a house in Kitchlue Nagar, was reported missing by her father Harinam of Rajpura Mohalla, near DMC Hospital. He told the police that Minoo had gone to work at her employer’s house in Kithclu Nagar in the morning on Monday. “She neither reached the house where she worked nor did she come back,” said Harinam. The police have registered a case under Section 346, IPC, in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/car-stolen-from-chandigarh-road-233540
