03-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Only eight security gates in Ludhiana ‘legal’, reveals RTI||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 2A large number of illegal gates have come up in streets of various residential localities in the city. An information obtained under the RTI revealed that the MC has given permission for installation of only eight gates in different areas under its jurisdiction.In a blatant violation of rules, a number of iron gates in the streets even remain closed during the day time. At many sites, no security guard is deployed at closed gates during night time. But, there is no check on these violations. Even, the MC has failed to maintain any information that how many unauthorised gates have been affixed in the streets under its jurisdiction.According to the information obtained under RTI by an activist Rohit Sabharwal, the MC has granted permission for only one gate in street number 5 of Fateh Ganj Mohalla in MC’’s Zone A. Besides, the civic body has granted permission for gates at seven sites in Zone D areas. As per record of the drawing/building branch, no permission was granted for installation of any gate in Zone B and Zone C areas.A number of residents are in support of the gates as they claimed these gates were installed for security purpose to avoid the theft and snatching incidents in their respective areas. However, several residents have been raising voice against such gates in the streets.A proposal was presented before the MC House members in 2014 regarding allowance of gates on public streets with conditions and it was sent to government for final approval.The MC had strictly mentioned in the proposed conditions that the gates should remain open from 5am-11pm.A city resident said, “It is totally wrong to keep the gates closed during the day time. No security guard is deployed for night hours at many of closed gates in the city. In case of emergency, the people are forced to suffer due to closure of gates. MC should check these violations.”AK Bhandari, a resident of Kitchlu Nagar, said, “It is responsibility of the government to ensure security of the people and take necessary steps to control the theft and snatching incidents. If security is ensured, there would be no need for installation of such gates in the streets.”Municipal Town Planner SS Bindra said he has given instructions to the staff concerned to conduct survey of all gates in all four zones of the city. He said, “If welfare association of any colony applies for installation of gate, permission can be granted after verification done by the police. We will serve notices to the associations concerned to take permission and follow the conditions fixed by the civic body otherwise required action would be initiated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/only-eight-security-gates-in-ludhiana-legal-reveals-rti-234087
03-04-2021||Ludhiana||Contractual staff demand regular jobs, threaten stir||Members of the Punjab Roadways/PUNBUS Contract Workers Union, Punjab, have come forward in support of PRTC contractual employees, who have been demanding regularidation of jobs for a long time. The contractual workers announced that if their jobs are not regularised, they will be forced to launch an agitation against the state government. They also demand from the government to stop ‘exploiting’ the contractual workers through contractors.  The contractual employees of PRTC at Ludhiana Bus Stand conducted a meeting with the members of Punjab Roadways/PUNBUS Contract Workers Union Punjab today.   The contractual employees said that have been working for a long time but the government has not regularided their jobs till date despite repeated demands. “Instead of regulariding us, the government is promoting contractual system. It keeps replacing contractors who generally exploit the contractual employees. Now, a new contractor has been hired. We oppose such wrong steps,” they said. Resham Singh Gill, president of the union, said, “We will not tolerate the wrong policies of Punjab Government. On the one side, the Punjab Government is offering free travel service for people but the government promotes privatisation of its departments on the other side.”   He said that if the government does not regularise jobs of all the contractual employees, the Punjab Roadways/PUNBUS Contract Workers Union Punjab along with PRTC employees will launch an agitation against the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/contractual-staff-demand-regular-jobs-threaten-stir-234088
03-04-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab agri planning committee visits PAU||A delegation of Punjab State Agriculture Production Planning Committee visited Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to review the research and extension activities. Led by the Chairman of the Committee and former minister oRana Gurjit Singh, the visiting delegation evinced keen interest in new varieties of wheat, rice, cotton, maize, sugarcane, forage, pulses, oilseeds, fruits and vegetables, developed by PAU.The delegation also comprised committee members, namely Ramanjeet Singh Sahota Sikki, MLA, Khadoor Sahib; Harpartap Singh Ajnala, MLA, Ajnala; Dr Gurvinder Singh, Cane Commissioner, Punjab and Dr Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, Director of Agriculture, Punjab.Rana Gurjit Singh said. “In view of the present challenges cropping up in agricultural scenario, PAU’s efforts in the development of new crop varieties and technologies, promoting crop diversification as well as agro-processing and value addition for enhancing farm family’s income are indeed laudable.”.Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, Vice-Chancellor, PAU, said the major thrust area of the PAU’s research is increasing income of farming families along with maintaining good yield. The University has developed less water consuming and early maturing rice varieties and crop residue management technologies, which have been well adopted by the farmers of Punjab, he added. The continuation of extension activities in corona times is one of the major achievements of PAU, he said. Dr Dhillon also apprised the committee of the WhatsApp groups, Facebook Live programme and farm literature being published by the university to provide farm information to the farmers on doorstep. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-agri-planning-committee-visits-pau-234089
03-04-2021||Ludhiana||Dr GS Mangat appointed Addl Director, Research||Pact for commercialisation of Bt cotton varietyThe Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) entered into agreement with Sri Ganganagar-based seed company, IFSA Seeds (P) LTD for the commercialisation of Bt cotton variety PAU Bt 1. The Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) was signed by Dr Navtej Singh Bains, Director of Research, PAU and Mr Sukhwinder Bishnoi of IFSA Seeds (P) LTD. Dr KS Thind, former Additional Director of Research (Crop Improvement), said PAU Bt 1 is the first Bt cotton variety of India developed in public sector with inbuilt resistance against bollworms. Highlighting the salient characteristics of the variety PAU Bt 1, Dr Paramjit Singh, Director-cum-Principal Cotton Breeder, PAU Regional Research Station, Bathinda said its average seed cotton yield is 2,812 kg/ha. It has bigger boll size of 4.3 g and ginning out turn is 41.4 per cent. It exhibited superior fibre properties with 28.2 mm 2.5 per cent span length, 28.6 g/tex bundle strength and 4.5 µg/inch micronaire value.Training course on integrated crop productionA three-month online training course on “Integrated Crop Production” concluded at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). The programme was organised by the Skill Development Centre under the guidance of Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, Director of Extension Education. In total, a total of 52 rural youths participated in the course. In his address, Dr Mahal called upon the youth to connect with PAU through its farm literature, digital newspaper, WhatsApp groups, Facebook Live Programme, etc. He said the youth can get success in agriculture by learning from the experience of the progressive farmers. Dr Kiranjot Sidhu, Associate Director, Skill Development, urged the trainees to apply the gained knowledge in their fields and scale new heights in agriculture. Not only farmers, even farm women can equally adopt these allied agriculture occupations and contribute in the income enhancement of the family, she added. Dr Rupinder Kaur, course coordinator, welcomed the resource persons and the trainees, and presented the detailed report of the three-month training course. Experts from various departments of the PAU imparted training in diverse aspects of agriculture, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dr-gs-mangat-appointed-addl-director-research-234090
03-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Campaign to prevent accidental farm fires||Mandi Ahmedgarh, April 2 The administration has launched a coordinated movement to prevent accidental fires which normally take place during the harvesting season of rabi crops. To minimise the loss, activists of various social organisations have been roped in to train residents how to act in case of emergency. Officials said the movement has been launched to spread awareness about causes and consequences of accidental fire incidents involving standing crops and agricultural wastes and minimise financial loss suffered by farmers.  Volunteers have already started spreading awareness about the risks involved with factors causing spontaneous and unwanted flames and proactive measures to be taken to prevent such fires. Check on smoking in fields and rectification of electrical appliances, were cited among preventive measures, whereas storage of water and readiness of paraphernalia required for dousing fire were told as means to control probable fire at initial stage. Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey said senior functionaries in revenue department and the Punjab Power Corporation Limited have been advised to undertake preventive measures to prevent accidentals fire during the ensuing harvesting period of Rabi crops. “We have prepared strategic plans to take preventive measures to check accidental fires and minimise losses in case an accident takes place,” said Vikramjit Singh Panthey. He said farmers have been advised to store water in drains passing through fields, spray pumps and containers besides removing dry grass, agricultural wastes and cut ripened crops or grass from vicinity of transformers and high tension wires.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/campaign-to-prevent-accidental-farm-fires-234091
03-04-2021||Doraha||Vaccination camp held at Doraha||Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha along with SDM Mankanwal Singh Chahal started an immunisation camp at the grain market yesterday. The MLA exhorted residents to participant in the drive with full vigour. “The vaccine is safe and effective. It is the best way to flatten the curve of the second wave of the pandemic. People should rather be satisfied that Covid vaccine is now available to pull them out of the danger of getting infected at some point of time,” expressed the MLA. He solicited the support of representatives of panchayats, block samitis, and commission agents to curb the infectious disease. He also asked the vaccinated people to dispel misinformation about the safety of vaccines. The MLA lauded Bant Singh Daburji, former president of the Doraha Municipal Council, and other councillors for taking the jab in the camp.  The SDM also raised awareness regarding the vaccination drive. He said, “The public should act rationally and logically. Getting vaccinated against Covid is the only way in which they can contain its spread,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccination-camp-held-at-doraha-234092
03-04-2021||Ludhiana||Freight income  increases by 33% in 2020-21||The Railway Ferozepur Division has created a history of sorts by achieving highest percentage increase in income during the financial year 2020-21 as compared to all other divisions in the Northern Railway. The Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Rajesh Aggarwal said total loading in the division during last financial year had crossed 13 million tones yielding a revenue of Rs 2,393 crore which was higher by 33 per cent as against previous year.He said even in terms of earning higher revenue among all regional railways during the last FY, Northern Railways had topped the list while also creating another milestone of loading one lakh wagons in a single day. Even otherwise, Ferozepur Division was a front-runner among other divisions in terms of freight movement.The DRM made a special mention of the staff and officials for their dedication and commitment which kept the wheels of the passenger and goods trains running fully or partially even during the lock down and ‘rail roko’ agitation by farmers. “The Ferozepur division has also improved its punctuality percentage by six percent during the last FY which has now reached an impressive 94 per cent,” said the official. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/freight-income-increases-by-33-in-2020-21-234093
03-04-2021||---||Antimicrobial resistance guide released||Ludhiana, April 2 Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, along with officers of the university released an ‘Awareness guide on antimicrobial resistance’ under the aegis of the ICAR Niche Area of Excellence project on antibiotic resistance animal human interface.  Antimicrobial resistance threatens both human and animal health and the circulation of antimicrobial resistant pathogens does not respect the boundaries among human, animals and environment. It was released in the 50th meeting of Board of Management of GADVASU. Dr Singh emphasised that the guide will be a much needed learning resource for field veterinarians and students and sensitize them to the rising scourge of antimicrobial resistance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/antimicrobial-resistance-guide-released-234094
03-04-2021||Sports Correspondent---||LDCA to hold trials  for RCC tomorrow||Ludhiana, April 2 The Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) will organise selection trials to select the probables (U-23) here at the GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road on April 4 from 3 pm onwards. Satish Mangal, president, LDCA, an affiliated unit of the Punjab Cricket Association, said players would be selected to register them with the regional coaching centre (RCC), run by the association at the same venue. The shortlisted cricketers would be imparted physical training and skill enhancing coaching under the guidance and supervision of LDCA approved trainers and coaches. Players born on or after September 1, 1998 are eligible for these trials. Trials will be conducted free of cost, said Anupam Kumaria, honorary general secretary, LDCA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ldca-to-hold-trials-for-rcc-tomorrow-234095
03-04-2021||---||369 test +ve, five succumb to virus in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 2Today, 369 people tested positive for Covid while five lost their life to the virus in the district. Now, the total number of confirmed cases has reached 35,155. There are 2,943 active cases in the district. The death toll in the district has reached 1,157.Those who tested positive today included one cop, two healthcare workers, one pre-operative case, seven teachers and one student.Teachers, who tested positive today, include one each from the GHS, Daad, Government Girls School, Jawahar Nagar, GHS for Boys, Jagraon, PAU, and three from BCM School, Shastri Nagar. One student from Tagore International School, Sanhewal, also tested positive for the disease today.Those, who lost their lives to virus today, were in the 44 to 70 years age group and belonged to Jagraon, Mundian Kalan, Swami Vivekanand Nagar, Hambran village and Gill village. Three of the deceased were diabetic.Meanwhile, in order to restrict the increasing graph of coronavirus cases, the Health Department is now aiming to get maximum people vaccinated against the virus. The mass media awareness team conducted a special awareness drive in the rural areas of Ludhiana to apprise people about benefits of getting vaccinated. A team of the Health Department went to health wellness centre of Jassian village where the general public and staff members were sensitised towards Covid vaccination and busted their myths related to it by answering queries.Th Ludhiana Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar, said, “It is evident that people, who are taking precautions, keep themselves safe from the virus. They can increase their safety by getting vaccinated.”“The above 45 age group is most vulnerable to the virus as they have to move out of their houses for work. Their body starts loosing immunity due to which they should get vaccinated to keep themselves and their surroundings safe from the pandemic,” he added.Block extension educator Jagjeevan Sharma said, “There is a myth among people that vaccine is not safe, which is an utter false claim. People should understand that vaccination is available for them after completion of various tests and trials in which it has been found completely safe for beneficiaries.”“The drive targeted people in the rural areas as they are not aware about the vaccination drive in which vaccine is being provided by the government,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/369-test-ve-five-succumb-to-virus-in-ludhiana-234080
03-04-2021||---||Kabaddi player absconding in rape case held||Ludhiana, April 2 The Samrala police have arrested a national level Kabaddi player for allegedly raping a minor girl from his village. The accused has been identified as Amritpal Singh Goldy of Todarpur village, Samrala. The Samrala DSP, Jaswinder Singh, said the Kabaddi player was accused of raping a 14-year-old girl from Todarpur village at a secluded place on March 9. When the matter came to light, the player absconded from the village. The Samrala police had then registered a case against the accused under Sections 363 (Kidnapping), 366A (Procuration of minor girl) and 376 (Rape) of the IPC, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and SC (Scheduled caste) & ST (Scheduled tribe) Act.  The police conducted raids at suspected hideouts of the accused and nabbed him from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, the DSP added.  The accused did not represent country in Kabaddi, but had played matches in foreign nations, the DSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kabaddi-player-absconding-in-rape-case-held-234081
03-04-2021||Nitin Jain---||Ludhiana tops Punjab in maximum non-traceable cases of Covid-19||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 2 Re-emerging as Covid capital of Punjab, Ludhiana district has topped the state with maximum number of non-traceable infection cases. This industrial hub of the state was among 10 districts that have accounted for up to 2.6 per cent non-traceable cases among their total caseload in the past 10 days, the official figures have revealed.  The district-wise statistics, a copy of which is with Ludhiana Tribune, reported a maximum of 318 non-traceable Covid cases, followed by 78 in Tarn Taran, 59 in Hoshiarpur, and 58 in Bathinda. However, nine districts have been able to trace all of their positive cases in the last 10 days. In another dubious distinction, Ludhiana was on the top in the state with maximum number of critical Covid patients put on ventilator support. While 29 patients were on ventilator in Ludhiana as on March 25, Patiala stood second with 26 critical patients on artificial life support. Amritsar reported 23 critical patients on ventilator, Faridkot six, Jalandhar and Ropar one each of the total 86 patients in critical condition in the state.  Also, of the total 24 severe and serious cases of adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI) reported in the state so far, Ludhiana topped with maximum five cases, including three severe and two serious. Bathinda and Sangrur shared the top position with five cases each, including three severe and two serious each. Among others, Ferozepur and Fazilka reported two severe cases each, Mohali and Patiala one severe and serious case each, and Kapurthala one severe case. While 23 severe and serious cases have since recovered, only one such patient was under treatment. Of the total 88 minor AEFI cases, Amritsar reported maximum 32, Kapurthala 16, Ludhiana nine, Jalandhar six, Sangrur five, Patiala four, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Ropar two each, Mohali, Muktsar, and Pathankot one each. All these cases have also since recovered. When it comes to comparison of district-wise deaths at private hospitals, Ludhiana reported the state’s second highest 115 casualties while Jalandhar topped with 142 deaths. Amritsar reported 51, Nawanshahr 16, Mohali 15, Patiala nine, Bathinda six, Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran five each, Moga four, Ropar and Pathankot one each death at private institutions. However, Ludhiana reported the least nine deaths at level-3 government facilities while Jalandhar topped with 76 casualties. Among others, Amritsar 68, Patiala 67, and Faridkot logged 15 deaths at government institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-tops-punjab-in-maximum-non-traceable-cases-of-covid-19-234082
03-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Shiv Sena leader Kashmir Giri faked attack to get gunmen nabbed||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 2Almost a year after the leader of Shiv Sena in Punjab, Kashmir Giri, who alleged murderous attack on him by two bike-borne armed persons outside his house in Khanna, the police today solved the case with his arrest.The police also arrested two assailants, who had fired gunshots at Giri.Shiv Sena (Hindu) president Nishant Sharma arrested by Kharar PoliceWhile addressing a press conference the Khanna Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Gursharandeep Singh Grewal, said this case was solved when Giri was arrested in an attempt to murder case and during questioning he confessed to having plotted firing at himself to get security.On March 28, Anil Kumar of Jagat Colony got an attempt to murder case registered against Rajan Giri, son of Kashmir Giri, the SSP added.During investigation, on the basis of recovered weapons and the CCTV footage Kashmir Giri, his disciple Bant Giri and Manoj, alias Laja, were also nominated and accused Kashmir arrested in the case, the SSP said.“During investigation, Shiv Sena leader confessed that on March 9 he had got a case registered against two unknown bike-borne persons, who fired at him. That was not a genuine attack rather planned by him and his son Rajan Giri to get more security. Attack was executed through Jaswinder Singh, alias Jassi, of Banga, SBS Nagar, and Gurinder Singh, alias Gindi, also of SBS Nagar,” the SSP added.Kashmir also confessed that he had provided pistol to Jaswinder and Gurinder in Chandigarh and thereafter, also trained the duo for using the weapon, the SSP said.Kashmir, who was complainant in the case earlier, was made the main accused for plotting the attack on himself, the SSP added.It was being checked if the two assailants were also paid by Kashmir, the SSP said. Raids were being conducted to nab Rajan Giri, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shiv-sena-leader-kashmir-giri-faked-attack-to-get-gunmen-nabbed-234083
03-04-2021||---||High drama over collecting road samples at BRS Nagar||Ludhiana, April 2 A high drama was witnessed at Block E of Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar today over road material sampling.  Raising questions over quality of road carpeting work outside his house, Kapil Arora, a resident of E-Block, who is leading Council of Engineers, had complained to the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities yesterday. He had demanded that samples of road material used in road carpeting be collected for testing.   Arora said the first layer of bituminous concrete was laid in front of his residence, but he was not satisfied with the work done. Bituminous content and density of layer laid by the contractor should be tested, Arora added. “If road gets damaged in a short period, who will be responsible?” said Arora. When the MC and a third party agency officials reached BRS Nagar, the complainant asked them to take some samples using a core cutting machine, but it was unavailable with officials.  An MC official said samples could be collected through GNE College team on Monday.  A group of BRS Nagar residents, who had gathered at the spot, demanded that the MC should continue road re-carpeting work instead of delaying it otherwise they would be forced to protest. Residents also claimed that they had no complaint with the ongoing road re-carpeting work.  Samples must be collected only after completion of road re-carpeting work in the area, said residents. Roads were being re-carpeted after a long time in their area, residents added. An area resident Ajit Singh Sethi said, “If road re-carpeting work is delayed, residents will suffer. We want that road re-carpeting work should be completed first. Later, samples can be collected for testing.” But, complainant Kapil Arora demanded that samples of material used should be collected after re-carpeting first layer of the road. He also sent complaint to the Punjab Chief Minister in this regard.  The MC’s junior engineer, Baljinder Singh, said, “Majority of residents wanted that the road re-carpeting work should continue. Only one person in the area is complaining about the work. On request of majority of residents, we will continue carpeting work and finish it soon. Moreover, we have already collected samples of material used in road carpeting for testing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/high-drama-over-collecting-road-samples-at-brs-nagar-234084
03-04-2021||---||Man kidnapped by sons over property dispute||Ludhiana, April 2 The Moti Nagar police have registered a kidnapping case against two brothers and their accomplices on the charge of kidnapping their father. Property dispute was stated to be the cause of kidnapping. The accused have been identified as Amarjit Singh and Narinder Singh. Others booked in the case are Kuldeep Singh, Karamjit Singh, Lovepreet and some unknown persons. Complainant, Rajwinder Kaur wife of the victim Harbhajan Singh told the police that her two sons had been issuing threats to them as they wanted to usurp their property. She said yesterday early in the morning, her two sons and others barged into their house and forcibly took away Rs1.50 lakh cash and other important documents, including that of property. The accused then forcibly bundled her husband into their car and fled, she added. Her sons didn’t tell her the location where they were taking their father and later, they switched off their mobile phones, she said. The woman told the police that they had given share of each and every property to their sons, still they were creating an issue. The Moti Nagar Station House Officer (SHO), Gurshinder Kaur, said Harbhajan Singh was yet to be traced. Raids were being conducted at the specific hideouts of the accused, the SHO added. The victim would be recovered soon, the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-kidnapped-by-sons-over-property-dispute-234085
03-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Court issues notice of motion to respondents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 2A city-based activist has filed a petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court against unapproved/illegal speed humps that have been constructed by violating the guidelines. The High Court has issued notice of motion to respondents concerned. The respondents in this case are State of Punjab and others.Unapproved speed humps have been constructed on various internal and major roads of the city. Such speed breakers are also seen in the areas outside the civic body’s jurisdiction.The Council of RTI Activists president, Rohit Sabharwal, said, “The lives of people have been put to danger just because of the non-compliance of the guidelines issued by the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) for the construction of speed humps. The matter is related to lives of citizens. It is directly connected to human rights and right to life.”“I filed the petition demanding that the authorities concerned must take appropriate action to demolish unapproved, unplanned and illegal speed humps, which are not as per the guidelines. It is matter for the interest of the public at large,” he added.“Major accidents can take place due to these illegal speed humps especially involving people riding two-wheelers. Such illegal speed humps lead to sudden braking and collision with other vehicles, which aggravates chances of fatal injuries and even death of commuters,” he said.“Moreover, unapproved speed humps slow down emergency vehicles like ambulances, fire brigade and others. They can harm patients in transit like senior citizens and pregnant women. Moreover, these speed humps can injure people suffering from backache and spinal injuries,” he added.The hearing in this case is schedule for July 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/court-issues-notice-of-motion-to-respondents-234086
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||$300 mn loan for potable water in Amritsar, Ludhiana||The World Bank and Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) have approved $300 million loan for canal-based drinking water schemes under Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project.The move aims at ensuring quality drinking water 24x7 and minimise water losses for Amritsar and Ludhiana. The two cities are currently being supplied water from tubewells. Two other canal-based water supply projects are already under execution in Jalandhar and Patiala.As per the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) report, the groundwater has been over exploited and the quality of water has deteriorated, causing health hazards. Therefore, it has been proposed to change water supply from ground to canal water to ensure uninterrupted potable drinking water supply in urban areas.The project would be co-financed by IBRD (World Bank) loan of $105 million and an AIIB loan of $105 million along with $90 million government funds. For Amritsar, the source of surface water supply would be Upper Bari Doab Canal and for Ludhiana Sirhind Canal. Treatment plant in Amritsar would be of 440 MLD and in Ludhiana 580 MLD. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/300-mn-loan-for-potable-water-in-amritsar-ludhiana-233897
