04-04-2021||Sports Correspondent||LBA trainees get warm welcome||Ludhiana, April 3Trainees (boys) of Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA) who retained the title in the 71st Senior Punjab State Basketball Championship, held at Jalandhar from March 30 to April 2, were given a warm reception at Guru Nanak Stadium here today.Members of the team — Jagdeep Bains, Amijyot Singh, Princepal Singh, Gurbaz Singh, Mannatpreet Singh, Manjot Singh, Navkarman Singh, Jasjit Singh, Arvinder Singh and Nawaz Singh Panaich along with coaches, Rajinder Singh and Narender Pal — were honoured by the District Basketball Association, Ludhiana on brining fame to the academy.In the final, LBA players got the better of Jalandhar district whom they beat 43-33 to retain the title, which they won in the last edition of the championship. Amritsar and Ludhiana districts secured third and fourth positions, respectively.However, in the women’s section, LBA trainees waged a spirited battle against Amritsar before going down 50-57 and had to content with the second position. Players of the academy and their coach, Saloni were also felicitated on this occasion.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association and senior vice president, Basketball Federation of India besides office bearers of the district association led by its president JP Singh, Vijay Chopra, Sukhbir Dhaliwal, Paramveer Bhogal, Avinash Aggarwal and Brij Bhushan Goyal were among other present there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lba-trainees-get-warm-welcome-234418
04-04-2021||Ludhiana||GADVASU holds e-training on skill development||The College of Animal Biotechnology and Project Monitoring Unit of the Department of Biotechnology of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) organised a three-week of e-training on “Skill development on advanced bioinformatics in genome analysis of livestock and pets” among faculty, scientists, researchers, and PG students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-holds-e-training-on-skill-development-234419
04-04-2021||---||Dhandhari Kalan residents suffer due to choked sewers||Ludhiana, april 3Residents of Dhandari Kalan in Ward No 30 are a harried lot as the civic body failed to ensure desilting of the sewer lines in the area. The residents demand from the Municipal Corporation to conduct cleaning of the sewer lines with super suction machines at the earliest.The residents said the sewage flows back towards their house as the sewer lines are lying choked. They claimed that the problem occurs again and again as the choked sewer lines are not being cleared properly.A resident of Dhandari Kalan, Davinder Kumar said, “We are suffering a lot due to choked sewers in the area for a long time. Around two weeks ago, the sewermen were deployed in the area to clear the choked sewers but to no avail. Even, I was once forced to pay Rs 500 to the sewermen for cleaning the sewer lines from my own pocket.”He said, “Now, the sewer water flows back to the houses. We want from the MC to take immediate steps to clear the choked sewer lines. MC should use the super suction machines for cleaning of the sewer lines.”Another resident said, “We appeal to the higher authorities to direct the officials concerned to resolve the problem without any delay.”Despite repeated attempts, MC’s Superintending Engineer, Rajinder Singh could not be contacted for a comment.Perennial problemResidents claim that the sewage flows back towards their house as the sewer lines are lying choked. They claimed that the problem occurs again and again as the choked sewer lines are not being cleared properly. They demand from the Municipal Corporation to conduct cleaning of the sewer lines with super suction machines at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dhandhari-kalan-residents-suffer-due-to-choked-sewers-234420
04-04-2021||---||Ludhiana girl Harleen crowned Kozenoor World Punjaban-2021||Ludhiana, April 3City-based Harleen Kaur won the title of Kozenoor World Punjaban-2021 in the finale of Kozenoor World Punjaban contest held at Panchkula.Finale jury team included Big Boss 13 fame actor Rana Jung Bahadur, Sonia Chhabran and Sharhan Singh. A total of 30 participants were selected in the final.“It was with the help and support of my family that I was able to win the competition. Last year has been very tough and we are still going through the pandemic. Winning the title amid the pandemic had a very positive effect on me,” said Harleen.The first talent round were held in Ludhiana, in the second round, photo and video shoots were held in Ludhiana only and the third grooming round was held in Patiala. The finale was held in Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-girl-harleen-crowned-kozenoor-world-punjaban-2021-234421
04-04-2021||---||Smuggler held with 150-kg poppy husk, 150-gm opium||Ludhiana, April 3The city police arrested a drug smuggler and recovered 150-kg poppy husk and 150-gram opium from him.The accused has been identified as Baljit Singh alias Bhutto, a resident of Sidhwan village in Gurdaspur.Additional DCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, ACP Jashandeep Singh, Inspector Sukhdev Singh addressed a press conference regarding the matter.ADCP Teja said a secret information was received that the accused was on his way to deliver a huge consignment of poppy husk to his clients.Based on the tip-off, the police party set up a naka on Lehra Road where the accused was intercepted. During the search, a big bag full of poppy husk was recovered from him. The police also recovered 150 gram of opium from his possession.During his questioning, he revealed that he was a truck driver and had been smuggling poppy husk for a long time. The accused also revealed that he had brought opium from some big supplier of Jharkhand which he has to supply to his clients in Ludhiana.The ADCP said the police remand of the accused would be sought for the further interrogation so that entire supply line could be busted and more recoveries could be made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smuggler-held-with-150-kg-poppy-husk-150-gm-opium-234422
04-04-2021||Ludhiana||Minor Ludhiana girl kills self||A 13-year-old girl committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan at her residence in Gurmel Nagar, Tibba.The deceased has been identified as Gungun. She was student of Class VII.As per the information, her mother went to the market to buy some household items and father left for work. When the girl’s mother came back she was shocked to see the hanging body of her daughter. She then raised an alarm. The minor was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.No suicide note was recovered from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minor-ludhiana-girl-kills-self-234423
04-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for selling mortgaged property||The Dugri police have booked a man for selling a mortgaged property to a city-based jeweller.The accused has been identified as Karan Sharma, a resident of Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, Phase 3, Jawaddi.The complainant, Vinay Jain, a resident of BRS Nagar, said in May 2020, he had met the accused and they both started a business. One day, he told me that he wants to sell his property as he is in need of money. “Since the accused was my business partner, I decided to buy his property located in Karnail Singh Nagar. The accused showed me the property and deal was finalised at Rs33.5 lakhs. I gave Rs14.07 lakh advance to the accused also. He had assured that the property had no loan or any other objection,” the complainant said.Later, it was found out that the property was already mortgaged by the accused. The accused willingly concealed this fact from me with a clear intention to commit cheating, alleged the complainant.He had lodged a complaint before the CP Rakesh Agrawal who marked an inquiry to ADCP, Headquarter, who after inquiry submitted a report to the top cop. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-selling-mortgaged-property-234424
04-04-2021||---||Thieves steal Rs 30K from shop, caught on camera||Ludhiana, April 3Thieves targeted a medical shop located near Gurdwara Chowk in Haibowal second time in a year. Ironically, the police was yet to solve the first case and the thieves again challenged the police.However, they were captured on CCTV camera and the police started investigation to identify them.Ashu, owner of the medical store said two thieves had pulled the shutter with huge force which broke the shutter’s lock. The incident occured on Friday early morning.The thieves entered the shop, ransacked it and took away Rs30,000 along with some valuables.Shop owner Ashu said a complaint was lodged at the Haibowal police station but so far the police failed to trace the thieves.Meanwhile, the shopkeepers of the area alleged that earlier also thefts incident took place in the area but the police failed to solve them. The police should increase patrolling in the area so that such incidents should not happen again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-steal-rs-30k-from-shop-caught-on-camera-234425
04-04-2021||---||Woman, son held with banned tablets, heroin||Ludhiana, April 3The Daresi police nabbed a woman-son duo and recovered 1,500 Tramadol tablets (banned medicine), 70 gram of heroin, one scooter and five mobile phones from them.The accused have been identified as Monu alias Lovely and his mother Chandar Kanta, residents of Sardar Nagar.SHO Daresi Davinder Singh said a secret information was received that the mother-son duo were on their way to deliver a huge consignment of banned medicines and heroin. A raid was conducted by the police and they were nabbed along with the drugs.One of the accused Monu had notorious past as he had been facing several cases of snatching and drug peddling.In another case, the Tibba police nabbed a woman smuggler identified as Parminder Kaur, a resident of Simranjit Nagar and recovered 250 gram of opium from him. She was on her way to deliver a consignment of drugs to her clients when she was nabbed from Chakki Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-son-held-with-banned-tablets-heroin-234426
04-04-2021||Ludhiana||NRI, friend booked for raping girl||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nri-friend-booked-for-raping-girl-234428
04-04-2021||Manav Mander||Many healthcare, frontline workers give 2nd shot a miss||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 3Many of the healthcare and frontline workers who got their first dose have not turned up for their second dose yet and some have even skipped the stipulated time frame to get the second dose.The change in time frame by the government for getting the second dose and reluctance shown by some after getting side effects are the main reasons cited behind the same.The vaccination drive started on January 16 and healthcare workers were the first one to be vaccinated. The second ones to follow were the frontline workers.According to the data of the Health Department, till Friday, 29,500 healthcare workers have got their first dose, while only 17,039 have come to get their second dose. Similarly, 41,507 frontline workers have got the first jab but only 6,734 have received the second dose.“A huge difference has been seen in the number of beneficiaries of the first and second dose of vaccine. Many healthcare workers who developed even slight side effects after the jab missed the second jab, which is uncalled for. It is sad to see that despite being healthcare workers, some missed the second jab,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, who is also member of the Covid-19 task force formed by the state government.He added that there was confusion among people regarding the time frame for getting the second dose. According to the new guidelines, the second jab is to be taken after six-eighty weeks.“Earlier the guidelines by the government were to get the second jab after four-six weeks and the revised guidelines recommend to take the second dose after six-eight weeks, which is one of the reasons that some are waiting for the second jab,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar.A healthcare worker said after the vaccination she got fever and body aches and was unable to work for two days.“People are contracting virus even after two doses and I gave the second dose a miss,” she said.Seeing the healthcare workers and frontline workers reluctant to take the jab, the Health Department has already directed for mandatory weekly Covid test of those who have not taken the shot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/many-healthcare-frontline-workers-give-2nd-shot-a-miss-234412
04-04-2021||---||5 dead, 382 test positive for virus in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 3As many as 382 persons tested positive for Covid while five lost their lives to the virus today. The total number of positive cases from the district has now reached 35,537, while 1,162 have lost their lives due to the virus.Those who tested positive today include two healthcare workers, two pre-operative cases and four teachers. The teachers who tested positive are one from GSS School, Bhaini Sahib, two from Tagore Global School, Dyalpura, and one from JNV Campus, Dhanasu.Five patients — Three men and two women — who lost their lives today were in the age group of 30-70 years. The deceased belong to Azad Nagar, Jagraon, Panglian village, Hargobindpura Nagar and Shivpuri.Today 386 persons were sent for home quarantine, while 68,171 persons have been home quarantined till now. Today 18 patients were on the ventilator support, out of which nine belong to Ludhiana district and nine to other districts.Total samples collected so far in the district are 8,04,477, while report of 441 is awaited.“It is very important that people should be made aware of the present situation. So, I request all the city residents to kindly follow the guidelines of Mission Fateh — wear mask properly, wash your hands frequently and maintain social distancing,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-dead-382-test-positive-for-virus-in-ludhiana-234413
04-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district ranks 3rd in Covid management in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 3Ludhiana has ranked third in the individual and overall performance in the Covid management in the state.The first-of-its-kind rankings were released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare in respect of every district’s performance in testing, vaccination, positivity and deaths due to the virus.The report, a copy of which is with The Tribune, ranked Ludhiana third on vaccination front, eighth in testing, eleventh in positivity rate and 10th on the casualty chart.While Pathankot stood first, Hoshiarpur bagged the second position in the state.Among other districts, Faridkot ranked fourth, followed by Nawanshahr, Mansa, Mohali, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Ropar, Amritsar, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Bathinda, Sangrur, Moga, Barnala, Tarn Taran and Muktsar (last on the rankings table).According to the front-wise performance chart, Ludhiana ranked third on vaccination front with 4,065 per lakh vaccination till March 25. Hoshiarpur stood second with 4,747 per lakh figure, and Mohali bagged the first slot with highest 5,316 per lakh inoculation coverage.Among other districts on the vaccination front, Pathankot ranked fourth with 3,771 per lakh vaccination, followed by Jalandhar (3,520), Amritsar (3,278), Faridkot (2,740), Patiala (2,451), Nawanshahr (2,231), Kapurthala (2,111), Ropar (2,090), Fazilka (2,030), Ferozepur (1,998), Tarn Taran (1,993), Gurdaspur (1,900), Barnala (1,871), Bathinda (1,780), Fatehgarh Sahib (1,713), Moga (1,471), Muktsar (1,336), Sangrur (1,263), and Mansa (1,046). The state average was recorded at 2,744 per lakh.On other fronts, Ludhiana recorded 1.3 per cent case fatality rate (CFR), 4.7 per cent positivity rate and 2,453 per lakh population testing coverage, which is much better than the state’s average of 1.7 per cent case fatality rate, 5.4 per cent positivity rate and 2,282 per lakh population testing.The rankings were reviewed at the highest-level during subsequent meetings, chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, recently. 26,483 get vaccineAs many as 26,483 persons got vaccinated for Covid-19 in the district on Saturday. To ensure that maximum number of Ludhiana residents is vaccinated, the district administration has started the “vaccination at doorstep” initiative, under which camps are being organised in mohallas, clubs, factories, business/commercial establishments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-ranks-3rd-in-covid-management-in-punjab-234414
04-04-2021||---||Ludhiana MC demolishes slums along Buddha Nullah||Ludhiana, April 3The Municipal Corporation on Saturday demolished around 40 slums along Buddha Nullah. During the drive, some slum dwellers also opposed and raised questions over the civic body’s drive.Municipal Corporation officials said these encroachments had come up on the land along Buddha Nullah. The encroachments were removed by using JCB machines. The civic body had earlier removed encroachments from the back of dairies on Tajpur Road and also near Upkar Nagar bridge.Articles of some slum dwellers were allegedly damaged during the demolition drive. “The slum dwellers had been staying there for a long time but they have not been rehabilitated. We were not given enough time to get our articles shifted by the civic body,” a dweller alleged.The Municipal Corporation’s Assistant Town Planner MS Bedi said they removed around 40 encroachments today. He said the drive remained peaceful as no slum dwellers opposed the drive.Sewer pipes are to be installed on both sides of Buddha Nullah under the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project worth Rs 650 crore. Electricity transformers and poles are also to be shifted from the both sides of the nullah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-demolishes-slums-along-buddha-nullah-234415
04-04-2021||---||Ludhiana MC pays Rs 12 lakh to Rlys for underpass||Ludhiana, April 3The Municipal Corporation has given around Rs 12 lakh to the Railways to prepare a plan and estimate for the construction of a subway (underpass for vehicular movement) on Jassian Road here.The commuters have been facing inconvenience while passing through the passage beneath the Ludhiana-Amritsar railway section at Jassian village. If the subway is constructed, a large number of people would be benefitted, officials said.The existing passage is not meant for vehicular movement. But, a high volume of traffic passes through the passage. A number of area residents wanted that proper subway should be constructed there. MLA Rakesh Pandey had raised the matter before the MC officials for early construction of the subway so that the commuters don’t face any inconvenience. MC officials had then met the railway officials in this regard.A resident of Jassian Road said, “It would be very beneficial for the residents and commuters if the underpass is constructed there. We also demand from the MC to resolve the problem of overflowing sewers and water accumulation on the stretch at the earliest. The underpass work should be carried out in a time-bound manner. Once it is constructed, the people can easily commute between the Haibowal areas and NH-44.”The MC’s Superintending Engineer Teerath Bansal said they had deposited around Rs 12 lakh for the construction of the subway. Once the plan was made and approved, the next steps would be taken for early construction of the subway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-pays-rs-12-lakh-to-rlys-for-underpass-234416
04-04-2021||---||Design finalised, tenders yet to be floated for bridge||Ludhiana, April 3Even more than two months after the unsafe bridge over Buddha Nullah near Chand Cinema was closed for all kind of traffic movement, except two-wheelers, the MC is yet to float the tenders for the reconstruction of the bridge.However, officials said the design for the reconstruction of the bridge, located on Old GT Road, has been finalised.The bridge was declared unsafe around nine years ago but required steps were not taken at that time. The bridge has got damaged from different points while a number of bricks have fallen from the bridge on the road underneath it. The railings of the bridge are also in bad condition.In 2018, the civic body had stopped entry of heavy vehicles on the bridge but cars, three-wheelers and two-wheelers were allowed at that time. In January 2021, the MC had got a wall constructed on the road to stop entry of vehicles, except two-wheelers, on the stretch. At present, the traffic is diverted through a nearby bridge.Members of Yuva, an NGO, had recently protested against the delay in project. They demanded from the civic body to reconstruct the bridge at the earliest. The residents of nearby areas also want that the work to reconstruct the bridge be started soon.The MC’s Superintending Engineer Teerath Bansal said the design for the reconstruction of the bridge had already been prepared. “The estimate of Rs 6 crore has been approved for the project. Now, the process is underway to finalise the further process and tenders would be floated shortly,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/design-finalised-tenders-yet-to-be-floated-for-bridge-234417
