05-04-2021||---||Punjab CM orders magisterial probe into Ludhiana roof collapse||Chandigarh, April 5Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered a magisterial probe into the circumstances leading to the roof collapse of a factory in Baba Mukand Singh Nagar, Daba road, Ludhiana, which claimed four lives and left nine others injured.The chief minister, while expressing grief over the loss of lives, announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakhs each to the kin of the deceased, besides directing the district administration to ensure free and prompt treatment to the injured.According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s officer the magisterial inquiry would be conducted by Divisional Commissioner Patiala and he has been directed to submit his report within two weeks. The chief minister made it clear that strict action would be taken against anyone found guilty of negligence, which had cost four precious lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-cm-orders-magisterial-probe-into-ludhiana-roof-collapse-235012
05-04-2021||---||4 killed, several injured as roof of building collapses in Ludhiana||Ludhiana/Chandigarh, April 5Four people were killed and several injured as the roof of a building collapsed at Baba Mukand Singh Naga on Daba Road here on Monday.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police took stock of the situation after the under-construction roof of a factory collapsed.NDRF, SDRF, MC and police teams are rescuing people.Officials said 36 people were rescued and of them four had died. The deceased have been identified as Mustakeen and Sagar Kumar, both residents of Bihar, and Peechu and Imtiaz from Ludhiana.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the bereaved families.“An under construction building collapsed today in Ludhiana under which 40 people were trapped. @NDRFHQ, SDRF & District Admin. have been working tirelessly. 36 people have been rescued, sadly 3 have lost their lives. We will give compensation of Rs2 lacs to the bereaved families,” Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh earlier tweeted.An under construction building collapsed today in Ludhiana under which 40 people were trapped. @NDRFHQ, SDRF & District Admin. have been working tirelessly. 36 people have been rescued, sadly 3 have lost their lives. We will give compensation of Rs2 lacs to the bereaved families.  Ten people are undergoing treatment at the Civil and Apollo hospitals. The construction work of the building was under way without permission. The factory owner was reportedly lifting the lintel level without the permission of the Municipal Corporation.Workers of nearby factories said the lintel-lifting work had started around 4 am and the incident took place around 9.40 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-killed-several-injured-as-roof-of-building-collapses-in-ludhiana-234926
05-04-2021||Residents want government to ensure people adhere to Covid protocol||Observe ‘silence hour’ as temporary lockdown||Strictly adhere to Covid normsGovernment’s decision to pay tribute to those who succumbed to Covid-19 by observing one-hour silence every Saturday really is a noble intention but will cause undue harassment to commuters as it will adversely affect vehicular traffic. What individuals can do is observe silence for two minutes every Sunday morning and pray to the Almighty that their souls may rest in peace. The best tribute to those people would be to religiously adhere to Covid-10 norms.Dr Sunil ChopraPractice will cause problems to commutersThis practice will cause hardship to the general public. The practice seems forceful and no working man or woman would halt their work for an hour. Tribute can only be paid out of love, affection and respect. Time should not be fixed for such a kind and generous act. It will serve no purpose. Any type of emergency situation can arise at any time. If movement of traffic will be stalled for an hour, people who have genuine emergency work will suffer a lot. Hence, the practice should not be made compulsory.Ritu PriyaOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONWith the second wave of Covid turning more infectious and deadly, should the age bar on vaccination be done away with to ensure maximum coverage to help build herd immunity and check further spread of the virus? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comSilence hour will serve as temporary lockdownThe order to observe one-hour silence is not only a tribute to those who have lost their lives to Covid-19 but will also serve as a temporary lockdown as everybody will have to stay inside and there will be no vehicular movement. We need to take this exercise positively given that emergency services or movements are not hindered. But the practice cannot be forced upon anybody.Bir Devinder Singh BediFutile exerciseThe order is an exercise in futility. The practice will cause problems to the traffic police. Instead the government should make that one hour curfew hour. Any type of social gathering should not be allowed in the silence hour.JBS NandaUnscientific stuntsThe government’s decision to observe the silence hour is not an appropriate way to pay respect to those who lost their lives to Covid-19. Instead, the government should give financial or moral assistance to the victim’s family. The government should rather educate people regarding Covid-19 testing and vaccination. It should also enforce stricter laws to keep violators in check. People seen without face mask and disobeying Covid-19 protocols should be heavily fined. The government can rather impose a lockdown on weekends to check the spread of the virus. That would be a tribute in the true sense.Vincy TrehanFine those who venture out during silence hourThe appeal of Capt Amarinder Singh to observe silence hour on every Saturday will not serve any useful purpose. Rather, the hour should be observed as partial lockdown. It will help the government to keep the spread of the virus in control. During this lockdown hour, the police must be active on roads and challan culprits with fines. Such observance of partial lockdown once a week will be a true tribute to those who lost their lives to coronavirus. This lock down practice will also set an example for other states where cases are increasing.Gautam DevProvide victims’ families with financial aidObserving silence will not fulfil any purpose. If government wants to sympathise with corona victims and their families, then government must help them financially or give them jobs so that their dependents can earn. Instead of observing silence to pay tribute, government may open some hospitals or dispensaries or may provide some ventilators in their names. The other solution is that the government can call slum dwellers for free vaccination during that hour.Mohd Saleem FarooquiRestrict practice to short durationThe decision to observe one-hour silence on every Saturday do not seem to appeal residents as they find that the time chosen was the peak time. If a person is already out on the road, he/she cannot wait for one hour. Many commuters will face problems as they will be stuck on roads. Inter-city movement will be adversely affected. This practice should be restricted to 10 minutes and that should not be the peak time of the day.Jasdeep KaurPeople’s patience will be testedThis strategy of Punjab government does not solve any purpose and will only test the patience of public. The government can pay tribute to those who lost their lives to Covid in other way. Increases in efficiency in health-working departments, challaning people without face masks, impose lockdowns and fasten the vaccination process.Miyush TrehanProvide free vaccination to victims’ family insteadThe order of the government to observe one-hour silence on every Saturday is not a rational decision. This is creating a big problem for daily commuters and residents as well. The real tribute to those who have lost their lives to the virus is to give free vaccination to their family members along with some financial help.Farzana KhanPractice will curb virus spreadThe silence hour will prove to be useful for the general public as it will prevent the spread of coronavirus and curb social gatherings. Since maximum people are out during the day, transmission rate of the virus is higher. Residents also should adhere to pandemic protocols and ensure that others are taking preventive measures as well.Amarpreet KaurHour will create problems for commutersThe order to observe silence hour seems pointless as it is not the proper way to remember people who lost their lives to coronavirus. It will only result in great dismay, leaving commuters in lurch. Instead of observing silence, the victims’ families should be compensated financially.Kamaldeep KaurChange time of the silence hourLockdown has already affected many businesses, creating a great difficulty for people. Further lockdown of one hour on every Saturday will harm businesses more. The time of the silence should be changed when the movement of the people on the roads is less.Harleen kaurAllow people to pray at their conveniencePaying tribute to those who lost their lives to Covid-19 is a praiseworthy step but the time chosen is not the appropriate time. It needs to be reconsidered as it is a peak hour during the weekends. It will be a hassle for commuters to stay on the road for an hour. The government should also allow people to pray at their own convenience.Sangeeta JainImplement stricter Covid protocolObserving silence hour is not the right way to pay tribute. The government needs to be more practical in their approach. It should make sure that people are getting vaccinated, aware people about the benefits of vaccination, implement stricter social-distancing norms and fine people without face masks.Simarjot Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/observe-silence-hour-as-temporary-lockdown-234900
05-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Parents show interest in govt schools amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 4Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, confusion over the mode of study still prevails in many schools. Schools are not sure whether classes are to be held online or offline. Amidst this confusion, since private schools have not provided any relief to parents in terms of school fee, many parents are now inclined to get their child enrolled in government schools.Taking this as a positive change, teachers in government schools maintain that government schools have improved tremendously in the past few years and were no less than private schools.Owing to the developments made in the government schools, parents had started showing interest in government schools, a teacher said.Admissions for various classes in government schools began on Saturday. To encourage parents to enrol their kids in government schools, the Education Department has also been coming up with many instructions in to make the process easier and relaxing for parents and students both.Sukhdarshan Singh, president, Nakal Virodhi Dal, said an NOC from private schools would not be required in case students want to shift to government schools.“Earlier, many students had suffered because private school managements did not provide NOCs to students. But now, to accommodate more students, the department has instructed the schools to ease rules. In addition to this, the department is also funding schools for better infrastructure and facilities. New infrastructure has reinstilled confidence in many parents,” Singh added.As per the instructions, admission in government schools will not be denied if any student do not have an Aadhaar Card. In fact, schools have been directed to get Aadhar cards made for students at the time of admission. Kids, who do not have a birth certificate as well, can also get admission easily. The department said students would be asked to submit the document as per convenience, later.Satinder Singh, peon in a hosiery factory in Sunder Nagar, has also shifted his son to a government school.“Due to the pandemic, I have not been getting full salary for the past five to six months. Earlier, my son was in a private school, but since the school fee was neither waived off nor any relief was provided, I decided to put him in a government school. The facilities offered in government schools are at par with many private schools,” Satinder said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parents-show-interest-in-govt-schools-amid-pandemic-234894
05-04-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana beat Kapurthala by 151 runs, enter semi-final||Ludhiana, April 4Fine bowling display by Karanjot Singh (5 for 19) and an equally useful contribution with the bat by skipper Shabad Tangri (86), Armaan Walia (61) and Himanshu Prajapati (42*) enabled Ludhiana beat Kapurthala by 151 runs to reach the semi final in the ongoing PCA Trident Cup Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament.Ludhiana earned four points after their win. Their tally now stands at 12 points.The match was played at Randhir College ground, Kapurthala, on Sunday. This was the third victory for Ludhiana in four matches. Earlier, they had defeated Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur, and had lost to Jalandhar. The semi final will be played against Moga on April 6.Ludhiana had won the toss and decided to bat first. In the allotted 50 overs, the visitors posted a big total of 198 runs after losing seven wickets.The highlight of Ludhiana’s innings was invaluable batting contributions by almost all players. Shabad scored 86 runs off 98 balls, including 14 hits over the fence, and Armaan Walia mader 61 runs, which came off 64 balls with the help of eight boundaries.Himanshu Prajapati remained unbeaten at 43 runs, Nikhil Verma made 21, Savinay Kakkar scored 19, Utkarsh Sharma made 18 and Jaiveer Singh scored 14 runs.Kapurthala’s Aryan Gupta got three wickets for 54 runs and Sajan Kumar grabbed one wicket for 51 runs.Kapurthala began the reply on a cautious note, putting on 73 runs on the board for the first wicket. But they failed to keep up the memento and could reach only 147 for eight as they fell short of overs.For Ludhiana, right-arm leg spinner, Karanjot Singh sent down 10 overs, three of which were maiden, gave away 19 runs and captured five wickets. Anmoljeet Singh claimed two wickets for 28 runs while Shabad Tangri secured one wicket for 27 runs.Karanjot Singh was declared the Man of the Match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-beat-kapurthala-by-151-runs-enter-semi-final-234895
05-04-2021||---||Ludhiana playway schools urged to refund fee||Ludhiana, April 4 Parents of students studying in playway schools have asked school authorities to refund the fee as there are no clear guidelines from the state government on when the schools will be opened. School authorities maintain that in January and February, when the Covid-19 situation was improving, they had hired the permanent staff again to whom regular salaries were to be paid. The authorities say it was not possible for the schools to return the fee as schools had to pay salaries to the staff and other overhead expenses. A woman, who is running a playway school in city, said parents felt safe to send their kids to schools after about nine months and the admission ratio declined drastically as many parents were still reluctant to send their kids to school. “We took the admission fees and the staff was hired again. We had no fault in the closure of schools again. This has happened all over Punjab. Now parents are approaching us to return the fee. How can we do that? We have started paying regular salaries to the staff and other workers. We have given the parents the option of online classes as well,” she said. A parent said she got her ward admitted in a playway school paid three-month fee in January. “Uncertainty prevails whether schools are going to open or not. Schools will declare summer break in the month of June. Hence, it does not feel valid to pay fee all these months when the kids are not even going to schools.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-playway-schools-urged-to-refund-fee-234896
05-04-2021||Ludhiana||Navchetna provides scholarship to kids||To encourage parents to send their girls to schools, Navchetna Bal Bhalai today held a special meeting. The organisation decided to honour two children — Puneet Kaur and Kamaljit Singh — with annual scholarship and stationery so that they can continue with their studies uninterrupted. A committee of the organisation said students who have the calibre to perform would be adopted and the entire responsibility for their education would be taken by the Navchetna team. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/navchetna-provides-scholarship-to-kids-234897
05-04-2021||---||GADVASU takes part in national-level vet expo||Ludhiana, April 4 The faculty and students of Department of Veterinary Surgery and Radiology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, participated in national-level canine conference ‘Indian VETexpo-2021’, organised by Paws Learning and Research Council, India. Dr TM Rajasekaran, scholar at the department, presented a research paper on “Surgical management of pigmentary keratitis in pugs”, authored by him in collaboration with SK Mahajan and N Umeshwori Devi. He also won the Young Scientist Award on the occasion. The conference was organised under the banner of Self Sufficient India, in association with Pet Animal Welfare Society, New Delhi, and Association for Veterinary Dermatology, India. Around 250 veterinarians, including scientists and postgraduate students, from across the country attended the conference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-takes-part-in-national-level-vet-expo-234898
05-04-2021||---||7 dead, 446 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 4A total of 446 persons tested positive for Covid today while seven succumbed to the virus. Such a sudden spike was noticed last year in September, when 462 people had tested positive for Covid in a day.Those who lost their lives were in the age group of 40-80 years and include five females and two males. The deceased belong to Civil Lines, Rajguru Nagar, Model Town, Dugri, Prem Nagar, Karamsar Colony and LIG Colony. Four patients were admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh.The positive cases today include five healthcare workers, four pre-operative cases, seven teachers and three students. The teachers who tested positive include two teachers from GNE College, one teacher from Manav Rachna International School Dugri, one teacher from PAU, one teacher from Amrit Indo-Canadian Academy, one teacher from BCM School Shastri Nagar and one teacher from Arya College. Three students who tested positive are from GNE College.Till date, a total of 80,8740 samples have been taken, out of which a report of 80,8415 samples have been received, of which 76,6758 samples were found negative while reports of 325 samples were pending. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 35,983, while 5,674 patients belong to other districts/states.Till date, 68,672 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 5,989. Today, 501 persons were sent for home quarantine.Whenever the district administration and the Health Department finds out about any positive or suspected Covid-19 person, their samples are immediately sent for testing. Similarly, 4263 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere all the safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently of the Punjab government to not only save themselves but keeping everyone around safe.Adhere to safety protocols, says DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/7-dead-446-test-positive-in-ludhiana-234886
05-04-2021||---||Over 49K inoculated in Ludhiana in 2 days||Ludhiana, April 4A total of 49,295 people got vaccinated in the district during the two-day special mega vaccination drive held yesterday and today.Today, as many as 22,812 Ludhiana residents got vaccinated, whereas 26,483 people were vaccinated yesterday.Hampton homes, DMCH  hold vaccination campAfter getting such massive response in last 2 days, this drive would be extended further and district administration has urged all residents above 45 years to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said it is a matter of great pride that 2,33,782 persons have been vaccinated. The drive will go a long way in weeding out Covid-19 from our societ, he added.The district administration had started “Vaccination on doorstep” initiative, under which camps were organised in Mohallas, clubs, factories, business/commercial establishments etc. since March 26, 2021.The Deputy Commissioner said amid the sharp uptick in the Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana, the district administration on March 26, 2021, had launched a unique initiative ‘Vaccine on Doorstep’ to inoculate a larger population in a short period to break the transmission chain of virus.Meanwhile Hampton Homes in association with DMC & Hospital also organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp today.The Hampton Homes staff along with their families and residents, except minors, were vaccinated in this camp. A total 300 people were vaccinated in this camp. The objective of this camp was to provide vaccination facility on doorstep of the people.During the camp at Hampton Homes Director Sanjiv Arora who is also on Governing Board of DMCH said they wanted whole family of Hampton Homes to be well and safe. He motivated others to go for vaccination and said, “If we are safe then others are safe.”Hampton Homes director Hemant Sood urged people to get themselves vaccinated. The medical team was also seen enthused after seeing enthusiasm of people at the camp.The vaccination was done free of cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-49k-inoculated-in-ludhiana-in-2-days-234887
05-04-2021||---||5 of Ludhiana family booked for Rs 51 lakh property fraud||Ludhiana, April 4The Jamalpur police registered a fraud and criminal conspiracy case against the couple, their son and son’s wife for commiting a property fraud of Rs 51.15 lakhs.The accused have been identified as Pardeep Sood, his wife Renu Sood, sons Akash Sood and Gagan Sood, Akash’s wife Srishtri Sood alias Kamaljit Kaur.The complainant, Saruchi Jain, a resident of Ahluwalia Colony, Jamalpur, who is a government teacher said she had struck a deal to buy a bungalow situated in Bank Colony, Jamalpur at Rs75 lakh from the accused.She said accused were given Rs51.15 lakh advance payment and agreement was made to the execute sale deed on July 15, 2020. On the agreed date, the accused, Pardeep, made some excuse and property sale deed was extended to August 25, 2020 and this date was again extended to September 10.“Later, the accused blatantly refused to transfer property and also refused to return the advance money taken from us. The accused also threatened me that if we file police complaint they will kill us all,” alleged the complainant. The complainant said ADCP 4 conducted probe in the matter and recommended an FIR against the accused. Even the DA Legal who asked a fresh view from IPS officer following which the CP marked inquiry to the Joint CP who also found the allegation true. Investigation officer ASI Joginder Singh said a probe was launched in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-of-ludhiana-family-booked-for-rs-51-lakh-property-fraud-234888
05-04-2021||---||Minor under influence of liquor kills man||Ludhiana, April 4 A minor boy under the influence of liquor killed a man by hitting latter’s head with a stone late yesterday evening. The deceased has been identified as Shiv Kumar, a resident of Barota Road, Grewal colony. The accused (16) is a resident of Sukhdev Nagar. As per the information, Shiv was consuming liquor along with the accused boy. Heated arguements erupted between them over some issue. In a fit of rage, the accused boy took a stone and smashed it on the head of the deceased. After the incident, the victim was rushed to the nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The victim had suffered serious head injuries. SHO Daba Manjinder Kaur said the police have arrested the accused and was sent to juvenile home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minor-under-influence-of-liquor-kills-man-234889
05-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||Ludihana MC turns blind eye to building bylaws violation, ‘illegal’ construction in city||Ludhiana, April 4 Despite drawing flak from various quarters on ‘illegal’ commercial buildings and other blatant violations of building bylaws which continue unabated in all parts of the city, the officials and field staff of the Building Branch of the Municipal Corporation seems to have not learnt any lesson. The ongoing construction of shops in Jawahar Nagar, opposite general bus stand, commercial complex on Gill Road and other brazen violations of building norms provide ample proof of tacit approval of MC employees in these illegal acts. Recently, officials had refused to stop the construction of a commercial complex (supposedly a hotel) in a residential building in Jawahar Nagar (Zone D) on the ground that the builder had a political connection. In a similar manner, a senior official of the building branch did visit the site where a connecting bridge had been constructed crossing a public street to connect two buildings located across each other in Guru Nanak Colony on Gill Road (Zone C).  Assistant Town Planner (Zone D) MS Bedi said notice had been issued to the owner of the building in Jawahar Nagar and action as per rules would be taken against the ‘illegal’ construction.  However, officials of the Zone C of the MC said they were not aware of the alleged encroachment in public street where a connecting brief had been constructed across the street. “Field staff has been directed the check the illegal construction and take action as per law,” said ATP (C Zone) Satish Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludihana-mc-turns-blind-eye-to-building-bylaws-violation-illegal-construction-in-city-234890
05-04-2021||---||Drive against wrong parking launched in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 4The Ludhiana traffic police under the leadership of the Deputy Commissioner (Traffic), Saumya Mishra, launched a special drive against wrong parking and wrong side driving. The purpose of the drive is to ensure no traffic jam on roads and to prevent road accidents from such violations.DCP Saumya said ACP (Traffic) Gurdev Singh and ACP Varunjit Singh along with the traffic police personnel are personally visiting different parts of the city to check the violation of wrong parking.In the drive, which was launched on March 30, as many as 236 challans of wrong side driving were issued in the various city areas as special nakas were set up to catch violators. The DCP said wrong side driving often becomes the cause of road mishaps and the police would strictly punish the violators.Apart from this 189 challans of wrongly parked vehicles in city were issued on the spot and these vehicles were creating traffic hurdles on road. As many as 224 vehicles lying parked hazardously were also towed away by the towing vans from various places.Meanwhile, city residents demanded that the traffic police should give first priority to traffic control as they alleged that traffic cops at nakas mostly prefer to issue challans and they care two hoots about traffic jam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drive-against-wrong-parking-launched-in-ludhiana-234891
05-04-2021||Our Correspondent||PSPCL tightens noose on officials||Ludhiana, April 4Taking a serious note of the lapse on the part of field officials in disconnecting electricity connections of defaulting consumers, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has issued directions to officials of the Distribution Wing to strictly follow Regulations of Supply Code-2014 and Electricity Supply Instructions Manual (ESIM)-2018 in this regard.The field staff and their supervisory officials would be held accountable for the lapse in future, according to the latest directions in this regard.In a memo (292/96 dated March 26, 2021), the PSPCL Chief Engineer-Commercial has instructed that electricity supply of a consumer should be disconnected for non-payment of electricity charges within the time frame as provided in the instructions issued by PSERC/PSPCL from time to time. It has been further laid down in the instructions that the accumulation of defaulting amount would be considered as direct responsibility of concerned officials including revenue accountants, Assistant Executive Engineers, Executive Engineers or Additional Superintending Engineers.The PSPCL Chief Engineer (Commercial) said, “ When a consumer fails to deposit the billed amount by the due date, the distribution licensee may, after giving not less than 15-day notice in writing to such consumer and without prejudice to his other rights to recover such amount by suit, disconnect supply to the consumer and for that purpose disconnect any electric supply line or other works being the property of such a distribution licensee until such charges or other sum together with any expenses incurred by the distribution licensee in disconnecting and reconnecting the supply are paid.”The memo adds that only exception is to be made that if a consumer makes payment under protest as per Regulation 35.1 of these Regulations. Provided further that except in the case of theft, the supply of electricity to a consumer shall not be disconnected on a day when the next day is a holiday in distribution licensee offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-tightens-noose-on-officials-234892
05-04-2021||Ludhiana||3 fire incidents in Ludhiana||A major fire broke out at a shoe material shop at Islam Ganj on Sunday. Goods worth thousands were reduced to ashes in the fire. However, no loss of life was reported in the incident. Fire tender immediately reached the spot and managed to douse the flame within half an hour. Kuldeep Singh, the shop owner, said the fire suddenly turned intense as raw material caught fire easily. Another fire incident was reported in the godown of a factory Chawla Weaving on Tajpur road today evening. Factory employees managed to douse the flame by themselves by using the available fire extinguishers and water. The third fire incident reported near the PAU Gate No 7 where fire broke out in the garbage dump. Fire tenders managed to douse the flame. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-fire-incidents-in-ludhiana-234893
