07-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana factory roof collapse mishap: One more death takes toll to 5||The death toll in Ludhiana roof collapse incident from two days ago rose to five on Wednesday after another person died of his injuries.Authorities from the district administration identified the latest victim of the roof collapse at Jasmail Singh and Sons auto spare-part factory in Ludhiana’s Baba Mukand Singh Nagar as Santosh Kumar, a 31-year-old man originally from Bihar who was a foreman in the adjoining GK plating factory.He was among the five people wounded from his own plant when debris of the collapsed concrete roof fell on the adjoining building as well.Santosh Kumar had head injuries from the accident, and was taken first to a government-run hospital in Ludhiana, which sent him to SPS Hospital because of his critical condition.His colleague, a 27-year-old man identified as Sagar Kumar, died on Monday.Tejinder Singh, the owner of the GK Plating unit, said Santosh Kuamr’s family had been informed.Three other workers from his factory wounded in the incident are believed to be improving, he said.He demanded compensation for the losses he suffered, which he estimates to be Rs 20 lakh. “After the roof of neighboring unit collapsed, the debris that fell on our factory has damaged both the building structure and our machines. We must be compensated for this,” Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-factory-roof-collapse-mishap-one-more-death-takes-toll-to-5-235904
07-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for obscene comments on Facebook||The city police registered a case against a man who had posted obscene comments against a girl on Facebook and later threatened to rape her.The accused has been identified as Neeraj Kumar of Bihar.The girl, a resident of Rajguru Nagar here, had complained to the police that a man running a Facebook ID Humour Central posted an obscene comment against her and when she requested him to delete it, he started issuing threats to her.The girl alleged that the man also sent her porn and objectionable videos on her Facebook account, following which she filed a police complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-obscene-comments-on-facebook-235764
07-04-2021||---||5 dead, 401 test +ve||Ludhiana, April 6As many as 401 persons tested positive for Covid-19, while five patients lost their lives due to the virus today. The total number of positive cases in the district has reached 36,774. There are 2,876 active cases and 1,182 persons have lost their lives due to the virus.Those who tested positive today include three healthcare workers, two pre-operative cases, one international traveller from Dubai, seven teachers and two students.Seven teachers who tested positive today include one from GHS, Rurka, two from GNC, Narangwal, one from GHS, Daad, one from AS School, Khanna, and one from MGM, Durgi. Two students who tested positive today are from GNE College.Three men and two women between the age group of 50 to 80 years lost their lives today. The deceased belong to Payal, Jodhan, Khanna and Abdulapur Basti.A total of 8,16,380 samples have been collected so far and result of 265 is awaited. Today 13 patients were on ventilator support, out of which six belong to Ludhiana and seven to other districts.Meanwhile, a big free vaccination camp was organised by the Ludhiana branch of the Indian Medical Association at Vardhman Special Steel Mill, Focal Point, Ludhiana, today. The camp was inaugurated by Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeewan Kakkar along with Dr Manoj K Sobti, patron, IMA, Ludhiana. Office-bearers of the IMA, Ludhiana, were present along with Dr Saroj Aggarwal, president, IMA, Ludhiana.More than 300 persons, including the employees of the mill, were vaccinated. Dr Sukhjeewan Kakkar appreciated the efforts done by the IMA, Ludhiana, in fight against corona along with the district administration.A free vaccination camp was also organised at Baby Bawa School by MLA Rakesh Pandey. More than 200 persons were vaccinated. Pandey appealed to the people to come for vaccination to protect themselves from the infection.Duke Fashions India Limited, Ludhiana, in collaboration with ESI Hospital, Ludhiana, and Urban Community Health Centre, (Jawadi) Zone-9, provided free vaccination to all its employees. At the camp, a team of seven doctors and health professionals of ESI Hospital administered vaccines to 150 employees above the age of 45.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-dead-401-test-ve-235745
07-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||DEO asked to get FIR registered against official in corruption case||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 6Education Secretary Krishan Kumar has reportedly asked the District Education Officer to get a FIR registered with the police against the Deputy DEO and two others, who were allegedly involved in a corruption case.DEO Harjit Singh told Ludhiana Tribune that he had received the letter and was examining the matter thoroughly. Further action would be taken after getting all facts cleared, he added.The corruption case dates back to 2018 when Amit Mittal, a clerk of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, was caught by MLA Simarjit Singh Bains taking a bribe of Rs 70,000.Mittal had alleged that Deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh and Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan legal adviser Harvinder Singh had asked Mittal to take bribe from a private school, which was being run without proper documents, incomplete infrastructure and had discrepancies in its functioning.A deal was later stuck between the school authorities and the staff of the department to let the school function in its current condition.The deputy DEO was charge-sheeted in the matter. The Vigilance Bureau had undertaken an enquiry against the Deputy DEO, the report of which was submitted confirming that he took the bribe.A retired principal of a government school here said such employees should be dealt with strictly as they taint the name of to the department.“We cannot compromise with the ethics of the profession. This way, other private schools, which lack infrastructure and function with other discrepancies, will also approach the department officials for favours. This will put the education system in trouble,” said the principal.The caseAmit Mittal, a clerk under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, was caught by MLA Simarjit Singh Bains while taking a bribe of Rs 70,000. Mittal alleged that Deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh and Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan legal adviser Harvinder Singh had asked him to take bribe from a private school, which was being run without proper documents, incomplete infrastructure and had discrepancies in its functioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/deo-asked-to-get-fir-registered-against-official-in-corruption-case-235746
07-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Roof collapse unfortunate, won’t spare guilty: Ministers||Ludhiana, April 6Punjab Food, Civil, Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, accompanied by Industry and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, today inspected the site at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar where the roof of a four-storeyed auto-part factory had collapsed on Monday, killing four persons and injuring seven workers. The roof had caved in while the level of lintel was being illegally raised with the help of jacks (lifting machines).Both Ashu and Arora termed the incident very unfortunate and said all possible assistance was being provided to the affected families and the injured workers. “A magisterial probe has already been ordered into the tragic incident to find out the negligence on the part of any government official and once the responsibility is fixed none of the guilty persons, including government officials, if any, will be spared,” the ministers added.MLA Sanjay Talwar, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, PSIDC chairman KK Bawa, OSD to CM Ankit Bansal were also present during the site visit.The Cabinet Ministers made a fervent appeal to the people not to put any life at risk for their vested interest and take proper permission from the authorities concerned if the work intended to be carried out was allowed as per law in addition to ensuring all prescribed safety standards during the construction.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told the ministers that the NDRF along with the SDRF, MC, fire brigade and local police had been working tirelessly since Monday morning and rescued 36 labourers, out of which five were under treatment. Of the five injured workers, two critically wounded persons in critical condition were undergoing treatment at SPS Hospital, while three others were admitted to Civil Hospital. All others who had sustained injuries were discharged after first aid.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said the entire third floor of the building where roof had collapsed, was completely cleared and no one was trapped in the debris. Teams of the NDRF and SDRF and other volunteers were clearing debris from the site, which was expected to take two more days.He confirmed that the death toll in the tragedy remained at four and bodies of the deceased workers were handed over to next of kin or sent to their families in Bihar for cremation. Five workers injured in the mishap were still admitted to SPS Hospital (3) and Civil Hospital (2) with two of them still in a critical condition.The Ludhiana police have arrested the building owner Jaswinder Singh Sonu while contractor Mohd Harun is yet to be arrested. The police said efforts were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/roof-collapse-unfortunate-wont-spare-guilty-ministers-235747
07-04-2021||---||Gang of BSNL cable thieves busted||Ludhiana, April 6 An interstate gang stealing cables of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has been busted by the CIA wing of the city police and eight members have been arrested. The accused have been identified as Mohammad Anwar (24), resident of Khajuri Bilal Masjid area, Delhi, Mohammad Istkhar (31), resident of Delhi, Nadim Mohammad (29), resident of Delhi, Mohammad Hanan, alias Anna, resident of Delhi, Mohammad Khalid (21), resident of Bilal Masjid area, Delhi, Pappu (25), resident of Khas Khajuri, Delhi, Ajit Berman (34), resident of Alipur, Bengal, and Rohit Kumar (27), resident of Sangam Vihar, Delhi. Three accused, namely Sanjit of east Delhi, Gajinder Mahato of Gurugram, and Iqbal Kabaria of Delhi are still at large. Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, DCP, Crime, SPS Dhindsa, Additional DCP, Crime, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, ACP Mandeep Singh held a press conference regarding the matter today. The police recovered a Mahindra Bolero vehicle, which was being used to transport stolen cables, fake approval certificate from BSNL, seven jackets, instruments used to dig roads, and 65 kg telephone cables from the gang members. Agrawal had formed a special team to bust the gang involved in stealing cables of BSNL. Additional DCP, Crime, Rupinder Bhatti busted the gang. Bhatti said the gang had committed six thefts in Ludhiana, two in Amritsar and one in Jalandhar. During probe, the police found that Rajinder and Sanjit were the kingpins of the gang. The members used to come all the way from Delhi to Punjab to steal BNSL cables. The gang had also made a fake permission letter of BSNL and whenever they stole cables, they wore proper clothing to give the impression that they were workers of BSNL. The gang had been selling stolen cables to Iqbal Kabaria, who is a junk dealer in Delhi, added ADCP Bhatti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-bsnl-cable-thieves-busted-235748
07-04-2021||Ludhiana||Officials collect food samples||The Health Department today collected food samples from two eateries in the city.  A team of health officials comprising Rashu Mahjan and Dr Tarun Bansal inspected two food joints in the Dugri area and Model Town.  “We had received a complaint that a sweet shop in Model Town was selling packed lassi without mentioning the date of manufacturing and expiry ,” said Designated Officer Dr Rajesh Garg. Samples of lassi and dhokla were collected.  While samples were also collected from a food operator in Dugri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/officials-collect-food-samples-235749
07-04-2021||Ludhiana||Youth dies of drug overdose, couple booked||The Sidhwan Bet police have booked a couple for culpable homicide after a 26-year-old man died allegedly of drug overdose. The accused have been identified as Jelly and his wife. Deceased’s father, a resident of Chimna village, registered a complaint with the police alleging that his son used to get chitta (drug powder) from the couple. He said the couple was warned by him not to give drugs to his son but they didn’t budge. On April 4, his son along with his friend had left home without informing anything. “Since I had suspicion that my son would go to meet Jelly I started following him. When I reached there I saw him consuming drugs. He ran away after seeing me,” he said. Later, his son and a friend was lying unconscious near the drain at Malsiha Bajan village. Before he could reach there, ambulance rushed his son and his friend to the civil hospital in Jagraon where the doctors declared him dead, added the deceased’s father. The complainant alleged that his son had died due to the drugs. Investigating Officer ASI Tirath Singh said raids were on to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-dies-of-drug-overdose-couple-booked-235750
07-04-2021||---||Self-restraint, vaccination to control surge||Ludhiana, April 6 Continuing the awareness drive to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the region, the Mass Education and Media (MEM) Wing of the Health Department has intensified its second phase to aware people about the vaccination drive and to dispel rumours. The awareness teams have been working on the directions of the Deputy Commissioner and the Civil Surgeon. Officials have been ordered to focus on ensuring that people are aware of Covid guidelines and follow them diligently. Along with it the teams have also been asked to make sure that maximum number of people come forward for vaccination so that immunity of people can be boosted. Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said tackling the virus is not a one man job and the government alone can’t end the pandemic. He said if people want to return to normal life they should follow all necessary precautions and should come forward for the vaccine. He added that people should not believe in any kinds of myths or rumours about vaccine. Rather they should understand that the vaccine is being given to public only after extensive trials were conducted. So they should not worry about quality of vaccine. He said, people above 45 are most prone to this virus and for some this has become deadly. So in order to avoid reaching that situtation people should always wear mask, wash hands, maintain adeqaute social distancing and get vaccinated for the benefit of themselves and for their family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/self-restraint-vaccination-to-control-surge-235751
07-04-2021||---||Experts dwell on natural resource management||Ludhiana, April 6The two-day Virtual Kisan Mela concluded at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) today. The virtual mela was attended by lakhs of farmers.The theme of the mela was ‘Aao kheti kharchey ghataiye, vadhu paani, khad na payee; Sahayek dhandey naal apna ke, kheti laheywand banaiyeh (Let us cut farm expenses, reduce the use of water and fertilisers; adopt subsidiary occupations and make farming profitable).”Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of Extension Education, was the chief guest on the concluding day. He said: “The Virtual Kisan Mela of 2020 was the first ever virtual mela of India. It has now set an example for many institutions in the corona times.”Dr TS Riar, additional director (Communication), said the PAU Live Programme was now also being broadcast in Canada, the US and Australia.During the panel discussion on ‘Natural resource management with special reference to water saving technologies’, Dr Rakesh Sharda, Principal Scientist, Extension (Soil and Water Engineering); Dr RK Gupta, principal soil scientist; Dr CB Singh, senior soil scientist; Dr Mahesh Narang, agricultural engineer; Dr Arvind Jhamb, consultant (Agriculture), World Bank; Chandigarh SDO Dr GS Dhillon; and progressive farmers Satnam Singh, Devinder Singh and Rohit Kapila deliberated on water conservation technologies and shared their experiences.Experts advised farmers to adopt drip irrigation system. The experts said it was a water-saving technology and the state government was also giving 80 per cent subsidy on this technique.The experts also appealed to farmers to say no to paddy straw burning and instead adopt crop residue management technologies such as PAU Happy Seeder and Super Seeder for improving health of the soil and keep the air clean.The panel discussion on “Livestock production and subsidiary occupations” laid emphasis on the adoption of subsidiary occupations such as dairy, poultry and fish farming for income enhancement.Scientists from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) were the panel experts for the discussion of the topic.Dr Jaskaran Mahal expressed his gratitude to Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, officials of the line departments, agricultural and veterinary scientists, farmers, farm women and the rural youth for their participation in the mela. He also lauded the coordination of PAU team and the IT team for the success of the mela.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/experts-dwell-on-natural-resource-management-235753
07-04-2021||Anil Datt||Skipper Shabad  leads Ludhiana into final with one-wicket victory||Ludhiana, April 6Leading from the front, Ludhiana skipper Shabad Tangri excelled with the bat and ball to anchor his team to one-wicket victory against Moga and secure a berth in the final of the PCA Trident Cup Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament.The semi-final was played today at Moga, in which Ludhiana managed to scrape past and set up the title clash with Amritsar. The final is scheduled to be held on April 9 at Maharaja Yadavinder Singh International Cricket Stadium, Mullanpur, near Chandigarh.Moga captain Harish Kumar won the toss and chose to bat first. They were off to a solid start with the opening pair of Manveer Singh and Kabir Malik putting on 93 runs on the board.After Kabir’s departure at individual score of 31 runs, Manveer was joined by Harish Kumar and the duo took the score to 134 before the latter left after scoring 19 runs.Hosts went on to lose wickets at regular intervals but Manveer held his forte to help his team reach somewhat a respectable total. He eventually was out after contributing 110 runs off 134 balls including 11 hits over the ropes.Harmanjot Singh scored 29 off 28 balls and Gurbaljeet Singh added 13 runs as Moga reached 237 runs after losing eight wickets in 50 overs.For Ludhiana, Shabad Tangri was the most successful bowler, scalping three wickets for 46 runs while Vivek and Karan Jot secured one wicket each.Ludhiana began their chase on a shaky note, losing first wicket on 16. They found themselves struggling as they were five down for 118 after 28.4 overs. Then Shabad, in association with wicket-keeper-batsman Himanshu Prajapati, pulled their side out of woods and took it near to the target.Shabad scored 91 runs off 107 balls, laced with eight boundaries and Himanshu made an invaluable contribution of 49 runs with the help of three fours.Ludhiana finally achieved the target through last pair of Vivek and Anmoljeet Singh (240 for 9) with eight balls to spare.For the losing side, Harish Kumar took three wickets while Harmanjot Singh grabbed two wickets whereas Gurkirat Singh and Meetangad Singh Sembhi captured one wicket each.For his fine all round performance, Shabad Tangri was adjudged the Man of the Match.Ludhiana will clash with Amritsar, who beat Sangrur by nine wickets in the second semi-final played today at Sangrur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/skipper-shabad-leads-ludhiana-into-final-with-one-wicket-victory-235754
07-04-2021||Mahesh Sharma---||Amargarh MLA inspects development works||Mandi Ahmedgarh, April 6 Amargarh legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman today advised office-bearers of rural and urban civic bodies to ensure that government grants issued for undertaking development projects in their respective localities were being utilised properly. “Compromise in the quality of materials used for construction and repair of infrastructure will not be tolerated at any cost,” said the legislator. Dhiman visited various localities to inspect the infrastructure works under way in his jurisdiction. Addressing the members of municipal councils, sarpanches, panches, and office-bearers of market committees, zila parishad and block samitis, he said the state government was committed to provide the best civic amenities. “Now, when Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has sent us enough grants for construction and repair of infrastructure for improving the standard of living of villagers, it becomes our duty to ensure that every penny is utilised correctly,” Dhiman said. Teji Kamalpuri, personal assistant to Dhiman, said all development projects were being undertaken under direct supervision of the elected office-bearers of civic bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amargarh-mla-inspects-development-works-235755
07-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo---||Footfall same despite strict Covid protocol: Shopkeepers||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 6 To curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state, the state government has imposed strict guidelines, including capping gathering in wedding and parties. This instilled a fear among shopkeepers, who are already bearing the brunt of losses suffered during the lockdown. But inspite of the restrictions imposed, the shopkeepers have heaved a sigh of relief saying they have not experienced a decline in sales and customers are walking in without any fear. Vivek Kumar of Nishu Garments said people’s choice and priority of products had changed but as far as sales were concerned, the footfall remained the same. “After the lockdown phase, when majority of places were shut, there was a huge demand of casual wear but when cases decreased, sale of party-wear clothes also picked up,” he said. Another shopkeeper, Sonu Nilibar from Nilibar, said there had been no decline in the footfall of customers. “Weddings and other functions, which were already planned, are being held. Thus, customers are coming in for making purchases. We are taking all precautions but it has not hampered the footfall of customers,” said Nilibar. Raman, who runs a boutique here, said number of customers had not decreased but the only change was that now clients were not physically coming to the shop. “Whatever they want made, they give the instructions to us on call. The measurements are with us and we send pictures to the customers accordingly if any alterations are to be made. Both casual wear and formal wear are in huge demand as the government has not imposed a ban on parties and functions,” said Raman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/footfall-same-despite-strict-covid-protocol-shopkeepers-235756
07-04-2021||Lovleen Bains---||Doraha residents urged to use masks||Doraha, April 6 Payal SDM Mankanwal Singh Chahal, along with the police department, today educated the residents of Doraha regarding the importance of wearing face masks to curb the spread of coronavirus. The SDM was seen counselling the public on the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases and sought their cooperation to fight with the virus. “The public has not been taking the rise in cases seriously. We are continuously in touch with people and are educating them from time to time. It is only through counselling and awareness in the general public that can help in keeping the virus at bay,” Chahal added. He also spread awareness about the vaccination drive being carried out at different spots and urged the beneficiaries to get vaccinated. Payal DSP Hardeep Singh Cheema said: “Zero tolerance is being shown towards those who are seen without face masks in public areas and cannot realise the seriousness of the issue,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-residents-urged-to-use-masks-235757
