08-04-2021||---||Ludhiana restrict Fatehgarh Sahib to 116 runs in U-19 cricket tourney||Anil DattLudhiana, April 7Ludhiana bowlers did a commendable job by restricting Fatehgarh Sahib to 116 for a loss of nine wickets in the first innings on the first day of the Punjab State Inter-District (U-19) Cricket Tournament being played at GRD Global Education Institute, Hambran Road, today.The match began after the lunch break as the pitch and the ground were unfit to play due to overnight rain.Asked to bat first, the visitors were off to a wobbly start. They found themselves uneasy against the accurate bowling by Ludhiana players, who gave tough times to the visitors. Except for the lone shining point of their innings when Jaskaranvir Singh and Nandu Gupta shared a 49-run partnership for the second wicket, Fatehgarh Sahib’s players appeared clueless.Jaskaran scored 47 runs while Nandu contributed 22. Ajay Pal Singh made 17 runs.At draw of stumps, Fatehgarh Sahib was fighting against odds with only 116 runs on the board, losing nine wickets after 40 overs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-restrict-fatehgarh-sahib-to-116-runs-in-u-19-cricket-tourney-236273
08-04-2021||---||Two booked for killing stray dog||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7The Basti Jodhewal police have registered a case against two persons, who had killed a stray dog on the Noorwala road.The accused have been identified as Kuli and Barjis of Ludhiana. Complainant Mani of Field Ganj told the police that he was the president of the Help for Animal, an NGO. On April 2, Kuli and Barjis were beating a stray dog with wooden sticks and he told them not to kill the dog, but they killed it.The police registered a case under Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act against the duo, who are yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-booked-for-killing-stray-dog-236272
08-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Health Department holds rally on Covid vaccination||On the occasion of World Health Day, the Ludhiana Health Department organised a rally to motivate the general public to get Covid-19 vaccination.The rally was organised under the ongoing awareness campaign about the Covid vaccination.Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said the city, being one of the most densely-populated district of Punjab, is witnessing a large number of Covid cases, owing to which it was necessity to further the vaccination drive and break the chain of the virus.He said: “It is everyone’s duty to adhere to Covid norms and come forward for vaccination.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-health-department-holds-rally-on-covid-vaccination-236271
08-04-2021||---||Police post constructed with public funds at Ludhiana's Katani Kalan||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7The Ludhiana police inaugurated the newly built Katani Kalan police post under the Koom Kalan police station jurisdiction.The police post has been built on modern lines from public funding on the panchayati land donated in 2009.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal inaugurated the post. Additional DCP 4 Rupinder Kaur Sra and post in-charge ASI Ashok Kumar were honoured on the occasion for their efforts to built the post in just four months.ADCP Sra said the earlier post had only one room, where there was no space for staff and visitors. The post also lacked essential facilities.“This police post has been built on modern lines. It includes a lock up, an in charge office, an MHC office, an IO room, barracks for stay of police officials, proper seating area for public, and separate public washrooms for men and women,” added the ADCP.The cost of the project was estimated to be around Rs 20 lakh. The amount was contributed in cash and kind. Cement was contributed by the panchayats, bricks were donated from the brick kiln, construction was supported by the highway unit and the labour was sponsored by the local industrial units.The inaugural event was attended by IPS Sachin Gupta, JCP (Rural) Ashwini Kapoor, DCP (Law and Order) and other police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-post-constructed-with-public-funds-at-ludhianas-katani-kalan-236270
08-04-2021||Ludhiana||ADCP inspects Ludhiana Central Jail periphery security||Additional DCP 4 Rupinder Kaur Sra, along with ACP (East) Davinder Chaudhary, visited the Ludhiana Central Jail today to inspect the presence of notorious elements active outside the jail.It has been found that anti-social elements throw drugs, mobile phones and other objectionable items from outside the jail to jail inmates. Authorities have tried to stop the practice but have failed to identify the culprits.The ADCP also met with jail superintendent Rajeev Arora and discussed the security concerns inside and outside the jail in detail.ADCP Sra visited several points on the periphery and back-end locations of the jail. She said there was an urgent need to strengthen jail security on the periphery. Various other issues were also discussed by the team, she added.“Sensitive points that need static coverage have been highlighted and patrolling by PCR motorbikes to check all sorts of nefarious activities on the periphery will be ensured. Help from surveillance teams may be sought to keep a secret vigil to catch prohibited activities,” the ADCP said.Sources said the police had been wanting to put a stop on the supply of drugs and mobile phones into the jail by placing cops in civvies outside it. Despite strict security inside the jail, the inmates were enjoying access to banned items from outside. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/adcp-inspects-ludhiana-central-jail-periphery-security-236269
08-04-2021||---||Parents continue to protest against private school managements in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7The protest of parents against private school managements continued today. The parents’ association held a protest against Police DAV School, Civil Lines.Members of the association said the school had sent a message to parents on their phones to deposit the annual fee for last year along with the tuition fee and annual fee for the session 2021-22.The agitating parents said the total fee amounted to Rs 24,000. “Many parents cannot afford to pay this hefty amount as their work was hit due to the pandemic. The school management should also understand the plight of parents,” a parent said.The parents have also submitted a memorandum to the district administration.Social activist Kimti Rawal extended her to the cause of the parents and said hefty fee structure needed to be worked on.Many parents’ associations gathered today and held a joint meeting on many issues. They said looking at the rising number of Covid cases, schools should not be allowed to open.Parents said after the schools reopen, the district administration should ensure that Covid protocol and SOPs set by the government were properly implemented.“In case there is violation of any sort, we will protest again. It is the matter of safety of our children,” said a parent.“Apart from that, it should also be ensured that private schools are following government guidelines on the issue of purchase of books for the new session,” said another parent, adding that there should not be any burden on parents from schools on purchasing of books from a particular place or from inside the school campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parents-continue-to-protest-against-private-school-managements-in-ludhiana-236268
08-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man found dead in truck||A man was found dead in a truck at Eldeco Colony on GT Road near Jalandhar bypass yesterday evening.The deceased has been identified as Harpreet Singh (30), a resident of SBS Nagar.Deceased’s brother Harneet Singh told the police that his brother had bought a new truck about two weeks ago. On March 27, he had loaded iron rods from Mandi Gobindgarh and took the same to Faridabad. One Keepa had also accompanied him to Faridabad.“My brother was supposed to return home in a few days but he didn’t turn up. After April 3, his phone also got switched off. We started searching for him but all in vain,” he said.Yesterday evening his brother’s truck was found on GT Road and his body was also lying in the truck. The body was covered in the blanket. He was brutally murdered by some unknown persons.The Salem Tabri police registered a murder case against unknown persons and launched a probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-found-dead-in-truck-236267
08-04-2021||---||Bridge near Jhamat village to end commuters’ woes||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, April 7To improve the infrastructure and facilitate movement of vehicles, a new bridge would be built at the cost of Rs7 crore near Jhamat village besides carpeting of approach roads leading to Jalandhar via Ladhowal National Highway bypass and from the bridge to the underpass. The project would be executed by the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) and its construction would be completed in the next two months.Inspecting the proposed bridge site near Jhammat here today with officials of the GLADA and the Municipal Corporation on behalf of Punjab Minister for Food, Supplies and Consumer Affairs Bharat Bhushan Ashu, his wife and Councillor Mamta Ashu said the proposed bridge would be 12-metres wide against its existing width of just 3.7 metres.She said the areas surrounding Jhamat village had witnessed development of a large number of residential colonies besides some educational institutions and the existing bridge was causing frequent traffic jams due to its narrow width. “After the minister took up the matter with the state government, officials of the GLADA, the Irrigation Department and others had surveyed the site to solve the traffic woes and a detailed project report was prepared for construction of new bridge and improve road infrastructure,” Mamta added.To help reduce traffic congestion||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bridge-near-jhamat-village-to-end-commuters-woes-236266
08-04-2021||Ludhiana||25 encroachments removed in Ludhiana's New Model Town||The Municipal Corporation on Wednesday removed around 25 encroachments in shape of permanent constructions near railway lines in the New Model Town area in Zone D. It also demolished a number of quarters that were given on rent.MC officials said these quarters were constructed on a piece of encroached land. But, a Congress leader Kulwant Singh Sidhu has raised questions over the MC’s action as he claimed that the MC demolished quarters constructed on ‘his’ land.Kulwant Singh Sidhu claimed that he had purchased the land, where quarters were constructed, at a cost of Rs 80 lakh around eight years ago.Sidhu said, “Without giving any prior notice, the MC took this action. The MC authorities should show the documents that this land belongs to the corporation. I had purchased the land. If the MC failed to produce land documents, I will move the court against it.”People living in quarters claimed that they were not given any prior intimation about the demolition drive. They said they used to pay rent for staying in the quarters. Meanwhile, questions were also raised over the MC officials as action was not taken against a few other ‘illegal’ constructions.The drive was jointly carried out by the MC’s building branch teams of all the four zones. Assistant Town Planner, MS Bedi said the drive remained peaceful. He said the encroachments were raised upon a greenbelt area and they removed them today. “We had served notice on the encroachers a month ago but they had not vacated the land. Thus, we removed encroachments today,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/25-encroachments-removed-in-ludhianas-new-model-town-236265
08-04-2021||---||Storm hits Ludhiana, uproots 24 trees||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7As high-velocity winds lashed the city on Tuesday night, 24 trees got uprooted at different locations in the city. Wheat crop also reportedly got flattened at some locations due to the storm.After trees fell down on some roads in the city due to the storm, traffic movement also got affected there. A tree fell near the birth place of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar at Naughara Mohalla, Ludhiana. Trees also fell near the ADC office, near DAV School at BRS Nagar and near Dasehra ground.The Municipal Corporation’s horticulture wing officer Kirpal Singh said they got information that around 24 trees fell down on roads as the storm hit the city last night. He said the traffic movement got affected at some locations due to the falling of trees.He said trees fell on roads near Pahwa Dharamshala, Upkar Nagar, near Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara and some other locations. A tree fell on wires near the Mayor’s office at Rishi Nagar.“We have deployed staff to clear the blocked roads due to falling of the trees. The work will be completed at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/storm-hits-ludhiana-uproots-24-trees-236264
08-04-2021||---||Virus claims 4 lives; 415 +ve in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7The virus claimed four more lives in the district during the past 24 hours, while 415 fresh cases were confirmed here. There are 2,987 active cases in the district at present.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar confirmed 474 cases — 415 from Ludhiana and 59 from other districts or states — on Wednesday. In Ludhiana district, 41 persons came in contact of positive patients, 129 visited OPD and 160 visited Flu Corner. Three healthcare workers, one undertrial and one teacher (Bhartiya Vidya Mandir School at Kitchlu Nagar) were among those who tested positive for the virus.Two positive patients are suffering from severe acute respiratory infection.The Health Department said nine persons — four from Ludhiana, two from Sangrur, two from Jalandhar and one from Hoshiarpur districts — died of the virus.Those who died of the virus in Ludhiana district were 86-year-old man from Sarabha Nagar, 67-year-old woman from an area on Gill Road, 55-year-old man from Guru Nanak Nagar and 66-year-old man from Samrala.Today, 15 patients — six from Ludhiana and none from other districts or states — were on ventilator support.A total of 8,21,465 samples have been collected till date and of them, 7,78,063 samples were found to be negative. A total of 37,189 confirmed cases have been reported from Ludhiana district and 5,858 confirmed cases are from other districts or states till date. Besides, the virus has claimed lives of 1,186 persons of Ludhiana district, while 612 death cases are of other districts or states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/virus-claims-4-lives-415-ve-in-ludhiana-district-236263
08-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district reports 2nd highest daily Covid cases in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7Ludhiana, which was among the worst-hit districts and was re-emerging as the Covid capital of Punjab, has reported second highest daily fresh cases in the state during March.The district recorded an average of 236 daily new infections last month, which was less than 260 reported by Jalandhar.The data of 11 worst-hit districts in the state compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Mohali ranked third with 206 average daily fresh cases, followed by Hoshiarpur 188, Patiala 173, Amritsar 170, Kapurthala 109, Nawanshahr 101, Bathinda 51, Ropar 46, and Fatehgarh Sahib 28.However, the district recorded lowest average positivity rate among 11 high-burden districts in March. It shared the top slot with Bathinda at 5.6 per cent monthly positivity rate.Mohali remained the worst-hit district with 16.1 per cent average positivity, followed by Kapurthala 8.5, Patiala 7.9, Nawanshahr and Jalandhar 7.1 each, Amritsar 6.4, Fatehgarh Sahib 6.3, Hoshiarpur 6.2, and Ropar 5.8 per cent.When it comes to district-wise contact tracing in March, Ludhiana traced 9.3 per cent contacts of total positive cases, which was much less than the state average of 13.1 per cent.Barnala topped the state with highest 24.3 per cent contact tracing, followed by Mohali 18.3, Jalandhar 17.5, Mansa 16.3, Nawanshahr 15.1, Fazilka 14.7, Faridkot 14, Patiala 13.5, Hoshiarpur 13, Moga 12.7, Fatehgarh Sahib 12.3, Amritsar and Ropar 12 each, Kapurthala 11.4, Sangrur 9, Bathinda 8.7, Gurdaspur 8.5, Ferozepur 7.4, Pathankot 7.2, Tarn Taran 6.3 and Muktsar 3 (the lowest).The contact testing in the state during the last month also came down to 23 per cent with 29,293 of the total 1,27,089 tested, which was much less than 39.9 per cent (21,260 of 53,264) in February, and 28.6 per cent (19,259 of 67,275) in January.In a sigh of relief, only 8.1 per cent (2,363) of the total tested contacts of Covid patients turned positive in March, which was exponentially less than 22.1 per cent (4,702) in February, and 30.6 per cent (5,902) positive contacts recorded in the state during January.Also, the positivity rate among contacts fell down drastically to 1.9 per cent in March from 8.8 per cent recorded in the state during February and January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-reports-2nd-highest-daily-covid-cases-in-punjab-236261
08-04-2021||---||MLA Sanjay Talwar raises questions over ‘illegal’ constructions||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7Raising questions over ‘illegal’ commercial and industrial constructions in the areas of Ludhiana East Constituency, MLA Sanjay Talwar said if any mishap takes place involving any building constructed against the bylaws, then officials of the district administration, the MC and police officials concerned will also be held responsible along with building owners.Talwar has written to the Deputy Commissioner, the Police Commissioner, the MC Commissioner and the Mayor regarding the commercial buildings, factories and godown that are being constructed or newly-constructed by violating the norms.He also claimed that a number of old commercial buildings, factories and godowns were constructed against the norms in the past. “Fire mishaps are common in the area. The major incidents like a plastic manufacturing unit fire and collapse incident of 2017 wherein 16 persons, including nine fire fighters, had lost their lives and now factory roof collapse incident killing five persons and leaving several injured have taken place in the city. Whenever any such tragedy happened, the administration, the MC and the Police Department had made tall claims to take strict measures against the violations but they do nothing in reality.”He demanded action against those who have stored sacks full of hosiery waste material in open in the streets, plots and residential buildings. If such sacks of hosiery waste catches fire, a major tragedy can take place, he added.Talwar asked the district administration, the MC and the police to make sure that all new commercial buildings, factories and godowns be constructed as per the norms. He said the authorities should ensure safety of the employees working in these units and people living near such units.“If any mishap takes place due to any negligence at the commercial buildings, factories and godowns, which are either being constructed or newly constructed against the rules fixed by the government, the officials concerned of the district administration, the MC and the Police Department would be held responsible along with the building owners,” Talwar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mla-sanjay-talwar-raises-questions-over-illegal-constructions-236243
08-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana roof collapse: One more succumbs to injuries, toll rises to five||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7Two days after an auto parts factory roof collapse incident at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar on Daba Road here, one more person succumbed to injuries on Wednesday. Now, a total of five persons have lost their lives in the mishap that took place on Monday.The district administration confirmed the fifth death today and the deceased has been identified as Santosh Kumar, who hailed from Bihar. He had come to Ludhiana in search of a job.Santosh, 31-year-old, was working as a foreman in an adjoining GK Plating factory. When the roof of the auto parts factory — Jasmail Singh and Sons — collapsed on Monday morning, its debris also fell on the GK Plating factory leaving five injured. Out of these five injured, Sagar (27) had died on Monday and Santosh succumbed to his injuries today.Unaware of the ongoing construction work in the neighbouring unit, Santosh along with others was doing his job at GK Plating that morning. Suddenly, debris fell on them.Santosh had received a serious head injury. He was taken to a government hospital in Ludhiana, but later referred to SPS Hospital as his condition was stated to be critical.Tejinder Singh, an owner of the GK Plating unit, said Santosh had been working with them for more than one year. “Santosh had undergone head surgery at SPS Hospital and had been unconscious for the past two days. He succumbed to injuries today. His family lives in Bihar and has been informed about the tragedy. They are coming here to claim the body. Besides, the health of three other injured workers of our factory is improving,” he added.Adjoining buildings’ owners seek damages||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-roof-collapse-one-more-succumbs-to-injuries-toll-rises-to-five-236242
08-04-2021||---||Ludhiana MC blames unit owner, contractor for roof collapse||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 7Amid questions over the role of MC building branch staff in the roof collapse incident at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar in Ludhiana, the officials blamed the factory owner and roof slab lifting contractor for the mishap.The building branch officials have submitted a report to MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal.When the roof slab was being lifted at the auto-parts manufacturing unit Jasmail Singh & Sons at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar on Daba Road on Monday, the mishap took place, killing five persons and leaving several injured.Owner didn’t inform civic bodyWithout informing the MC and without getting a map approved, the owner had got the third storey’s roof slab-level lifting work started using jacks at 4 am on April 5. — MC ReportIn a report prepared and signed by MC’s building branch officials, it is stated that the three-storeyed building was constructed around 20 years ago and it was being used for industrial purposes. The area where the factory building is located has been declared an industrial zone as per the master plan of Ludhiana, the officials said in the report.The report states the assessment of the building was done in 2003-04 as per the record of MC’s house tax branch. “Without informing the MC and without getting a map approved, the building owner had got the third storey’s roof slab-level lifting work started with using jacks at 4 am (as per information given by the neighbours) on April 5,” the officials said in the report.As per the building bylaws, there is a provision that after demolishing the old roof, a new roof can only be placed on the same level, the officials said.They claimed the factory owner had not taken any kind of permission from the MC. The officials alleged the owner was getting the roof slab level of the old building raised by using jacks without any safety arrangements due to which the mishap took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-blames-unit-owner-contractor-for-roof-collapse-236160
