09-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||City parents divided over reopening of institutes||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 8The state government on March 21 had announced the closure of all schools and colleges in the state till April 10 to as the state witnessed a sharp increase in Covid cases.There has been no announcement yet on when schools will reopen, with parents seem to be divided over the issue.While a few parents feel that schools should now reopen as it is admission season and their kids will remain at a disadvantage if they do not get admission in schools. The school managements, on the other hand, maintain that parents have been pressurising authorities to reopen schools.On Wednesday, a section of the Parents’ Association held a meeting, during which the matter of reopening schools was also discussed.Bhagwant Singh, president, Sanjha Punjab Sanjhi Awaz Manch, said presidents of parents’ association from across Punjab attended the meeting on Wednesday.Sanjha Punjab Sanjhi Awaz Manch is an organisation in Punjab which raises issues regarding schools.“All parents were against the decision to reopen schools as of now. Looking at the current Covid situation, it is up to the government to decide whether schools should be opened or not but parents are of the view that schools should remain shut,” said Bhagwant Singh.He added that school managements were keen to open schools for vested interests.“Admission season has begun and schools get the opportunity to mint money under the garb of admission fee, tuition fee and multiple other charges. Once the students secure admission in a school, parents will be forced to buy books from private publishers, which give commission to schools. For these vested interests, we cannot put our children’s lives at risk,” he added.Meanwhile, principals of a few schools maintain that many parents were keen for schools to reopen their gates.Nankana Sahib Public School principal Harmit Kaur said many parents had approached and requested me to open the school as studies were suffering.Rita Malhotra, director of a playway school, said many parents wanted their kids to attend schools physically. “Parents are ready to even send kindergarteners to schools,” she added.A parent said: “Since the government has no plan to vaccinate kids any time soon, how could they put the lives of kids at risk by exposing them to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/city-parents-divided-over-reopening-of-institutes-236673
09-04-2021||Anil Datt||Ludhiana register 10-wkt win over Fatehgarh Sahib||Ludhiana, April 8Ludhiana today registered an emphatic 10-wicket victory over Fatehgarh Sahib in the first match of the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-19) Cricket Tournament being played at GRD Global Education Institute, Hambran Road.Ludhiana earned seven points, including one bonus point.Resuming at the overnight score of 116 for 9, the visitors batted for 11 balls but failed to add a run and their first essay culminated at the same score.Ludhiana declared their first innings at 216 runs after losing just three wickets in 45 overs. The highlight of their innings was a century by opener Tikshan Tangri, who made 129 runs off 141 balls with the help of two sixes and 19 hits over the ropes.Trailing by 100 runs, Fatehgarh Sahib batsmen again seemed hapless against the Ludhiana bowlers as their second innings folded at 110 runs in 45 overs.Jaskaranvir Singh, who contributed 47 runs in the first innings, was the highest scorer chipping in with 32 runs while skipper Rimanjeet Singh followed him with a contribution of 24 runs.For Ludhiana, Siddhant Tiwari Om and Gurmehar Singh shared bowling honours, taking five and four wickets, respectively.Requiring only 11 runs for a win, Ludhiana needed four balls to achieve the target and wrapped up the issue convincingly to get bonus point also. Tikshan made the winning runs and remained unbeaten on 12 runs.Gurmehar Singh of Ludhiana, who bagged seven wickets, was declared the Man of the Match.In the second match to be played here on April 10 and 11, Ludhiana will clash with Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-register-10-wkt-win-over-fatehgarh-sahib-236674
09-04-2021||Sports Correspondent---||Ludhiana take on Amritsar in U-16 cricket tourney final today||Ludhiana, April 8 Ludhiana will take on Amritsar in the final of the PCA Trident Cup Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament, being organised by the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) from March 27 to April 9. The final will be played at Barnala tomorrow. On way to the final, Ludhiana lads proved their mettle, scripting comprehensive victories over their opponents except for Jalandhar, against whom they lost by a narrow margin. After the match, the Ludhiana District Cricket Association submitted a complaint in writing against the Jalandhar District Cricket Association, raising object over fielding two over-age players in the match played in Ludhiana on March 29. Subsequently, the PCA, taking note of the complaint, nullified the outcome of the tie and awarded two points each to Ludhiana and Jalandhar. Amritsar, too, played well in the competition to enter the semi-final, during which they thrashed Sangrur to settle for the final slated for April 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-take-on-amritsar-in-u-16-cricket-tourney-final-today-236675
09-04-2021||---||CMC doctor releases book on new MBBS examination pattern||Ludhiana, April 8 Christian Medical College director Dr William Bhatti and principal Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian today released a book on the new examination pattern for MBBS course. The book was released during the inaugural ceremony of training of doctors. Dr Dinesh Badyal, author of the book and convener of the National Medical Commission for faculty development, explained the various changes in the MBBS training and examination systems, including the use of mannequins for injections and various routes of drug administration, use of examination stations, observations of performed skills and doing away with the traditional theory viva. Dr Badyal said the book had the updated MBBS course curriculum. “The emphasis is more on learner-centred and skill-based techniques. The book has many new innovations such as the use of direct observation techniques, project on research and simulation-based learning,” he added. Dr Bhatti informed that the book would fulfil the need of the new applied-aspects training for the new competency-based MBBS curriculum. Dr Pandian said the new teaching learning and assessment material was needed as per the new curriculum and the book would be a value addition to that requirement. Teh new MBBS curriculum focuses more on skill-based or application-based learning than the simple recall of memory based facts. The examination pattern has changed significantly from this year and it is based more on direct observations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cmc-doctor-releases-book-on-new-mbbs-examination-pattern-236676
09-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Fatehgarh Sahib MP meets NHAI chairman over farmers’ grievances||Raikot, April 8Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh Boparai today met National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) chairman and urged the the NHAI authorities to redress issues of landowners whose land is being acquired for the construction of proposed expressways in this part of Malwa.Satisfaction with the outcome of meeting with NHAI chairman Sukhbir Singh, Boparai claimed that the concerned officials had been advised to ensure fair treatment with landowners.“I met the NHAI chairman after receiving complaints and appeals from farmers and other residents of my area. I apprised the chairman of the interests and concerns of farmers, who have demanded compensation for their land following the construction of the expressways,” said Boparai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fatehgarh-sahib-mp-meets-nhai-chairman-over-farmers-grievances-236677
09-04-2021||---||Man murders wife over suspicion of illicit affair||Ludhiana, April 8 A man allegedly killed his wife over suspicion of her extramarital affair. The deceased has been identified as Jaswinder Kaur (55), while the accused has been identified as Ramesh Kumar. The accused was a truck driver, but from the past few months he was unemployed. He was alcoholic and used to beat his wife. The couple has three children. One son is residing in Dubai, daughter is married and another son is living separately in Ludhiana. The couple was living alone. Today Ramesh brought a new knife from market and he stabbed his wife repeatedly. After killing her, Ramesh called his relatives and informed them that he had killed his wife. ACP Gurvinder Singh said raids were being conducted to nab Ramesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-murders-wife-over-suspicion-of-illicit-affair-236678
09-04-2021||Ludhiana||Peddler held with 650 banned tablets||The Ludhiana rural police nabbed a drug peddler and recovered 650 banned tablets. The peddler has been identified as Gurpreet Singh of Dashmesh Nagar, Mullanpur Dakha. IO officer, Anti-Narcotic Cell, Sub-Inspector Jarnail Singh said a tip-off was received that Gurpreet Singh was on his way to deliver banned drugs to his clients. A police party laid a naka on the GT Road near Jangpur village and arrested the peddler with 650 intoxicating tablets. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/peddler-held-with-650-banned-tablets-236679
09-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district records 28 per million death rate in March||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 8Ludhiana district has recorded 28 per million death rate in March, which was much lower than the state average of 35. Similarly, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the district remained well under control at 1.6 last month, which was also below the state average of 1.8.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Nawanshahr remained the worst-hit district with the maximum of 126 deaths per million rate, followed by Hoshiarpur (101) and Jalandhar (91).Among other districts, Kapurthala recorded 50 per million death rate followed by Ropar and Patiala 36 each, Amritsar and Gurdaspur 30 each, Tarn Taran 25, Sangrur 16, Faridkot 13, Bathinda 12, Fatehgarh Sahib and Muktsar 10 each, Ferozepur 9, Barnala 8, Pathankot, Fazilka and Moga 7 each and Mansa 1 (the least).On the CFR front, Hoshiarpur and Sangrur remained the worst-hit districts with the highest 2.9 CFR each, followed by Jalandhar and Nawanshahr 2.6 each, Tarn Taran 2.3 and Gurdaspur 2.Those with less than 2 CFR were Ropar and Barnala 1.8 each, Fazilka 1.6, Amritsar 1.5, Ferozepur and Patiala 1.4 each, Kapurthala 1.3, Faridkot 1.2, Bathinda and Moga 1.1 each, Mohali and Pathankot 0.8 each, Fatehgarh Sahib 0.7, and Mansa reported the least fatalities due to Covid with the minimum 0.3 CFR.The comparison of cumulative capacity and occupancy in hospitals showed that 40.6 per cent (723 of the total 1,780 beds) in level-3 hospitals remained occupied, while the occupancy in level-2 facilities was much less at 19.5 per cent (8,828 of the total 1,727 beds) in the state last month.This was despite the fact that the count of patients in level-3 hospitals in the state during last 10 days of March (21 to 30) swelled exponentially from 211 on March 21 to 723 on March 30.The highest spike was witnessed on March 26 when 608 Covid patients reported to the level-3 facilities, which was almost three times from 213 on March 25. Later, the graph continued to go up with 627 virus patients hospitalised on March 27; 669 on March 28; and 690 on March 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-records-28-per-million-death-rate-in-march-236680
09-04-2021||Manav Mander---||Health Dept to send samples for Covid testing thrice a day||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 8 In view of the rising Covid cases, the government has ramped up the testing and daily on an average 4,000 samples are being sent from the district for testing. With the sample load increasing, the number of pending reports have also increased.  The motive of testing gets defeated if the report remains pending for such a long time. Keeping all these factors in view, District Health Department has now been directed to send the samples for testing thrice a day. At present samples are collected during the day and sent for testing in the evening.  Samples of 30 persons who came in contact with the positive cases are being collected at present.  Gurnam Singh, a city resident, said he has given his sample for testing three days ago and still his report has not arrived. “I am having mild symptoms but could not start the treatment as I am not sure whether it is simple viral or Covid,” he said.  District Epidemologist Ramesh said presently they send samples once a day but now they are planning to send thrice in a day so that the results are received at time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/health-dept-to-send-samples-for-covid-testing-thrice-a-day-236681
09-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Civic body chief reviews UEIP Phase-II projects||Ludhiana, April 8The Municipal Corporation Commissioner, Pradeep Kumar Sabharwal, today exhorted officials of all ranks in the Building and Roads (B&R) branch as well as operations and maintenance (O&M) branches to complete all ongoing works under the Phase-II of the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP) strictly in accordance with given time-frame.In a high-level review meeting with officials to assess the progress of around 272 works scheduled to be undertaken under the second phase of the UEIP at an estimated cost of Rs 132 crore, he said 21 projects being executed by the O&M branch worth Rs3.5 crore. These would be completed by September 30 this year. Around 250 odd projects under the charge of Building and Roads branch were expected to get completed by June end this year.The Municipal Corporation chief commended the work done by officials of both the branches under the Phase 1 of the UEIP when 11 projects of O&M branch (cost Rs 3.5 crore) and 67 of B&R (cost Rs 26.5 crore) were executed.He stressed on the need for strict quality control both in terms of material used and workmanship of all works to be executed under the Phase 2 of the Urban Environment Improvement Programme which basically comprise of laying new sewer and water supply pipes, construction and carpeting of roads and streets, creation/improvement of urban infrastructure and efficient service delivery systems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-chief-reviews-ueip-phase-ii-projects-236682
09-04-2021||---||Khanna police recover 4-kg heroin, 2 arrested||Ludhiana, April 8The Khanna police busted a major drug racket and recovered 4 kg of heroin from two smugglers. The value of the contraband is in several crores of rupees in the international market.The smugglers are still being questioned. We will bust the entire supply line and each and every person involved in the chain will be arrested. — Gursharandeep Singh, Senior Superintendent of Police, KhannaThe smugglers have been identified as Bhupinder Singh and Balwinder Singh of Fatehgarh Panchtoor village in Moga. The police also recovered a Swift car being used by them.Senior Superintendent of Police, Khanna, Gursharandeep Singh conducted a press conference regarding the matter.The SSP said staff of the Sadar police station, Khanna, had set up a special naka in front of Pristine Mall. During checking, a Swift car (PB-29-W-4372) was stopped by the police party. In the presence of DSP Rajanparminder Singh, 4 kg of heroin was recovered from the car and the car occupants were rounded up.During initial investigation, it was found that the smugglers bought the consignment from Delhi and were going to supply in Tarn Taran district.“The smugglers are still being questioned. We will bust the entire supply line and each and every person involved in the chain will be arrested,” added the SSP.The police said the nabbed persons are shopkeepers by profession and they were mainly acting as couriers and in return they were to get a huge commission. As per the police, there is no past criminal record of them and they have been nabbed for the first time.Special drive brings resultThe Khanna police have started a special drive in which SSP Gursharandeep Singh gives a surprise direction to the police to seal the town for three hours and check each and every vehicle at the entry and exit points. The initiative has shown result as 4 kg of heroin has been recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/khanna-police-recover-4-kg-heroin-2-arrested-236684
09-04-2021||Ludhiana||4 lose battle to Covid, 425 +ve in Ludhiana||As many as 425 persons from the district tested positive for Covid, while four lost their lives due to the virus today.Total positive cases in the district today reached 37,614, while 1,190 persons have lost their lives so far. The total number of active cases in the district is 3,147.Those who tested positive today include MLA Rakesh Pandey, his wife and son. All those who came in contact with him have been asked to get themselves tested and isolate themselves.Two teachers from BCM Shastri Nagar also tested positive today. Two men and two women of Kot Mangal Singh, BRS Nagar, Barwala village and Vishal Nagar lost their lives today.Till date, a total of 8,26,104 samples have been taken, out of which report of 8,25,778 samples have been received. As many as 7,82,252 samples were found negative, while reports of 326 samples are pending. Now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 37,614, while 5,912 patients belong to other districts/states.Till date, 70,265 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 5,513. Today, 429 persons were sent for home quarantine.“Whenever the district administration and Health Department, find out any suspected Covid-19 patient, his/her samples are immediately sent for testing. Similarly, 4,639 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly,” said DC Varinder Kumar Sharma.He appealed to the residents to adhere to all the safety protocols. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-lose-battle-to-covid-425-ve-in-ludhiana-236685
09-04-2021||---||Central team takes stock of vaccine drive||Ludhiana, April 8A two-member Central team, deputed by the Union Health Ministry to support the district administration in managing the fresh surge of Covid infections, on Thursday expressed complete satisfaction over Covid management and execution of the inoculation drive in Ludhiana.The team held a meeting with administration officials in Bachat Bhawan and later took stock of the vaccination drive by visiting two camps organised in Civil Hospital and United Cycle Parts and Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), besides inspecting a micro-containment zone to assess the arrangements for restricting the movement for containing surge.Earlier, the team, comprising Deputy Director, National Centre for Disease Control, Dr Anubhav Srivastava and Dr Kavita Chaudhary from Dr RML Hospital, met DC Varinder Kumar Sharma and convened a meeting attended by ADC Sandeep Kumar, Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/central-team-takes-stock-of-vaccine-drive-236686
09-04-2021||---||SBS Nagar roads in a shambles, residents fume||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, April 8Residents of most of the colonies developed and maintained by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), especially one of the biggest residential colonies Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, are sore at the utter neglect of roads in the area. Residents feel that even if new roads are constructed or recarpeted, the poor quality of material used by contractors and workmanship would create trouble in future.After failure to evoke any response from officials concerned of the LIT, the residents of the colony have now lodged a complaint with Principal Secretary/Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Punjab to apprise the government with the pathetic condition of the main road in E-block of the colony (around the police post) that connects the Rajiv Enclave flats.Aggrieved residents, including Arvind Sharma, Amarjit Singh, Balraj Chopra and many others, claimed that the top layer of the entire stretch of road had eroded away leaving behind potholes with large patches of loose gravel. While the vehicle and two-wheeler drivers had a tough time passing on the road, even pedestrians, especially elderly and children, are at equal risk of meeting with accidents.Alleging that the LIT officials were oblivious of their ordeal and suffering, the residents said repeated representations made for taking up repair or reconstruction of the damaged stretch of road had been ignored. “Residents have a right to basic urban infrastructure which is being denied by LIT authorities,” said the affected residents to voice their concern over being given a raw deal.The complaint has sought immediate intervention of the government (Local Government Department, Punjab) to redress their grievance and made an appeal that the LIT authorities be directed to attend to the broken up/damaged road and take remedial action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sbs-nagar-roads-in-a-shambles-residents-fume-236712
09-04-2021||---||Amarnath pilgrims allege harassment at hands of Civil Hospital officials||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh, April 8Devotees of Lord Shiva from local town and surrounding localities, who intend to undertake pilgrimage to Amarnath shrine in South Kashmir, allege that they are being harried a lot as officials at the local Civil Hospital have failed to issue them the mandatory health fitness certificate.The officials at the hospital said preoccupied schedule of doctors owing to the ongoing corona vaccination drive, insufficient facilities to conduct diagnostic tests and radiological tests, and staff shortage were the major reasons behind the inability of the health authorities to examine the prospective pilgrims and issue fitness certificates.Residents have urged the district administration to redress the issue and impress upon the authorities at Ahmedgarh Civil Hospital to issue medical fitness certificates at local level instead of asking applicants to visit government hospitals situated at distant localities.Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjeet Singh Panthey said he had advised the authorities at Ahmedgarh Civil Hospital to ensure that the applicants were not harassed.“While I have been told that there is an acute staff shortage at the hospital and some facilities required for examination are lacking, I have asked the SMO to resolve the problem as soon as possible,” said Panthey.The office-bearers and activists of various religious organisations, led by Bhartiya Mahavir Dal patron Deepak Sharma, alleged that doctors and officials at the hospital had been harassing around 40 devotees by not accepting their applications for issuance of health certificate, which is mandatory to be submitted at the time of registration for Amarnath pilgrimage.“Majority of applicants are frontline workers and had been associated with projects undertaken by the health department. Instead of respecting their religious sentiments, authorities at the Civil Hospital have asked them to visit healthcare centres located at Amargarh and Malerkotla,” rued Deepak Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amarnath-pilgrims-allege-harassment-at-hands-of-civil-hospital-officials-236713
09-04-2021||Ludhiana||World Health Day celebrations||BCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh RoadLudhiana: BCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, celebrated World Health Day virtually. To aware young minds of the importance of health, they were asked to meditate and recite ‘Om’. Students of nursery, LKG and UKG participated in various activities planned for the day. Nursery students prepared headgears using craft paper. LKG students prepared a message on the topic ‘Food that boost energy’ by pasting pictures of healthy food. They also made posters on ‘Saying no to junk food’. UKG students acknowledged the contribution of frontline warriors and thanked them for their tireless efforts to fight coronavirus. TNSRyan International SchoolLudhiana: On the occasion of World Health Day, Ryan International School organised a various activities for students of all classes. Girls of Class-XII attended an online interactive session, in which Abha Sikri, national trainer and MBA Gold Medallist, addressed the students and told them the importance of sound physical, emotional and mental health, the intake of right nutrition effects of body shaming on mental health, and discussed other medical issues. TNSBVM, Shaheed Udham Singh NagarLudhiana: To raise awareness about public health, Bhartiya Vidya Mandir, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, celebrated World Health Day. A plethora of activities were organised for students to aware them about the significance of staying healthy. Students of Class-I and II focused on healthy diet for a healthy lifestyle under the theme ‘Nutrition on my plate’. Students of Class-III and IV participated in a poster-making competition on the theme of ‘Healthy nutrition’. Students of Class-VI took part in a role-play activity on the topic ‘Good health helps in better functioning in daily routine’. Principal Ranju Mangal laid emphasis on how everybody should pledge to stay fit and healthy as good health was the real wealth. TNSHawan performed at SDP SchoolLudhiana: SDP Senior Secondary School, Hazuri Road, held a hawan on the campus to mark the beginning of the new session. The hawan was also held to pray for sound health and mental peace of all during the coronavirus spread. All staff members were present during the hawan. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-health-day-celebrations-236714
09-04-2021||Ludhiana||Live Programme for farmers at PAU||Vet varsity holds vaccination campLudhiana: Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University organised a one-day COVID-19 vaccination camp on World Health Day at GADVASU’s Centre for One Health. The vaccination drive started at 9 am and was conducted by Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeewan Kakkar. Around 100 staff members of the university, aged above 45 years, were vaccinated. Medical Officer Dr Sapna Sethi supervised and coordinated the vaccination team of the state Health Department. Vice-Chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh urged citizens to come forward and get vaccinated. TNSPAU celebrates world Health DayLudhiana: The Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, College of Community Science, PAU, celebrated World Health Day at Lohgarh village. Dr Kuldeep Singh, head of the department, informed the villagers that extra precautions needed to be taken to keep oneself healthy in corona times. Assistant Professor Dr Preeti Sharma highlighted the importance of washing hands frequently and wearing face mask. Assistant Professor Dr Sukhdeep Kaur discussed the significance of eating healthy to increase the immunity of body. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/live-programme-for-farmers-at-pau-236715
