10-04-2021||Ludhiana||Punjabi actor Satish Kaul dies in Ludhiana||Veteran Punjabi actor Satish Kaul, who featured in several Hindi films and shows including "Mahabharat", died on Saturday due to COVID-19 related complications. He was 74. According to Kaul's sister Satya Devi, the actor, popular for playing the role of Lord Indra in BR Chopra's "Mahabharat'', was admitted to a city hospital after he developed fever six days ago. "He died today morning due to COVID-19 at the hospital. He had fever and wasn't keeping well. We admitted him to the hospital on Thursday and got him tested, where it turned out that he was COVID-19 positive," Satya Devi told PTI. Kaul is survived by his sister. The actor worked in over 300 Punjabi and Hindi films including "Pyaar Toh Hona Hi Tha", "Aunty No 1" and the TV show "Vikram Aur Betaal".Also read:'Staunch votary of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat': CM Amarinder Singh condoles Satish Kaul's demiseKaul moved to Punjab from Mumbai and started an acting school around 2011, which wasn't a success. He fractured his hip bone in 2015 and remained bedridden for two and a half years. He later checked-in to an old age home, where he stayed till 2019, before moving in to a rented house.In an interview with PTI in May last year, Kaul had said he was struggling for medicines, groceries and basic needs during the nationwide lockdown and had appealed to the film industry for help. Kaul had expressed his wish to buy a house of his own in the city and had hoped to act more."The fire to act is still alive in me. It isn't over. I wish someone gives me a role even today, any role, and I would do it. I'm raring to act again," he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjabi-actor-satish-kaul-dies-in-ludhiana-237301
10-04-2021||---||Wanted criminal nabbed for illegal sand mining||Ludhiana, April 9RN Dhoke, Enforcement Director, Mining, Punjab, has initiated a crackdown on persons involved in illegal mining. The illegal activity is causing immense ecological damage and huge loss to the state exchequer.The SSP, Khanna, Gursharandeep Singh Grewal, conducted a press conference regarding the matter.ADGP Dhoke said there was intelligence input that some criminal elements were involved in illegal mining in the Rahon area of SBS Nagar district. The input was later shared with the SSP, Khanna, to take stern action against the violators.The SSP acted swiftly and arrested Gurinder Singh, alias Ginda, resident of Bhorla village, Samrala. The police recovered four illegal country made weapons and a Swift Dzire car (DL-1-ZA-0673) from him.Gurinder was the leader of the gang involved in illegal sand mining in the Rahon area. He was a hardcore criminal and wanted in many cases of murder and robbery in Punjab and Gujarat, SSP Grewal said.The SHO, Machhiwara Sahib, and his staff set up a naka near the Rahon bridge at Machhiwara Sahib and apprehended Gurinder with illegal weapons and car. On his frisking, two .32-bore pistols with two magazines and 10 cartridges, two .315-bore pistols with two cartridges were recovered.SSP Grewal revealed that in initial interrogation, Gurinder, alias Ginda, revealed that he was doing illegal mining with Raju Gujjar of Ratnana, SBS Nagar, Karanvir Singh, alias Kavi, of Samrala and others on the riverbed of the Sutlej in the Rahon area.During his questioning, Gurinder revealed that he was wanted in a high-profile murder case in Gujarat. He along with two persons, who were running a dhaba in Gujarat, reportedly killed Ashish Maharaj with whom dhaba owners had a property dispute. In this connection, a criminal case was registered against them at the Mandvi police station in Kachchh district, Gujarat. Ginda was absconding in the murder case.The SSP revealed that the accused had snatched an Ertiga car at gunpoint near Laddowal toll plaza, Ludhiana. He had also fired gun shots to create panic in general public near Garhshankar along with his companion gangster Gurjinder Singh Sonu. Now it came to light that he had planned to rob an NRI family of Una at gunpoint for cash, revealed the SSP.The Khanna police are now questioning the accused for his links with other criminals in the region and with the suppliers of illegal weapons in MP and UP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wanted-criminal-nabbed-for-illegal-sand-mining-237152
10-04-2021||---||Four dead, 438 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 9After seven months, once again the district saw 438 positive cases in a day. It was on September 15 last year that the same number of people had tested positive and it was the highest single-day spike of 2020.Four patients lost their lives today.Those who tested positive today include two healthcare workers, two cops, two pre-operative cases and six teachers. Teachers who tested positive are one from GSSS, Jandali, two from Arya College, one from GSSS, Ayali Khurd, one from Partap Public School, Hambran Road, and one from Government School, Dashmesh Nagar.Three women and one man of Rajgarh, Basant Avenue, Fatehgarh Mohalla and Jassowal lost their lives today.Today there were 3,293 active cases and 379 persons were home quarantined.The mass media wing of the Health Department is motivating people to get the Covid vaccination done.While giving information, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said due to the Covid pandemic, the main goal of the Health Department at this time is to motivate people to get vaccinated. He said mass media wing teams go to different areas of the city. Where there is a lot of congestion, they make people aware of getting Covid-19 vaccination. Mass media teams today inspired people to get Covid-19 vaccination in various areas of Ludhiana city like Shivpuri Chowk, Basti Jodhewal Chowk, Dholewal Chowk, etc, and along with that made them aware of following Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-dead-438-test-positive-in-ludhiana-237153
10-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district fourth in vaccination in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 9Ludhiana, which was among the high-burden 11 districts and once again becoming the hotspot of Covid in the state, has ranked fourth in the ongoing Covid vaccination drive in the state.The district-wise figures compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department on the basis of the data for first dose per million as on April 2, Ludhiana vaccinated 73,003 beneficiaries, which was much higher than the state average of 53,400 shots.Gurdaspur topped the state with maximum 93,810 inoculation, followed by Mohali 80,699, Hoshiarpur 76,904, Jalandhar 72,037, Pathankot 69,857, Amritsar 61,843, Nawanshahr 52,461, Faridkot 48,938, Patiala 43,566, Kapurthala 41,672, Tarn Taran 38,472, Ropar 34,333, Bathinda 34,248, Ferozepur 33,735, Barnala 31,133, Fazilka 27,334, Muktsar 26,056, Moga 25,953, Fatehgarh Sahib 25,462, Sangrur 20,411 and Mansa 17,920.Following the review of the vaccination drive by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on April 3, the inoculation campaign has been extended to all seven days at the health centres, besides holding mobile camps to give shots to the eligible persons at their doorstep.The state-wide vaccination trends showed that a record 2,52,760 beneficiaries were vaccinated, including 2,38,772 first doses and 13,988 second jabs, during a week between March 27 and April 2, taking the total inoculation figure to 10,36,256, including 9,22,838 first shots and 1,13,418 second doses.The figures of last 30 days revealed that the inoculation coverage, which was around 10,000 daily on March 3, went up to almost 70,000 per day on April 1.The category-wise data showed that 53 per cent (1,44,997 of the total registered 2,71,109) healthcare workers were given first dose, while 64 per cent (65,682 of the total 1,02,739 vaccinated with first dose) received the second jab in the state till April 2.A whopping 91 per cent (2,20,897 of the total registered 2,41,992) frontline workers got their first shot, while 48 per cent (44,851 of the total registered 93,304) were administered the second dose.Besides, 4,70,462 citizens among the eligible age groups were also vaccinated in the state till last Friday.In order to ramp up the vaccination drive, the state government has decided not to reserve the vaccine for the second dose, while fixing the weekly target of more than 16 lakh jabs for the next two weeks.While two days — Tuesday and Friday — every week will be observed as mega vaccination days, government hospitals in districts and subdivisions and community health centres will serve as vaccination centres for all seven days.“We have fixed minimum district-wise vaccination targets to be achieved by every district per week and accordingly, the state aims to inoculate 16,38,000 beneficiaries every week. Besides mobile vaccination camps, the district hospitals and medical colleges in the state were holding two shifts daily from 8 am to 2 pm and 1 pm to 7 pm to achieve maximum coverage of the eligible beneficiaries,” said Hussan Lal, Principal Health Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-fourth-in-vaccination-in-punjab-237154
10-04-2021||---||Road blocked for hours due to non-lifting of garbage||Ludhiana, April 9The road between Scooter Market and Bhai Chattar Singh Park remained blocked for hours on Friday as waste was not being lifted from the area.Shopkeepers blamed the civic body for not lifting the garbage on a timely basis due to which the road got blocked.Huge heaps of waste were seen on the road today due to which visitors and shopkeepers at the market faced inconvenience. The shopkeepers have been demanding from the civic body to remove the garbage dump located near shops for a long time but to no avail.A shopkeeper said: “It was difficult for me and my staff to stay in our shop due to the stink emanating from the waste. The garbage was dumped just in front of my shop and nearby shops. The road was blocked with the waste. The MC should ensure timely lifting of the waste from the dump. A number of people have already fallen ill due to the unsanitary conditions created by the dump. We appeal to the government to remove the same at the earliest.”Satinderpal Singh, president of the Scooter Seller Association, said: “Garbage lifting is not done on a regularly basis due to which shopkeepers and customers are facing inconvenience. Businesses are also getting affected due to the poor management of waste. Today, the whole road was blocked due to the refuse and it was lifted in the afternoon after our repeated requests. It is difficult to run our businesses under such poor conditions. The MC should look into the matter seriously and officials should spend one day at the market to witness the problems we are facing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/road-blocked-for-hours-due-to-non-lifting-of-garbage-237155
10-04-2021||Ludhiana April 9||Man held in murder case||The Dakha police nabbed a Nihang Sikh wanted in a murder case.The accused has been identified as Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Ekta Nagar, Mullanpur.Station House Officer, Dakha police station, Inspector Prem Singh Bhangu, said on April 5, the accused had a scuffle with the deceased as the latter was not returning his gas cutter and gas cylinder.“Both started exchanging heated arguments and later the Nihang attacked the victim with a sword after which the latter died on the spot. After the incident, the accused escaped from the place,” the SHO said.The SHO said today, acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at the suspected hideout of the accused from where he was nabbed.The police also impounded the scooter and the sword of the accused.A three-day police remand of the accused was sought from court for his further interrogation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-in-murder-case-237156
10-04-2021||Ludhiana||Panel gives approval to project for processing legacy waste||A city-level technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited has given nod to a project to deal with legacy waste at the MC’s main garbage dump. In the first phase, around 5 lakh MT of legacy waste will be disposed of.A meeting was held today under the chairmanship of MC Commissioner-cum-CEO of the LSCL Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal on Friday. During the meeting, the panel gave nod for the installation of legacy waste screening machines and reclamation of land by scientifically processing the MC’s existing legacy waste dump site through the process of bioremediation. Huge heaps of legacy waste that looks like hills have come up in past years at the dump site.The MC Commissioner said they had also given approval of financial bid for the C&D waste management plant to be set up at Dhandari Kalan. He said they had given approval for the enhancement of LED street light points in the city.Meanwhile, the request for proposal documents was also approved for selection of a contractor for the renovation of the hockey ground at the PAU, for selection of a contractor for the upgrade of the badminton courts at Shastri Hall, selection of a contractor for the development of the table tennis complex under the Rakh Bagh Complex and for selection of a contractor for the upgrade of basketball courts at Guru Nanak Stadium. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panel-gives-approval-to-project-for-processing-legacy-waste-237157
10-04-2021||Ludhiana||Act against hospitals sans ETPs, PPCB told||Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday directed the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to take strict action against hospitals operating without effluent treatment plants (ETPs) in the district.Presiding over a meeting of the District Environment Committee, the Deputy Commissioner said the last deadline for installing the ETPs was March 31 and those hospitals which had not set up the facility would face action as per the norms. He asked the board to conduct physical inspection of the institutions and ensure proper compliance with the bio-medical waste management rules. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/act-against-hospitals-sans-etps-ppcb-told-237158
10-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||2 months on, Ludhiana MC fails to run waste processing plant||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 9Even more than two months after a private firm terminated its services, the Municipal Corporation has failed to resume its waste processing plant located at main garbage dump near Kakka village in Ludhiana. A large amount of waste is getting collected daily at the MC’s main garbage dump.Due to apathy of the civic body, the residents of areas located inside and outside the MC limit near the dump are a harried lot due to the huge collection of garbage waste at the dump. The foul smell emanating from the waste has made life of these residents miserable.The residents of Kakka village have been demanding from the government to resolve the issue related to collection of waste at the main dump as they are forced to live under very bad conditions. Even no action has been taken by the MC to deal with the legacy waste (old waste) at the dump site.A resident of Kakka village said, “Whenever high-velocity winds hit the area, our woes are increased as the waste from the dump fall in nearby areas. It is hard to breathe due to foul smell emanating from the big heaps of the waste. The MC seems to have turned a blind eye towards this issue. We want that the state government should strictly direct the civic body to deal with the waste without any further delay.”Leader of Opposition in the MC House, Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “During the House meeting last month, we were assured that the tenders to invite new firms for handling the waste management will be floated soon but to no avail. A huge amount of waste is getting collected at main garbage dump. Moreover, the civic body should take required steps to deal with legacy waste. The residents of nearby area are suffering due to huge collection of the waste at main dump.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said a company has given representation regarding the waste management. “We will soon hire a new firm to ensure proper functioning of waste-processing plant. The required steps will be taken to deal with legacy waste.”Civic body told to make arrangementsIn a meeting of the District Environment Committee, the MC has been directed to make arrangements for processing and disposal of municipal solid waste and submit a complete action-taken report regarding finalisation of fresh agency for processing of solid waste before the next meeting, an official of the PPCB said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-months-on-ludhiana-mc-fails-to-run-waste-processing-plant-237159
10-04-2021||PCA TRIDENT CUP INTER-DISTRICT (U-16) CRICKET TOURNAMENT||Ludhiana skipper stars in title win||Anil DattLudhiana, April 9Ludhiana captain Shabad Tangri led from the front (72 runs and 3 wickets for 38 runs) to power his team in defeating Amritsar by two wickets in the final to lift the winners’ trophy of the PCA Trident Cup Inter-District (U-16) Cricket Tournament played at Trident Complex ground, Barnala, today.On Tuesday, Shabad had played a pivot role in his side’s hard-fought win by one wicket over Moga in the semi-final, in which he scored 91 runs and scalped three wickets to book a berth in the summit clash.Batting first, Amritsar, after surviving some anxious moments (3 for 19 after 9.4 overs) managed to reach a defendable total of 211 runs after losing eight wickets in 50 overs. The architect of their innings was Rahul Kumar, who arrived at the fall of third wicket and carried his bat till the end.Rahul remained unbeaten at 102, which came off 109 balls with the help of six boundaries and one six.Other notable contributors were Krishna Kalyani, Varinder Viru and Danish Nayyar who made 34, 17 and 15 runs, respectively.For Ludhiana, Shabad Tangri sent down 10 overs, conceded 38 runs and captured three wickets. Anmoljeet Singh took two wickets for 38 runs while Imrozpreet and Karan Jot claimed one wicket each.Ludhiana, too, had a dismal start as they lost their openers with just 20 runs on the board. Then, skipper Shabad rose to the occasion and he, along with Armaan Walia, added 121 runs for the third wicket before the latter was out for 56 runs.Shabad followed him after scoring 72 runs off 105 balls, inclusive eight hits over the ropes (144 for 4 after 32.2 overs). Ludhiana lost two wickets in quick succession (153 for 6 after 37.2 overs).However, Nikhil Verma and Anmoljeet Singh played sensibly, waited for the loose ball to hit. The duo took Ludhiana in sight of victory.Nikhil remained not out on 32 and Anmoljeet scored 16 runs. Karanjot, too, remained unbeaten at 9 and made his useful contribution in the win as Ludhiana surpassed the opponents’ total in the penultimate over of the match with two wickets in hand.Ludhiana skipper Shabad Tangri was named the Man of the Match.The winners received a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh and the runners-up pocketed cash prize of Rs 75,000.Former international cricketer and chief coordinator of the tournament Bhupinder Singh Sr gave away the prizes to players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-skipper-stars-in-title-win-237160
10-04-2021||Legal Correspondent||Covid vaccination camp begins at Ludhiana courts complex||Ludhiana, April 9District and Sessions Judge Munish Singal and Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today kick-started a Covid vaccination camp at the judicial complex.The camp is being organised by the District Bar Association (DBA) in association with the local administration.Chief Judicial Magistrate Sumit Makkar, CJM-cum-District Legal Services Aurthority Secretary PS Kaleka, senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan from DMCH Hero Heart Centre, DBA president Gurkirpal Singh Gill, secretary Gagandeep Singh Saini and vice-president Parvinder Singh Pari were also present on the occasion.District and Sessions Judge Munish Singal and DC Varinder Kumar Sharma lauded the efforts of the DBA for organising the camp and termed the vaccine as great hope against the pandemic.They said it was important to get vaccinated against the virus as countries, where the vaccination drive was initiated before India, had been witnessing fewer cases than ours.“Vaccines have been rolled out after several rounds of trials and now it is our duty to get vaccinated to curb the spread of the virus,” Singal said.The DC urged the people not to believe the rumours on vaccine. “It is really sad that people of the targeted category are not coming forward in expected numbers to get vaccinated despite the surge in Covid cases,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-vaccination-camp-begins-at-ludhiana-courts-complex-237161
10-04-2021||Lovleen Bains||Sudarshan Sharma is new Doraha MC chief||Doraha, April 9Sudarshan Sharma ‘Pappu’ was today unanimously elected as president of the Doraha Municipal Council. It is his sixth term as a councillor.Ranjit Singh was elected Doraha MC senior vice-president and Baljit Kaur as junior vice-president.Sharma thanked the people for electing him sixth time in a row. He said: “I will try to live up to the expectations of the people and work dedicatedly for the development of the town.”“The treatment of the garbage heap at the back side of telephone exchange will begin at the earliest. The community hall, erected in the memory of late chief minister Beant Singh will also be opened for the poor. Repair of roads, timely clearance of dirt and waste around the town will form an integral part of my duties as president of the town council,” Sharma added.Congratulating the MC Chief, Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha said: “Sudarshan Kumar was a deserving candidate. I am sure that he will live up to the expectations of the townsters.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sudarshan-sharma-is-new-doraha-mc-chief-237162
10-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Kup Kalan man murder case solved, friend held||Mandi Ahmedgarh, April 9The Sadar police claim to have solved the blind murder case of a man of Kup Kalan village, who was reported to be assaulted late on Tuesday evening.The police said Lakhvir Singh Gora was working in his field when he was attacked.A close friend of the deceased, Sukhpal Singh Pal, who had informed the victim’s family about the incident, was also an accused in the case. He told the police that Gora was attacked by two unknown assailants.The police arrested Pal when he was trying to flee the area late on Wednesday evening.Upon arrest, Pal confessed that he was in a physical relationship with Gora, who had been torturing him physically and mentally for many months.Further investigation revealed that Gora had developed friendship with Pal through a social media platform around 18 months ago. The duo had been living together as friends and nobody, including their family members, was suspicious of their physical relationship.Pal confessed to killing Gora, fearing he would make their relationship public, the police said, adding that he had bought sharp-edged weapon ‘kirach’ from Malerkotla around three weeks ago.SHO Amandeep Kaur said: “Now that the guilty has been arrested, we will try to ascertain the sequence of events and identify his accomplice, if any.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kup-kalan-man-murder-case-solved-friend-held-237163
10-04-2021||Manav Mander||Confusion prevails over Covid -ve report for domestic travel||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 9Confusion regarding securing a Covid-negative report for domestic travel has left frequent travellers in a lurch.While some states have made a negative Covid report mandatory, others have not specified any instructions.Frequent air travellers say they have been facing many problems as there are no clear instructions whether they have to show a negative report at the airport or that they will be tested at the airport itself.Santosh Jain, who frequently visits Srinagar for business purposes, said he was travelling after a long time and came to know at the airport that he had to get his Covid test 72 hours prior boarding.“I got the test done by paying Rs 1,000 but the report was not seen at the time of boarding. When I reached the Srinagar airport, I was asked to get the rapid test done again on the spot. I told the authorities that Ihad my report but was asked to undergo a test again,” he said.Bengaluru had made it compulsory to carry a negative Covid report, said Asees Kaur, who has been working from home during the pandemic.“I had to attend a meeting physically at my office and had got my test done but my colleague was unaware of the rule and was not given the boarding pass,” she said.City-based businessman Rakesh Singhal went to Jammu by road. He said he was stopped at Jammu border and was asked to show his Covid report.Mohd Aqib, who travels frequently to Uttarakhand, said since a negative report was required for entering Uttarakhand, he had to get a test done every time he visited the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/confusion-prevails-over-covid-ve-report-for-domestic-travel-237164
10-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||No survey done to check building violations||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 9Even after a number of persons have lost their lives in building collapses in the city, no survey has been carried out to check the violations of building bylaws and lack of fire safety arrangements in commercial, industrial and other buildings in the city.Recently, five persons died and several injured in a factory roof collapse mishap at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar on Daba Road in Ludhiana. The questions are being raised when the authorities concerned will ensure checking of violations of building bylaws and fire safety norms in the high-rising buildings, factories, educational institutes, hospitals, offices and other units in the city and when will they take action?Laxity in bylawsFollowing the plastic manufacturing factory fire and collapse mishap in 2017, an announcement was then made to conduct a survey to check fire safety norms and other violations in buildings but no such survey was done. Notably, 16 persons, including nine firefighters, had lost their lives in the mishap that took place near Suffian Chowk of Ludhiana. Besides, a number of other major fire mishaps have taken place in the past.The role of the MC’s building branch is under scanner for “rampant” illegal constructions in the city. Even, a Congress MLA, Sanjay Talwar, has recently raised questions over illegal constructions in the Ludhiana East constituency areas. Sources said the illegal constructions are common in the areas that fall under other constituencies too.In a number of residential areas, the residents have been complaining about illegal commercial buildings, godowns and other units but their complaints are allegedly being ignored. Inder Aggarwal, a former councillor said, “The violation of building bylaws is rampant in the city. The MC should conduct a survey to check violations and take required action to avert mishaps in future. The master plan of Ludhiana must be implemented in the right manner.”Sources said no actual data was available with the MC and Punjab Fire Services about the buildings that lacked fire safety arrangements in the city. A few years ago, a report was prepared by the MC that around 2 per cent industries, commercial, educational and other institutes running in city had obtained fire safety certificates.Chairman of the Indian Institute of Architects, Punjab Chapter, Sanjay Goel said there could be many illegal constructions in the city. “A survey should be carried out in the entire city to check the violation of building bylaws. Fire safety audit of buildings should be conducted. Necessary action should be taken against the violations”, he added.Opposition leader in MC House, Harbhajan Singh Dang said that the authorities concerned should take required steps to avert the mishaps in future. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said that MC will conduct a survey to check the violations in various buildings and take required action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-survey-done-to-check-building-violations-237165
10-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Morning Amritsar-Delhi Shatabdi back on tracks from tomorrow||Ludhiana, April 9The second pair of the New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express (02013/14) will resume its regular run after almost a year from tomorrow.The train was discontinued during the Covid-induced lockdown.The 02013 train will leave New Delhi at 4.30 pm and arrive at Amritsar at 10.30 pm with a three-minute halt at Ludhiana (8.16 pm) while the 02014 will start operating on April 11, leaving Amritsar at 4.55 am to reach New Delhi at 11.02 am with a five-minute stop at Ludhiana (6.57 am).In order to fill the gap left by the other pair of Swarn Shatabdi (02029/30) Express train on this trunk route, Northern Railways has announced to run 04053/54 New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express Weekly Special train from April 15. The existing 02029/30 Swarn Shatabdi Express runs on this route on all days except Thursday.The 04053 Shatabdi train will leave New Delhi (on Thursdays only) at 7.20 am and reach Amritsar at 1.30 pm with a three-minute stoppage at Ludhiana (11.08 am) while the 04054 train will commence its return journey from Amritsar at 4.50 pm to reach New Delhi at 10.50 pm with a five-minute halt at Ludhiana (6.50 pm).According to the railway officials, another summer special train, the 02265/66 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto Tri-weekly Special train, was also scheduled to run from Delhi Sarai Rohilla from April 11 and from Jammu Tawi from April 12. The train will have a single halt at Ludhiana in both directions.The 02265 will leave Delhi Sarai Rohilla at 10.20 pm on every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday and reach Jammu Tawi at 7.15 the next morning. On return journey, the train 02066 will depart from Jammu Tawi at 7.15 pm on every Wednesday, Saturday and Monday to arrive Delhi Saraai Rohilla at 3.55 am the next day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/morning-amritsar-delhi-shatabdi-back-on-tracks-from-tomorrow-237166
10-04-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on stock market by Khalsa Institute of Management and Technology||Bajaj College holds plantation driveLudhiana: Bajaj College organised a door-to-door plantation drive at Swadi Kalan village near Chaukimann. Students and faculty enthusiastically engaged in the acitivity and pledged to conserve the environment. Students wrote slogans on the importance of protecting the environment. Principal Dr Shikha Dhall appreciated the initiative taken up by the faculty and students. TNSGNDEC celebrates foundation dayLudhiana: Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College celebrated its 65th Foundation Day. The first president of India, Late Dr Rajendra Prasad, had laid the foundation stone of the college on April 8, 1956. Sri Sukhmani Sahib path and kirtan was recited by the staff and students in the college gurdwara. A mini exhibition of projects prepared by engineering and architecture students was also held. Principal Dr Sehijpal Singh shared the progress and contributions of the college on the occasion. TNSWorkshop on teaching learningLudhiana: A seven-day workshop on “Innovations in Teaching Learning” commenced at Khalsa College for Women, Sidhwan Khurd. The workshop is being organised by the IQAC Department of the college in collaboration with GHG Harparkash College of Education for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, from April 5-12. The resource person for the day was Dr Manjeet Kaur, Associate Professor, GHG Harparkash College of Education for Women. The theme of her presentation was “Learning strategies”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-stock-market-by-khalsa-institute-of-management-and-technology-237169
10-04-2021||Ludhiana||Singer Karan Aujla flouts rules during jail visit, probe on||Superintendent of the Central Jail Rajeev Arora is in the thick of controversy after Punjabi singer Karan Aujla visited the prison in violation of the security and Covid protocols. Jail Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has ordered an inquiry into the episode and asked ADGP Prisons PK Sinha to submit a report.Escorted by a police Gypsy, Aujla’s cavalcade of over half a dozen vehicles entered the jail premises yesterday, with the singer’s car stopping right outside the jail’s main gate, where private vehicles are not allowed.Aujla along with friends then entered the jail without undergoing security checks. Most were not wearing masks and even the jail security staff didn’t ask them to deposit their mobile phones.After spending some time at the Jail Superintendent’s office, Aujla went to the latter’s residence. The singer had reportedly come to meet drug kingpin Gurdeep Rano of Khanna, who was recently nabbed with drugs worth crores, 13 luxury cars and drug money. The singer has been using Rano’s bungalow in Khanna for shooting songs.“The singer did not meet any inmate. Rano is lodged in a separate high-security cell. It is an attempt to malign my image,” claimed Arora. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/singer-karan-aujla-flouts-rules-during-jail-visit-probe-on-236952
