11-04-2021||Ludhiana||PYDB to hold vaccine camps across Punjab: Chairman||Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra today said in order to provide best healthcare to residents, the PYDB would soon be organising such camps across the state. He informed that all PYDB members and youth clubs would be motivated to organise such camps in their respective areas so that we can weed out Covid-19 from our society.The PYDB has so far organised a total of 19 vaccination camps in the district till date.Today, Bindra inaugurated two such camps at Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara Sahib and Atam Vidya Mandir School, Sahnewal.Sukhwinder Singh Bindra said the PYDB is making efforts to administer the dose of the vaccine to all eligible people and the PYDB would leave no stone unturned to ensure speedy coverage of those eligible. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pydb-to-hold-vaccine-camps-across-punjab-chairman-237470
11-04-2021||Anil Datt||Ludhiana score 366 runs in first innings||Ludhiana, April 10Thanks to a century by Tikshan Tangri, Ludhiana, scored 366 runs in the first innings against Mohali in the match in the ongoing the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-19) Cricket Tournament being played at the GRD Global Education Institute on Hambran Road here today.Batting first after winning the toss, Ludhiana were off to a fine start with the opening pair of Tikshan Tangri and Bharat Madhok putting on 120 runs before the latter departed at his individual score of 42.Bhavish Sethi arrived at number three and the duo took the score to 239 as he left after adding 54 runs. Tikshan lost his wicket at total of 292 after 65.2 overs. He scored 159 runs off 171 balls with the help of 24 hits over the fence and two sixes.For the visitors, Harshdeep Singh secured three wickets for 80 runs, Aryan Bhatia claimed two wickets for 39 runs.At draw of stumps, Mohali were nine for no loss after eight overs. Two not out batsmen were Jaiveer Bhinder and Rushil Shrivastva with one and eight runs against their names.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-score-366-runs-in-first-innings-237471
11-04-2021||---||Motivate people for vaccine: Health Department to faith leaders||Ludhiana, April 10The mass media team of the Civil Surgeon’s office today met various religious leaders to boost the vaccination drive in the district.Firstly, the team members met Maulana Muhammad Usman Rehmani Ludhianvi, Naib Shahi Imam, Punjab. After meeting the team members Maulana Rehmani assured official to arrange a vaccination camp in the Field Ganj Mosque and to motivate people from the Muslim community to get their vaccination done. He also assured that he will make sure that all government guidelines are being followed in the mosques, especially in the upcoming Ramdan month.The teams also visited Dukhniwaran Sahib Gurudwara, Ludhiana, where Pritpal Singh, president, Dukhniwaran Niwaran Management Committee, Ludhiana, himself got vaccinated. He urged the people to get themselves vaccinated as per government’s instructions. He further stated that people should not fall prey to any rumours as the vaccine is completely safe and he himself is feeling well after vaccination and have no problem at all. He also assured the team that keeping in view the rush of devotees on Vaisakhi all the Covid guidelines will be followed as per government rules and they will arrange vaccination camp in collaboration with the Health department in the Gurdwara premises.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the war against Covid can only be fought if we all make continuous efforts. The Health Department can motivate you and provide you services but it is the duty of people to follow the guidelines strictly. I request everybody to kindly get yourself vaccinated if you are above 45 years of age.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/motivate-people-for-vaccine-health-department-to-faith-leaders-237472
11-04-2021||---||AAP to hold nukkad meetings to protest high power tariff||Ludhiana, April 10The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will hold nukkad meetings in villages and colonies in the city to highlight the issue of high power tariff in the state. Under a campaign against the high power tariff, party workers will create awareness among people. It was stated by AAP leader Amandeep Singh Mohie here.The AAP leader said besides creating awareness regarding the matter among people, electricity bills would also be burnt during the campaign.“Under this agitation, every AAP volunteer of the city would hold nukkad meetings in every mohalla from Sunday onwards. All city colonies will be covered under the campaign. The drive will be continued till the end of April,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-to-hold-nukkad-meetings-to-protest-high-power-tariff-237473
11-04-2021||Ludhiana||Underage driving a dangerous growing trend: Sessions Judge||Underage driving is dangerous not only for the teenagers but also for the commuters on road, said Sessions Judge-cum-chairman DLSA Munish Singal, while interacting with the parents of underage drivers, who came to Lok-Adalat to settle their traffic challans.“Young generation is future of our country. Parents must encourage them to obey the law at any cost. If they will start violating the law at this age, what will be the future we can understand very well”, said the Judge. A total of 3,576 cases were settled amicably involving award of Rs35,62,70,987 in the Lok-Adalat. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/underage-driving-a-dangerous-growing-trend-sessions-judge-237474
11-04-2021||Ludhiana||Vaccination camp at Khalsa College||Free jab campaign organisedA free vaccination drive was organised at Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College in order to protect the people from Covid-19. Councillor Mamta Ashu was the chief guest of the day. She motivated everyone to get themselves vaccinated and make them aware of the various other endeavours initiated by the government. The event began with the welcome address by Dr SP Singh, former Vice-Chancellor, GNDU, Amritsar and president, Gujranwala Khalsa Education.2-day Covid-19 vaccination campA two-day free Covid-19 vaccination camp was organised at Kamla Lohtia SD College, Ludhiana, in association with the government. The camp was dedicated in the memory of Late Dharam Paul Jain, former president, College Managing Committee. The camp was inaugurated on the first day by Sunil Aggarwal, acting president, College Managing Committee.Intra-client counselling competitionGHG Institute of Law for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, Ludhiana, organised “First virtual intra-client counselling competition”. Mandeep Kashyap, faculty member inaugurated the “First virtual intra client counselling competition.” Three teams were qualified for finals and each team was given 15 minutes for consultation rounds, 5 minutes for post consultation round and 5 minutes for critique round.Jain College Students excel in examsStudents of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women brought laurels to the college by performing well in the examination of Diploma Course in Cosmetology. Tamana Gupta scored 94 per cent marks, Seerat got 92.5 per cent marks, Shivani obtained 87 per cent marks and Preeti got 86.5 per cent marks. The college managing committee members congratulated the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccination-camp-at-khalsa-college-237475
11-04-2021||---||Kids reunited with parents||Ludhiana, April 10The Ludhiana police traced and reunited two children with their parents.Additional DCP Rupinder Kaur Sra handed over the children to the parents at her office.ADCP Sra said two children Ayush (7) and Anshika (5) were spotted by a social worker Rajveer Singh. They were found on the roadside near Jhabewal, Jamalpur area. The kids were handed over to the parents to the ADCP’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kids-reunited-with-parents-237476
11-04-2021||---||MTP: Demolish non-compoundable violations in buildings||Ludhiana, April 10The Municipal Town Planner has issued directions to the Assistant Town Planners of all four zones to ensure demolition of non-compoundable violations in the buildings as per the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act-1976.Sources said the employees generally sealed and unsealed a number of non-compoundable violations instead of demolishing them.Municipal Town Planner (MTP) SS Bindra has issued directions to the staff concerned to make sure demolition of non-compoundable violations, instead of sealing the buildings in future.In case if any building was sealed, the seal should be opened only after the demolition of the portion of the building having non-compoundable violation, the MTP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mtp-demolish-non-compoundable-violations-in-buildings-237477
11-04-2021||---||VC lays foundation stone of agro-processing centre||VC lays foundation stone of agro-processing centre Ludhiana: Punjab Agricultural University VC Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon laid the foundation stone of an agro-processing centre on the campus. Dr Dhillon said PAU intends to establish a modern Agro Processing Center (APC). Every grain produced must be exposed to all possible avenues for its profitable end use. The loss of even single grain during post-harvest is an offence against the efforts of producers, he said. The farming community must come up with agro based products at production catchment to meet the consumer demand for quality products, he stressed. Dr Dhillon said proposed agro-processing centre will act as a benchmark for the rural youth and progressive farmers of the state. Dr Jaskarn Singh, Director, Extension Education, has played a pivotal role in popularising the concept of adulteration free jaggery in the state in the last three years and motivated for establishing this facility at the PAU. The unit is being established with the financial support of the Department of Agriculture and involves the active efforts of Dr Gurvinder Singh, Joint Director Agriculture (T&E), Punjab. Webinar on personality development The Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a national webinar on “Motivation and Personality Development” for the students and faculty. Around 80 participants participated online through Google meet platform. Dr Rajinder Kaur Kalra, professor-cum-head (retd), Extension Education and Dr Tejinder Kaur Gill, professor (retd), Extension Education, PAU, were the keynote speakers. Dr Kalra laid emphasis on developing positive attitude towards life. Dr Gill shared her perspective on personality development.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vc-lays-foundation-stone-of-agro-processing-centre-237481
11-04-2021||A virtual orientation programme was organised for parents at Drishti School on Saturday. Parents were told to keep a tab on the time their children spend on phone. The resource person||Online session for parents||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/online-session-for-parents-237482
11-04-2021||Ludhiana||‘Interlocking tiles not being installed in proper way’||The Council of RTI Activists, an NGO, has complained to the Principal Secretary and Chief Vigilance Officer of the Department of Local Government against the ongoing interlocking tiles installation work from Passi Chowk to Sidhwan Canal on Pakhowal Road here.A member of the NGO, Arvind Sharma, has alleged that the tiles are being installed in an improper manner. He alleged that no proper base was made for installation of interlocking tiles. Even the tiles were installed without leaving sufficient space around a few trees.An official of the LIT has denied the allegations. Boota Ram, Trust Engineer, said, “A team was sent to the spot to inspect the work regarding installation of interlocking tiles on Pakhowal Road, Ludhiana. The work at the site was going on in right manner. The interlocking tiles are being installed in a proper way.”He said the contractor was asked to leave 1 metre space around the trees for their growth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/interlocking-tiles-not-being-installed-in-proper-way-237480
11-04-2021||Ludhiana||2 notorious criminals held in Ludhiana||The Khanna police arrested two notorious criminals who were planning to commit major bank robberies in Amritsar and Chandigarh.One of the nabbed accused is facing eight cases of robberies and snatching.The duo have been identified as Jugraj Singh of Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand and Harmanpreet Singh of Rampur in UP. The police also recovered three pistols of .315 bore, 13 live cartridges from the accused.Khanna SSP Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the Khanna police started a special campaign against gangsters and other notorious elements. The police had achieved a huge success.The SSP said a naka was set up on GT Road in Doraha from where police apprehended two persons, Jugraj SIngh and Harmanpreet Singh. On frisking, two .315 bore pistols, along with eight live cartridges, were recovered from Jugraj and a .315 bore gun, along with five live cartridges, were seized from Harmanpreet.The SSP said during initial investigation, it had come to light that Jugraj was a notorious criminal in his area and he was wanted in eight cases of robbery, Arms Act and snatching in various states.Jugraj came out of Tihar Jail on parole but did not return. Jugraj had links with a person Balwinder Singh, alias Chacha from Haridwar. The duo had looted Rs 1,40,000 from a person on Khatima Road in Puranpur, UP, recently.The SSP said Jugraj, along with Chacha, did a recce in Chandigarh to rob a bank and also had a plan to commit a similar crime in Delhi. Chacha sent Jugraj and Harmanpreet to Punjab with illegal weapons for execution of these plans. Afterwards, the duo were going to Amritsar with illegal weapons but were nabbed by the police.The culprits are being questioned and there is a possibility of other major disclosures in the probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-notorious-criminals-held-in-ludhiana-237468
11-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district gets Rs 26 crore for air quality improvement||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 10Ludhiana district has got a special grant of Rs 26 crore for air quality improvement in the industrial hub of the state.Amritsar has also received a similar grant of Rs 19 crore.The Union government has released the urban local body grant for the million-plus cities to the state government as per the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission.Vini Mahajan, Chief SecretaryOfficialspeakOn the basis of the micro plans made by the Local Government Department and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) for improving air quality, the Centre has released the second tranche of Rs 45 crore for Ludhiana and Amritsar as million-plus cities. With this, the efforts of the state government for a tandarust (healthy) Punjab have got a further boost.The Union Finance Ministry’s Director (FCD), Subhash Chandra Meena in a release order issued to the Local Government Secretary, a copy of which is with The Tribune, conveyed that the competent authority in the Union government had approved the release of the second instalment of the last fiscal 2020-21, amounting to Rs 1,583.07 crore to 13 states, of which Rs 45 crore was released to Punjab.The second instalment of grant for million-plus cities recommended by the 15th Finance Commission was intended to be utilised for air quality improvement measures, including capacity building of the local bodies within the million-plus city/ agglomeration, as well as meeting the additional needs of the State Pollution Control Boards to appropriately assist the local bodies in monitoring the ambient air quality.“The states while allocating grants to the urban local bodies in million-plus agglomerations/cities, as mentioned against such city, should also make allotment of grants on population basis for the Cantonment Boards, if any, within the territorial jurisdiction of any million-plus urban agglomerations/cities as per the 15th Finance Commission’s report for the year 2020-21,” the communique stated.The Centre categorically asked the states to transfer the grants-in-aid directly to all million-plus urban agglomerations/cities within 10 working days of receipt from the Union government without any deduction. “Any delay beyond 10 working days will require the state government to release the same with interest as per the effective rate of interest on market borrowings/state development loans for the previous year,” the Union Finance Ministry directed.The states were further instructed that the urban agglomeration that contains more than one million-plus cities, the concerned state government, in consultation with all such entities within the urban agglomeration, shall entrust one urban local body as a nodal entity to receive the grants. “This nodal entity shall also have the responsibility of achieving the performance indicators for the entire urban agglomeration,” the Centre desired.Other states that were given the Central grant for air quality improvement included Andhra Pradesh Rs 67.5 crore, Bihar Rs 102 crore, Chhattisgarh Rs 53.5 crore, Gujarat Rs 202.5 crore, Haryana Rs 24 crore, Jharkhand Rs 79.5 crore, Karnataka Rs 139.5 crore, Madhya Pradesh Rs 149.5 crore, Maharashtra Rs 396.5 crore, Rajasthan Rs 140.5 crore, Tamil Nadu Rs 116.5 crore, and Telangana Rs 66.57 crore.Earlier, the Centre had released Rs 375.26 crore grant-in-aid to the states under the National Clean Air Programme for implementation of city action plans during the years 2019-20 and 2020-21. The Union Finance Ministry has sought city-wise provisional utilisation certificate for the previous grants.Air pollution causes cancer: WHOIn 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) had officially added outdoor air pollution, especially particulate matter, to the list of causes that lead to cancer. Though healthcare providers had been suspecting the role of air pollution in causing cancer since long, there was little scientific evidence other than research on diesel smoke particles. The WHO study had concluded that air pollution, specifically PM 2.5 fine particulates, are clearly a cause of lung cancer. The agency had also concluded that air pollution is a cause of bladder cancer.Improvement in air quality||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-gets-rs-26-crore-for-air-quality-improvement-237483
11-04-2021||---||Covid-19: Six dead, 389 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 10As many as 389 persons tested positive for Covid-19, while six lost their lives to the virus today. The total number of confirmed cases from the district has reached 38,441, while death toll 1,200. There are 3,298 active cases in the district.Civil SurgeonDisposable menus should be used and frequent sanitisation should be done. There should be proper disposal of masks, covers and gloves.Those who tested positive today include nine healthcare workers, an undertrial and a teacher from GMS School, Chakli Manga.Two men and four women, belonging to Govind Nagar, Haibowal Kalan, Khanna and Jamalpur, lost their lives to the virus today.Today 344 persons were sent in home quarantine and till now 70,988 persons have been home quarantined.A mass media team of the Civil Surgeon office, Ludhiana, went to various restaurants and hotels in order to make customers and staff aware of the Covid-19 guidelines.Team members advised them to follow physical distancing, wear mask properly, wash hands frequently, not spit, install Cova app and encourage takeaways. The team told them to use disposable good-quality paper napkins, instead of cloth napkins. A copy of the SOPs issued by the Punjab Health Department was also provided to each restaurant and hotel.Narinder Singh, manager of the Barbeque Nation, Ferozepur Road, said they would make sure that all the instructions given by the Health Department were followed strictly.Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, said disposable menus should be used and frequent sanitisation should be done. There should be proper disposal of masks, covers and gloves. Most importantly, tables should be sanitised each time the customers leaves. He added that the kitchen area must be sanitised at regular intervals. The hotels and restaurants should strictly follow the SOPs issued by government time to time.Weblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-six-dead-389-test-positive-in-ludhiana-237478
11-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Mayor’s official Gypsy escorted singer Karan Aujla to jail||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 10In a fresh twist to the controversy surrounding Punjabi singer Karan Aujla’s recent visit to the Central Jail, it has come to the fore that the police Gypsy that escorted the cavalcade into the prison premises belonged to Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu’s official security detail.The cavalcade of several vehicles had entered the premises without security check and reached a high-security zone where private vehicles are barred.Balkar Singh Sandhu, MayorSon friends with AujlaA Gypsy from my official security had accompanied the singer to the jail. My son is friends with the singer and he took the Gypsy to the jail.Asked whether his official Gypsy escorted the singer, the Mayor said: “A Gypsy from my official security had accompanied the singer to the jail. My son is friends with the singer and he took the Gypsy to the jail. Aujla is not a criminal. Earlier too, my son had taken the Gypsy to escort the singer.”The Mayor said his son had accompanied Aujla to meet Jail Superintendent Rajeev Arora, whose role is under the scanner for giving VVIP treatment to the singer. Arora had hosted a lunch for the singer at his official residence.DR Bhatti, a retired DGP Punjab, said escort vehicles were meant for designated individuals and could not be used to escort any one else. “Even the family members of the protectee, to whom the vehicle or gunmen are allotted, can’t use it.” Jail Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has already ordered an inquiry into the episode and asked ADGP Prisons PK Sinha to submit a reports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mayors-official-gypsy-escorted-singer-karan-aujla-to-jail-237479
11-04-2021||Manav Mander||Now, jab only at Ayushman-linked private facilities||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 10With the fresh guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, only those private hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat scheme can purchase vaccine from the government and run the vaccination process at their hospitals.The state government has informed all districts that henceforth all payments regarding vaccines will be made through the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (Ayushman Bharat Yojana) website to the National Health Authority. Earlier, private hospitals not empanelled under the scheme were given a direct link of payment to the National Health Authority.Punjab Medical Council former president Dr GS Grewal said: “All private hospitals were asked to join the vaccination drive and now that they are part of it, the government has issued such instructions that will only create confusion among people who got vaccinated at specific hospitals. This decision is uncalled for.”Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital who is also member of Covid-19 task force, said: “Earlier, all private hospitals were permitted to administer vaccine as the government wanted that people should have vaccination centres within their reach. With vaccination on the doorstep, the contribution of the government sector in the process is 80 per cent and that of the private sector is only 20 per cent.”Ludhiana District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they had received the new guidelines. Dr Kiran Gill, Deputy Director, Covid in-charge, said those who had already received their first dose would not face any problem. “As they are registered, they can get inoculated at any centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-jab-only-at-ayushman-linked-private-facilities-237396
