12-04-2021||---||Biggest single-day spike,  530 test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, April 11Breaking all previous records, today 530 persons test positive in a day. This is the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the virus in the district in March 2020. During the first wave, the highest single-day spike was 462 cases on September 17. The second wave is proving to be more infectious. Though the graph of the Covid-19 spike is heading towards north, people continue to adopt a careless attitude towards safety protocols. During the Sunday flee bazaar at Chaura Bazaar today, a big rush was witnessed, like the pre-Covid times. Shoppers were jostling with each other and did not care to wear masks.Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, said people were not paying any heed to Covid precautions now, which was a matter of concern for everyone.He said earlier, people were following the Covid norms which resulted in reduction of new cases being detected in the end of October last year. However, lately people started avoiding wearing mask.Those who tested positive today also include three healthcare workers, an undertrial, two pre-operative cases and three teachers, which include a teacher from DAV School, Pakhowal Road, another teacher from GBS, Harbanspura, and one teacher from the GSSS, Has Kalan.Today, seven persons lost their lives that include four men and three women from BRS Nagar, Hariyo Kalan, Jammu Colony, Uppal village and Jawaddi.The positive cases till now have reached 38,971 and there are 3,434 active cases.Meanwhile, further ramping up the vaccination drive in the district to stem the virus spread, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Sunday dedicated mega Covid immunisation camps in Doraha, Khanna, Samrala, Macchiwara and Kohara to facilitate maximum beneficiaries to get inoculated near their homes, especially among rural folk.Similarly, the camps were also organised in all 13 blocks of the district, including Ludhiana 1, Ludhiana 2, Jagraon, Samrala, Dehlon, Maloudh, Pakhowal, Sidhwan Bet, Sudhar and Raikot.The Deputy Commissioner said with all residents above the age of 45 were now eligible for getting vaccinated, the administration was already in the mission mode and people must come in a large number to get the jab.District lacks in contact tracingThe Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has been actively engaging with state governments in coordinating and collaborating efforts towards preparedness and response to the pandemic. The ministry has deployed Central teams to most affected districts in the state. The feedback received from the teams reveals that there is a need to enhance focus on contact tracing in Patiala and Ludhiana. Besides, Patiala and Ludhiana have reported slow pace of Covid-19 vaccination among persons more than 45 years of age (with co-morbidities) and those above 60 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/biggest-single-day-spike-530-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-237931
12-04-2021||---||Ludhiana cops spread awareness on wearing mask||Ludhiana, April 11 To ensure that city residents wear masks while going out from their homes, the Ludhiana police started making announcements on roads and in streets. PCR vehicles and police personnel have been told by the Police Commissioner to make announcements and tell people to wear masks. “Whenever any resident comes out of his home and goes to work, whether on a motorcycle, car or public transport, he/she should wear the mask. If they are going to market or any other place, they must ensure that they should be wearing mask. It can save people from the virus,” a PCR policeman announced. When the police shared this information on their official Facebook page, residents posted their comments. Naval Kishore Kaura stated: “What about beggars roaming without masks. They touch hundreds of people and their vehicles. They are the biggest carriers of the virus.” Amit Batta stated:  “Kindly impose two days’ complete lockdown in Ludhiana to break the virus chain. Just to stop community spread. Otherwise, it’s impossible to stop the spread of Covid.” Aman Sharma wrote: “Its our responsibility to cooperate with the police. They are requesting us for our safety, the police should also take strict action against people found without mask.” Randeep Singh stated: “Who cares your order in the city. Even some policemen don’t wear mask in police stations and public places. People don’t wear mask in places like vegetable market and gyms. The police should take strict action against violators.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cops-spread-awareness-on-wearing-mask-237932
12-04-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Sewermen, sweepers wait for regular jobs||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 11 Hundreds of sewermen, safai karamcharis and other sanitation workers working on a contractual basis have been waiting for government’s attention for a long time as their jobs have not been regularised despite their repeated demands. These employees of the Municipal Corporation (MC), Ludhiana, said they were given assurance ahead of 2017 state Assembly elections that their jobs will be regularised soon but nothing has been done till date. Members of different employees unions have also raised the demand for regularisation of jobs of the sanitation workers before the government. A contractual sewerman said: “I have been working with the MC, Ludhiana, for more than 10 years.  Before the 2017 Assembly elections, it was announced that the jobs of contractual sewermen will be regularised soon. We are still waiting for the same.” He said: “We work under tough and risky conditions. A number of sewermen have suffered due to poisonous gases in sewer chambers. Even some of them had died while cleaning the chambers in the past. Our salary is low. At present, we are getting around Rs 9,400 per month. Our jobs must be regularised and salaries should be increased as it is difficult to run families with the low income.” A contractual safai karamchari said: “I have also been working with the MC, Ludhiana, for a long period. There are many contractual workers whose services have not been regularised by the government. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, we worked without any hesitation and performed our duty with dedication. When promises are made with us before the elections, these should also be fulfilled. The government should regularise the services of the contractual workers without any delay.” Ashwani Sahota, chairman of the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee, Ludhiana, said: “We have raised the demand from the government authorities to regularise the services of contractual workers. There are over 2,000 contractual workers who are waiting for regularisation of jobs. We want from the government to fulfill their demand at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sewermen-sweepers-wait-for-regular-jobs-237933
12-04-2021||Ludhiana April 11---||Servant, aides decamp with cash, jewellery||A servant, along with his accomplices, held his employer captive and decamped with cash and valuables worth lakhs from the latter’s house. The complainant, Avinash Sharma, superintendent in the MC Zone D office, Sarabha Nagar, told the police that about three months ago, she employed a Nepalese servant, Mohan Kumar, and about two weeks ago he went to Nepal. However, before going, he brought Rajesh Bahadur of Mumbai to the house in his place. “On Saturday afternoon, when I was alone at home, three persons barged into the house and held me captive. Afterwards, they took Rs 6 lakh in cash, gold and diamond ornaments from the safe. Our servant Rajesh helped the three accused in committing the crime. Later, he along with the trio fled with the cash and valuables,” the complainant said. Investigating officer ASI Pardeep Kumar said a case was registered against Rajesh and his three accomplices and a probe was on to trace them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/servant-aides-decamp-with-cash-jewellery-237934
12-04-2021||---||Jail inmate ends his life||Ludhiana April 11 A jail inmate lodged at the Central Jail here committed suicide by hanging himself from the iron grills on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Nurmahal. As per information,  the deceased was lodged at the jail about three days ago. Today, he suddenly went near the grills of his barrack and tied a piece of cloth with the same and tied the other end of the cloth around his neck and committed suicide. After he took the extreme step, one of the jail inmates noticed his hanging body and informed the jail staff. Afterwards, a medical team reached the spot and took the body to hospital. However, he was declared dead. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPc in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jail-inmate-ends-his-life-237935
12-04-2021||Ludhiana||Punjabi actor Satish Kaul cremated in Ludhiana||Veteran Punjabi actor Satish Kaul (76), who breathed his last at a private hospital in the city yesterday due to some Covid-19 complications, was cremated at the Model Town Extension cremation ground here today.On behalf of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, PMIDB Chairman Amarjit Singh Tikka laid a wreath and shawl on the body of the legendary actor.Tikka described Satish Kaul as a versatile actor who played a pivotal role in the promotion of Punjabi cinema, art and culture. Being a staunch votary of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat, Satish would be remembered by one and all always for his enormous contribution in making Punjabi cinema popular among the masses.The actor had worked in over 300 Punjabi films, Hindi films and TV shows such as Vikram aur Betaal and BR Chopra’s Mahabharata.He began his career in the early 70s and worked both in Punjabi and Hindi films. He moved to Ludhiana in 2011 and started an acting school. However, he lost all the money invested in it. Following this, he spent his life away from the limelight in penury battling various health issues while staying in a rented accommodation with a desire to own a house in Ludhiana.He was born on September 8, 1954, in Kashmir and graduated from the Film and Television Institute of India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjabi-actor-satish-kaul-cremated-in-ludhiana-237936
12-04-2021||---||Elderly man beaten, made to wear ‘garland of shoes’ in Ludhiana's Gopal Nagar||Ludhiana, April 11A 70-year-old man was made to wear ‘garland of shoes’ after he accidentally fell on a woman at Gopal Nagar here.The victrim was also beaten by five persons, including a woman.The police registered a case against Badal, Reshmo, Rishi, Rana and Rana’s son.The complainant, Ajay Kumar, of Gopal Nagar told the police that on April 7, his father Khem Chand had gone to attend some function where he consumed liquor.“When he reached near his house, an elderly woman, aged around 70, was sitting outside her house on a cot. My father, who was in an inebriated state, fell on the woman. Following this, the woman called her relatives and alleged that my father deliberately fell on her,”alleged the victim’s son.He said the accused then made his father wear a ‘garland of shoes’ and humiliated.The complainant said his father suffered serious injuries and was rushed to the Civil Hospital where he got treatment.Investigating officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Narinder Singh said a case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/elderly-man-beaten-made-to-wear-garland-of-shoes-in-ludhianas-gopal-nagar-237938
12-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Covid casts shadow on playway schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 11About 40-45 per cent of the playway schools in the district have faced closure. It can cost dear on the overall personality of the kids. Child psychologists believe that the development of children between 2-5 years of age would be hampered in absence of proper schools and trained staff as this training cannot be given in the four-walls of home by the parents.Talking to The Tribune, Shubhan Soi, Territory Head (Punjab) Early Childhood Association, said amid the pandemic, the playway schools could not sustain and many of them were closed as these were in rental buildings. Since there were no admissions, parents did not show eagerness to spend so much on online classes of small kids. Soi said when the staff was not paid the salaries by the pre-schools, they left for other opportunities.One of the child psychologists, Jyoti Madan said if kids are not sent to the playway schools, they will not be able to learn their basic life skills. Their emotional, social, peer-group, language development would suffer because at homes, such an atmosphere could not be provided to the kids. These activities are necessary for the overall development of the child, which cannot be given by the parents alone, at home.“Kids cognitive, social, motor-skill development gets affected. The kids are not having any social interaction, they are being emotionally disturbed. They crib and get disturbed. The parents cannot involve them in a structured manner, the way they are treated in playway schools,” said the psychologist.One of the parent, Sheena said the fees of a good playway school is exorbitant and it was no fun to spend so much on the online activities of kids. “Online classes do not provide any kind of exposure to the child. They cannot play with the toys, there are no gardens available for outdoor activities. Besides, there are no other children with whom you learn to get adjusted and there are no opportunities to become independent while telling your problems to the teachers, friends at a tender age of 2-4 years. We cannot hold others responsible if our kids are being deprived from that kind of exposure. I am trying to provide all the training to my child but still play-way teaching is missing”, said the mother.Major reasons for closuren Many of these were on rental buildings, which could not continue to pay the rentsn The overheads were not paid as there were no admissions and the government had announced closure of schools.n Many parents feel that there is no use in spending hefty amount on online teachings in playway schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-casts-shadow-on-playway-schools-237939
12-04-2021||Anil Datt---||Match ends in a draw, Ludhiana get 3 points||Ludhiana, April 11 The two day match between Ludhiana and Mohali in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-19) Cricket Tournament played at GRD Global Education Institute on Hambran Road here today, ended in a draw but on the basis of first innings lead, Ludhiana got 3 points while Mohali had to content with one point. After two matches, Ludhiana has 10 points in its kitty. Ludhiana earned seven points including one bonus point in the first match against Fatehgarh Sahib against whom they scored an outright (10-wicket) victory. In reply to Ludhiana’s first innings total of 366 runs, Mohali resumed at overnight score of 9 for no loss, had tough time against some precise bowling as they surrendered without confronting much. Their first essay culminated at 194 after 84.3 overs. Jashanjot Singh was the top scorer, remaining unbeaten on 54 runs. He was followed by Sanraj Singh (38), Rushil Shrivastava (29), Jaiveer Bhinder (23) and Dushyant Singh who contributed 15 runs. For Ludhiana, Sidhhant Tiwari Om and Gurmehar Singh were the most successful bowlers. Sidhhant grabbed four wickets for 43 runs and Gurmehar captured three wickets after giving away 54 runs. Sanyam, Aradhya and Ranvir took one wicket each.  Trailing by 172 runs, Mohali faced follow on and were asked to bat again. When it was called a day, the visitors were 35 for one after 17 overs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/match-ends-in-a-draw-ludhiana-get-3-points-237940
12-04-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Protesting farmer from Payal subdivision dies at Tikri border||A young farmer of Dhaul Khurad village in the Payal subdivision who, along with his associates, had been participating in protest against farm laws in Delhi died following a sudden health problem at Tikri Border on Sunday morning.Lakhvir Singh (36), a landless farmer of Dhaul Khurad village, had started feeling uncomfortable in the morning today. His companions took him to a private hospital nearby where doctors declared him brought dead.Tehal Singh, the village sarpanch, said Lakhvir had been participating in the protest for the last two months.Balwant Singh Ghaloti, an office-bearer of Bhartia Kissan Union, Ekta Ugrahan, acknowledged that Lakhvir Singh had played an active role in motivating farmers to participate in the ensuing struggle launched to get the farm laws withdrawn. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protesting-farmer-from-payal-subdivision-dies-at-tikri-border-237941
12-04-2021||Do you think the age bar on covid-19 vaccination should be abolished?||Make vaccination more inclusive, dispel fears||Remove age barVaccination should be given to all age groups. Removing age restriction will help in reopening of schools and colleges as soon as possible. The district administration should hold vaccine camps at various parts of the city in order to ensure poor ones to get vaccinated freely. Young generation are more attracted towards the junk food and other bad habits, this has resulted in their bad immune system. So, vaccination should also be spread such as Covid-19.Miyush TrehanAvoid public placesMany people who have received the vaccine are also getting infected in the second wave of Covid-19. People need to wear mask and sanitisation is must. They should avoid public places and maintain social distancing. Vaccination must be given to everyone for free as some cannot afford so the authorities need to take a step to help prevent the society. The vaccination helps the body to fight against the disease but preventive steps are must.Simarjot KaurRaise awareness among peopleMaximum free vaccination camps should be organised in schools, colleges, hospitals and government offices. People must be made aware of the importance of vaccination in order to check the spread of virus. Immune boosting diet should be taken to cure the spread of diseases like common cold etc. Moreover, social distancing must be maintained and social gatherings must be avoided.Amarpreet KaurExtend vaccination to allWith the arrival of the second fatal wave of Covid-19 it is necessary to do away the age bar on vaccination. In view of the present critical situation there should be no such rule as to vaccinate a particular group in particular time but it must be open to all. Only then we can get rid of this disease as soon as possible.Kamaldeep KaurAdopt first-come, first-serve policyAge bar on vaccination should definitely be done away with. The policy of first come first serve basis should be adopted. Because each and every life is equally important. Age bar restrict the opportunities for needy persons. If a person related to particular age group doesn't appear for the jab then there will be a wastage of time of the doctors which can be utilised on any other person. So age bar restrictions are not much useful and should be done away with.Ritu PriyaStop export of vaccineIn the wake of the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in the country all of us will have to be very serious. Experts have asserted that vaccination is the only way to control this pandemic. Till 60% of the population gets inoculated till then herd immunity can't be achieved. The earlier government will do away with the age bar on vaccination, better it would be. Export of the vaccine should also be stopped henceforth. Beggars, peddlers, inmates and protesting farmers must also be vaccinated as could be the super spreaders.Dr Sunil ChopraIncrease vaccination coverSupply vaccine to those who require it than those who want it. According to JA Jayalal, President, IMA, people below 45 are super-spreaders. Hence, they should be targeted for vaccination. People below 45 account for 13% deaths in Chandigarh and tricity. Since February over 40% infected lie between 20-40 age group. Those with some disability or comorbidities or family member of victims should be free from barricades. Removing barrier pose challenge of more gathering and vaccine shortage as occurred in Maharashtra. Hence, the government should allow more vaccine in the country and open vaccination to all so that severity of disease and hospitalisation can decline.Vincy TrehanAbolish fee at pvt hospitalsThe second phase of this life taking disease Covid-19 has been very horrible, we should take precautions in a very serious way. At present there is no need of age bar it ought to change to first come first serve basis. Human life is priceless, we cannot take silly measures to save it. Age bar method is very faulty because it is discriminatory to refuse any serious patient on the bases of age group. At this moment, the government should fix the time to cover all the persons in a minimum time. The government should extend its network to cover all the people in society. The government should abolish Rs 250 fee in private hospitals and other so called charitable institutions, as it is their human duty to serve the people in the time of grave crisis.JBS NandaConvince people to go for vaccinationThe age bar for vaccination was proposed to ensure phased availability of needed quantities of vaccine and systematic treatment of priority groups needing vaccination. Unfortunately, people have taken things easy and have ignored the precautions proposed by the government in controlling spread of the disease. Now, the spread has entered its second wave. Doing away with the age bar for vaccination will add to the problem of not only less availability of needed quantities of vaccine for this large population in the state /country but it will also mean that the priority groups and front-line workers will not be able to take vaccination on priority first over others. The need of the hour is not to do away with the age but convince the designated groups to take the timely vaccination. Simultaneously, emphasis must be on precautions like use of masks, frequent handwashing and follow social distancing in gatherings.Gautam DevGive priority to factory workersTo control the spread of the virus, the government should remove the age limit for vaccination. It should be given to the affected people and then to those who are having more chance to be infected. Those who are going for jobs and doing work in factories must be given priority irrespective of age limit. After taking vaccination people must follow safety protocols. The government should organise more programmes to make people aware about the importance of vaccination. It is the joint responsibility of each one to go for vaccination so that early control may be there to put a curb on the spread of the virus.Farzana KhanVaccination only way to contain spreadIt is true that the expansion of vaccination drive is the need of the hour. Those who are ready to get themselves vaccinated should be administered the dose irrespective of their age and profession. We need to understand that vaccination as well as following the guidelines of Covid-19 is the only solution to contain the virus. The hesitancy among the people to get themselves vaccinated should be removed and maximum number of people should be vaccinated at the earliest. Special camps for the vaccination can be organised by the government and the NGOs. Private institutions can go in for voluntary vaccination process.Bir Devinder Singh BediGive importance to childrenYes, to save more people age bar should be should be removed. Any person willing to take vaccination, should be allowed. Lives of students and children are also valuable just like other age groups. They should give special importance to children and youngsters as they are our future and if government provide them vaccination, they are saving and securing there future too. The government should look forward to provide Covid-19 vaccination to all.Gurleen kaurBuild confidence among people on vaccinationFirst of all, the government should build confidence among people to go for vaccination. Then it should lift a condition of age for the same. Those who are the sufferer most must be given priority for vaccine irrespective of age limit. It should be free for poor and deserving section of the society as government is giving free vaccination in government hospitals and dispensaries. It should be free in private hospitals as well. People should come forward for vaccination to control the spread of the virus.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe blatant violation of building by-laws continues unabated in the industrial city of the state. The death of five persons and injuries to several others in the roof collapse of an auto parts factory here on Tuesday was another such tragedy caused during illegal construction. Earlier, in 2017, 16 persons, including nine firemen, had lost their lives in a similar incident here. However, the violations of building by-laws continue with impunity. What needs to be done to check such illegal activities? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/make-vaccination-more-inclusive-dispel-fears-237942
12-04-2021||Ludhiana||VC Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon lays foundation stone of agro-processing centre||Webinar on personality developmentThe Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a national webinar on “Motivation and Personality Development” for the students and faculty. Around 80 participants participated online through Google meet platform. Dr Rajinder Kaur Kalra, professor-cum-head (retd), Extension Education and Dr Tejinder Kaur Gill, professor (retd), Extension Education, PAU, were the keynote speakers. Dr Kalra laid emphasis on developing positive attitude towards life. Dr Gill shared her perspective on personality development.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vc-dr-baldev-singh-dhillon-lays-foundation-stone-of-agro-processing-centre-237943
12-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||DIG probes VVIP treatment to singer Karan Aujla in jail||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 10Two days after VVIP treatment was accorded to Punjabi singer Karan Aujla during his visit to the Central Jail, DIG (Prisons) Surinder Singh Saini today visited the premises to conduct an inquiry.Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had marked an inquiry in the case and asked ADGP (Prisons) PK Sinha to probe negligence on part of Jail Superintendent Rajeev Arora. The ADGP has assigned the probe to DIG (Prisons) SS Saini.Sources said the DIG spent six hours inside the jail and examined the CCTV footage to ascertain whether or not there were any violations of security or Covid norms while the singer and his friends entered the jail and if the singer met any inmate.The DIG questioned Jail Superintendent Arora and staff present on security duty at the time about the episode. He also asked Arora if the singer was allowed to meet any inmate. There were reports the singer had gone to meet smuggler Gurdeep Singh Rano, nabbed recently with drug worth crores, drug money and 13 luxury cars by the special task force. Arora has already denied any such meeting.ADGP Sinha said the DIG was sent to conduct the probe. “Let him submit the report. Only then can I comment on the extent of negligence on part of the Jail Superintendent,” he said.Mayor lent GypsyIn a report submitted to Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, officials have confirmed the use of Ludhiana Mayor’s official Gypsy (in pic) during the singer’s visit. The Gypsy led the cavalcade into the jail. The Mayor said his son was friends with Karan Aujla and had taken the Gypsy along to oblige Aujla, who was ‘not a criminal’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dig-probes-vvip-treatment-to-singer-karan-aujla-in-jail-237391
