13-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana residents gasp for breath as factories, dyeing units rain ash||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 12Sixty-year-old Harjinder Kaur of GK Estate and her family are forced to suffer a lot due to massive air pollution being caused by the factories. A huge amount of harmful ash gets collected on her house roof and outer areas in routine.Install machinery to record air pollution levels: ResidentsResidents want that the government should install machinery to record the air pollution levels in those areas which are badly affected. Ludhiana district has got a grant of Rs26 crore for air quality improvement from the Central government. “The authorties concerned should install machinery to record air pollution levels in affected areas on Tajpur Road, Chandigarh Road and others. All necessary steps must be taken to control the pollution level. The erring factories causing air pollution should be sealed. The air pollution is harmful for not only humans but also birds and animals,” said Jagjit Singh Mann of the Watawaran Sambhal Society, an NGO.The ash emanating from the chimneys of a number of dyeing units and other factories has been falling on houses and other buildings on Tajpur Road, Main Tibba Road, Kakka Dhaula Road, Chandigarh Road and many other nearby areas for a long time. But, the complaints made to the departments concerned are falling on deaf ears.Harjinder Kaur said she and her family generally stay inside house as it was difficult to breathe when smoke level is high in the area. “We avoid sitting in open on roof even on sunny days of winter as ash keeps falling. We don’t put wet clothes for drying on roof as ash leaves stains. If we keep a white cloth in open for one day, it turns black due to falling ash. The authorities must provide us relief,” she said.Like her, thousands of people are suffering due to high air pollution in various parts of the Ludhiana East constituency and nearby areas. The residents alleged that the ash emanating from many dyeing units and other factories had made their lives miserable. They blamed the PPCB and Ludhiana administration for ignoring the issue. Even the officials of Central Jail on Tajpur Road had earlier raised the issue of air pollution.Councillor from Ward 14 Kuldeep Janda said, “The areas in Ward 13, 14, 15 and 16 and surrounding localities are very much affected due to ash emanating from the dyeing mills. Black smoke is commonly witnessed in the streets of various residential areas every morning and evening. The bad and cheap quality waste is being used as fuel to run boilers in a number of units.”He said, “Three vehicles of bio-medical waste were found at a dyeing factory around two years ago. This bio-medical waste was to be used as fuel in that dyeing unit. The matter of air pollution is being ignored despite a large number of people suffering for years. We have raised the matter with higher government authorities too but of no avail.”Satish Malhotra from ward 15, said, “The ash is very harmful. There are hundreds of dyeing units and washing units on Tajpur Road and nearby areas. We have made complaints to the PPCB against the air pollution but the issue has not been resolved. Besides, some amount of ash from these units is also dumped in open areas like plots and roadsides, increasing the woes. The authorities concerned should take necessary action against the erring units causing air pollution.”Sanjay Talwar, MLA, had earlier raised the matter with the PPCB and MC but the authorities concerned failed to provide any relief to people. The MLA had also written a complaint to the chairman of the NGT Monitoring Committee. He had alleged that the dyeing units in the area were causing pollution due to which many people had fallen ill.Krunesh Garg, Member Secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board, said the local officials were looking into the matter. “I will take up the matter with the PPCB, Ludhiana, officials once again and required action will be taken,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-residents-gasp-for-breath-as-factories-dyeing-units-rain-ash-238448
13-04-2021||---||5 dead, 523 test +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 12The district today saw new 523 cases. For the second consecutive day more than 500 cases were reported. Yesterday, 530 cases were reported in the district. Five persons today lost their lives due to the virus in the district.Those who tested positive today include three healthcare workers, one cop, one undertrial, two inter-state travellers and two teachers — one from GSSS Cemetry Road and one from Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar.Three men and two women, belonging to Ghumar Mandi, Alamgir, Daba Road, Lohara and Khanna, lost their lives today.Baisakhi is one of the biggest festival of Punjabis. Today, mass media teams visited different gurdwaras of the city, held meetings with the heads of each gurdwara committee and gave instructions to be followed during Baisakhi celebration.Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, asked them to put barricades to prevent overcrowding and maintain social distance and put sanitisers and masks in the gurdwaras. No person should be allowed to enter the gurdwara premises without masks. A limited number of people should be there at one time. Night curfew instructions should be followed.Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, said, “We all should take Covid 19 seriously.”The Health Department on Monday organised a Covid vaccination camp in Meena Masjid of the city.Shahi Imam and Naib Shahi Imam’s secretary Mohammad Mustkeem received the jab. Naib Shahi Imam Maulana Muhammad Usman Rehmani Ludhianvi appealed to people from the community to get vaccinated before the start of Ramzan Sharif. He said, “With collective efforts, we all can contribute towards healthy and Covid-free India.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-dead-523-test-ve-in-ludhiana-238449
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Employee of patwari booked for fraud||Ludhiana, April 12 The police have registered a case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC against Ram Naval, a resident of Kakowal Street No. 4 in Vishal Colony, and his accomplice Ashok Kumar, claiming himself to be an employee of patwari of Mangat block, for an alleged fraud, fabrication of documents and criminal conspiracy for the transfer of a plot measuring 100 square yard in their name.   Joginder Kumar, a resident of Anandpuri on Noorwala Road, had lodged a complaint with the police that he was looking after the said plot owned by his maternal aunt Basanti for last more than 20 years. His aunt had transferred all her property in his name, he added.  He said after death of his aunt in February 2019, he met the suspects for completion of the paper work for getting his aunt’s property, including 100 square yard plot, at Sekhewal village.  “The suspects got an affidavit attested from me. They also paid me Rs25,000 in cash,” the complainant stated while adding that he later came to know about the fraudulent act of the suspects, who got the plot transferred in their own name. The police have started probe, but no arrests have been made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/employee-of-patwari-booked-for-fraud-238450
13-04-2021||---||Electricity poles along Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah to be removed||Ludhiana, April 12 A meeting of the monitoring committee for the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project was held under the chairmanship of Municipal Corporation Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal. In the meeting the matter pertaining to the removal of electricity poles and transformers, which were obstruction in the laying of sewer lines along Buddha Nullah under the Rs650-crore Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project, was discussed. According to officials, the work to remove the electricity poles would be done soon. The work to lay the sewer lines along Buddha Nullah has already been started. In the district environment committee meeting held last week, the Department of Drainage was also directed to complete the project regarding release of 200 cusec water in Buddha Nullah from Sirhind Canal by April 30. Officials of the Municipal Corporation, GLADA and Drainage Department were present during the meeting. The discussion on beautification of Buddha Nullah was also conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/electricity-poles-along-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-to-be-removed-238451
13-04-2021||Manav Mander||Rise in number of patients on ventilator support in Ludhiana dist||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 12The second wave of Covid is both infectious and fatal. The number of people infected and on ventilator support has increased considerably.On Sunday, 25 persons were on the ventilator support, out of which 11 were from Ludhiana district and 14 from other districts. On Saturday, 22 patients were on ventilator support.In Ludhiana there are a total of 147 ventilators in private hospitals, out of which four government ventilators are installed at Christian Medical College and Hospital. At Civil Hospital, there are 18 ventilators. Earlier, when the cases were subsiding the ventilators at Civil Hospital were non-operational due to shortage of staff but now with surge in cases staff has been deputed and ventilators have been made operational.“Ventilators have been made operational again as the cases are rising. We have assigned duties to staff nurses for the same. Presently there are three patients admitted to the level-III facility but none is on the ventilator,” said Senior Medical Officer Dr Amarjit Kaur. Civil Hospital is the only government facility in the district where ventilators are available.In March last year an Covid-positive Amarpura woman died a few hours after reaching Rajindra Hospital after she was referred to Patiala as she was in need of ventilator and Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, did not have the same at that time.After this incident demand was raised to for the installation of ventilators at Civil Hospital but since there war shortage of trained staff, so four government ventilators were installed at Christian Medical College and Hospital and patients in need of ventilator support were referred to the CMCH. In October 2020, Civil Hospital got equipped with the level-III facility with 18 ventilators.The DMCH has the highest number of 25 ventilators and 90 ICU beds reserved for Covid patients, followed by CMCH with 31 ICU beds with same number of ventilators. A total of 203 beds are available in the level-III facility in the district, out of which 18 are at Civil Hospital.A senior doctor from a private hospital said since the second wave of Covid was going strong many patients were being admitted to ICUs and some have to be put on ventilators as well. The new variant was affecting the lungs directly and presence of fibrosis was also being seen in some.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rise-in-number-of-patients-on-ventilator-support-in-ludhiana-dist-238453
13-04-2021||---||In a digital leap, PSPCL collects 75% revenue online||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, April 12Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has created a history of sorts while also making it to the toppers list for digital collection of Rs19,630 crore (75 per cent of its total revenue) during the 2020-21 fiscal.In a virtual interaction, the PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said as many as 143 lakh digital transactions were made during this period.He attributed this spurt in digital collection to number of easy-to-use platforms offered by the power utility, including simple digital touch points.Giving details, the CMD added that the digital payment facility for electricity bills started in Punjab in 2008.The facilities of electricity bill payments through enhanced, innovative and people-friendly digital modes started in Punjab in 2017, the CMD said.“We initiated cost-effective, convenient to use and smooth digital bill payment platforms through Bharat Bill Pay (BBPS) like BHIM, SBI Pay, PNB, HDFC Payzapp, Paytm, PhonePe, Just Dial, Google Pay, Amazon and Umang. PSPCL also offered digital modes like net banking, credit cards, debit cards, rupay card, UPI, mobile wallets, RTGS/NEFT and POS machines for the facilitation of power consumers,” the CMD added.To encourage more and more consumers to move to digital mode happily with least financial costs, the PSPCL had undertaken awareness campaigns, the CMD said.Every citizen had shown enthusiasm and consumers were now free from long queues at cash counters, the CMD added. The consumers were also saving direct and indirect costs, which they incurred in offline modes, the CMD said.“The consumers’ confidence in digital payments has evolved in such a way that from just Rs2000 crore through 43 lakh digital transactions during 2016-17, the PSPCL has now achieved nearly 10 times hike in digital collection. There is 350 per cent increase in digital transactions during last fiscal,” the CMD added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/in-a-digital-leap-pspcl-collects-75-revenue-online-238454
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Minister lays stone of bus stand at Mullanpur Dakha||Raikot, April 12 Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra today laid the foundation stone of a modern bus terminal in Mullanpur Dakha. The bus stand will be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 8.81 crore in the Punjab Mandi Board land at the village. The Cabinet Minister said the three-story modern bus terminal would be ready within six months of commencement of the construction work. He added that the building will also have an office of the Municipal Council on the first floor besides a large space for parking, shops, canteen and other basic amenities. Mohindra asserted that the paucity of funds won’t hamper such works despite the pandemic had hit the state very hard financially. He said the government would continue to launch new development projects to strengthen the infrastructure of the town. He cautioned the officials concerned that stern action would be taken in case of any callousness in the work. Condemning the Union Government for alleged indifferent attitude towards demands of farmers Mohindra claimed that the government stood rock-solid with them (farmers) in their struggle against three contentious farm laws. During the event, one-minute silence was also observed to give tribute to those who have died during the protest against the farm laws. Former Cabinet Minister Malkiat Singh Dakha, MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Political Advisor to Punjab CM, Capt Sandeep Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Councillor Mamta Ashu, OSD to the CM Punjab Damanjit Singh Mohi, DCC Ludhiana (Rural) president Karanjit Singh Soni Galib and PEDA Vice Chairman Karan Warring were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-lays-stone-of-bus-stand-at-mullanpur-dakha-238455
13-04-2021||---||Display cost info at project sites, Cong leader dares MC||Ludhiana, April 12 Former councillor Parminder Mehta has demanded from the Municipal Corporation and the district administration to display the project plan and information regarding its cost, including the cost on construction, material, labour and other expenditures, at all the project sites. Addressing the mediapersons, Mehta said the transparency will help to end the ‘commission nexus’. “When the cost of material, construction and labour will be displayed in detail at the project site, it would help residents to know that how much amount has been spent on what purpose. The information boards with project plan must be installed at all project sites in the city,” the Congress leader said. Meanwhile, Mehta also blamed BJP leaders for playing politics in name of Rs 3.5 crore project for development of Mini Rose Garden. Mehta said a BJP leader is levelling false allegations regarding the project. He said, “I demand from the MC Commissioner and Mayor to get project plan and its estimated cost displayed at Mini Rose Garden.” Notably, the leaders had earlier raised questions over a project under which Rs 3.5 crore are to be spent on Mini Rose Garden. Parveen Bansal, a BJP leader, had claimed there was a need to spend only Rs 5-10 lakh for the cleaning, paint and pruning of trees at the garden. He had stated that the garden is already in good condition and there was no need of Rs 3.5 crore project for it. He had demanded from the authorities concerned to focus on undeveloped parks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/display-cost-info-at-project-sites-cong-leader-dares-mc-238456
13-04-2021||---||Special coin to mark Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th Parkash Utsav||Ludhiana, April 12To mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, two Sikh entrepreneurs, Harjinder Singh Kukreja and Jasmeet Singh Saib collaborated to make 1,000 limited edition coins which can be bought online.“The coin has a diameter of 1.7 inches and will be made of 30% silver and 70% copper,” says Harjinder Singh Kukreja.Special coins, stamp to mark 400th anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur“On the one side of the coin is an artistic logo designed by me featuring 400 years of Guru Tegh Bahadur along with a kirpan”, says Jasmeet Singh Saib, of JSAIB productions.“The other side of the coin features an outline map of undivided India and with an embossed image of the guru,” says Harjinder Singh Kukreja.The state government is going to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur by organising special programmes from April 28 to May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/special-coin-to-mark-guru-tegh-bahadurs-400th-parkash-utsav-238457
13-04-2021||Ludhiana||Chinese goods worth Rs 1 crore seized by DRI||The Director of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) today seized a container from Kila Raipur which had unaccounted Chinese products worth about Rs 1 crore in it.  As per the information, the container had come in the the name of one KVR enterprises, Hambran Road, and it was told that it contained mobile covers worth Rs 15,000. After opening the container, mobile covers, button cells, tempered glass, shoes worth Rs 1 crore were found in it by the DRI team.  The checking was conducted under the guidance of Additional Director General Nitin Saini. The officials from Ludhiana and Amritsar had jointly conducted the operation. The container had arrived from China on March 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/chinese-goods-worth-rs-1-crore-seized-by-dri-238458
13-04-2021||---||Hero Motors unveils new cycle plant||Ludhiana, April 12 Hero Motors Company unveiled its new export-oriented manufacturing plant at the ambitious Hero E Cycle Valley, giving the company an edge in production of premium bicycles and E Cycles. The new plant ‘Hero E Cycles Ltd’ marks a major leap for the ‘Make in India’ initiative. The new export-oriented plant is crucial for HMC’s ambitious global expansion plans and is expected to manufacture over 70 per cent of production for the global market. The company plans to further invest Rs 300 crore over the next couple of years to fortify its brands, R&D and distribution across EU & UK, which becomes a pivot for its global ambitions. “The E Cycle Valley gives HMC a major leap towards realising our goal of becoming a prominent global player by 2025,” said Pankaj M Munjal, Chairman and Managing Director, HMC, a Hero Motors Company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hero-motors-unveils-new-cycle-plant-238459
13-04-2021||Ludhiana||CT University prof releases Book||course in digital marketingThe PG Department of Commerce, Khalsa College for Women, Civil lines, Ludhiana, in collaboration with ‘ETUDE PRO’ institute organised a value-added course in “Digital marketing” from March 29 to April 12 under the coordinatorship of Sarvjot Dhunna and Indu. They said the purpose of the course was to help the participants to know the applications of digital marketing. Principal Dr Mukti Gill appreciated the efforts of Dr Priyaka Khanna, Head of the Department, for initiating such type of courses.lecture on entrepreneurship heldThe young entrepreneurship network of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management (SACCM), Ludhiana, organised an extension lecture on the theme “How to start a new venture” in collaboration with e-cell for students enrolled under incubation centre and BCom Ist Semester. Tania Bedi, an alumina of the college, was the e-resource person. Over 100 students participated in the interactive session. She shared herexperience regarding opening of new venture. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ct-university-prof-releases-book-238466
13-04-2021||Ludhiana||Don’t sell other states’ wheat: Bhartiya Kisan Union to agents||Expressing concern over the large quantity of wheat purchased from other states at lower prices being brought to Punjab for sale at MSP with the connivance of certain arhtiyas, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) has warned unscrupulous elements against the practice.BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said the imported produce purchased by government agencies through dubious dealings by corrupt traders and arhtiyas was leaving Punjab farmers high and dry even before they could bring their harvest to mandis. “The illegal sale of wheat is leaving Punjab farmers at the mercy of traders, forcing them to sell their crop at lower rates than the MSP,” Lakhowal said, urging arhtiyas to support farmers instead of hurting their interests when they were protesting against the farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dont-sell-other-states-wheat-bhartiya-kisan-union-to-agents-238233
