14-04-2021||---||3 dead, 480 positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 13As many as 480 persons from the district tested positive for Covid, while three lost their life to the virus today.Those who tested positive include a healthcare worker, undertrial and teacher from GSSS, Hargobindpura.Three men, residents of Shimlapuri, Basti Jodhewal and Dugri, lost their lives.There are 3,391 active patients in the district at present. Till date, a total of 8,49,830 samples have been taken, out of which report of 8,49,155 samples have been received. As many as 8,02,896 samples were found negative, while reports of 675 samples are pending.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 39,974, while 6,285 patients belong to other districts/states.Till date 72,147 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present the number of such persons is 5,534. Today, 545 persons were home quarantined.COVID-19 Control RoomWeblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals: https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-districtCOVID-19 figures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-dead-480-positive-in-ludhiana-238918
14-04-2021||---||Central team reviews Covid situation in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 13A Central team reviewed the Covid situation and measures being undertaken by the district administration in Ludhiana.Showing satisfaction over the virus control initiatives, Union Textiles Secretary VK Singh stressed the need to ensure vaccination of all eligible persons in the district.Principal Health Secretary Hussan Lal, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal were prominent among those present.The Deputy Commissioner briefed the Textiles Secretary about the steps being taken by the district administration to check spread of Covid and assured that there was ample availability of beds, oxygen, vaccines and medicines for treating the patients.He told him that to keep a close watch on the entire situation, senior officials had been made in-charge of different aspects of Covid.The ADC (D)-cum-Nodal Officer for Covid in the district, Sandeep Kumar, gave a detailed presentation in this regard. He informed that the district administration was undertaking the “vaccination at doorstep” initiative, under which vaccination camps were being organised in different parts of the district. He disclosed that till date over 3.41 lakh beneficiaries had been vaccinated in the district.He added that under the “vaccination at doorstep” initiative, there was no need to go and stand in queues at the vaccination centre as now health teams were visiting the particular areas, factories, villages, residential societies, private and commercial establishments after receiving the call from the residents concerned requesting for vaccination camp in their localities or premises.VK Singh showed satisfaction over the arrangements being undertaken by the district administration and directed the officials to further intensify the vaccination drive. He urged them to motivate the residents to get vaccinated at the earliest as it was the only weapon available to weed out Covid from the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/central-team-reviews-covid-situation-in-ludhiana-238919
14-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Police books wife for abetting man’s suicide||The Ludhiana Police registered an abetment to suicide case against a woman after her husband committed suicide.The accused woman has been identified as Mansi Varsha of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. The deceased has been identified as Kuldeep Singh (26) of Gagandeep Colony.The deceased’s father Nawaat told the police that his son got married to Mansi about four years back. After marriage Mansi started fighting with his son and about two years back, she left for Ghaziabad and started living with her parents.Kuldeep had many a times requested his wife to come back but she demanded divorce from him.“My son was under depression and he had recently told me that he doesn’t want to live and want to end his life. On April 11, when he was alone at home, he consumed poison. He was immediately taken to hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. My son left behind a suicide note in which he held his wife responsible for his death,” alleged Nawaat.The suicide note also mentioned the name of Mansi’s father Mangal Sena, mother Anju and sister Khushi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-police-books-wife-for-abetting-mans-suicide-238920
14-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for sexually harassing 14-yr-old daughter||The PAU police registered a case against a man for sexually harassing his 14-year-old daughter. The accused have been identified as Puneet Jain of Gold Link apartments and his relative Amit Jain. The wife of Puneet Jain told the police that in 2018, she along with her daughter and husband lived in Ludhiana. “Now we live in Maharashtra. In 2018, I used to visit the houses of students to give private tuitions. My daughter used to be alone at home and my husband, finding her alone at home, had sexually harassed her many a times,” she added. The woman said when the all family members shifted to Maharashtra, her daughter revealed that her father had sexually harassed her for two continuous years and also threatened to kill her if she revealed anything to the police. The woman had submitted a complaint to the Pune police, which registered a FIR under various sections of the IPC and POCSO Act against the girl’s father Puneet Jain and uncle Amit Jain. Since the accused belong to Ludhiana, the Pune police shifted the case for further investigation to the Ludhiana police. The police here registered a fresh FIR and initiated probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-sexually-harassing-14-yr-old-daughter-238921
14-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||De-silt all sewers, drains: Ludhiana residents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 13The choked road gullies and sewer lines in different parts of the city are crying for attention. Waste is getting collected in the drains passing through some parts of the city.Waterlogging was witnessed in various parts of the city during the last rainy seasons as the road gullies, sewer lines and drains were not cleaned timely. Now, the residents want from the civic body to take all necessary steps to ensure de-silting of all sewer lines and drains in the city before the rainy season.Waterlogging was commonly witnessed at Dholewal Chowk, Samrala Chowk, Chaura Bazar, near Clock Tower, Damoria Bridge, Model Town, Rani Jhansi Road, Dhandari, Hambran Road and number of other areas during the precious rainy seasons.Currently, a drain passing near Bhadaur House has been badly flooded with solid waste as the civic body failed to pay any attention towards it. The situation of a drain passing through Shivaji Nagar is similar but work to cover the drain is also underway.Whenever it rains heavily, sewage starts flowing back to houses in several areas due to choked sewer lines. The problem of overflowing sewers during rain is common on Chandigarh Road, Panj Peer Road and several other areas.Residents of Dhandari Khurd, New Durga Colony and several other colonies have been complaining about choked sewer lines. Residents in some areas also complain that de-silting of sewer lines is not done on time.Satish Thaman, resident of Rishi Nagar, Ludhiana, said, “Road gullies in a number of areas are lying choked at present. The residents complain about choked sewers in different areas. We have witnessed major waterlogging in different parts of the city even after a short spell of rain in the past.”Thaman said, “The work to clean the road gullies and all drains in the city should be done before the rainy season. The machines at all sewerage treatment plants should be made functional. The departments concerned should make proper arrangements to avoid waterlogging in city areas.”A former councillor Inder Aggarwal said, “The MC has floated tenders for cleaning different sewer lines with super suction machines. All these works must be completed before the rainy season. The road gullies in all areas should be cleaned timely. The MC should also ensure cleaning of small drains passing through different areas of the city.”Around 89 per cent city areas lacked storm sewer system, as per information. The MC had earlier made a plan for the installation of storm sewer system in the entire city but the project could not see the light of day due to lack of funds, sources said.Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said, “The MC chief has already given instructions to all the officials concerned to ensure cleaning of the road gullies, drains and sewer lines in the city.”“We are already running the drive to clean Buddha Nullah. MC officials are taking action against those throwing litter in Buddha Nullah. The other drains in internal areas will also be cleaned,” Rajinder Singh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/de-silt-all-sewers-drains-ludhiana-residents-238922
14-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ladhowal bypass opens||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 13The newly constructed Ladhowal Bypass stretch that links Ferozepur Road (National Highway 5) with National Highway-44 near Ladhowal Toll Plaza has been opened officially by the National Highways Authority of India.According to the sources, the public had already started commuting on the stretch since the last month. Prashant Dubey, Project Director, NHAI, on Tuesday said the stretch is officially opened for public.While going towards Jalandhar, many of the commuters coming from areas located on Ferozepur Road commonly used to pass through Sidhwan Canal Bridge, Aarti Chowk, Bhai Bala Chowk, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Jagraon Bridge and Jalandhar Bypass in the city before reaching Ladhowal Toll Plaza. A numbers of times, they had to face traffic snarls inside the city.After construction of the Ladhowal bypass stretch, the commuters travelling from Ferozepur Road side can reach Ladhowal through new stretch via. road along Sidhwan Canal, South City area and Ladhowal Seed Farm.Satinderpal Singh, a resident, said, “While going to Jalandhar from my home at BRS Nagar, I earlier used to pass through city areas and often faced traffic snarls. There are a number of traffic signals inside the city limit. Recently, I travelled through newly constructed Ladhowal bypass stretch. It was easy way for me to travel between Ladhowal and BRS Nagar as no traffic snarl was witnessed.”It is required to mention that the Ladhowal bypass project was launched in 2017. Hundreds of properties were acquired for the project as per information. The total cost of the project is around Rs 577 crore and the length of the stretch under the project is around 17 km as per information. The previous deadline to complete the project was December 2019, sources said.NHAI office inauguratedAn office of the Project Implementation Unit of National Highways Authority of India has been opened at Jainpur on newly constructed Ladhowal Bypass road. The office was inaugurated by RP Singh, Regional Officer NHAI, Chandigarh.Project Director Prashant Dubey was also present on this occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ladhowal-bypass-opens-238923
14-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Blind murder case of dairy farmer cracked||Raikot, April 13 The Raikot police have solved a blind murder case of a peasant and a dairy farmer of Barundi village, Rajinder Singh, who was brutally murdered on the outskirts of the village during the wee hours on March 23. A police team, led by Raikot DSP Sukhnaj Singh and Sadar SHO Ajaib Singh, has arrested all five accused from various places. The accused, close relatives of the deceased,  have been identified as Harwinder Singh of Barundi (paternal uncle), Amandeep Singh, Manpreet Singh (both cousins and residents of Barundi village), Gurwinder Singh of Nanakpur Jagera (cousin) and  Gursewak Singh, alias Guri, of Rattangarh village. Old rivalry due to strained family relations and suspicion about use of black magic by Rajinder against his first cousins was cited to be the reason behind the murder. The SSP, Ludhiana (Rural), Charanjit Singh Sohal, said the Raikot Sadar police, supervised by DSP Sukhnaj Singh and SHO Ajaib Singh, had solved the blind murder of Rajinder on the basis of intensive investigation conducted under the guidance of SP (PBI) Rajveer Singh. Investigations revealed that the accused had conspired to kill Rajinder during a meeting held at the residence of Harwinder Singh on the intervening night of March 22 and 23. With an intent to produce alibi in their favour, Harwinder and his elder son Amandeep Singh left the area and spent the night with one of their relatives on the fateful day, while the other three accused intercepted Rajinder by sprinkling chili powder in his eyes when he left home for his dairy farm early in the morning on March 23. The trio then attacked the victim with two swords and a wooden log. Appreciating the role played by police personnel at the Circle Raikot police in cracking the case, the SSP said the main conspirator, Harwinder, and his sons had planned the murder in such a way that it could have remained untraced. “It was on the basis of information collected from sources at the village that we came to know about differences between the two families. Having zeroed in on the daily routine of the family of Harwinder, the investigating team identified the other accused and nabbed all,” Sohal said. Another case solved, 1 held The Ludhiana rural police claimed to have solved a blind murder of an unknown person whose mutilated body was found from a sewerage drain in Jagraon over two months ago. The deceased was identified as Galib Hussain of Bighashwari in Bihar. He was residing at the Nalkian Wala Chowk area in Jagraon. The accused, identified as Javed of Jamia Nagar in Shaheen Bagh, Delhi, was arrested. Ludhiana (rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said police officials, led by DSP Jatinder Pal Singh and chief officer of police station, Jagraon, Gaganpreet Singh  had identified the accused on the basis of investigation and arrested him recently. Preliminary investigation revealed that Galib was an occultist and Javed had brought one of his woman friends to the former for treatment. Later, Javed suspected that Galib had developed an illicit relationship with the woman, following which he killed the victim by hitting him with a brick. On February 11, sanitation workers found the body of the deceased from a bag that was stuck in a sewer drain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/blind-murder-case-of-dairy-farmer-cracked-238924
14-04-2021||Manav Mander||Rise in demand for oximeters, infrared thermometers in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 13Again demand for oximeters, infrared therometers and inhalers has increased in the city after surge in cases of Covid-19.In April last year also, there was a huge demand for such medical devices till the first wave subsided. The pandemic has also caused a surge in the use of other at-home diagnostic devices as people are avoiding to visit doctors.An oximeter is available between Rs 800 and Rs 1,500, depending upon the manufacturer. Infrared thermometer is available between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000.A pharmacist near the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital said again the demand for Covid-related medical equipment had been increasing.“Besides masks and sanitisers, people are also buying non-contact thermometers and oximeters. The demand has increased manifold. Many people used to buy oximeter and return the product after checking their oxygen level. Now, we are returning/exchanging any piece of oximeter. It is not even safe to sell the product used by anyone else,” he said.They are selling over 200 oximeters a day. Besides oximeters, demand for infrared thermometers has also increased.“Infrared thermometers are being bought by store owners, shopkeepers, etc. Those who have employed several people are also buying the same so that the temperature of their staff can be checked on their arrival,” said Satish Verma, a chemist at the Civil Lines.Vandana Suri, a city resident, said she had a driver, two household helpers and a cook who come to her house every day. Everybody’s body temperature is checked before letting them in.A city based health expert said since cases in the district were increasing it was important to stay safe and those who were having any heart and respiratory issues need to be extra careful and should not ignore even mild illness, he said.Another city resident Sandeep Singh said everyone was going through a difficult phase due to Covid and since he was asthmatic, he needs to be extra careful. He had bought an pulse oximeter for regular monitoring of his oxygen level.Low oxygen level in the blood is called hypoxia. Since Covid-19 affects lungs and can cause difficulty in breathing by impairing oxygenation of blood, so checking oxygen level becomes important if one is facing any symptoms of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rise-in-demand-for-oximeters-infrared-thermometers-in-ludhiana-238925
14-04-2021||Anil Datt||Ludhiana take firm grip over match against Ropar||Ludhiana, April 13With the help of third consecutive century by Tikshan Tangri and impressive bowling by Sidhant Tiwari helped hosts Ludhiana take a firm grip on the first day of the match against Ropar in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-19) Cricket Tournament being played at the GRD Global Education Institute on Hambran Road here today.In reply to Ropar’s first innings total of 107 runs, Ludhiana were 250 for five after 42 overs at draw of stumps.Ludhiana skipper, Gurmehar Singh won the toss and invited Ropar to bat first. The visitors could not resist for a long as their first innings folded at 107 runs in 58.1 overs. Only three batsmen, Karmanpreet Singh, Harshdeep Singh and Aaryan Malhotra could reach double figure. Karman made 47, Harshdeep scored 24 and Aaryan contributed 11 runs.For Ludhiana, Tiwari took six wickets for 35 runs. Som Nath and Gurmehar claimed two wickets each after conceding 20 and 37 runs, respectively.Ludhiana began its reply on a cautious note, losing two wickets for 51 runs. However, Tikshan and Viraj Singh put on 122 runs for the third wicket. Viraj was out for 52. Sanyam contributed 17 runs.Tikshan was again in his true elements as he cracked another century. He scored 141 off 114 balls with the help of 22 hits over the ropes. This was third consecutive century by Tikshan. Earlier, he had made 129 runs against Fatehgarh Sahib and scored 159 runs against Mohali.At draw of stumps, Luvpreet Singh (10) and Raju Pal (3) were at the crease. With one day to go, leading by 143 runs, five wickets in hand, Ludhiana are sitting comfortable and in sight of another outright win.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-take-firm-grip-over-match-against-ropar-238926
14-04-2021||Ludhiana||Farmers celebrate Baisakhi at protest site on Ferozepur Road Ludhiana||Farmers and their supporters celebrated Vaisakhi during the ongoing protest near MBD Mall on Ferozepur Road Ludhiana on Tuesday.  The path of ‘Sri Sukhmani Sahib’ was recited at the site where the farmers have been staging protest for past 156 days. The farmers and their supporters belonging to various villages had gathered at the protest site today.   Notably, the farmers have been staging protest against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre.  A group of farmers said that the farm laws are against the farmers and they want these should be repealed at the earliest.  Farmers  said the will continue protests till the farm laws are not repealed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-celebrate-baisakhi-at-protest-site-on-ferozepur-road-ludhiana-238927
14-04-2021||---||Banned photocopy machines seized||Ludhiana, April 13The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) today seized banned photocopy machines worth crores after searching two containers, which came from Dubai.Three months ago, on the orders of Additional Director General, DRI, Nitin Saini, Ludhiana officials had confiscated the containers for evading custom duty.Patiala-based firm Khalsa Enterprises had kept these containers at Container Freight Station (CFS), Ramgarh, and had not got them released since December 27, 2020.In the papers it was mentioned that the containers were containing metal scrap but when the same were checked, they contained metal scrap on the top but under them, there were 60 old photostat machines. This is known as e-waste and it is illegal to be brought into the country. The market value of the machines is worth crores. The department will also be searching the past records of the company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/banned-photocopy-machines-seized-238928
