15-04-2021||---||Virus claims six lives, 489 found infected in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 14Covid-19 has claimed the lives of six more persons in Ludhiana district during the past 24 hours. As many as 489 fresh cases from Ludhiana and 79 from other districts or states have been reported here today.The Health Department has confirmed that 10 persons, including six from Ludhiana, one each from Fazilka, Bathinda, Ferozepur, and Sangrur, have died of the virus today. In the Ludhiana district, those who succumbed to the virus include a 58-year-old man from Khanna, a 58-year-old woman from Bhamian, a 75-year-old woman from Bajra village, a 49-year-old woman from Model Town Extension, a 65-year-old woman from New Subash Nagar and a 72-year-old man from Gill village.Of the 489 fresh cases from Ludhiana today, 44 persons came in contact with positive patients, 105 visited the OPD, and 252 with influenza-like illness visited the Flu Corner. Four health care workers, two travellers, one teacher from GHS School of Jawaddi, and a patient, who is suffering from severe acute respiratory infection, tested positive for the virus. Besides, 80 patients were yet to be traced.At present, there are 3,501 active cases in Ludhiana district. A total of 8,56,855 samples have been taken, of which 8,09,316 samples were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana district is 40,463 and 6,364 patients belong to other districts/states. Besides, 1,221 persons from Ludhiana and 631 from other districts or states have lost their lives due to Covid so far.Currently, 25 patients, including 14 from Ludhiana and 11 from other districts or states, are on ventilator support here, according to the Health Department.The district administration appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/virus-claims-six-lives-489-found-infected-in-ludhiana-239347
15-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Average daily cases at new high in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 14The average daily Covid cases have beaten all previous records and touched a new high in the district. However, deaths due to the virus during the ongoing second wave have so far remained well under control as compared to the first wave witnessed last year.This was presented by the district administration before the Central team that reviewed the Covid situation and management here on Tuesday.According to the presentation, a copy of which is with The Tribune, the weekly average daily positive cases touched an all-time high of 427 between April 5 and 11, which was much higher than 298, which was the highest figure recorded in the district between August 17 and 23 last year.The figures revealed that this time, the weekly average gradually rose from mere 32 cases between December 28 and January 3, 33 — January 4 and 10, 28 — January 11 and 17, 33 — January 18 and 24, 38 — January 25 and 31, 38 — February 1 and 7, 40 — February 8 and 14, 46 — February 15 and 21, 65 — February 22 and 28, 102 — March 1 and 7, 143 — March 8 and 14, 270 — March 15 and 21, 384 — between March 22 and 28 and 368 cases between March 29 and April 4.Last year, the weekly figure of 216 cases between August 3 and 9 had settled at lowest 39 between December 21 and 27 after touching a high of 298 and falling to less than 200 in September, below 100 on October 5, and less than 50 on October 26.On the death front, the highest daily average this year so far was recorded seven between March 29 and April 4 while it remained one from December 28 to January 17, rose to two between January 18 and 24, before again remaining one from January 25 to February 21, again two between February 22 and 28, one between March 1 and 7, two between March 8 and 14, before shooting to five from March 15 to 28, and between April 5 and 11, after touching the highest peak of seven between March 29 and April 4.The average daily Covid deaths during the first wave last year had touched a high of 15 between August 31 and September 6 before settling down to a low of one between December 21 and 27. The trend showed that the fatalities gradually rose from nine between August 3 and 9 to 10 from August 10 to 23, 12 between August 24 and 30, 11 between August 31 and September 6, 12 between September 7 and 13, before coming down to eight from September 14 to October 4, three between October 12 and 18, one from October 19 to November 8, two between November 9 and 15, three from November 16 to 29, two between November 30 and December 6, three between December 7 and 13, two between December 14 and 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/average-daily-cases-at-new-high-in-ludhiana-239348
15-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana civic body not serious about rainwater harvesting||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 14When the depleting groundwater is a major concern in the city, a majority of new buildings are coming up without the provision of a rainwater harvesting (RWH) system. But, there is no proper check on such violations in the city.As per the Punjab Municipal Building Bye-Laws 2018, all buildings having a plot size of 100 sq m or more, while submitting building plans for sanction, shall mandatorily include the complete proposal of the rainwater harvesting system.A source in the MC, however, said about 90 per cent of the buildings for residential, commercial, industrial and other purposes lack rainwater harvesting structures.The MC collects up to Rs 50,000 (depending upon the size of a plot) as security charges whenever a building plan is submitted to the civic body for required approval. If the rainwater harvesting system is set up in a building, the building owner concerned can apply for a refund of security charges. It has come to light that many plot owners, who deposited such security charges, had later not made any claim to have set up the RWH.A senior officer of the MC said around 5,000 plot owners had deposited security fee for rainwater harvesting at the time of submission of the building plan for sanction to the MC, Ludhiana, in recent years but only a few applied for a refund of these charges. Sources said there were high chances that a majority of the plot owners had not got the rain harvesting system set up. Besides, a number of buildings had been constructed even without getting any building plan approved from the MC, the sources said.Notably, a huge amount of rainwater is generally released into sewer lines in the city. In the building by-laws, two main techniques of rainwater harvesting — storage of rainwater on surface for future use and recharge to groundwater — have been mentioned.Col CM Lakhanpal (retd) said: “I have got a rainwater harvesting system installed at my home for ground water recharging. The RWH structure is not costly. All building owners should be encouraged to get the RWH system installed in their buildings.”Sanjay Goel, chairman of the Indian Institute of Architects, Punjab chapter, said: “It is observed that a majority of buildings lack the rainwater harvesting system. In a city like Ludhiana, the underground water table is already low and going further down. Rainwater harvesting everywhere is a must. The government must be strict in getting it implemented by owners in their buildings.”According to the By-laws, Municipal Corporation/Council/Nagar Panchayat are supposed to constitute a rainwater harvesting cell which is responsible for the enforcement and monitoring of provisions of rainwater harvesting These departments are also supposed to conduct an inspection of rainwater harvesting structures before issuing completion certificates or NOCs for service connections to the property. But, there is no special cell available at the MC, Ludhiana, and no such inspection is done here as per sources.Earlier, it was planned to set up a rainwater harvesting system at MC’s zonal offices but to no avail. Many government buildings, industries, commercial units and other buildings also lack such system.Municipal Town Planner of the MC, Ludhiana, SS Bindra said when a building plan was submitted to the MC by the plot owner concerned, the charges for the RWH are also collected.“These refundable charges have been fixed by the MC House. Once rainwater harvesting structure is set up, the owner concerned can apply for a refund. It is the responsibility of the MC’s O&M cell to check the rainwater harvesting structures in buildings”, he said.On the other hand, Superintending Engineer of the MC’s O&M branch, Rajinder Singh, said the MC’s building branch had not written to the O&M branch to conduct any kind of checking about the provision of rainwater harvesting in buildings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-civic-body-not-serious-about-rainwater-harvesting-239350
15-04-2021||Ludhiana||Nepalese held in Ludhiana's Model Town robbery case||The police have claimed to have solved an incident of robbery occurred at the residence of Municipal Corporation Superintendent Avinash Sharma in the Model Town locality here. The robbery was allegedly committed by a temporary domestic servant, along with his two accomplices, on April 10. One of the four accused, Sanjay Kumar, a native of Nepal, was arrested from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh on April 11.The police said a Swift Ola Cab (bearing registration no. UP 14HT 4665) was used for committing the crime and Rs 98,000 in cash looted by the gang were recovered from the accused who was produced in a local court which granted a two-day police custody for further interrogation.SHO Model Town Inderjit Singh said the MC official had employed Mohan Kumar, a native of Nepal as a domestic help around three months ago. As Mohan had to go home to visit his family, he arranged another person, Rajesh Bahadur Dhami, as his replacement about two weeks ago.During preliminary interrogation, Sanjay told the police that Rajesh had told them about cash, jewellery and other valuables in the house following which the robbery plan was hatched.The accused had reportedly told the police that one of the three accused kept sitting with the MC official so that she could not raise any alarm while two others searched for cash and valuables. As per complaint lodged with police, the accused had taken away cash around Rs 5-6 lakh, around 80 gm gold jewellery, two diamond bracelets and two diamond sets and a case under Sections 394/34, IPC, was registered against them.The police said teams had been sent to different places to nab the prime accused, Rajesh Bahadur, said to be a resident of Vasai in Palghar district of Maharashtra, and his accomplice. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nepalese-held-in-ludhianas-model-town-robbery-case-239351
15-04-2021||Ludhiana||Two arrested in 2 assault cases||Irked over a police complaint by their neighbour against their ferocious pet dogs, two persons, Manider Singh and his brother Raju, residents of Moti Bagh Colony, and their around 12 unidentified accomplices attacked the victim and their family members. The two brothers were arrested and the other accused were booked by the police  under Various sections of the IPC on the complaint of Tarlochan Singh, a resident of the same colony. The complainant said the brothers, along with their accomplices, had forced their entry into his house on Monday and attacked him with bricks and a base ball bat. “They broke open the door of a room and made an attempt to kill my wife and daughter. They, however, managed to flee the spot when we raised an alarm,” he said, adding that his son Gagandeep Singh had lodged a complaint with the police against the ferocious pet dogs of the accused on the same day. In the other incident, Kishore Shah, a resident of Gobindgarh village, his sons Amit Kumar, Ravi Kumar and Sumit Kumar, along with their two servants Manoj Kumar and Raju, were booked by the police under various sections of the IPC for allegedly assaulting Pinki Devi, wife of Dalip Kumar, younger brother of accused Kishore. The victim told the police that she was sitting in the meat shop run by her husband when the accused attacked her and threatened to kill her.  The reason behind the attack was said to be a business rivalry. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-arrested-in-2-assault-cases-239352
15-04-2021||Ludhiana||Money exchanger duped of Rs 4.54 lakh||A city-based money exchanger, Ankit Kharbanda, a resident of Azad Nagar, was duped by a gang of fraudsters, led by Surjit Singh. The accused and his accomplices called the agent to a location in Kashmir Nagar on GT Road on the pretext of exchanging 1,600 US Dollars into Indian currency and tricked him into parting with Rs 4.54 lakh in exchange for a packet of fake US Dollars. The complainant, Ankit, told the police that the accused, Surjit, had come to his shop and said he wanted to convert 1600 US Dollars of her aunt into Indian currency. “I went to Surjit’s residence in Harcharan Nagar to confirm the deal after which I was told to bring Rs 4.54 lakh in cash to a location near a liquor vend in Kashmir Nagar. Surjit and his accomplices took the cash from me and handed a packet which contained paper cuttings only. Afterwards, the accused fled from the spot on his Honda Activa scooter (bearing registration no. PB-10EU-3292). The police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B, IPC, against Surjit and his two unidentified accomplices. Woman, her accomplices booked for fraud In another incident, the police have booked a woman, Priyanka, a resident of Mohalla Peeru Banda, near Salem Tabri, and her unknown accomplices for fraud and fabrication of documents to obtain bail under Sections 177, 199, 200, 420, 465, 466, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC on the orders of Neeraj Goyal, Judicial Magistrate I Class. The accused woman, booked in a case under the Excise Act in December 2017, had obtained bail on the basis of a fabricated bail bond submitted before the court by another woman impersonating as Bhupinder Kaur, a resident of Shimlapuri, which was attested by another woman claiming as Nisha, a resident of Janakpuri. Later, the real Bhupinder Kaur had appeared in the court and claimed that her fake Aadhaar card and fake agreement of a land deal were produced in the court by accomplices of the accused, Priyanka, to seek bail in the court. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/money-exchanger-duped-of-rs-4-54-lakh-239353
15-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Changes in exam schedule receive mixed response||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 14Students of Class X of the CBSE have heaved a sigh of relief after their board exams were cancelled in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. The students are elated over the decision as they will be promoted to the next class on the basis of pattern given by the board. While the decision brought smiles on the faces of Class X students, those in Class XII say the postponement of their papers will add to the anxiety about their future study plans. Earlier, the exams were going to commence in the month of May.The decision taken by the CBSE and the Union Government about the board exams was taken today after holding a meeting with the Prime Minister at Delhi.Aryaman, a Class X student, said, “I was studying though but there was not that confidence, which is usually there when we attend regular physical classes. Many of our friends are much relieved today with the decision of the CBSE,” he said.Parents ‘anxious’ over tuition feesThe postponement of Class XII has added to the stress levels of students. Both the students and parents feel that these delayed exams were not good for students and they will not be free in near future. The next instructions will come after June 1 now.Ramanjit Singh, a parent, said he was spending up to Rs20,000 on the tuitions of her son, who was not good in studies. “Two of the tuitions are home tuitions so these are expensive. Now at this time, I cannot ask my child to stop his tuition. We will have to continue till the exams are held,” said the worried father.Vikas, another parent, said students remained in confusion throughout the year. “They are getting frustrated studying same things again and again. After plus two, the medical and non-medical students are to appear for the NEET and the JEE, it will be a long journey now and they will hardly get time to relax.Teachers also show concern for studentsThough the CBSE has taken the decision, the teachers too have expressed concern with the students, who are to appear for board exams. “We can understand what all they are going through. But we cannot help in this case. They cannot be promoted without exams, nor immediately their exams can be taken when Covid-19 cases are surging like anything,” said a teacher of a reputed school at Sarabha Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/changes-in-exam-schedule-receive-mixed-response-239356
15-04-2021||Anil Datt||Cricket: Another outright win for Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 14Hosts Ludhiana routed Ropar by ten wickets to earn seven points including one bonus point on the second day of the match in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District (U-19) Cricket Tournament played at the GRD Global Education Institute on Hambran Road here today.This was second outright victory by Ludhiana in three matches. Earlier, they had scripted an outright win over Fatehgarh Sahib and also earned three points on the basis of first innings lead against Mohali. After three matches, Ludhiana secured total 17 points.Yesterday, Ropar, in their first innings were bowled out for 107 runs while Sidhant Tiwari Om of Ludhiana scalped six victims whereas Gurmehar Singh and Som Nath got rid of two batsmen each. At draw of stumps, Ludhiana were 250 for five in which the highlight was a century by Tikshan Tangri, his third consecutive hundred.Today, Ludhiana declared their first innings at the overnight score. Facing a deficit of 143 runs, the visitors, in the second innings, could muster 149 runs in 67.5 overs. Karmanpreet Singh, top scorer (47) in the first innings, once again batted well and contributed 61 runs. Skipper Mayank Gupta chipped in with 50 runs and helped their side wipe out the deficit and forced Ludhiana to bat again.Sidhant Tiwari was again, pick of the bowlers, capturing five wickets for 60 runs in 25.5 overs. Gurmehar Singh grabbed two wickets while Raju Pal, Sanyam and Ranvir Singh took one wicket each.Ludhiana required just 1.4 overs to achieve the target and stitch up an easy win by 10 wickets to gain seven points including one bonus point.For his outstanding contribution with the ball (11 wickets for 95 runs), Sidhant Tiwari Om was named the Man of the Match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cricket-another-outright-win-for-ludhiana-239357
15-04-2021||---||Serious matter: Ludhiana DC on vaccine hesitancy||Ludhiana, April 14 Making an emotional appeal to residents in his weekly Facebook live session, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said Punjabis had always remained at the forefront in protecting the borders of the country but this time in the battle against Covid, they are not playing their role actively. Expressing concern over the Ludhianavis lagging in the Covid vaccination drive, the Deputy Commissioner said it is a really serious matter and shows we all are not contributing to the war against the Covid. He said 1,221 residents of the district have succumbed to the virus so far and despite that people are not showing seriousness towards the vaccines that are completely safe, secure and effective. The Deputy Commissioner said, “If we would not support the vaccination programme wholeheartedly, we may continue to face many more waves of the pandemic. He said if all district’s residents above the age of 45 take the vaccine, it is sure that we would not have to counter another wave and everything would be normal like earlier.” The DC said people must not believe in any kind of rumour or myths about the immunisation drive and must embrace the vaccine which will ensure protection from the infectious deadly disease. He said the vaccine is being administrated free of cost in all government health institutions besides it is being offered at Rs250 in private hospitals. He said as the district has been witnessing a steep hike in the Covid-19 cases again, the people should not lower guard at any cost and strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the government and the Health Department to contain the pandemic. The Deputy Commissioner mentioned that the careless attitude of some people towards wearing masks and maintain social distancing has led to a surge and people must shun complacency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/serious-matter-ludhiana-dc-on-vaccine-hesitancy-239358
15-04-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Mother-daughter duo booked for fraud||The Jodhan police have initiated the process for arrest of a mother-daughter duo, who have been booked under Sections 406, 420 and 120 B of IPC for allegedly duping a farmer of Dhulkot village on the pretext of settling his son in a foreign country. The case has been registered on the basis of the outcome of a probe conducted by the economic offences wing and cyber crime wing of Ludhiana (Rural) police district. The accused identified as Gurmit Kaur of Moga and her daughter Simranjit Kaur, now settled in Australia, have been accused of duping Gurmel Singh of Dhulkot of at least Rs 28.30 lakhs. Investigations revealed that Tapinder Singh, a resident of Dhulkot village, had introduced Gurmel Singh to Gurmit Kaur who had promised to settle his (Gurmel’s) son Narinder Jit Singh in Canada on the basis of a fake marriage with her BSc Nursing daughter Simranjit Kaur. Having failed to get her immigration case cleared for Canada, Simranjit Kaur agreed for a marriage with Narinder Jit Singh and taking him to Australia in due course of time. Simranjit Kaur and Narinder Jit Singh were tied in wedlock during an elaborate function held by mutual consent of both the families on May 18, 2020 and the couple ultimately reached Australia. Gurmel Singh alleged that the accused had made him deposit amounts totaling Rs 28.30 lakh in separate accounts at different times. SHO Jodhan police station Amrit Pal Singh said the case had been registered in compliance with orders of the SSP Ludhiana (Rural) Charanjit Singh Sohal. “As both the accused were not found at their recorded addresses in India, we have advised the investigating team to secure transfer of Simranjit Kaur from Australia and seek arrest warrants of Gurmit Kaur,” said Amrit Pal Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mother-daughter-duo-booked-for-fraud-239359
15-04-2021||---||Officials take stock of wheat procurement in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 14 Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal on Wednesday directed the Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDMs) and Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs) along with Food Supply and Mandi officials to visit the grain markets in their jurisdictions daily to ensure the smooth and hassle-free wheat procurement besides strictly compliance of the physical distancing, masking and other protocols.  During the visits in Sahnewal and Gill Road Grain Markets, Sharma and Agrawal showed the satisfaction on the procurement operations and asked the officers to make sure that every single grain of wheat was procured and lifted without any sort of delay and at the same time, the social distancing, masking must be maintained in the grain markets to prevent Covid-19 pandemic. They  said that the officers must ensure the facilities of hand washing, soaps, masks  to all the farmers, labourers and others keeping in view of the prevailing circumstances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/officials-take-stock-of-wheat-procurement-in-ludhiana-239360
15-04-2021||Ludhiana||1 killed, another injured in two road mishaps||A factory worker lost his life while another was critically injured in two separate road accidents on city roads. Pardeep Singh (38), a resident of Khakat village, was killed when a speeding car rammed into a motorcycle (PB-91L-1785) near canal bridge at Pawa village on the evening of April 11. Avinash Pandey, a co-worker who was driving the two-wheeler, told the police that a car bearing registration no PB-10CU-0140 hit the motorcycle injuring both the riders.  He said later Pradeep Singh, who was taken to the PGI, Chandigarh for treatment, succumbed to injuries.  In another case of reckless driving, one Sonu Kumar, a resident of Chandra Lok Colony on Rahon Road, was critically injured when a speeding truck, without any number plate, hit his bicycle from behind near Basti Jodhewal Chowk. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-killed-another-injured-in-two-road-mishaps-239362
15-04-2021||Ludhiana||Three nabbed with opium||Three arrested for gamblingLudhiana: The police have arrested two persons, Ram Milan, a resident of Moti Nagar, and Munna Kumar of Tibba Road for cheating people through gambling at a shop in Ganesh Nagar here. ‘Darra-satta’ slips and Rs 13,300 in cash were recovered from the spot. The accused have been booked under Sections 13-A, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act. In another raid conducted at a shop in Puneet Nagar, Kewal Sharma, a resident of Sanjay Gandhi Colony, was arrested and booked under the Gambling Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-nabbed-with-opium-239363
15-04-2021||Ludhiana||Green Land Convent School pays homage to Dr BR Ambedkar||BVM, Udham Singh NagarThe school marked the birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar with immense exuberance. Students rejoiced in the glory of the day with an array of virtual activities. Ingenious students of class VI and VII proficiently presented the supreme contribution of Dr Ambedkar in framing the Constitution. Students of Class VIII dexterously inscribed the remarkable quotes of Babasaheb which are great source of motivation for youth. Students of Class IX beautifully penned down the striking features of the Constitution defining fundamental principles, structure, procedures, powers, and duties of government institutions and fundamental rights, directive principles and the duties of Indian citizens.Drishti Dr RC Jain Innovative SchoolThe school organised an orientation programme with the main objective of introducing parents to the curriculum, education policies and various activities. In the orientation, the principal of the school, Gauri Chhabra welcomed the parents and informed them about the changes and benefits in the education policy. Rajwinder Kaur, Co-ordinator, informed about the activities being carried out at the education level. Through the activities, children will not only be able to showcase their creative skills but will also be able to develop themselves holistically. During the interaction, Niranjan Kumar, speech therapist, gave tips to improve speech of children.Green Land Convent School, Sec 32The school celebrated the birth anniversary of Dr Bhima Rao Ambedkar, the architect of the Constitution of India. A wide spectrum of activities, ranging from special morning assembly featuring Dr Ambedkar, one-act play on his life, slogan-writing, etc. were organized to commemorate his 130th birth anniversary.Green Land Sr Sec Public SchoolVarious virtual activities were organised at the school to mark Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s birth anniversary. Students of classes I-III paid tribute to Dr Ambedkar by dressing up like him. An online quiz was organised for students of VI to X. The teachers during virtual classes told the students about the important incidents from his life, so that they can draw an inspiration from his life.Bhartiya Vidya Mandir Sr Sec SchoolBaisakhi and the birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar was celebrated in Bhartiya Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, Chandigarh Road, with fervour. The school premises reverberated with celebration. Students actively participated in folk songs, folk dance bhangra. A quiz was organised on Baba Ambedkar’s life in which students of classes IX and X participated with great zeal. Students of XI and XII recited Durga Stuti with their families. Sunil, a Sanskrit teacher, organised havan ceremony on the auspicious day. Bindu Chhabra (PRT) apprised the students with the importance of Nav Samvat. Principal Upasna Modgil applauded the efforts of students and added that the motive behind the celebration was to apprise the children of their rich culture and heritage. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/green-land-convent-school-pays-homage-to-dr-br-ambedkar-239364
