16-04-2021||Nitin Jain||After touching peak in January, Covid doubling rate dips||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 15The doubling rate of Covid cases in the district has drastically dipped after touching a peak in January. Recording an all-time high of 579.2 between January 11 and 17, the doubling rate has touched a low of 60.28 between April 5 and 11.However, the hit rate in the district had been gradually on the rise since February but still it was well under control at 9.58 per cent between April 5 and 11.The comparative figures compiled by the district administration, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that the doubling rate has started falling drastically after February 7 when it was 499.74. Earlier, it remained high at 512.5 between December 28 and January 3; 497.42 between January 4 and 10; 487.19 between January 18 and 24; and 443.09 between January 25 and 31.The declining trend continued with 439.63 doubling rate between February 8 and 14; 370.04 between February 15 and 21; 269.66 between February 22 and 28; 175.44 between March 1 and 7; 129.83 between March 8 and 14; 74.6 between March 15 and 21; 57.17 between March 22 and 28; 65.01 between March 29 and April 4.Comparatively, the highest doubling rate in the first wave was recorded at 441.69 between December 21 and 27 and was as low as 17.28 between August 10 and 16 before rising to 32.44 between August 17 and 23; 29.25 between August 24 and 30; 28.83 between August 31 and September 6; 29.98 between September 7 and 13; 66.68 between September 14 and 20; 85.41 between September 28 and October 4; 151.26 between October 5 and 11; 184.71 between October 12 and 18; 257.32 between October 19and 25; and 268.43 between October 26 and November 1.The declining trend in doubling rate last year had started from November onwards with 223.17 between November 2 and 8; 162.8 between November 9 and 15; 157.08 between October 16 and 22; 153.22 between October 23 to 29 before once again shooting up to 237.85 between December 7 and 13; and 270.47 between December 14 and 20.The hit rate in the ongoing second wave kept gradually rising from 1.64 per cent between January 18 and 24 to 1.85 per cent between January 25 and 31; 1.94 between February 1 and 7; 1.66 between February 8 and 14; 1.92 between February 15 and 21; 2.6 between February 22 and 28; 2.73 between March 1 and 7; 3.73 between March 8 and 14 before making a steep hike to 7.18 between March 15 and 21; 7.92 between March 22 and 28; and 8.7 per cent between March 29 and April 4.During the first wave, the district had recorded the highest hit rate of 23.35 per cent between August 3 and 9, which fell drastically to 12.21 per cent between August 10 and 16; 9.87 between August 17 and 23; 4.98 between August 24 and 30 before again rising to 6.22 between August 31 and September 6; 6.29 between September 7 and 13; and 7.23 between September 14 and 20.The second decline last year again started from September 21 with 3.7 per cent hit rate, which kept receding till October 25 at 1.97 per cent, before once again rising to 3.22 per cent between October 26 and November 1; 4.42 between November 2 and 8; 4.19 between November 9 and 15; 3.03 between November 16 and 22; 3.3 between November 23 and 29; 2.52 between November 30 and December 6; 2.48 between December 7 and 13; and touching a low of 1.8 per cent between December 21 and 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-touching-peak-in-january-covid-doubling-rate-dips-239771
16-04-2021||Ludhiana||Two nabbed with illegal weapons||The crime branch of the city police nabbed two persons and recovered illegal weapons from their possession. The accused have been identified as Aslam, alias Gugli (22), and Sunil Kumar Kaka (32), both residents of Bhattian village. ACP (crime) Mandeep Singh said two .32 bore pistols, eight live cartridges and four magazines were recovered from the accused. The ACP said a tip-off was received that the two accused were carrying illegal weapons and they were roaming near Metro mall. Accordingly, the police party conducted a raid and nabbed the duo. The ACP said the police remand of the duo was being sought from court to further interrogate them and inquire their past records.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-nabbed-with-illegal-weapons-239772
16-04-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Traders raise questions over Malhar Road project design||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 15 Despite repeated demands of a shopkeepers’ association and a number of activists, information regarding the project plan and its cost estimate has not been displayed at various sites where the Smart City Mission and MC’s projects are underway. Now, when the Smart Street project is underway on Malhar Road in Ludhiana, questions are being raised over the project design. The shopkeepers’ association and activists alleged that the road width was being reduced by installing interlocking tiles. On the other hand, officials of Ludhiana Smart City Limited claimed that the project was underway in the right manner and no road width was being reduced. Paramjit Singh of the Malhar Road Shopkeepers Association said: “We have been demanding from the authorities to display the project plan and other required information on Malhar Road for a long time but they ignored our demand. Now, when the work is underway, we learned that the road width is being reduced. No slipway has been made on a turn on Malhar Road towards Gurdwara Sahib Road.” He said: “Traffic snarls will be witnessed on the road after reducing the width of the road. Moreover,  interlocking tiles around old trees on the road will also cause damages to the tress. When I raised the matter regarding the project design with an official of the firm handling the project, I did not get any satisfactory reply.” A road safety activist, Rahul Verma, said: “I also observed that the road width is being reduced and it will cause inconvenience to commuters. The motorists may face traffic snarls due to the improper design on a turn on Malhar Road. Residents of nearby areas may also suffer if the project design is not improved. The authorities concerned should look into the matter seriously.” Denying the allegations, an official of Ludhiana Smart City Limited said: “The work on the road is underway as per the norms. Under the project, the pedestrian way and arrangements for parking of vehicles are being ensured. Proper curves are being made at turns on Malhar Road. Moreover, the central verge area is being reduced. Thus, no road width is being reduced. The allegations are false.” The official added that the project details would be displayed at project sites in the city after getting approval from the higher authorities concerned. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, who is also one of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited, said he would look into the matter. The project work was being done in a right manner as per the plan. Malhar Road was already wide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traders-raise-questions-over-malhar-road-project-design-239774
16-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC acts against wrong parking of vehicles||The Municipal Corporation removed encroachments and issued challans for wrong parking on service lanes near Dholewal Chowk on Thursday. A team comprising of officials of the MC, police, building branch and tehbazari wing, conducted the anti-encroachment drive. Lakhvir Singh Lucky, an inspector of the tehbazari wing, said, “Around 25 vehicles, which were parked in a wrong manner, were lifted by the civic body team. Besides, the police issued challans for wrong parking. The building branch staff also got some encroachments removed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-acts-against-wrong-parking-of-vehicles-239775
16-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||VVIP treatment to singer Karan Aujla: DIG submits probe report to ADGP||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 15Almost a week after the incident in which Punjabi singer Karan Aujla was given VVIP treatment at the Ludhiana Central Jail, DIG (prisons) SS Saini submitted a probe report to Additional Director General of Police (prisons) PK Sinha.After the incident occurred on April 7, Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had asked the ADGP (prisons) to probe the matter and fix the responsibility of Jail Superintendent Rajeev Arora if the latter had resorted to any negligence.Mayor’s official Gypsy escorted singer Karan Aujla to jailWhile confirming this to The Tribune, the ADGP said the DIG had submitted the probe report and he was yet to go through the same. When asked if any action is recommended against the Jail Superintendent or he is declared innocent, he said: “Let me examine the report first, only then I can comment.”Notably, when the DIG visited the jail to conduct a probe, he had questioned the Jail Superintendent and also took the statement of other jail staff members who were present at the jail when singer Karan Aujla, along with several others, had entered the jail without undergoing any security checks. The singer and others had also reportedly taken mobile phones to the jail, which was also against the jail norms.The Jail Superintendent said the singer was his family friend and he came to the jail to have a cup of tea with him and later, he went to his official residence to have lunch. Arora had already denied the rumours that the singer had come to meet notorious drug peddler Gurdeep Singh Rano, who is also lodged at the jail.Notably, smuggler Rano was nabbed with drugs worth crores, drug money and 13 luxury cars by the Special Task Force, Ludhiana. The singer used to conduct shooting of his song at the bungalow of smuggler Rano in Khanna district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vvip-treatment-to-singer-karan-aujla-dig-submits-probe-report-to-adgp-239776
16-04-2021||---||Five arrested by Khanna police with banned drugs||Ludhiana, April 15The Khanna police nabbed five smugglers and recovered a huge quantity of banned drugs from them in separate cases.In the first case, the Malaud police arrested a smuggler, Lakhwinder Singh, resident of Ramgarh, and recovered 4,500 tramadol tablets from him.Investigation officer ASI Gurjant Singh said secret information was received that Lakhwinder was into the notorious trade and he was on the way to deliver banned drugs to his clients. Accordingly police party conducted raid and nabbed him.The Malaud police also nabbed a smuggler, Gurpreet Singh Laddi, resident of Ramgarh, and recovered 4,100 banned tablets from his possession. He was on the way to deliver the consignment of drugs to his clients.The Sadar police, Khanna, arrested two persons, namely Kulwinder Singh of Ghaloti village and Parminder Singh of Bangli village. The police recovered 1,640 banned tablets, 25 syrups and 100 capsules from the duo. They were nabbed from near the Harbanspura T point.The Doraha police nabbed Ranjit Singh Raju of Doraha and recovered 1,200 tablets from him. Investigation officer ASI Amar Singh said during routine checking Ranjit was rounded up on suspicion and during the checking of his belongings, banned drugs were recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-arrested-by-khanna-police-with-banned-drugs-239777
16-04-2021||---||Rs 4.41-cr penalty slapped on firm for tax evasion||Ludhiana, April 15The anti-evasion wing of the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) Commissionerate, Ludhiana, has slapped a penalty of Rs 4.41 crore on a firm caught evading the tax during the transportation of goods, an official said here on Thursday evening.She said acting on a tip-off, a truck was intercepted on the Ludhiana-Sahnewal highway. “As per e-way bill carried by the vehicle driver, the goods transported were declared as aluminum scrap (HSN 76020010) but when the container seal was broken and goods were examined by the enforcement staff, it was found that the container was carrying 39.6 lakh cigarettes (100 mm each) of four brands, four alloy wheels and 10,030 kg of scrap (prima facie iron),” the official revealed.She informed that the goods were impounded and penal proceedings initiated. “The estimated value of tax evaded along with the penalty applicable under Section 129 of the CGST Act-2017 on the goods involved is Rs 4.41 crore,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-4-41-cr-penalty-slapped-on-firm-for-tax-evasion-239778
16-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||YAD protests ‘highhandedness’ of Ludhiana MC against street vendors||Ludhiana, April 15Activists of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD), led by district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, along with ‘aggrieved’ street vendors today staged a dharna at the B-zone office of the Municipal Corporation in protest against the alleged highhandedness of the MC tehbazari staff against street vendors.The protest was organised by former councillor Radhey Shyam and Rajesh Mishra in support of the Rehri-Farri Union.Speaking on the occasion, Gosha said from the inception of the Congress rule in the MC and the state, street vendors were suffering. MC officials had made several promises to set up vending zones to accommodate the rehri and farriwalas but even before the promised vending zones were marked and vendors could be shifted to their allotted places, the traffic police and tehbazari staff of the MC had started harassing the vendors by confiscating their means of livelihood.Gosha and other speakers, including leaders of the Rheri-Farri Union, alleged that certain self-styled leaders of the ruling party or cronies of other senior leaders were interfering with the process of allotment of suitable spaces to vendors in the designated vending zones being carved out in different parts of the city.The government and the MC were constitutionally bound to safeguard the interests of the street vendors in accordance with National Street Vendors Policy, Gosha added.The protesters also submitted a memorandum of their demands to Zonal Commissioner Neeraj Jain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/yad-protests-highhandedness-of-ludhiana-mc-against-street-vendors-239779
16-04-2021||---||‘Move to promote pupils right in present situation’||Ludhiana, April 15Worried over the continuous surge in Covid cases in the state, the state government today announced to promote students of Class V, VIII and X to the next class, without taking any examination.The decision to hold exams for Class XII will be taken later by the state government.Teachers in government schools maintained that the decision was taken keeping in mind present condition of the pandemic in the region.Parveen Kumar, general secretary, Government School Teachers’ Union, said the decision was taken by the government as Covid-19 cases in the state are increasing rapidly.“The decision will affect those students more who have been preparing for the exams sincerely. Teachers always want students to score marks as per their capabilities. We don’t want all students to sail in the same boat. But the decision of holding exams for Class XII needs to cleared out at the earliest as students’ career is on the line here,” Kumar said.Amarjit Kaur, a Class XII student at Government Senior Secondary School here, said, “Majority of students in my school belong to poor families and their parents will not make them sit at home and wait for exams. Boys will be forced to work and earn in these tough times. We are waiting for the next decision now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/move-to-promote-pupils-right-in-present-situation-239782
16-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Sudarshan Joshi elected Raikot civic body president||Raikot, April 15Sudarshan Joshi ‘Darshi’ and Ranjit Kaur were today unanimously elected as president and vice-president, respectively, of the Raikot Municipal Council.While all the elected councillors participated in the election process, associate member of the civic body Jagtar Singh Hissowal abstained from the proceedings.The SDM, Raikot, Dr Himanshu Gupta, said all the 15 councillors, elected on the Congress ticket, were administered oath before starting the process for filling posts of president and vice-president.Paying gratitude to his fellow councillors for posing faith in him, second-time chief of the council Sudarshan Joshi said maintenance and developments works in each ward would be undertaken without any discrimination during his tenure.Fatehgarh MP Dr Amar Singh Boparai, who reached the office of the Municipal Council to greet newly elected office-bearers, said the best efforts would be made to bring grants for development projects as and when suggested by the councillors of the civic body.Kaamil Boparai, Jagpreet Singh Buttar, executive officer Amrinder Singh, former president Jaswant Singh, former president Mohan Lal Goyal, Manjit Kaur, Muhammad Imran Khan, Sharanjit Kaur, Vijay Rani, Gurdas Maan, Sukhwinder Kaur, Rajinder Singh Raju, Kamaljt Verma, Uma Rani, Baljinder Singh Rimpa, Jasvir Kaur, Sukhwinder Singh Grewal and Gurjant Singh (all councillors) greeted the newly elected office-bearers of the council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sudarshan-joshi-elected-raikot-civic-body-president-239783
16-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana: 6,840 challaned for not wearing mask||Ludhiana, April 15The City police have stepped up the drive against rampant violations of restrictions and prohibitory orders issued with regard to spike in Covid-19 cases and in the course of special drive carried out during last two weeks, the police had set up 26 nakas during the curfew hours (9.00pm to 5.00am) where 25,000 persons were tested for the virus and 101 positive cases were detected.Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal, who personally supervised the stepped up drive, said the main objective was to create awareness among the members of public to abide by necessary preventive measures such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance, avoiding visit to crowded places and following restrictions such as night curfew imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city.He said 14 FIRs had been lodged in different police stations against shopkeepers for violation of night curfew, challans were issued to 6,840 persons for not wearing masks and nearly 8,000 masks were distributed free of cost to the violators with strict instructions to take preventive steps.The CP said while the police force was taking all these measures to save the public from the viral infection, the city residents also ought to cooperate by following all directions issued by the authorities from time to time and also take preventive steps to check infection by wearing masks, maintaining social distance and curtailment their outdoor movement, especially during the curfew hours as far as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-6-840-challaned-for-not-wearing-mask-239784
16-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana drug case: 45 days on, BJP leader’s role not clear||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 15Over 45 days have lapsed since the police recovered 1.29 lakh tablets from the house owned by BJP leader Satish Nagar’s wife at Chawani Mohalla, but still there is no clarity on the role of the BJP leader in the case.The police had registered a case against the BJP leader along with others namely Anup Sharma, Hemant and Rajinder under the NDPS Act.Since the role of BJP leader had surfaced in the probe and his name was also mentioned on the first number in the FIR, the police had on March 1 taken Nagar to police station suspecting he is the kingpin in the case, he was released by the police.Reportedly, the police had allegedly released the BJP leader under political pressure. When asked why the role of the BJP leader is still not clear even after 45 days since the incident, the Police Commissioner, Rakesh Agrawal, who had formed a special investigations team (SIT) to investigate the role of BJP leader, told The Tribune, “The role of BJP leader is still being verified. ADCP 1 Pragya Jain is heading the SIT and is yet to submit the report to me.”Some residents of Chawani Mohalla, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Why the police is sitting on the probe, if BJP leader Nagar has any role in drug racket he should not spared and if he has no role, SIT should give a clean chit to him rather than delaying the probe.”Cong MLA questions probeCongress MLA Rakesh Pandey had commented on the drug racket probe and said, “Why BJP leader Satish Nagar was first taken to police station, then was released and the probe into his role is yet lying pending. I will take up the matter with CM Capt Amarinder Singh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-drug-case-45-days-on-bjp-leaders-role-not-clear-239785
16-04-2021||Ludhiana||‘School darshan’ for parents today||The state Education Department has asked management of government schools to be ready for “School darshan” on Friday. The initiative is being taken for parents to make them aware about the facilities being provided by government schools to increase enrolment. A principal of a government school here said the timing of the initiative was wrong. “Hundreds of teachers and students have already tested positive for Covid and a few teachers have lost their lives to the virus as well. The Education Department should have waited for a while before initiating such campaigns,” he said. “From tomorrow onwards, books will be shown and distributed to students under the initiative,” he added.  Besides, parents have been physically invited to visit schools in their respective areas and see what facilities are being provided by government schools, and accordingly, they can get their wards enrolled. The announcements were made through gurdwaras and various community centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/school-darshan-for-parents-today-239786
16-04-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Rs 10L grant to Saharan Majra civic body||The civic body of Saharan Majra village in Payal subdivision has been sanctioned grant worth over Rs 10 lakh for the establishment of public utility projects in the memory of 116-year-old Surjit Kaur, alias Nasib Kaur. While MP Shamsher Singh Dullo announced to give a grant of Rs5L, Gurdev Singh Lapran declared to give Rs2L grant. SGPC member Raghbir Singh Saharan Majra said a memorial library will be established at the village soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-10l-grant-to-saharan-majra-civic-body-239787
16-04-2021||---||Ludhiana Health Dept teams spread Covid awareness||Ludhiana, April 15Mass media teams of the Civil Surgeon’s office, here, has visited mandis to sensitise farmers and labourers to the Covid-19 guidelines and also advise people above 45 to go for vaccination.Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar said a large number of people would come to mandis to sale their products.He said nobody should be allowed to enter the mandis without wearing masks. People present in the mandis should keep washing their hands and keep on their masks.“Adequate social distancing should be mandatory for all people in the mandis and they should be fined if they do not follow the guidelines of the state government,” he said.The Civil Surgeon said the teams had been given special IEC vans fitted with public address system through which they were giving instructions to people. They had also motivated people for getting themselves vaccinated as this was the only way to break the chain of Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-health-dept-teams-spread-covid-awareness-239788
16-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ambedkar Jayanti celebrations||MGM holds vaccination campMGM Public School organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp on the campus. The camp was held under the supervision of the Ludhiana Civil Surgeon. The school principal and the Civil Surgeon urged the attendees to motivate more and more people to get vaccinated to curb the spread of the virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ambedkar-jayanti-celebrations-239790
16-04-2021||Ludhiana||Workshop on research methodology||KIMT students bring laurelsStudents of the Khalsa Institute of Management and Technology for Women excelled in IKG PTU examination. In BBA Semester-V examinations, Sonali Butola scored SGPA 8.8 while Anmol Kaur, Paramjit Kaur and Komalpreet Kaur scored SGPA 8.32. Sangeeta Meena, Simi Bains and Vaishali Kapil scored SGPA 8.08. College director Dr Harpreet Kaur and faculty members congratulated the students for their hard work.Meditation session for staffGovernment College of Science Education and Research, Jagraon, organised a special meditation session for its staff. Government College for Girls principal Dr Sukhwinder Kaur was the guest of honour and conducted the session. She also discussed the importance of intelligence quotient, emotional quotient and spiritual quotient in one’s life.Student bags Rs15l aid for startupShifali Jain, a student of International Business Studies, PCTE, bagged Rs15-lakh grant-in-aid by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare for her startup Tastum King. The idea was polished and developed by the E-cell of the university. “Tastum King is a culinary startup that offers a wide range of blended spices which are instantly cooked by following only three directions - Mix, boil and serve,” Shifali said. University director-general Dr KNS Kang congratulated her and wished her success for her future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/workshop-on-research-methodology-239791
16-04-2021||---||Man dies 4 days after getting jab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 15A patient died four days after getting Covid vaccine here on Wednesday morning. However, the Civil Surgeon has ruled out vaccine as the cause of death and claimed that the patient has died due to tuberculosis and lung infection, from which he had been suffering for the past eight years.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar told the media today that “in Ludhiana, no person has died due to Covid-19 vaccination. The man died due to tuberculosis of the lungs.” He said Jagdish Prasad (57 years’ old), a resident of Shimla Puri, got jab on April 9, 2021, at a private hospital in Ludhiana. He had fever and was admitted to the hospital on April 12 with vomiting of blood. After being referred by various private hospitals, he was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, on April 13 and the rapid test report was negative. He had vomited blood in the hospital as well. He died at the hospital on the morning of April 14.Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said according to local doctors, he had been suffering from TB and lung disease for the last eight years and had been vomiting blood sometimes for the last eight years, and to prevent it he was taking some injections. “He was undergoing treatment from Jaipur and his one lung was nearly damaged. This information was given by the family of the deceased to the treating doctors,” Dr Kakkar said.The Civil Surgeon said investigation would be carried out by the State-Level Committee on Adverse Events Following Immunisation. The cause of death would be investigated by the committee and a decision would be taken based on its report, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-dies-4-days-after-getting-jab-239793
