17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Highest spike in Covid cases, 598 test positive in Ludhiana||Breaking its record, the district today saw 598 positive cases in a day. It was on April 11 that 530 patients had tested positive. This is the highest spike since the outbreak of Covid in March 2020.Today six persons lost their lives. Active cases in the district rose to 3,817. As many as 26 persons were on ventilator support, out of which 15 belong to Ludhiana and 11 to other districts.Three men and three women, belonging to Maharana Partap Nagar, Inderpuri, Tilak Nagar, Khanna, Dugri and Basti Jodhewal, lost their lives today.Those who tested positive today include an undertrial, inter-state traveller, healthcare worker and pre-operative case.Today 503 persons were home quarantined.Meanwhile, the mass media teams today detailed auto-rickshaw drivers about the Covid guidelines being issued by the government. The representatives of auto-rickshaw unions were contacted to ensure the proper implementation of all the Covid protocols to save the auto-rickshaw owners and passengers from the infection. Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said many persons use auto-rickshaws as a mode of transportation and it is right to say that auto-rickshaws play a major part in keeping the Ludhiana running, so it is necessary to make them aware of the precautions to be taken while driving auto-rickshaws and doing their duty. First and the foremost thing is to wear mask. No person shall be allowed to sit in an auto-rickshaw without mask. Not only this, auto-rickshaw drivers should wear mask all the time and also use sanitiser whenever they receive fare from passengers.“Our teams sensitised them on not overcrowding their auto-rickshaws with people as this is not legally right. With overcrowding they also increase the chance of getting in Covid-positive person, which may lead to chain of infecting people with the virus. So, for their safety and the safety of their families, people should take utmost precautions. Along with this our teams also instructed them to download cova app,” said Dr Kakkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/highest-spike-in-covid-cases-598-test-positive-in-ludhiana-240195
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Despite surge in second wave, beds available in hospitals||Even as the second Covid wave was on the rise, the beds for critical patients in the hospitals are still available in adequate numbers in the district.The official figures presented before the Central team, which was here to review the Covid situation and measures being taken by the district administration recently, revealed that 60 per cent beds in L3 facilities and 79.2 per cent in L2 facilities in the government hospitals were still vacant.Similarly, 49.63 per cent L3 and 60.06 per cent L2 beds in private facilities were also not yet occupied in the district.The data, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that 219 beds — 198 L2 and 21 L3 beds — of the total 285 (250 L2 and 35 L3 beds) in government hospitals were still available for the admission of needy critical patients.In the private facilities, 788 beds — 585 L2 and 203 L3 — of the total 1,383 beds (974 L2 and 409 L3) were still not occupied.Besides all the government facilities, 53 private hospitals have already been taken on board by the administration to admit and treat the critical virus patients in the district.In order to trace and treat the infections at the initial stage, the average daily sampling has also touched a new high at 4,848 between March 22 and 28, which, however, dipped to 4,103 between March 29 and April 4, and 4,457 between April 5 and 11.The sampling, which was as low as 1,927 between December 28 and January 3, gradually picked up to 2,239 between January 4 and 10; 1,988 between January 11 and 17; 2,009 between January 18 and 24; 2,053 between January 25 and 31; 1,961 between February 1 and 7; 2,405 between February 8 and 14; 2,397 between February 15 and 21; 2,502 between February 22 and 28; 3,736 between March 1 and 7; 3,830 between March 8 and 14; and 3,761 between March 15 and 21.Comparatively, the average daily sampling was recorded maximum at 4,810 between September 14 and 20 last year, after starting from 925 between August 3 and 9. However, it was ramped up to 1,826 between August 10 and 16; 3,018 between August 17 and 23; 3,893 between August 24 and 30; 4,005 between August 31 and September 6; 4,720 between September 7 and 13.It had started coming down to 4,598 between September 21 and 27; 4,068 between September 28 and October 4; 4,319 between October 5 and 11; 3,865 between October 12 and 18; 3,384 between October 19 and 25; 2,438 between October 26 and November 1; 1,955 between November 2 and 8; 1,969 between November 9 and 15; 2,170 between November 16 and 22 before once again going up to 3,272 between November 23 and 29, falling to 3,121 between November 30 and December 6; 2,775 between December 7 and 13; 2,496 between December 14 and 20; and 2,165 between December 21 and 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/despite-surge-in-second-wave-beds-available-in-hospitals-240196
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Migrant worker found dead in empty plot||A migrant worker, Firoz (36), native of Bihar but present resident of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar here, was found dead in an empty plot near the Dugri canal today.He had injury marks on his throat and the police suspect that he has been strangled.The ACP, Civil Lines, Jatinder Singh, said the deceased had left home without informing anyone in the family last night. He was drunk when he left home.At around 1.30 am today, his body was found in an empty plot near the Dugri canal. When people gathered there, his kin also reached and identified the body. The police suspect that he was strangled with a rope. His body has been kept at Civil Hospital’s mortuary and the exact cause of death would be known only after post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/migrant-worker-found-dead-in-empty-plot-240198
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Youth killed  as truck hits motorcycle at Sarabha Nagar||A 22-year-old youth was killed in a road mishap at Sarabha Nagar after his motorcycle was hit by a speedy and rashly driven mini-truck near Iyali Chowk.The youth had met with an accident on Wednesday and he had suffered serious head injuries. In a critical condition, he was undergoing treatment at a private hospital where he succumbed last night.The Sarabha Nagar police have registered a case against the truck driver, identified as Sunil Kumar, a resident of Rajjowal village. He was still at large.As per the deceased’s father Baldev Singh, a resident of Badewal Awana, his son Akashdeep Singh was going towards Iyali Chowk from Lyali Kalan for some work. When he reached near Iyali Chowk, the truck driver hit his son’s bike due to which his son fell away from the main road. Passers-by called the ambulance and they also informed him about the accident.Though the youth was taken to the hospital on time but due to his critical condition, he could not be saved. Investigating officer ASI Onkar Singh said a case was registered against the truck driver. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-killed-as-truck-hits-motorcycle-at-sarabha-nagar-240200
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Covaxin crunch: No new beneficiary administered vaccine in two days||For the past two days no new beneficiary has been administered the dose of Covaxin due to limited stock. Only those who had their first dose of Covaxin were given the second dose. There are 14 session sites where Covaxin is being administered. At these sites those coming to get their first jab had to return without vaccination on Thursday and Friday.Majorly Covishield is being administered at session sites across the city. “Ludhiana has stock of 40,000 Covishield doses, while Covaxin is limited in stock. It was last month that we had received 17,000 doses of Covaxin and for the past two days it has been administered to only those beneficiaries who had received the first dose of Covaxin. No new beneficiary was administered Covaxin,” said District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja.City resident Aakash Singla said he wanted to get vaccinated and wished to get a shot of Covaxin. “I came to know about a few centres where it is being administered but I was told that they have run out of stock and it is given to only those who had their first dose. I will wait till it is administered again,” he said.According to the experts there is no difference between both the vaccines.Another city resident from Dugri said she went to get herself vaccinated but was told to come on Saturday as they had no stock of vaccine but a few people were administered the shot. “When I enquired, I came to know that they were getting their second jab and since the stock was limited, they are not giving it to new beneficiaries,” she said.In the evening, Dr Juneja confirmed receiving the stock of Covaxin and said from tomorrow Covaxin would be administered and even those coming for the first jab would be given the dose.Today 16,163 persons were vaccinated in the district.Pvt hospitals unable to buy jab after new guidelinesThe private hospitals who are not empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme and are the Covid Vaccination Centers (CVC) are unable to buy vaccine. Recently the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued new guidelines for Covid vaccine payment. Now only those private hospitals who are empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme are able to purchase the vaccine from the government and run the vaccination process at their hospitals.Now all the payments are made through the Pardhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (also known as Ayushman Bharat Yojana) website to the National Health Authority. Earlier private hospitals who were not empanelled under the scheme were given a direct link of payment to the National Health Authority. Hospitals which have run out of stock and are unable to buy more are left with no other option but to discontinue the vaccination on their premises. It is beneficiaries who are at the receiving end as they have to visit another centre for vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covaxin-crunch-no-new-beneficiary-administered-vaccine-in-two-days-240201
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||To avoid mishaps, Ludhiana MC ties radium bands around neck of stray cattle||To avoid road mishaps due to stray cattle, the Municipal Corporation has started a drive to tie reflective radium band/collar around the necks of stray cattle.The MC’s Veterinary Services in-charge Dr Harbans Dhalla said the drive was started from Dairy Complex on Hambran Road as per the directions of Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal.He said they would tie bands/collars around the necks of 120 head of stray cattle during this phase. “We have planned to buy 3,000 more reflective radium bands for the next phase,” he added.Notably, a number of mishaps have taken place due to stray cattle in the district. The MC official said these reflective radium bands would be helpful in avoiding road mishaps as such bands would make it easier for vehicle drivers to spot the cattle from far away.Hundreds of stray cattle are roaming in various parts of the city. The stray cattle are commonly seen roaming near the uncovered garbage dump at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Hambran Road, Jalandhar bypass, Tajpur Road, Chandigarh Road and many other parts of the city. The residents have been demanding from the MC to ensure shifting of the stray cattle from roads to shelters for a long time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/to-avoid-mishaps-ludhiana-mc-ties-radium-bands-around-neck-of-stray-cattle-240202
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Four shanties destroyed in fire on Jassian road||A fire broke out in a few shanties situated on the Jassian road in the wee hours on Friday. Two fire tenders were used to control the fire. No loss of lives reported. Household goods were destroyed.As per fire officials, the fire broke out at around 1.30 am. Local residents called the fire brigade to inform about the incident.Within 10 minutes, the fire personnel reached the spot and started their efforts to control the situation.Fire personnel faced difficulty in controlling the fire due to darkness. They had to struggle a lot in shanties in the absenceof electricity. They managed to douse the flames in one hour.Fire officials said the cause of the fire was still not known and people residing in shanties said the fire started when one of the families was cooking something by lighting a fire. Since all shanties are close to each other, the fire spread fast.Four shanties were completely destroyed in the fire. Later, the police reached the spot.People living in other shanties in the area had rushed to safer places. Many of them had even took away their household goods from the shanties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-shanties-destroyed-in-fire-on-jassian-road-240204
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana civic body removes 20 encroachments||The Municipal Corporation (MC) on Friday removed around 20 encroachments along the Buddha Nullah near Upkar Nagar Bridge and Gopal Nagar. The MC has to instal fencing along the Buddha Nullah to stop people from dumping solid waste in the drain.People whose houses were demolished said they had been living there for the past few decades. They said they had no information that the MC would demolish their houses today.Some dwellers said they had purchased houses from other persons but they were not told by them that the land belongs to the government.Dilbagh Singh, a resident, said: “I had purchased my house years ago but I had no information that the land belongs to the government. We are not in a condition to buy a new home.”A resident said: “The MC team suddenly reached the spot to demolish our houses. No prior notice was served. Our financial condition is not good. The government should ensure our rehabilitation instead of demolishing our shelters. We have no arrangements to stay under the roof. After our house was demolished, our family is forced to stay without a roof now.”Meanwhile, questions are also raised over the role of the MC for not taking action against big encroachments.MC’s ATP MS Bedi was present during the anti-encroachment drive. Civic body officials said these encroachments were earlier identified and a red sign was marked on buildings constructed on the encroached land.The MC had planned to remove encroachments in Shivpuri in the Zone A area along the Buddha Nullah today. When the team visited the place, some residents opposed the MC team.Parveen Dang, an activist, said: “The MC was going to demolish the buildings without serving any notice on occupants. People are living there for three decades. Moreover, residents have ownership documents. We asked the authorities to check the documents first.”After facing opposition, the MC team returned from the area. ATP Mohan Singh could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-civic-body-removes-20-encroachments-240206
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Education Dept woos parents to enrol more students in govt schools||Parents in large numbers attended the ‘School Darshan’ programme here today. ‘School Darshan’ is an initiative taken by the Education Department to make parents aware about facilities given to students in various schools of the district.Majority of schools ensured that Covid guidelines were properly being followed during the programme, but still many parents were taking the infection lightly. The school authorities apprised parents to wear masks for their own safety.Although the Education Department may have planned the event to enrol more students, yet it failed to provide science and maths books to pupils above Class VI onwards. Parents were told to collect the books later from respective schools of their wards.Sukhdarshan Singh from Kot Mangal Singh said parents came especially to collect books for their wards. But, the Education Department failed to send enough maths and science books, he added. Parents were told to visit schools again to collect books, he said.“The department knew that parents will be given books for their wards. The department should have ensured that books were available for all students. If books have not been published yet, the ‘School Darshan’ programme could have been held later. Most parents had come to collect books and not to see school premises,” he added.The Government School Teachers’ Union general secretary, Parveen Kumar, said many parents visited schools in the district, but it was difficult for the authorities concerned to make them understand to wear masks for their own protection from coronavirus.“Parents wore masks in front of us, but these were either removed later or worn in a wrong manner. There is spike in Covid cases and as responsible citizens we need to follow preventive guidelines. Only then our children will take precautions,” he added.Many parents were happy to see improvement in government schools. Quite many of them are shifting their wards from private to government schools.“We are happy that the government is providing all facilities in schools. Now, we don’t have to spend much on studies of our children. Otherwise, it was getting difficult for persons like me, who earn their daily bread after working so hard, to continue providing education to our kids in private schools,” said Sardool Singh, who runs a small tea stall near Bharat Nagar Chowk.Meanwhile, ‘School Darshan’ programme was a hit with parents whose wards studied in private schools. As per press release, almost all government schools of the district got good response from such parents. They were impressed to see changes in government schools.All principals, heads and teachers welcomed parents particularly those, whose children studied in private school. They apprised parents about the smart school development plan.Principal Dr Davinder Singh Chhina said, “Paankpreet Singh Mundi, an Italy-born student, who was earlier studying at a private school in Rara Sahib, has got admission in Shahpur Smart School today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/education-dept-woos-parents-to-enrol-more-students-in-govt-schools-240208
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||48,000 litres of ‘lahan’ recovered in Sidhwan Bet||The Excise Department recovered huge quantity of ‘lahan’ during a raid conducted under the Operation Red Rose today.A joint raid was conducted under the supervision of Dewan Chand Sharma, EO (West B Ludhiana), in the Sidhwan Bet area by the excise team, said department.During search on both sides of the river at Akuwal, Chandigarh dia Channa, Behran, Tahli dia Channa , Gorsian Khan Muhammad and Madupur villages falling in the Sidhwan Bet area the excise team recovered big/small tarpaulins from which 48,000 litres of ‘lahan’ was recovered, the department added. The recovered ‘lahan’ was destroyed, the department said. Besides, big plastic tubes with 250 bottles of illicit country liquor, 10 big iron drums, plastic pipes and wood were also recovered during raid, the department added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/48-000-litres-of-lahan-recovered-in-sidhwan-bet-240209
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||382 Ludhiana MC employees get jab||To break the transmission chain of the Covid infection, a vaccination camp was organised at the MC Zone A, near Mata Rani Chowk, today. The camp was organised for employees of the MC.Dr Jasvir Kaur, the Municipal Corporation Health Officer, said 324 employees received the first dose of vaccination and 58 got their second jab against Covid. She further informed that in all, 6,150 employees received their first dose while 1,432 got their second jab against virus.The MC Zonal Commissioner, Zone A, Tejinderpal Singh Panchhi, said they got a good response at the camp today. “The camp will also be held tomorrow. We appeal to all employees to visit the camp and get vaccinated against virus,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/382-ludhiana-mc-employees-get-jab-240210
17-04-2021||Doraha||1,200 intoxicating tablets recovered||The police have recovered 1,200 intoxicating tablets from a resident of Jaipura village. A police party had set up a special naka at Kaddon Chowk. On receiving a tip-off, the police stopped a pedestrian identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Bhela, of Jaipura village, for checking. During search of his bag, 1,200 intoxicating tablets were recovered from Harpreet, the police said.The suspect was arrested and a case under Sections 22/61/85 of the NDPS Act was registered against him at the Doraha police station, the police added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-200-intoxicating-tablets-recovered-240212
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Three held with illicit liquor, drugs||The Ludhiana rural police have arrested three persons, including a woman, in separate incidents and recovered illicit liquor and banned drugs from their possession. The police nabbed them during a special drive.The Sidhwan Bet police have arrested a woman, identified as Baso Rani, a resident of Sidhwan Bet, and seized nine bottles of illicit liquor from her.Investigating officer ASI Dalwinder Singh said during routine patrolling, a woman was stopped for checking and illicit liquor was seized. She was going on foot to sell liquor to her clients. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against her.In another incident, the Jagraon city police have nabbed a man and seized 28 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession. The accused has been identified as Honey Sharma of Mahavir Chowk, Jagraon. Investigating officer Gurmeet Singh said a tip-off was received that the accused was into the illegal trade of liquor smuggling and he was on the way to deliver liquor to his clients. Accordingly, the police laid a trap and nabbed him along with the liquor.The CIA wing of the rural police nabbed Buta Singh of Bhaini Gujran village and recovered 520 intoxicating tablets from him. The police also seized his car in which he used to supply drugs to his clients.ASI Gurmit Singh said the accused had been supplying banned drugs to his clients in Jagraon and surrounding areas. Yesterday, he was waiting for his clients when the police arrested him and recovered the drugs.The police have launched further probe in all cases to bust the entire supply line.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-held-with-illicit-liquor-drugs-240213
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Mayor finds unsanitary condition at parking lot||Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu inspected multi-storey parking lot near Mata Rani Chowk at Zone A here today. During inspection Sandhu found unsanitary conditions at the parking lot.According to information the parking contractor had allegedly failed to ensure cleanliness at the parking lot in the building due to which visitors face inconvenience.Sandhu warned parking contractor to ensure cleanliness at parking lots otherwise action would be initiated against him.Meanwhile, Sandhu also inspected the MC store at Zone C and found many drums containing expired pesticide, which was earlier used for fogging to kill mosquitoes.“Officials concerned of the MC have contacted the company, which supplied this pesticide. The company has assured to replace the existing stock of pesticide with fresh one,” said Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mayor-finds-unsanitary-condition-at-parking-lot-240214
17-04-2021||Lovleen BainsDoraha||Residents demand lockdown to break transmission chain||As Covid cases swell with each passing day, residents have demanded that immediate lockdown should be imposed at least for a week. “Nothing else can break the coronavirus chain better than the lockdown,” they believe.“The situation is far from normal. Panic and fear is writ large on every face as Covid cases have failed to subside. I fail to understand why has the government till date not thought in terms of imposing complete lockdown when we have already reached a stage of community spread? Priority at this stage should be saving lives and not the economy,” said Dr Narinder Sidhu, Principal, Guru Nanak National College, Doraha.“Lockdown for a week may help in containing the virus to a considerable extent. People are ready to eat less, but they are certainly not in a position to lose their near and dear ones forever,” he added.“Even when Covid cases are skyrocketing, there is still a section, which has thrown all safety norms to the wind believing that Covid-19 is nothing more than a figment of imagination,” opined Jandeep Kaushal, a social worker.“Eating from rehriwalas continues as usual. Rush in public spaces has not subsided. Shopkeepers take no safety precautions. Shops are filled to the brim with customers, who don’t wear masks or maintain social distance. Check imposed by the authorities seems to be a farce. In such a situation, when the public is completely oblivious of dangers of the pandemic, it is appropriate to make them forcibly sit at their homes,” he added.“The staff is called to schools and colleges as a matter of routine. We just go to school under compulsion. There is simply no charm left in working when fear psychosis has gripped each and every individual. Lockdown for a week will be beneficial and definitely not cause irreparable loss to the economy,” rued a teacher of the local school.“The recent Covid spread is a matter of concern. Something substantial and immediate has to be brought in to contain the spread otherwise it may be too late. Lockdown seems to be the only option to save lives,” shared Harbans Singh Sains, a resident of Sahnewal“The public is not taking the pandemic seriously. We are continuously in touch with the people and educating them about the infection. Zero tolerance is shown towards those, who don’t realise the seriousness of the issue. The public rather than cooperating with the police sometimes takes enforcement of guidelines negatively. All should rather join hands to contain the virus,” said Hardeep Singh Cheema, DSP, Payal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-demand-lockdown-to-break-transmission-chain-240215
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana civic body yet to set up vending zones: Assn||Despite repeated demands by a street vendors’ union, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is delaying the process to set up vending zones for the vendors in the city.Tiger Singh, secretary, north unit of the National Association of Street Vendors (NASVI), said the civic body was yet to set up vending zones for the street vendors.He alleged: “The vendors are forced to suffer due to action taken against them by the MC and the police. Instead of setting up the vending zones as per law, the MC and the police are taking action against the vendors who are already facing financial problems due to the Covid-19 pandemic.”“We demand from the government to issue directions to the police and the MC to stop removing carts of the vendors from various areas till the vending zones are not set up,” he said.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he had given directions to the staff concerned to shift the registered street vendors at sites that had been identified for vending zones. Till the vending zones were not set up, no fee should be collected from the vendors to run their business at identified sites.Meanwhile, NASVI members said they had also written a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh recently regarding other issues being faced by the vendors.“We are getting reports of undue restrictions, harassment, and even heavy fines imposed on the street vendors in the state. We have requested the CM to allow all street vendors having identity cards, certificates of vendin and those who have taken a loan under the scheme, PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi, to do vending with the safety norms,” said Arbind Singh, national co-ordinator of NASVI.He said: “Night curfew should be imposed from 10 pm. At many places, the police start removing vendors from the evening itself. How can the evening vendors survive?”They also demanded that the street vendors must be vaccinated on a priority basis. The corporation must come forward and provide them emergency ration and safety kits containing masks, sanitisers, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-civic-body-yet-to-set-up-vending-zones-assn-240217
17-04-2021||Ludhiana||Session on security in Ludhiana's industrial areas||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) organised a virtual session in coordination with various regional industrial associations on security and policing issues at Focal Point and in the industrial areas.The session was attended by Rupinder Kaur Sra, ADCP (VI), along with her team, including Simranjit Singh, ACP (Industrial Area-A), Davinder Kumar Sharma, SHO, Focal Point, and Jaswinder Singh, technical expert and in-charge, Safe City Project, Ludhiana.Ashpreet Sahni, chairman, CII Ludhiana zone, along with representatives of various organisations, discussed increasing thefts, including that of bikes and such incidents on factory premises. Issues like snatching, active extortion groups, illegal ‘khokhas’ and scrap dealers in industrial areas were also taken up during the session. The ADCP (IV) assured industry members regarding activation of defunct PCR halts in industrial areas to reduce the crime graph. She also requested associations to installing CCTV cameras and giving their access to the police control room for better surveillance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/session-on-security-in-ludhianas-industrial-areas-240218
17-04-2021||Sahnewal||16-yr-old girl goes missing from Sahnewal||A teenaged girl of Karamjit Nagar of Malli Chowk has been missing since March 19.The girl’s father, Chand Parkash Pandey, complained to the Sahnewal police that his 16-year-old daughter had been missing since March 19.The family contacted their relatives, but the girl could not be traced. Pandey alleged that Gursharanjit Singh of Bhikhiwind in Taran Taran had taken away his daughter and kept her in illegal custody. A case was registered against the suspect at the Sahnewal police station yesterday.Investigating officer Karnail Singh said the police was trying ascertain whereabouts of the suspect. The girl could have illicit relations with the suspect, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/16-yr-old-girl-goes-missing-from-sahnewal-240219
17-04-2021||---||6 dead, 482 positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 15Six more persons from the district have succumbed to the virus during the past 24 hours. Also, 482 fresh cases were reported today.As many as 43 persons came in contact with positive patients, 98 visited OPD and 248 with influenza-like illness visited Flu Corner. Two healthcare workers, cop and three with severe acute respiratory infection have tested positive for the virus. Besides, 87 patients are yet to be traced.Six persons from Ludhiana — 65-year-old man from Dugri, 62-year-old man from Manakwal, 65-year-old woman from Vikas Nagar, 57-year-old man from Haibowal Kalan, 78-year-old woman from Samrala and 73-year-old man from Manuke — died of the virus. The department has also confirmed the death of one patient each from Pathankot, Sangrur, and Patiala districts.At present, 30 patients — 20 from Ludhiana and 10 from other districts or states — have been put on ventilator support.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said there were 3,756 active patients in the district at present. A total of 542 patients (482 new patients from Ludhiana district and 60 from other states/districts) had tested positive in the last 24 hours.He said to date, a total of 8,64,109 samples had been taken, out of which report of 8,63,485 samples had been received. As many as 8,16,116 samples were found negative, while reports of 624 samples were pending. He said now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana was 40,945, while 6,424 patients belonged to other districts/states.As many as 1,226 persons from Ludhiana and 634 from other districts had lost their live till now, he said.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to the residents to adhere to all the safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-dead-482-positive-in-ludhiana-239770
