18-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana snake charmer who claims to treat COVID patients tests positive for infection||A snake charmer, who claimed to treat coronavirus patients with the help of indigenous medicines, tested positive for the infection here on Saturday.According to a release issued by the district authorities here, he allegedly used to give unrealistic tips and indigenous prescriptions to people to stay safe from COVID-19. He tested positive for COVID-19 at a special camp organised by health teams at the Lalton Kalan bus stand, where samples of commuters were taken. The snake charmer was told to undergo a COVID test but he refused and claimed that he can never get this infection as he himself provides indigenous medicines to people to stay safe from it, the release claimed.Following the reluctance shown by the snake charmer, the health teams with the help of the local police took his sample and he tested positive for the virus.After confirmation, the health teams directed him for home isolation.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma requested people to consult only qualified doctors in case of any symptoms of fever, cold or cough. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-snake-charmer-who-claims-to-treat-covid-patients-tests-positive-for-infection-240786
18-04-2021||Ludhiana||Agriculture Minister opens virtual classroom at GADVASU, Ludhiana||Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar virtually inaugurated the “Virtual Classroom” & “Agri-Diksha Web Education Channel” at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana. GADVASU has been selected among the 18 elite universities by the ICAR-IASRI for setting up the virtual classroom facility under the National Agricultural Higher Education Project.Meanwhile, the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has also established a virtual classroom and recording studio facility on the campus under Component 2 of the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP). — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/agriculture-minister-opens-virtual-classroom-at-gadvasu-ludhiana-240618
18-04-2021||Ludhiana||Covid-19 vaccination camp||Session on Ayurveda organisedBajaj College organised a session on Ayurveda. Dr Hemanshu Mishra was the spokesperson for the day. During the session, he guided students and faculty on how to lead a healthy life with the help of ayurvedic way of living. He laid emphasis to consuming simple food and more fruits and fresh vegetables.Webinar on 75 yrs of IndependenceA webinar on celebrating 75 years of Independence, with special reference to the role of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev in the freedom struggle, was organised at Gobindgarh Public College, Alour (Khanna). Dr Nirmal Singh Jaura, Youth Welfare director, Panjab University, Chandigarh, was the chief guest. Dr Rekha Sood Handa, principal, Gopi Chand Arya Mahila College, Abohar was the resource person for the day.Session on competitive examsThe postgraduate department of commerce of the Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, in collaboration with Bulls Eye, organised a webinar on ‘Preparation for competitive exams’. About 106 students participated in the session. Resource person Pranav Chauhan made students aware about various techniques and tricks to be applied to crack competitive exams. The department also organized a 15-day certified course on GST.Jain College students bring laurelsStudents of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women excelled in diploma course in Event Management examination. Sonia Kumari scored 94 per cent, followed by Tavneet Kaur and Muskan Mehta with 93 per cent while Sukhmeen Kaur got 92 per cent. Farheen and Harshpreet secured 91.50 per cent, Neer Jain got 91 per cent, followed by Priyanka Belbase with 90.50 per cent, Sonia Chaurasia with 90 per cent and Simran with 89.50 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-vaccination-camp-240635
18-04-2021||---||50,000 litres of ‘lahan’ seized, eight booked in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 17The anti-smuggling cell of the city police conducted raids on villages alongside the Sutlej and recovered 50,000 litres of ‘lahan’. The ‘lahan’ was destroyed on the spot.The police booked eight persons —Khandi, Sukhraj Singh, Shinda, Jagdish Singh Modi, Maninder Singh, Chamkor Singh, Kuldeep Singh and Butti Singh.Anti-smuggling cell in-charge Yashpal Sharma said raids were conducted on Bholewal Jadid, Rajapur, Khaira Bet and other villages.He said the police also recovered other material used to distil illicit liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/50-000-litres-of-lahan-seized-eight-booked-in-ludhiana-240625
18-04-2021||Ludhiana||2.5L MT wheat procured: Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner||Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today informed that a total of 2.5 lakh MT wheat has been procured in the district since the procurement began.More than nine lakhs metric ton of wheat was expected to be procured, he added.In the wake of inclement weather conditions, Sharma today asked all procurement agencies to take necessary steps to ensure that the grain procured is not damaged.He said: “Procurement of grains is going in a smooth and hassle-free manner but utmost care must be taken to save the collected grains. Dedicated efforts are being made to store the procured grains at a safe place in the markets so that no damage is caused to them.”He ordered the officers concerned to visit mandis and ensure that arrangements to protect the procured wheat were in place. The DC said the administration had set up additional 124 purchase centres besides the already existing 108 permanent grain markets across the district to purchase wheat by maintaining social-distancing norms.He also asked the procurement agencies to ensure the provision of tarpaulins in every grain market. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-5l-mt-wheat-procured-ludhiana-deputy-commissioner-240627
18-04-2021||Ludhiana||Oxygen plant inaugurated at Ludhiana Civil Hospital||When news about shortage of oxygen for Covid patients from many parts of the country was making the former anxious, what has come as a big relief is that an oxygen plant has been set up at the Civil Hospital here which was inaugurated yesterday.Earlier, the hospital used to outsource oxygen cylinders and the cost of a cylinder was Rs 250. Sometimes, there were complaints of delayed supply of cylinders.The plant was inaugurated by MLA Surinder Dawar.Senior Medical Officer Amarjeet Kaur said now, there would be no shortage of oxygen for patients as the Civil Hospital is self-sufficient after the setting up of the oxygen plant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/oxygen-plant-inaugurated-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital-240628
18-04-2021||Ludhiana||12 booked for violating curfew in Ludhiana||In a statement issued, the Ludhiana police revealed that the police carried a special campaign to check night curfew violations. Nine cases of violations were registered against 12 persons during the drive.The police said the booked persons include shopkeepers, roadside vendors and other residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/12-booked-for-violating-curfew-in-ludhiana-240630
18-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man held with poppy husk in Ludhiana||The CIA wing of the city police nabbed a smuggler and recovered 20 kg of poppy husk from his possession.The accused has been identified as Chandan Kumar, a native of Bihar, at present residing in Gurdev Nagar. Later, ACP (crime) Surinder Mohan and CIA in charge Parveen Kumar addressed mediapersons.The ACP said the CIA team was patrolling in the city to nab smugglers and on suspicion, a pedestrian was stopped for checking near the bus stand. When the bag he was carrying was checked, 20 kg of poppy husk was recovered. He was on the way to deliver the same to his clients.The ACP said the accused, a native of Bihar, came to Ludhiana in 2017. He was earning his livelihood by driving a truck and now, he was driving an auto-rickshaw. Recently, he started drug smuggling to earn quick bucks. The police remand of the accused would be sought from court for further interrogation.A case has been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-with-poppy-husk-in-ludhiana-240617
18-04-2021||Legal Correspondent||Traffic Lok Adalat settles 84 cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 17The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) under the supervision of its chairman-cum-Sessions Judge Munish Singal today organised a special traffic challan Lok Adalat.Divulging details, District Legal Services Authority chairman-cum-Secretary Prabhjot Singh Kaleka said nine benches were constituted for the special Lok Adalat in which as many as 84 cases were settled and amount worth Rs 1.27 lakh was collected. He appealed to the people to obey the traffic rules for their safety.He said people could approach the District Legal Services Authority or the courts concerned for the settlement of cases through the Lok Adalats. The decision of Lok Adalat was the final, which could not be challenged further.Session Judge said Lok Adalats were instrumental in saving the time and money of the people besides promoting harmony among the people.He said that the people could also get their cases resolved through the mediation centre in the District Judicial Complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traffic-lok-adalat-settles-84-cases-in-ludhiana-240636
18-04-2021||---||VVIP treatment to singer Karan Aujla at Ludhiana Central Jail: ADGP submits report to govt||Ludhiana, April 17In a Ludhiana Central Jail episode in which the singer Karan Aujla and several others were given VVIP treatment allegedly by Jail Superintendent Rajiv Arora, ADGP (Prisons) PK Sinha has sent the probe report to the state government.Sinha said the report was submitted to the state government and further action or recommendations now had to be made by the government. “My purpose was to conduct the inquiry and I had deployed DIG (Prisons) SS Saini, who visited the jail and conducted a thorough probe into the matter. I cannot comment if the probe has found Jail Superintendent Rajiv Arora guilty or innocent. Now the report is with the government and it will issue further directions,” added the ADGP.After the incident on April 7, Minister for Jails Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had asked the ADGP (Prisons) to probe the matter and fix the responsibility of Jail Superintendent Rajeev Arora, if the latter had resorted to any negligence.Jail Superintendent Arora had already denied the allegations of VVIP treatment to singer Aujla. He said that singer was his family friend and he had come to have a cup of tea with him at the jail.When singer Aujla had visited the jail, official escort Gypsy of Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had led the cavalcade of Aujla. The police had also submitted report in this regard to the police headquarters after enquiring from the jail and checking the CCTV footages of smart city cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vvip-treatment-to-singer-karan-aujla-at-ludhiana-central-jail-adgp-submits-report-to-govt-240632
18-04-2021||---||Snatchers’ gang busted, 2 held in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 17The Police Division 3 busted a gang of snatchers and arrested two of its members.The accused have been identified as Amit Kumar of Phillaur and Ajay Kumar of Shahpur, Jalandhar district. The police have recovered an airgun, 47 bullets of airgun, Rs 5,000, 12 keys, a ladies purse and some sharp weapons.ADCP Pragya Jain, ACP (central) Waryam Singh, and SHO Madhu Bala addressed mediapersons in this regard.The police said on April 13, Surinder Kaur of New Shivaji Nagar had lodged a complaint to the police that two bike-borne persons had snatched a purse containing cash, documents and other valuables from her.The ADCP said accused Amit had no criminal background while his friend Ajay had a notorious background as he was facing five cases of theft, drug and fraud registered against him in Jalandhar and Rajasthan in the past.She said the police remand of the accused would be sought from court for further investigation, after which more members of the gang could be nabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/snatchers-gang-busted-2-held-in-ludhiana-240619
18-04-2021||---||Dug-up traffic island poses threat to commuters’ lives in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 17A portion of land at a traffic island at Partap Chowk that was dug up a few months ago has become an open invitation to mishaps. The portion was dug up for the installation of a statue but the site was abandoned without completing the work.The pit has been left open and iron rods pointing upwards are calling for a major mishap but the civic body officials concerned are yet to take any action. The matter was brought to the notice of MC officials but nothing was done to barricade the area to date.Simratpal Singh Kalsi, a residentThe pit has been left open at Partap Chowk. It is posing a grave threat to motorists/commuters as heavy vehicles and two-wheelers pass through the road every day. In the night, there is no adequate light in the area as well.Simratpal Singh Kalsi, a resident, has sent a complaint to the Local Government in this regard. He said, “The pit has been left open in the middle of the road at Partap Chowk. It is posing a great threat to motorists as heavy vehicles and two-wheelers passe through the road every day. In the night, there is no adequate light in that area as well.”“The work was started in the middle of the road and it may also cause traffic problems. I have been witnessing the pit at Partap Chowk for a long time. Last month, I had informed an official in this regard but to no avail,” he said.When contacted, Municipal Corporation’s SDO Rakesh Singla said a statue was to be installed at that place. “The area where the statue is to be installed will be barricaded,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dug-up-traffic-island-poses-threat-to-commuters-lives-in-ludhiana-240620
18-04-2021||Lovleen Bains||Wheat crop gutted in 56 acres in Ludhiana village||Doraha, April 17A total of 108 acres of land, including 56 acres of standing wheat crop and 52 acres of stubble in villages Gidri, Bilaspur and Lapran, was destroyed in a major fire that broke out last evening. Short circuit was reported to be the reason behind the fire.The crop of villagers, including Nirmal Singh, Jagtar Singh, Jagtar Singh Jaggi, Kamaldeep Singh, Soni, Narinderpal Singh, Kulwant Singh and Darshan Singh, were reduced to ashes after a short circuit in a nearby electricity transformer led to the fire.Fire brigades could reach the spot only after the flames had already been doused with the collective effort of villagers. Deepak Prabhakar, the driver of the fire brigade, said the villagers had already controlled the fire when reached the spot.Sarpanch Gidri Gurjit Singh that initially the stubble of nearby village Lapran caught fire due to the short circuit. Due to strong winds, the fire spread to villages Gidri and Bilaspur.Enforcement team and officials from the electricity board visited the spot today.Payal SDM Mankawal Singh Chahal along with Tehsildar Pardeep Bains reached the spot to analyse the loss. The tehsildar said a total of 36 acres of wheat of Gidri village and 20 acres at Bilaspur village was reduced to ashes.“According to farmers sparking in the electricity line led to the fire, hence the SE of the PSPCL has been directed to submit a detailed report on the same. Meanwhile, the Revenue Department is preparing a case for the compensation,” said the SDM. Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha reached the spot and promised adequate compensation to the affected farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wheat-crop-gutted-in-56-acres-in-ludhiana-village-240622
18-04-2021||---||Covid-19: Ludhiana district breaks records; 835 cases in a day||Ludhiana, April 17Once again Ludhiana district broke the previous records today and the district saw 835 new cases of Covid. The district had reported 598 positive cases yesterday. This is the highest spike since the outbreak of Covid in March 2020It was in September last year that highest 7,736 cases were reported in a month, but in April 7,768 cases were recorded in 17 days. The active cases in the district today rose to 4,277.Today six persons lost their lives due to the virus. Three men and three women, belonging to Maharana Partap Nagar, Inderpuri, Tilak Nagar, Khanna, Dugri and Basti Jodhewal, succumbed to the virus. Those who tested positive today include three health workers.The number of patients on the ventilator support today was 20, out of which 11 were from Ludhiana district and nine from other districts.Total positive cases have now reached 42,378, while 1,238 persons have lost their lives in the district so far.Snake charmer tests +veA snake charmer in the city tested positive for Covid. He often used to give unrealistic tips and indigenous prescriptions to people about how to stay safe from Covid.The snake charmer was tested positive during a special camp organised by health teams at the Lalton Kalan bus stand. The health team asked the snake charmer to undergo Covid test, but he refused and claimed that he could never get the infection as he, himself, provided indigenous prescriptions/medicines to people for keeping themselves safe from coronavirus.Following the adamant and reluctant attitude shown by the snake charmer for giving sample, the health team with the help of the Lalton Kalan police post staff took sample of the former, who tested positive.Weblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-ludhiana-district-breaks-records-835-cases-in-a-day-240611
18-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana reports 2nd highest daily Covid cases in Punjab, says study||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 17Ludhiana, which is among the high-burden districts and had re-emerged as Covid hotspot, has reported high transmission of the disease, a recent study has revealed.The study conducted by the Department of Community Medicine at Christian Medical College (CMC) here reported that Ludhiana was among four districts, Mohali, Jalandhar and Patiala being others, with high transmission of Covid.Hussan Lal, Principal Health SecretaryOfficialSpeakThe high transmission rate is a cause of concern and needs to be curbed forthwith. The districts have been advised to act proactively with ramped up testing, tracing, sampling and treatment facilities. The situation is being monitored at the highest level on a daily basis.“The recent spike in the cases needs to be observed closely for any divergence from the predicted trajectory,” advised the experts at CMC, while opining that the increased number of tests can explain the recent spike but any divergence from the predicted trajectory requires close monitoring.However, the daily testing in Ludhiana between April 7 and 13 was recorded at 1,023 per million population, which was even lower than the state average of 1,304 per million.Ahead of the national average of 932, Ludhiana ranked sixth last in the state as only five other districts — Tarn Taran with 832, Bathinda 814, Ferozepur 755, Barnala 705 and Moga worst with lowest 498 per million testing — behind it.Pathankot topped the state with highest 2,207 per million testing, followed by Jalandhar 2,057, Nawanshahr 1,986, Kapurthala 1,907, Patiala 1,900, Mohali 1,880, Ropar 1,661, Muktsar 1,341, Hoshiarpur 1,303, Faridkot 1,249, Amritsar 1,229, Gurdaspur 1,178, Fatehgarh Sahib 1,078, Fazilka 1,074, Sangrur 1,053, and Mansa 1,042.In the average number of positive cases between March 10 and April 13, Ludhiana recorded the second highest 341 daily cases, only behind Jalandhar with highest 342 infections in the state.Among other districts, Mohali reported 327, Amritsar 243, Patiala 230, Hoshiarpur 201, Gurdaspur 118, Kapurthala 117, Bathinda 103, Nawanshahr 76, Ropar 73, Sangrur 45, Faridkot 42, Tarn Taran and Pathankot 39 each, Fatehgarh Sahib 38, Ferozepur 35, Muktsar 32, Moga 31, Fazilka 30, Mansa 27 and Barnala reported the lowest 16 daily cases.The state had reported 2,544 average daily cases during this period.When it comes to the average positivity rate between March 10 and April 13, Ludhiana stood fifth in the state with 8 per cent positivity, which was even higher than 7.2 per cent average positivity rate.Mohali reported the highest positivity rate of 18.4 per cent, followed by Patiala 8.6, Bathinda and Kapurthala 8.3 each, Ropar 8, Jalandhar 7.8, Amritsar 7.5, Hoshiarpur 7.4, Faridkot 7.2, Fatehgarh Sahib 6.9, Moga 6.2, Nawanshahr 5.2, Gurdaspur 5, Ferozepur 4.7, Barnala 4.5, Tarn Taran 4.4, Muktsar 4.3, Mansa and Pathankot 3.7 each, Fazilka 3.2 and Sangrur 2.9.Christian Medical College experts have recommended continuation of the current restrictions on schools and meetings and strict vigilance on testing and isolation for next few weeks. They also advised that people attending gatherings should themselves report symptoms, get test done and self-isolate promptly if positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-reports-2nd-highest-daily-covid-cases-in-punjab-says-study-240612
18-04-2021||Manav Mander||Covishield supply runs dry in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 17There was a limited stock of Covishield vaccine left with the Health Department in the city today. Only rural Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) were sent the doses of covishield, while in urban CVCs only Covaxin was administered. Beneficiaries coming for the second dose of Covishield in the urban areas had to return without the jab.Yesterday the stock of Covaxin had arrived in the district and today only Covaxin was given in the urban CVCs. It is expected that the stock of Covishield will arrive tomorrow.Dr GS Grewal, former president of the Punjab Medical Council, said they were not getting the doses of Covishield and left with no other option the vaccination process had to be stopped till the stock arrived. People coming for vaccination were returning without the jab.Another doctor from the city said he had paid for 300 doses and managed to get only 100. “After these doses were administered, I requested the department for more doses but was refused the same as there was no stock with the department. As a result I had to stop the vaccination process by noon,” he said.Jatinder Kaur said she went to get the second dose of Covid vaccine but she has to return without the jab as Covishield was out of stock. “I was asked to enquire tomorrow again about the arrival of the vaccine,” she said.Another beneficiary, who also went for his second dose today, had to come back without completing the vaccination process.“Only Covaxin was given to those coming for vaccination. Since my first dose was Covishield, I had to return back without the jab as the hospital did not have the stock and I was asked to come back on Monday,” he said.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they had limited stock of Covishield left with them and were expecting the supply on Sunday. “Today Covishield was administered at rural CVCs while Covaxin was given at Urban CVCs,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covishield-supply-runs-dry-in-ludhiana-240613
18-04-2021||---||Covid testing centres in Ludhiana see huge rush||Ludhiana, April 17A huge rush is being witnessed at Covid testing centres these days. The number of people getting tested is increasing at government as well as private centres.People having fever and body ache are going for the test before consulting doctor.The Covid test is also being done at the Civil Hospital and the number of people visiting the hospital for the same has increased considerably.The district has also increased the testing done on a daily basis. On Saturday, 7,677 samples were sent by the district for testing and on a daily basis, nearly 6,000 tests are being conducted. During March, every day around 3,000 samples were sent while in January-February, around 2,000 samples were sent per day for testing.The Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) has a Covid testing centre for the public. Nowadays, it is collecting 500-600 samples daily. Earlier, it was around 200-250.Earlier, those coming for getting tested at the DMCH centre were mostly travellers. But now, people having mild fever and body ache are also coming for the same.“Whenever somebody comes for the testing, we ask the reason for getting the test done and besides travelling, other reasons given by many people include having fever and body ache. They are getting the test done on their own,” said a lab attendant at the hospital.Dr Ramesh, District Epidemologist, said before the spike in cases, samples collected at Civil Hospital were around 300-400 while these days the figure has gone up to 700-800. Samples collected from the entire district has seen an increase. Daily 7,000-8,000 samples were being sent for testing from the district.A resident of Aggar Nagar said his wife was having fever and body ache for the past two days and the family thought it was better to get the Covid test done.“We are also regularly checking her oxygen level at home,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-testing-centres-in-ludhiana-see-huge-rush-240614
18-04-2021||---||Pet registration fee: Ludhiana Civic body mulls exemption to some categories||Ludhiana, April 17The Municipal Corporation (MC) has done registration of over 2,000 pets in the city. The pet registration process was launched last year by the civic body. Now, it is planning to give exemption to some categories from Rs 400 fee for pet registration.MC’s veterinary services in charge Dr Harbans Dhalla said a proposal had been prepared for giving exemption of registration fee to some categories.“The MC, Ludhiana, is seriously considering this proposal. The pet registration was made mandatory must in June 2020 in areas under the jurisdiction of the civic body,” he said.He said: “Over 2,000 pets have been registered in the city till March 31 this year which is a record high as compared to cities in the country having similar population.”Dr Dhalla said: “We have made a proposal to give exemption to some categories, including visually challenged and physically challenged persons who are using pets as help, security forces, education institutions such as GADVASU as per norms of the Animal Ethical Control Committee, dog lovers or animal right activists who keep stray dogs under the boundary of their properties, NGO/organisations which are registered and look after stray dogs and provide recommended space to stray dogs and poor people with conditions.”If the proposal was approved, an exemption could be given after verification. Those who would get exemptions were required to fulfil the conditions fixed by the MC, he said.Dr Dhalla said the file regarding this proposal had been sent to MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu. If required, it would be sent to the F&CC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pet-registration-fee-ludhiana-civic-body-mulls-exemption-to-some-categories-240633
