19-04-2021||Ludhiana||Month after second jab, Ludhiana Police Commissioner tests Covid positive||Over a month after getting vaccinated, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.He had taken a second dose of Covishield on March 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/month-after-second-jab-ludhiana-police-commissioner-tests-covid-positive-241244
19-04-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Nexus of builders, owners & officials to blame for tragedy||People should complain of foul playMany people have lost their lives in the roof collapsed accidents. Such accidents happen due to the bad and cheap material used in construction. Also, the collusion of the builders and officials concerned is the root cause of blatant violation of building by-laws. The government should keep a hawk’s eye on such officials to curb such unlawful actions. People should also complain if they find any foul play.Gurpreet KaurPunish guiltyThe Municipal Corporation should set up a special cell of officers to investigate and monitor the illegal construction of the buildings. Workers must be provided with full safety measures and regulations. Unavailability of safety in any case must be punishable by law and the respective persons must be fined or punished accordingly.Amarpreet KaurDon’t pass burden on taxpayersIllegal construction of buildings had caused many mishaps in the past. Nothing has been done for the proper implementation of building bylaws. Financial loss as well as loss of lives, both are unbearable. Big contractors bribe officials and get their work done. The state government should make strict rules and regulations about the menace. Investigations should be done at proper time and at regular intervals. Culprits should be fined. Owners should be made liable for the deaths and injuries of the workforce due to these mishaps. Taxpayers’ money should not be used for compensating the workers as these accidents are the result of the negligence of the contractors and owners, not the taxpayers.Ritu PriyaImpose fineTo stop illegal activities, the state government should impose heavy fine on those who violate the law. SrishtiOfficials should conduct periodic inspectionsThe government has issued various norms which are mandatory to be followed by the owner but not much attention is paid to these safety norms. If all norms and conditions are not followed then the government should take a very strict action against those who are violating the norms. Officials should inspect each industry periodically and must ensure whether building is constructed as per law of corporation otherwise in case of any untoward accident inspecting or issuing no objection authority should be held responsible too. They must also investigate the past accident and should check the records lying with the owner of the factory. Workers working in those industries where risk of fire and other accidents is more must work with safety kits. It should be mandatory to wear safety kits before starting the work. Proper care and attention be paid towards the health problems if any worker suffers with. A warning must be issued to those factories where these norms are not used and those who violate his licence may be cancelled.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiSet up special cell to nab violatorsThe lenient attitude of the field staff embolden violators’ spirits leading to spurt in illegal activities. Even regulatory measures by the GLADA proved to be slack as unscrupulous activities continue with impunity. Challans are being issued under Section 269 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act but it becomes deplorable when political parties aid residents. Various measures such as setting up a special cell and proper awareness campaigns should be organised. Residents can use smartphones to expose the dubious nature of field staff.Vincy TrehanTake stern actionIt is really surprising how such an illegal activity such as lifting of the lentil with jacks go on with impunity under the nose of the Municipal Corporation. Surely, the employees of the MC are not discharging their duties properly. The building owners are also equally responsible for the tragedy as they acted in a selfish manner paying scant regard to human life. The higher authorities must act sternly against the guilty and concrete efforts must be made so that such type of incidents can be avoided thereby saving life as well as property. We should also become responsible and never wait for any tragic happening to take place to make us feel to be so.Bir Devinder Singh BediPeople’s safety top priorityA safety norm refers to the state of being in accordance with established safety standards and regulations. It is the duty of all owners of their respective factories to comply with safety regulations that are relevant to their industry including the construction of factories as per law. When employers put safety first, they are effectively eliminating accidents and helping employees to perform their jobs without fear and anxiety. With this exercise workers will enter into the factory with a positive attitude. The most common problems which are dangerous for the employee are fire, chemical fire, short circuit of electricity and collapse of building etc. Each employer must have a cell in his firm to ensure whether all workers have worn safety kits and all fire extinguishers are in working conditions and there should not be any loose wire or connection. This cell must impart education and training to avoid any accident if it occurs. The views of employees must be invited to know how to better implement these norms. Corporations should not allow and issue certificates for construction purposes before inspecting the location and size of a factory. It must be away from residential areas.Farzana KhanImplement laws in letter and in spiritWhy the brazen violation of building bylaws permitted by the authorities needs an in-depth study. Either the officials concerned are hand in glove with violators or there is an immense political pressure. Not only the administration should implement all bylaws in letter and in spirit but those who are getting the construction work done should also do introspection before indulging any illegal activities. They should understand that they are accountable for any untoward consequences because of their wrongdoings. The defaulter should be given an exemplary punishment.Dr Sunil ChopraFailure on MC’s partViolations of the building byelaws in the city reflect the failure of the Municipal Corporation that it is not able to manage its responsibility to control them. In the process of construction of any building/house, the first step is to obtain official clearance of the building plan from the corporation. Its building section must be watchful first at that stage that building bye laws are not flouted. In the next step, the corporation field officers/building engineers go around in the city and their duties include to watch if there are any unauthorised constructions which can be even dismantled. The duties of these officials also include to check that all constructions in the city are as per approved plans by the corporation and there are no violations. Action should be taken against errant officials. Also, senior officers of the building branch must move around and ensure that there is no bribing of the field officers by those doing violations.Gautam DevCorruption prime reason behind tragedyCorruption is the real cause of the mishap. It is shocking that five person lost their lives in the accident. The prime reason of such sordid happening is due to corrupt atmosphere prevalent in our official system. The instructions of building bylaws are not followed. Money is taken in all the stages of construction of any building. The government needs to take firm stand. Stringent punishment should be given to the offender. Use of digital method should be adopted in order to save people from the dubious role of middleman. The less the participation of government offices to get the approval of building construction the better it is. It should be in our mind that such corrupt methods are used jointly, so it needs to stop by the efforts of government.JBS NandaOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe governments and the administrations with the help of health experts are trying hard to convince the eligible persons to get vaccinated against Covid but the hesitancy and unfounded apprehensions over the vaccine were still prevalent among majority of the people. What needs to be done to ensure that all eligible persons get themselves vaccinated?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nexus-of-builders-owners-officials-to-blame-for-tragedy-240968
19-04-2021||---||Public dealing at police stations suspended||Ludhiana, April 18Owing to rising Covid-19 cases, the Ludhiana police have suspended public dealing at police stations.“Due to the ongoing Covid wave, we have suspended routine public dealing in police stations and police offices of Ludhiana Police till April 30, 2021. Public is requested to contact us on email id cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in. Emergency cases will continue to be attended,” the police said in a circular.The police also said there would be having zero tolerance toward people moving out without masks and violating night curfew orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/public-dealing-at-police-stations-suspended-240963
19-04-2021||---||Delhi Public School, Khanna, holds graduation ceremony||Ludhiana, April 18The pre-primary wing of Delhi Public School, Khanna, conducted online graduation ceremony for kindergarten students.Graduation celebrations were spread across two days. The programme began with a motivation speech by the principal, followed by a story-telling session illustrated through puppetry. The programmes reflected upon the importance of good eating habits.Scrolls and certificates were sent to students’ houses. The students participated in the event wholeheartedly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delhi-public-school-khanna-holds-graduation-ceremony-240961
19-04-2021||Ludhiana||NGO member stages protest against gas godown near school||Kumar Gaurav, alias Sacha Yadav, a member of NGO Yuvaa, today held a protest against the gas godown situated near Police DAV School, Police Lines.He took an empty gas cylinder along with him to warn the authorities of the mishappening that can occur in the gas godown, risking lives of hundreds of students and the police authorities in the school and police station located nearby.The police stopped told him that he could not hold a protest inside Police Lines, that too with a gas cylinder.The police officials listened to his demands and assured that concerned matter would be raised before senior authorities to shift the gas godown.“I have already written a letter to the state government and administrative officials of Ludhiana demanding an immediate shifting of the godown so that lives of school students are not at risk,” said Yadav. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngo-member-stages-protest-against-gas-godown-near-school-240964
19-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana resident moves NGT against civic body, LIT, GLADA||Ludhiana, April 18Council of Engineers president (CoE) Kapil Arora today filed a contempt petition with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against illegal axing/felling of trees and causing severe damage of roots of trees in the name of ‘urban environment improvement programme’ (UEIP) by the Municipal Corporation, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and GLADA.In his petition, Arora alleged that nine trees — with age varying around 3 to 35 years, were axed by the MC near the community centre in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar near Canal Bridge.He said the matter was also raised with the Chief Conservator of Forests (Plain Zones) and District Forest Officer on March 30.“However, despite explicit directions of the NGT, no action had been taken by the concerned authorises to date. Now, the stems of axed trees have also been uprooted by the MC staff,” he added.The petition further mentioned that the size of the central verge of Malhar Road – being converted into a ‘smart road’, was being reduced and the roots of many trees were being cut to adjust the paver blocks by the Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL).“This action is against the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, as well as directions of the NGT, vide which the tribunal has directed the MC, the LIT and GLADA to leave open space of one meter in radius around trees in the city. However, all three departments are deliberately ignoring the directions of the law and are continuously causing damage to the environment,” said Arora.It has also been maintained in the petition that while fixing of interlocking tiles along roadsides in Block-F of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar colony, the LIT had completely damaged the roots of several trees, of which two have already fallen and third may fall at any time in near future.Citing orders made by the NGT on September 5, 2018, Arora stated that as per these directions any felling of trees in Punjab must be done strictly after following the statutory procedure which has to be monitored by the Regional Officer of the Union Ministry of Forests, Environment and Climate Change, Chandigarh. It has also been laid down that if any tree has been illegally cut or damaged, appropriate action may be taken against those responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-resident-moves-ngt-against-civic-body-lit-glada-240965
19-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Hoteliers, other businessmen in Ludhiana ask govt to impose lockdown||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 18The number of daily Covid-19 cases has reached an all-time high, resulting in losses to industries, including hotel and restaurant industry, catering business etc.Despite bearing huge losses, restaurant owners and those dealing in catering business believe that the government should impose a complete lockdown to break the chain of the virus.Talking to Ludhiana Tribune, Vishal Malhotra from Bistro Flambois, Pakhowal Road, said he was suffering huge losses and footfall had come down to 70 per cent due to rising cases.“People are not coming to restaurants these days but we still have to bear electricity expenses and other overheads, and pay salaries to the staff. How long can we continue to operate like this? We do not see profits in the near future as daily Covid-19 cases are touching an all-time high. In this scenario, lockdown is necessary to break the chain,” said Malhotra.Also read: Residents, too, feel that lockdown is the only option.Shiv Shankar Rai, general secretary, Ludhiana Tent Dealers Welfare Association, said in the past, business had come to a halt and all advance bookings were cancelled. “Why can’t a lockdown be imposed to curb the spread of the virus? Perhaps with a lockdown, the number of cases will go down and business will pick up,” said Rai.Sukriti Sharma from Penumbra PR maintained that it seemed people had taken a break now. “Social life in Ludhiana has slowed down as the number of cases has seen an alarming increase these days,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hoteliers-other-businessmen-in-ludhiana-ask-govt-to-impose-lockdown-240966
19-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Suspecting meeting with singer Karan Aujla, smuggler Gurdeep Singh Rano shifted to Patiala jail||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 18In the Ludhiana Central jail incident in which Punjabi singer Karan Aujla and several others were given alleged VVIP treatment by Jail Superintendent Rajiv Arora and a meeting between singer and notorious smuggler Gurdeep Singh Rano was allegedly felicitated at the jail, Additional Director General of Police (prisons) PK Sinha directed the Prisons Department to shift smuggler Rano to Patiala with immediate effect.Confirming this to The Tribune, the ADGP said: “Smuggler Rano was shifted to the Patiala jail as the Ludhiana Central Jail superintendent, Rajiv Arora, had faced the allegation of felicitating a meeting between the singer and the smuggler at the jail. Since the jail superintendent faces this allegation, Rano has immediately been shifted to the Patiala jail. The DIG’s probe however did not find any conclusive evidence of meeting between the singer and the smuggler at the jail. Still, the department took a serious note of the situation to prevent any such allegations in the future.”Notably after the incident occurred on April 7, Minister of Jails Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had asked the ADGP (prisons) to probe the matter and fix the responsibility of the Jail Superintendent if the latter had resorted to any negligence. Afterwards, the ADGP had sent DIG (jails) SS Saini to conduct a probe into the matter and submit report. Two days ago the DIG submitted a report to the ADGP and the latter had sent a report to the state government.The ADGP, however, did not comment whether his probe found the Jail Superintendent guilty or innocent. When Aujla visited the jail, official escort gypsy of Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had led the cavelcade of the singer to the jail. The police had also submitted a report in this regard to the police headquarters after inquiring from the jail and checking CCTV footages of Smart City cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/suspecting-meeting-with-singer-karan-aujla-smuggler-gurdeep-singh-rano-shifted-to-patiala-jail-240967
19-04-2021||---||Four nabbed with opium, drug money in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 18The Khanna city police arrested four smugglers with one kg of opium and Rs 2.10 lakh drug money.The accused have been identified as Lakhvir Singh of Burj Hari Singh, Rachpal Singh of Godwal village, Amandeep Singh of Godwal, and Inderpreet Singh of Raikot.Investigating officer ASI Sukhwinder Singh said a tip-off was received that the accused were on the way to deliver a huge consignment of narcotics to their clients. Accordingly, a police party laid a naka and after intercepting a Maruti Alto car the accused were arrested.During the search of the car, opium and the drug money were recovered.The ASI said the police remand of the accused would be sought for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-nabbed-with-opium-drug-money-in-ludhiana-240969
19-04-2021||Ludhiana||Gang stealing Bullet bikes busted, 3 held in Ludhiana||The city police have busted a gang involved in stealing motorcycles and recovered seven Bullet motorcycles from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Virsa Singh (29), Harmandeep Singh (18), both residents of Galib Kalan, and Harjinder Singh (21) of Dharamkot in Moga. Gang members Hinda of Galib Kalan and Gurman of Galib Kalan are yet to be arrested.Later, ADCP Sameer Verma and Police Division 5 SHO Kuldeep Singh addressed mediapersons.The ADCP said a tip-off was received that the accused were running a gang of vehicle thieves and they had mostly stolen Bullet motorcycles. Afterwards, the police laid a trap and arrested the three accused who were on the way to sell a stolen bullet bike.Revealing about the modus operandi of the gang, the ADCP said the gang used to do a recce before stealing any Bullet motorcycle. Though the police had recovered seven motorcycles from the city, the gang had stolen over a dozen motorcycles and they had sold some of the stolen vehicles.The ADCP said the police would also recover the bikes which were sold by the members of the gang. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-stealing-bullet-bikes-busted-3-held-in-ludhiana-240962
19-04-2021||---||Lockdown imposed in two Dugri areas in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 18Urban Estate, Phase I, and II in Dugri here have been declared containment zones and complete lockdown has been imposed in both areas after over 70 cases were reported from the spots.Varinder Kumar Sharma, DCThe two areas have been declared containment zones due to the high number of Covid cases reported from both spots.Starting from Sunday 9 pm onwards, lockdown has been imposed in both areas till further orders. During daytime, residents of these areas were seen making some arrangements after the lockdown was announced.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said due to the high number of Covid-19 positive cases in the two areas, these had been declared containment zones.He said the areas would be sealed 100 per cent with effect from from 9 pm today till further orders.A containment zone is formed when 15 positive cases were reported in a particular area, but over 70 cases were reported in Urban Estate, Phase I and II, Dugri, here, recently.Residents of these two areas were given seven hours to make preparations before the lockdown.Ashima Sachdeva, a Dugri resident, said she was aware of positive cases coming from her area but did not knew about the high numbers.“The decision is taken for the benefit of people. I made a quick visit to market and bought some vegetables and some grocery items. People should understand the gravity of the situation,” she said.Another area resident said he had gone out of station for some work and got a call from his family about the area being sealed.“I returned early and ensured that all necessary things are bought before the imposition of the lockdown. The decision is taken for our benefit and people should adhere to the orders,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lockdown-imposed-in-two-dugri-areas-in-ludhiana-240955
19-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||PSPCL launches ‘one-time settlement’ scheme for defaulting consumers||Ludhiana, April 18The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has come out with a ‘one-time settlement’ (OTS) scheme for consumers of all categories (except AP-tube well connections) to settle default of payment or defaulting amount existing as on December 31, 2020.The scheme will remain open for a period of three months from the date of issue (April 15, 2021) of the commercial circular and all consumers intending to avail the same will be required to deposit Rs 2,000 as processing fee along with their option/undertaking.For ‘power intensive’ units, the processing fee is Rs 5,000.The processing fee will be adjusted in the final settlement bill but in case the consumer fails to deposit the settled amount, the processing will be forfeited.As per the PSPCL circular, all consumers, who have defaulted in payment of energy bills and surcharge or interest thereon, additional security (consumption) or interest thereon, arrears of voltage surcharge and interest thereon, but have not been disconnected due to subsequent payments against energy bills, will be eligible for the OTS scheme.Likewise, connections released to government departments, who have defaulted in payment of energy bills for the supply of electricity but cannot be disconnected in public interest and are ready for the OTS or consumers, who are disconnected due to any type of default before the issue of this scheme, or those who are under any type of dispute for over six months and are willing for out-of-court settlement of the outstanding dues and defaulting amount, are also eligible for the consideration under the OTS.“The disputed outstanding amount may include arrears, sundries charged on account of wrong metering, load surcharge, demand surcharge, power factor surcharge, supply voltage surcharge, PLEC, overhauling of account of previous period as per general conditions of tariff but shall not include amount assessed on account of theft of electricity or unauthorised use of electricity will be considered under the scheme,” the PSPCL has mandated.However, cases in which some issues stand decided by any court will not be covered under the scheme.All consumers who have been disconnected on account of any default and want to clear outstanding amount only and do not want reconnection but only require an NOC will also be considered under the OTS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-launches-one-time-settlement-scheme-for-defaulting-consumers-240958
19-04-2021||Manav Mander||Business as usual at markets amid Covid surge in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 18Though the weekend lockdown has been imposed in the district, a huge rush was witnessed at various Sunday bazaars in the city, posing high risk amid rising Covid-19 cases in the district.Shoppers without masks carelessly walking along lanes jostling with each other to strike the best deal was a common sight at these bazaars. All the covid protocols are being flouted with impunity.The Sunday bazaar at Chaura Bazaar and near Clock Tower are famous in the city, especially among the migrant population. Today, people were seen shopping without following any covid protocols at Sunday bazaars held at Sherpur, near Clock Tower and Chaura Bazaar.Not only elders but also children were seen shopping, posing them risk of the virus amid huge rush. The Sunday market at Chaura Bazaar was filled with a big crowd as usual and most of the people were without mask.Those coming on auto-rickshaws and sans masks were tested by mobile teams of the Health Department. A member of the mobile team said the district administration was telling people to wear mask and maintain social distancing but to no avail.“Now, we are left with no other choice but to test those found without mask to check that they were not silent carriers of the disease,” she said.A vendor at Clock Tower said nobody really cares about the Covid protocols, especially the migrants.“I set up a vend every Sunday as it is my work and I have to do this. I keep telling people to maintain social distance and not to rush but they do not listen. A few people who come on their own conveyance wear mask due to fear of challan,” he said.“Everyone should wear mask, wash hands frequently and maintain social distancing. It has been observed that people have become careless regarding Covid. Time and again we are requesting people to follow guidelines issued by the state government. Precautions and awareness are the only key to fight the disease. We can overcome the spread of the virus only if the public follow all necessary precautions,” said Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/business-as-usual-at-markets-amid-covid-surge-in-ludhiana-240959
19-04-2021||Our Correspondent||11 devotees hurt as bus going from Patiala to Golden Temple turns turtle in Sahnewal||Sahnewal, April 18Eleven devotees of the total 60 travelling in a bus, going from Patiala to Golden Temple in Amritsar, were injured as the bus turned turtle when a canter trying to overtake the former took a sudden steep cut on the National Highway 1 near here late last evening.Two more buses, following the bus of the devotees, hit the latter vehicle. However, passengers of the two buses escaped unhurt.The bus carrying devotees started from Patiala at around 8 pm on Saturday night. As the bus approached Sahnewal at around 11 pm, a canter while overtaking the bus took a steep turn after which the driver of the bus lost control over it and the bus turned turtle. The injured have been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana.Confusion was witnessed at the spot after the accident as the police had a tough time to manage the traffic. Investigating officer Harpal Singh said statements of the injured were yet to be taken on the basis of which the future course of action would be decided. The devotees, especially women and children, who escaped unhurt, were in a state of trauma. They were brought to Gurdwara Reru Sahib here by Kaar Sewa Jatha where they were provided langar before continuation of their journey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/11-devotees-hurt-as-bus-going-from-patiala-to-golden-temple-turns-turtle-in-sahnewal-240960
19-04-2021||---||Covid-19: 685 fresh cases, 5 deaths in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, April 18Today, 685 persons tested positive for Covid in the district while five persons lost their lives to the virus. The active cases in the district have reached 4,444. The total number of confirmed cases from the district have reached 43,063 while 1,243 persons have lost their lives so far since March 2020.Today, Urban Estate Dugri, Phase I and II were declared containment zones after 70 cases were reported from there. The areas have been sealed and complete lockdown has been imposed from today till further orders.Those who tested positive today include three pre-operative cases, two healthcare workers and two teachers from the Government Senior Secondary School for Boys, Maachiwara, and the Government Senior Secondary School, Chawni Mohalla.People who lost their lives today include four men and a woman belonging to the Jamalpur, Nathowal, Payal, Sant Fateh Singh Nagar and Sherpur Road areas.Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force formed by the state government, said the second wave of Covid was like Tsunami and everyone should be on their guards by following all safety protocols.Talking about the vaccine, Dr Mohan said heart/kidney patients must take the vaccine without any doubt and there was no need to stop blood-thinners.While talking about the efficiency of the current two Covid vaccines on new mutant variants, he made it clear that both Covishield and Covaxin were much effective against new variants.Meanwhile, Lions Club, Udham Singh Nagar, here, organised a free Covid-19 vaccination camp. It was organised under the guidance of member Dr PKS Verma at the Lions Bhawan.The camp was open to the public. People aboce 45 years of age were vaccinated on production of their Aadhaar card. Covaxin was administered as first dose to 182 persons and as the second dose to 18 persons.The second dose will be administered in the next camp, which will be organised on May 30 on the same premises.Weblink where residents can check real time status of vacant and filled beds in all hospitals:https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-685-fresh-cases-5-deaths-in-ludhiana-district-240970
19-04-2021||---||Rural doctors in Punjab threaten to boycott Covid duty||Ludhiana, April 18Rural medical officers have threatened to boycott the Covid duties from April 25 if their demand for Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP) of cadre is not fulfilled.After the Covid outbreak in the state, rural medical officers cadre with its subordinate staff have been playing an important role and are doing all frontline duties in the ICU, isolation wards, sample collection, rapid response team duties and now in vaccination as well.“Rural medical officers are serving in remote areas of the state since 2006. Earlier, they were on contract and were later regularised in 2011. The cadre has been granted salary and allowances on a par with medical officers of the health department. In 2015, they became eligible for the application of DACP, but it has been delayed and the demand is still unfulfilled,” said Dr JP Narula, state president, Rural Medical Services Association.“RMOs are serving in rural areas where no one wants to work due to lack of infrastructure and basic amenities. We revived the lapsed healthcare system and reestablish the interest of rural populace in the government healthcare system,” he said. Dr Jagjit Singh, state president, Association of Rural Medical Officers, said: “If our demand for DACP is not met, we will boycott Covid duties from April 25.”Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat, said he always wanted RMOs to be on a par with doctors working under the health department. “I am working on it and hopefully they will get their due before April 25 and will not be required to take the extreme step,” he added.Pay revision still awaited||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rural-doctors-in-punjab-threaten-to-boycott-covid-duty-240920
