20-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district ranks fourth in per million Covid-19 vaccination in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 19Ludhiana, which was the first district in the state to launch vaccination at doorstep by holding mobile camps, has ranked fourth in the per million Covid inoculation in the state.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana touched 1,36,172 per million vaccination coverage till April 14, which was way ahead than the state average of 99,887.Pathankot district topped the state with maximum 1,70,262 per million inoculation, followed by Gurdaspur 1,61,062, Jalandhar 1,47,448, Mohali 1,36,115 Hoshiarpur 1,25,465, Nawanshahr 1,15,683, Amritsar 1,03,866, Kapurthala 98,742, Faridkot 93,254, Patiala 92,753, Tarn Taran 79,098, Ropar 65,511, Muktsar 59,273, Ferozepur 59,061, Barnala 58,409, Bathinda 58,120, Moga 56,035, Fazilka 53,338, Fatehgarh Sahib 47,492, Sangrur 47,333, and Mansa 32,441.Ludhiana also stood fourth when it comes to the analysis of total dose coverage per million population. The district had inoculated 1,36,869 persons with both doses of the vaccine, which was much higher than the state average of 1,00,200.Pathankot again ranked first in this category with highest coverage of 1,71,202, followed by Gurdaspur 1,60,572, Jalandhar 1,47,406, Mohali 1,35,518, Nawanshahr 1,15,372, Amritsar 1,04,909, Kapurthala 1,00,370, Patiala 94,042, Faridkot 94,012, Tarn Taran 78,909, Ropar 64,198, Ferozepur 59,723, Bathinda 58,599, Barnala 58,274, Muktsar 57,908, Moga 55,456, Fazilka 54,151, Sangrur 48,058, Fatehgarh Sahib 47,948, and Mansa 32,077.According to the statistics, 1,67,594 healthcare workers have so far been given first dose, 78,240 second jab. As many as 2,94,025 frontline workers have been administered first vaccine, 68,644 second shot. As many as 17,44,745 persons above 45 years have been administered first injection and 68,725 inoculated with the second dose.The vaccine inventory till date showed that 1,83,750 doses of Covishield were still available with the state after utilising 27.6 lakh of the total 29,43,850 doses received so far. Similarly, 1,59,400 jabs of Covaxin were still in stock after utilisation of 1,74,680 of the total 3,34,080 doses received till now.14 fall ill, 1 dies after inoculationOf the total 130 cases of after-effects following immunisation (AEFI) reported in the state so far, Ludhiana had reported 14 — eight minor and 3 each serious and severe, who have since recovered.Among other districts, Amritsar reported maximum 35 minor cases, followed by Kapurthala 16 minor and one severe, Patiala eight minor and four each serious and severe, Jalandhar and Tarn Taran six each minor, Sangrur five minor, two serious and three severe, Bathinda two minor, two serious and three severe, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Muktsar, Pathankot and Ropar two each minor, Mohali one each minor, serious, and severe, Nawanshahr and Barnala one each minor, and Ferozepur and Fazilka two each severe cases.However, of the total two deaths following immunisation reported in the state till date, a 57-year-old male patient had died in Ludhiana. A known case of tuberculosis, he was on treatment with one lung destroyed, was advised surgery and was having blood in sputum. After getting vaccinated on April 4 at 10 am, he developed fever and took treatment at home for three days, developed breathlessness and increased blood in sputum from April 12 at 10.30 am, when he had a massive bout of blood in sputum. He was hospitalised on April 13 and died on April 14 at 5.39 am.The other such death was reported in Patiala where a 50-year-old man had died on April 11 after he was vaccinated on April 9. He was a known case of asthma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-ranks-fourth-in-per-million-covid-19-vaccination-in-punjab-241577
20-04-2021||---||10 dead, 758 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 19As many as 758 persons tested positive for Covid in the district, while 10 persons lost their life to the virus today. The active cases have gone up to 4,707, while total confirmed cases till date have reached 43,821. The death count in the district due to Covid has reached 1,253.Eight men and two women, most of them with hypertension and diabetes comorbidities, lost their lives today. The deceased belonged to Mundian Kalan, Lahal village, Deharka village, Shimlapuri, Basti Jodhewal, Sherpur, Dhandari Kalan, Giaspura, Lasara village and Dholewal.Those tested positive include three healthcare workers and an undertrial. As many as 174 persons are still untraceable. In the district, 501 persons were home quarantined. Today 17 persons were on ventilator support, out of which 11 belong to Ludhiana district and remaining to other districts.Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said it was the duty of people to follow the safety measures like wearing mask and maintaining social distancing. Police chief contracts virus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-dead-758-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-241578
20-04-2021||Manav Mander||Shortage of Covishield vaccine: 54 private hospitals left high and dry||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 19Fiftyfour private hospitals which are administering Covishield vaccine have been left high and dry after not getting the jab stock due to its shortage. Today second dose of Covishield was administered at only four government Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) in the urban area.Private hospitals are perturbed over the mismanagement of the vaccination drive. They are feeling cheated and questioning why at the first place they were asked to join the vaccination drive. On one hand they are making rounds of the Health Department for the stock and returning empty handed, on the other hand it has become difficult for them to make the beneficiaries understand the real situation as they are questioning them about the availability of the vaccine. From the last three days, private hospitals have not been given the stock of Covishield vaccine.Beneficiaries who came for the second jab of Covishield at private hospitals in urban areas had to return without getting vaccinated even today.“On the one side, the government is asking people to get vaccinated and on the other the vaccine is not available. This is the third time that I am returning without the jab,” said Surjeet Kaur, a beneficiary.Another 67-year-old beneficiary said he choose a hospital near his house to get vaccinated against Covid. “I got the first dose and now my second dose is due. I went to the hospital and I was told that the vaccine is out of stock and if I want to get the vaccination done, I should go to either the Civil Hospital or Civil Surgeon office. I cannot go there in such sweltering heat and moreover these places have huge rush and the possibility of infection is also high. Being a senior citizen I do not want to go there and take the risk,” he said.Questioning the department’s drive to provide vaccination at the doorstep, city resident Jeevanpreet Singh said the first dose was administered comfortably and now that the time for second dose had arrived, they were asked to go to other hospitals. “Hospitals are feeling helpless as they are not getting stock but in between this people are also suffering. My elderly mother does not go out and amidst such a situation I cannot take her to another vaccination centre where I am not sure about proper sanitisation and other safety measures,” he said.A doctor from a private hospital said they were giving Covishield at their hospital and now stock of only Covaxin was available with the department. “It will be very difficult to send back the second dose beneficiary of Covishield while giving Covaxin to others. We do not want any mistake to occur so we are waiting for the stock of Covishield to arrive,” he said.Dr GS Grewal, former president of the Punjab Medical Council said he failed to understand why at first place private hospitals were asked to join the drive if they were to be left in chaos in between the drive.“People are coming to us and asking about the date when the vaccine will be available. We are answerable to them but the department has left us in the lurch. Asking people to get themselves vaccinated from somewhere else is like ditching them. They place their trust in us and we can’t betray them like this,” said Dr Grewal.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said today second dose of Covishield was administered at only four government CVCs in urban areas. Civil Hospital, Civil Surgeon Office, Mother and Child Hospital, Vardhman, and Urban Community Health Centre, Jawaddi, administered the second dose of Covishield today.“We are giving the stock only to government vaccination centres till we have ample stock. Beneficiaries can come to these centres to get their second dose. We had received 15,000 doses and now we have stock left only for Tuesday. Till we have enough stock, the second dose of Covishield will be given at only government centres,” said Dr Juneja.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shortage-of-covishield-vaccine-54-private-hospitals-left-high-and-dry-241579
20-04-2021||---||Ludhiana MC restricts visitors’ entry to its offices||Ludhiana, April 19Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, the Municipal Corporation (MC), Ludhiana, has restricted entry of visitors to its offices. On the recommendation given by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has issued an order to officials to create awareness among people to send their complaints via email instead of visiting the MC offices.All zonal commissioners have been directed to keep a complaint box outside main gates of zonal offices to receive complaints.Residents can also contact 0161-4085013 and 0161-4085038 for giving their complaints.Various organisations or individuals who wanted to submit a memorandum or complaint to the MC Commissioner can send the same to email address — commissionermcl@gmail.com.Only in extremely important or emergency cases, an applicant can submit an application at the MC office by following the Covid norms. The Commissioner has ordered the zonal commissioners to deploy staff at entry points to MC offices with sanitisers and thermal scanners. Nobody will be allowed to enter these places without mask.email addresses of civic body officials releasedThe MC has released email addresses of officials for submission of any application, complaint or memorandum. The officials can be contacted at: Additional Commissioner (additionalcomm.mcl@gmail.com). Zonal Commissioner Zone-A (acdmcl1@gmail.com), Zonal Commissioner Zone B (zonalcomm.zb@gmail.com), Zonal Commissioner Zone C (zonalcomm.zcmcl@gmail.com), Zonal Commissioner Zone D (zonalcomm.d@gmail.com), Secretary for advertisement (jassekhonn@gmail.com). Municipal Town Planner mtpludhiana@gmail.com, mtp.mcludhiana@gmail.com.O&M superintending engineers for water supply and sewer-related complaints:Zone A&B: xenzoneb1234@gmail.com, Zone C&D: assistantcommissionerzd@gmail.com. Superintending engineers for roads and street lights: Zone A seticmcl@gmail.com, Zone B rdeep3036@gmail.com, Zone C xencmcl@gmail.com and Zone D lsclceo@gmail.com.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-restricts-visitors-entry-to-its-offices-241580
20-04-2021||---||Health team makes efforts to detect more cases in Dugri||Ludhiana, April 19Activities to create awareness against Covid-19 were conducted by a team of the Mass Media Department of the Civil Surgeon office at Phase I and II in Dugri here to detect more cases of Covid-19. Dugri was declared a containment zone by the district administration due to the detection of a large number of Covid cases in its areas.On Monday, the awareness campaign team of the District Health Department visited various places in Phase 1 and 2 and urged residents through the public address system to come forward for testing, which is being conducted free of cost by the department. The government has made it mandatory to test all residents of containment zones.Members of the team also told attendants of positive patients about how to take proper care of their positive relatives and other related information.Deputy Director Dr Kiran Gill said due to the high cases of Covid in Dugri, it has been made a containment zone. The Health Department, Ludhiana, has significantly increased testing. Testing is important for early detection of the cases, which can prevent the rapid spread of the virus.“More testing means we can track positive cases on a fast pace,” she said.“People usually go for test only when they come in contact with a positive persons or have any symptom,” she said.However, people should understand that they have to come forward to give samples for tests regardless of their symptoms or contact as the testing facility by the department is completely free.“There are a lot of misconceptions among people that sampling is a painful and time-consuming process, which is wrong,” Dr Kiran Gill said.She said the Covid sampling takes less than a minute and the process was painless.Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, appealed to residents to come forward in large numbers for coronavirus testing and encourage others also to get themselves tested as early as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/health-team-makes-efforts-to-detect-more-cases-in-dugri-241581
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Man withdraws Rs 2L from friend’s account||Ludhiana, April 19The police have booked Bharat Ketal, a resident of Netaji Park, Haibowal, under Section 379, IPC, for allegedly stealing an ATM card of his friend and withdrawing Rs 2 lakh from his savings bank account of Oriental Bank of Commerce through ATMs on different dates.Complainant Mithun, a resident of Naveen Nagar, Jassian Road, told the police that the accused, who was his former room-mate, had stolen his ATM card and had withdrawn Rs 2 lakh from his bank account on different dates.He said he came to know about the withdrawals when he got his mobile phone connection restored after his cell phone handset was lost somewhere.The involvement of the accused was known from the CCTV footage of an ATM lobby. The police were investigating the matter but no arrest had been made so far, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-withdraws-rs-2l-from-friends-account-241583
20-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Residents of Rajguru Nagar resent insanitary conditions||Ludhiana, April 19Residents of Rajguru Nagar, a colony developed and maintained by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), on Ferozepur Road are forced to live in unhygienic conditions for the past over one month. Despite several representations and complaints lodged with senior functionaries and officials of the LIT, including its chairman, superintending engineer and SDO concerned no remedial measures have been taken till date.Residents maintain that though the façade of the entry point of the colony from Ferozepur Road looks inviting, the real picture of utter neglect, insanitary conditions, heaps of garbage, debris and fallen foliage greets the visitors. “There is no regular collection and disposal of garbage. Residents are living in unhygienic conditions with the threat of break out of diseases looming large on their heads,” says PS Bhogal, a resident.Residents maintain that though development works such as maintenance of parks and carpeting of roads were being executed in the colony sanitation was being neglected for reasons known only to the officials and political functionaries of the LIT.“I wonder why the RWA is not taking up the matter at the appropriate level,” said another resident.“The development works have been carried out with public money and it seems ridiculous to put up sign boards expressing gratitude to the political leaders for these works,” remarked Bhogal.LIT Superintending Engineer Buta Ram said tenders had already been invited for sanitation work in Rajguru Nagar and these would be opened and work allotted to eligible bidder in next 2-3 days. “Regular sweeping along with collection and disposal of garbage will be put in place in next few days,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-of-rajguru-nagar-resent-insanitary-conditions-241584
20-04-2021||---||Coaching centres shut till April 30||Ludhiana, April 19District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today ordered the closure of private coaching centres in the district till April 30.In the order, the District Magistrate said all schools and colleges were already closed but IELTS institutes and other coaching centres were running in full capacity.“Due to the sharp resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the district, all IELTS and other coaching centres have been ordered to remain closed till April 30 in the district. Online classes are allowed for these centres. Any violator will face strict legal action,” Sharma said.In a separate order, he has prohibited the use of oxygen for industrial purposes (except in nine industries) to meet the rising demand for oxygen for Covid-19 patients.“The order does not apply for nine industries namely ampoules and vials, pharmaceutical, petroleum refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy facilities, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, wastewater treatment plants, food and water purification and process industries, which require uninterrupted operation of fumes processes as approved by the Punjab government,” he said.He said the order would come into effect from April 22 and non-compliance would be dealt with strictly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/coaching-centres-shut-till-april-30-241585
20-04-2021||---||UPSC aspirants seek reopening of reading room, stage protest||Ludhiana, April 19 Demanding reopening of reading room at the PU extension library, a group of youngsters staged a protest outside Panjab University Regional Centre in Ludhiana on Monday. The protesters alleged that the reading room was lying closed and visitors are not allowed to study there. They urged the authorities concerned to reopen it as soon as possible. These youngsters said they want to study in the reading room and it should be opened. They also raised questions over the government decision to keep the liquor vends open but putting restrictions on educational institutes. A member of Panjab University Extension Library Members Association said, “The reading room is lying closed for the past one year. Books can be issued at the library but nobody is allowed to study there. Only about 70 days are left for the civil services examination. We want to pay focus on preparation for upcoming examination. Today, we marked the protest to raise our voice. We appeal to the government to direct the authorities concerned to reopen the reading room at the earliest.” A student said, “The government had allowed opening of liquor vends but there are restrictions for us who want to study at the reading room. The government should allow us to study at the reading room so we can prepare for our upcoming examination. We are following the norms for prevention of Covid-19.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/upsc-aspirants-seek-reopening-of-reading-room-stage-protest-241586
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Man injures self using air rifle||Ludhiana, April 19 The police have booked one Jagdeep Singh (25), a resident of Ladhowal and his friend Roshan Lal, a resident of Preet Vihar in Haibowal, under Sections 336 and 338 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The FIR was lodged after receiving a report from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital that Jagdeep Singh had sustained a gunshot injury. During the preliminary investigation, it was found out that sound of a gunshot was heard from the house of accused Roshan Lal on the night of April 16. Jagdeep’s family members said he had fired a shot from an air rifle owned by Roshan Lal and the ricochetting pellet injured him after hitting the roof. Further investigation was on. Miscreants thrash man, snatch Rs10,000  One Akshay Bassi, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, was allegedly thrashed by four persons during a party in a hotel room near the general bus stand. The victim, along with his friends, Rohit Verma and Harsh Verma, had gone to a party on the night of April 9 where four persons were already present. He said the accused persons bolted the door from inside and thrashed him and his friends. “We were forced to drink liquor and Rs10,000 were snatched from my pocket by the assailants,” Akshay told the police. The police said the accused persons have been identified as Raman Rajput, Billa, Deep and Daman Kalra, all residents of Tajpur Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-injures-self-using-air-rifle-241588
20-04-2021||Ludhiana||Vet varsity scholar clinches ‘Young Scientist Award’||Dr Prem Sairam, a PhD scholar of Department of Veterinary Surgery and Radiology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) participated in national-level canine conference “Indian VETopia-2021” organised by the National Veterinary Foundation and won the ‘Young Scientist Award’. Dr Prem Sairam presented a research paper on “Surgical management of humeral condylar fractures in dogs”, co-authored by Dr Tarunbir Singh and Dr SK Mahajan.  The conference was organised in association with Vetstream Educational partner at Jaipur.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vet-varsity-scholar-clinches-young-scientist-award-241589
20-04-2021||---||Woman cremated as per Covid norms, report comes negative||Ludhiana, April 19  Members of the Jagriti Sena today held a press conference along with the family members of Divya, a 35-year-old woman, who recently lost her life. The kin alleged that she was reported as Covid positive and the body of the deceased was cremated as per Covid protocol.  Later, when the report arrived it was found out that she was negative.  We were not able to see her face for the last time, lamented the family members. Parveen Dang, president, Jagriti Sena,  said the family had received a message according to which her Covid report was negative. “Divya was taken to the ESI hospital from where she was sent to Civil Hospital for Covid test. She was kept in the isolation ward, where she died. The hospital authorities had declared her Covid positive. The message received later says she was negative. Why such a blunder was done on part of the hospital,” questioned Dang. He demanded strict action should be taken against the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-cremated-as-per-covid-norms-report-comes-negative-241590
20-04-2021||---||Eatables served to slum children||Ludhiana, April 19  Khaanaleia and The Robin Hood Army today organised a food drive at slums on Ludhiana-Delhi Road. Eatables, including pav bhaaji, cake, cold drinks and chocolates, was served to 130 children from 45 families.  The Robin Hood Army is a zero-funds volunteer organisation that provides surplus food from restaurants to the poor and needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/eatables-served-to-slum-children-241591
20-04-2021||Ludhiana||5 held for Covid norm violations||Two arrested with heroinLudhiana: The police have arrested two persons, Rajinder Kumar, a resident of Aliwal village, and Gurpreet Singh of Phullanwal village, under Sections 21-B, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act for possessing 35 gm of heroin. The police said the duo who were coming in a Bolero Pik-Up vehicle (bearing registration no. PB 10 EV 5344) from the Lalton Kalan side were stopped at a naka on suspicion. The search of their vehicle led to the recovery of the contraband. The vehicle was also impounded. oc3 held, illicit liquor seizedLudhiana: The police have arrested three persons with illicit liquor in two raids and seized 11 bottles of illicit countrymade liquor from their possession. Ravinder Singh and Gurwinder Singh, residents of Manjit Nagar, were nabbed while they were travelling in a Huyndai i20 car (bearing registration No. HR-02AH-0711) near the Basti Abdullapur railway crossing. Search of the vehicle led to the recovery of six bottles of raw countrymade liquor. Gurnam Singh was nabbed from Railway Colony No. 5 from near Shiv Mandir while selling countrymade liquor and five bottles of liquor were seized from him. All accused have been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. ocIllegal mining: 2 tractors seizedLudhiana: The police have impounded two tractors with sand-laden trollies in a raid conducted in connection with illegal sand mining from the Sutlej bed near Chaunta village. While the accused gave the police a slip, they left a Swaraj and a Sonalika tractors, both without registration numbers, and two sand-laden trollies on the spot. The police have registered a case under Section 379, Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 21 of the Mining Act against unidentified persons and were investigating the matter. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-held-for-covid-norm-violations-241594
20-04-2021||Jagraon||Rusa seminar hall inaugurated||Workshop on research methodologyLudhiana: The postgraduate department of commerce of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, in collaboration with the postgraduate department of commerce of Ramgharia Girls College, organised a 10-day online workshop on research methodology for faculty members, students and young researchers. The workshop provided a platform to participants to understand the concepts of research. A total of 100 participants were part of the workshop. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rusa-seminar-hall-inaugurated-241595
20-04-2021||Ludhiana||17-cm tumour in food pipe removed by endoscopy||Session on presbyopiaLudhiana: Dr Simmi Aggarwal, managing director, Ambay Eye Care and Lasik Centre, held a workshop on Presbyopia. Dr Aggarwal said the condition was a refractive error that affected people with after the age of 40. Presbyond laser blended vision was a new physiologically optimised laser treatment option for presbyopia, she said. “Presbyond is a comfortable, fast and efficient way to get back 20/20 vision,” Dr Aggarwal said. — TNSZHL wins tender for 108 EMS operationsLudhiana: Asia’s largest private emergency medical service (EMS) provider Ziqitza Healthcare Limited (ZHL) has successfully won the tender for 108 EMS operations in Punjab for a fleet of 270 ambulances. The 270 ambulance fleet consist of 245 basic life support (BLS) and 25 advance life support ambulances (ALS). The centre is equipped with the latest technology and infrastructure with adequately trained manpower. — TNSHospital holds workshop on hernia treatmentLudhiana: Highlighting the importance of timely hernia treatment and efficacy of using anatomical 3-D mesh to treat inguinal hernia in patients, laparoscopic surgeon Dr Mudit Kumar, Consultant Gastro and Laparoscopy Surgeon, RG Stone Hospital, launched a ‘Choose to Conform’ campaign to make patients aware of hernia issues. The surgeon said more than 20 million hernias were operated every year. “The lifetime risk of developing inguinal hernia is 15 per cent to 27 per cent in men and 3 per cent in women. The incidence of hernia increases with advancing age.” Elaborating on the benefits, Dr Kumar said, “With anatomical 3-D mesh, it is extremely easy to place at the correct site with excellent outcome in all types of groin hernia repair.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/17-cm-tumour-in-food-pipe-removed-by-endoscopy-241596
20-04-2021||Ludhiana||Superintendent shifted over singer Karan Aujla’s visit to Ludhiana jail||Ten days after Ludhiana Central Jail Superintendent Rajiv Arora hosted Punjabi singer Karan Aujla on the prison premises, the officer has been chargesheeted and transferred to Chandigarh.The action by the Prisons Department follows an inquiry into the incident by DIG (Jails) SS Saini, who was assigned the probe by ADGP (Prisons) PK Sinha. Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had ordered the inquiry following media reports.Principal Secretary (Prisons) DK Tiwari told The Tribune the department had transferred the jail superintendent from the Ludhiana jail to the state headquarters in Chandigarh following receipt of the inquiry report.“Departmental action will follow,” he said, adding the action was taken after the minister approved the report to this effect.The ADGP (Prisons) said he had submitted the report to the state government for suitable action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/superintendent-shifted-over-singer-karan-aujlas-visit-to-ludhiana-jail-241449
