21-04-2021||Ludhiana||MGM School celebrates Heritage Day||Orientation programmeAn orientation programme for Class XI was held at Jatindera Greenfield School, Gurusar Sudhar. Parents and students attended the orientation through Zoom webinar. The newcomers were addressed for the beginning of the new session and curriculum, study action plan and syllabus layout was shared with them. Teachers introduced themselves through the online session and highlighted the scope of various streams which the children can opt. Students were informed about the numerous possible career options available abroad.BCM School celebrates Ram NavamiThe BCM kindergarten School celebrated Ram Navami to mark the birth anniversary of Lord Rama on a virtual platform. A PPT regarding Lord Rama was shared with the students and the teachers apprised the tiny tots about the life and teachings of Lord Rama. Students recited ‘Chopais’ with great elation. Headmistress Ritu Syal wished all on the occasion and laid stress on the importance of Karma in our lives. Principal DP Guleria wished everyone a happy Ram Navmi and advised the kids to follow the path of truth and honesty.Students take part in humour activityGreenland Senior Secondary Public School organised a “Laugh out loud” activity on the theme of humour. The activity was organised for pre-nursery to KG in which students came dressed as clown and enjoyed watching humorous act done by their teachers. Principal Baldeep Pandher lauded the efforts of the students and said that humour activates the brain’s dopamine reward system, stimulates goal oriented motivation and long-term memory. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mgm-school-celebrates-heritage-day-242134
21-04-2021||Ludhiana||GNIMT holds virtual lecture||NAAC awards Grade ‘A’ to Arya CollegeThe NAAC has awarded Grade ‘A’ to Arya College, said Dr Savita Uppal, Principal of the college. Sudharshan Sharma, president, Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Punjab, expressed joy over the achievement and said the College had fulfilled the great standards of higher education as enunciated by Swami Dayanand Saraswati. Students and teachers performed bhangra and sweets were distributed among everyone.CT University to begin new courseCT University will start collaborative B.Tech specialisation in electric vehicle engineering course in collaboration with Imperial Society of Innovative Engineers (ISIE) from September 2021, said Vice-Chancellor Dr Harsh Sadawarti. Vinod Gupta, president, ISIE, said, “The objective of the collaboration is that both the institutions shall be working together for academic partnership programme (APP) as a collaborative B.Tech specialisation in electric vehicle engineering.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gnimt-holds-virtual-lecture-242133
21-04-2021||Ludhiana||‘Won’t invite DPI representatives in college body meetings’||A meeting of the executive body of the Non-Government Aided Colleges Management Federation Punjab & Chandigarh was held at the GNKCW here on Monday. The meeting was presided over by senior vice- president of the federation Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina and secretary GS Sarna."The main agenda of the meeting was a discussion on a letter which talks about the inclusion of representatives of the DPI in management committees. The federation oppose the decision of the DPI and decided that it should be brought under the notice of the state government,” they said.The executive body took some decisions that managements will not invite these representatives in their meetings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wont-invite-dpi-representatives-in-college-body-meetings-242132
21-04-2021||---||Altered silencers: Cops to act tough against bikers||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh / Raikot, April 20Youngster continue to flout traffic norms and cause noise pollution by making installing modified silencers in their motorcycles.Some whistleblowers had sought intervention of the Punjab and Haryana Court to get the Central Motor Vehicle Rules and Motor Vehicle Act, implemented in letter and spirit in their respective areas.The police in Ludhiana (Rural), Ludhiana Commissionerate, Khanna, Sangrur and Barnala had launched campaigns, along with the traffic personnel, to nail the offenders.Kulwant Singh, traffic in-charge, Ahmedgarh subdivision, said, “We have taken a number of steps in order to nail the offenders, who violate rules and create noise pollution by making alterations with silencers.”Rohit Sabharwal, an RTI activist, had earlier sought intervention of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the matter. Sabharwal had highlighted that the High Court had earlier directed all SSPs, SPs and DSPs in the state of Punjab, Haryana and the UT, Chandigarh to ensure the motorcycles are duly fitted with silencers to avoid noise pollution and the menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/altered-silencers-cops-to-act-tough-against-bikers-242131
21-04-2021||---||PAU holds online lecture series on competitive exams||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20The Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, Punjab Agricultural University, is organising online lecture series 2021 for preparing students for competitive exams such as Junior Research Fellowship, Senior Research Fellowship, National Eligibility Test (NET), etc. In the lecture series I, Dr Rajinder K Kalra, Head (retd) and Dr Tejinder Kaur Gill, professor (retd), Department of Extension Education, PAU, were the key note speakers. Around 100 participants participated online through Google meet platform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-holds-online-lecture-series-on-competitive-exams-242130
21-04-2021||---||Residents suffer as tubewells stop working||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20Residents of several parts of Ward 43 faced inconvenience as water supply was hit after two tubewells in these areas developed faults. The residents have demanded from the MC to ensure safe water supply in the ward.It is learned that the water supply has got affected in several areas of Dugri village, Himmat Nagar and nearby Nirmal Nagar in the ward. The councillor of the ward has raised the matter with Municipal Corporation officials.According to information, the motor of a tubewell had stopped functioning while another tube well had earlier started pumping out sand with water due to some fault.A resident said: “There is a shortage of water supply in our area as the nearby tubewell is not functioning. The Municipal Corporation should make alternative arrangements to supply water to residents of affected areas.”The MC’s Executive Engineer Parshotam Lal said: “One tubewell has been made functional after replacing its motor. The tubewell which was pumping out sand with water will be made functional by Wednesday,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-suffer-as-tubewells-stop-working-242129
21-04-2021||---||Wheat crop gutted in 3 acres||Lovleen BainsDoraha, April 20Fire destroyed 3.25 acres of standing wheat crop of a farmer in Ghudani Kalan village. The farmer, identified as Rajveer Singh, has demanded compensation for his loss.Rajveer, who lost 3.25 acres of standing wheat crop of his 4 acres land, said, “This was all I had. I am helpless. If I am denied adequate compensation, my family would starve of hunger,” he added.Three acres of stubble of Darshan Singh and Charan Singh’s fields have also reportedly been burnt. The cause of fire could not be ascertained.Fire brigades reached the spot after the flames were doused of by the villagers.Saudagar Singh Ghudani, general secretary, BKU (Ekta) Ugrahan, has demanded a compensation of Rs40,000 per acre for the aggrieved farmer.“What is the use of such fire brigades which reach after the fire is extinguished? There is no provision of fire brigade at Payal. It has to be called from Khanna,” he added.Tehsildar Pardeep Bains said a total of six acres, including 3.25 acres of wheat and rest stubble, were burnt. Patwari Kuldeep Singh said the reason of fire could not be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wheat-crop-gutted-in-3-acres-242128
21-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Teachers in a fix sans clear rules in containment zones||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20Amid the Covid-19 crisis, the district administration has declared both Dugri 1 and 2 as containment zones and the movement in the area has been restricted. However, teachers, research scholars of the PAU and others are finding it difficult in absence of clear guidelines by the authorities, namely the Education Department and the district administration.One of the teachers at KVM School, on the condition of anonymity, said neither the administration nor the Education Department has sent any clear cut instructions about classes. “We do not know whether teachers from containment zones are allowed to visit their schools or not? The administration has also not told anything if we can go to our jobs. Now, we are confused whether we can go out or not, will we be considered on leave or not?,” asked the teacher.Meanwhile, at one of the nakas a government school teacher tried to convince the cops on duty to let her go to school but she was not allowed. “My wife was not allowed to go. The Education Department should have told or given us clear instructions or administration should have made our passes or we should have given Covid-19 positive/negative reports to show, in case we had to report on duties. We are not sitting at home as per our own wish and department should not consider us as absent,” said the husband of the teacher, who is a principal at a government school near Ludhiana.Not just the teachers but other working classes are also suffering because the instructions are not clear on lockdown. “I am a research scholar at the PAU, I need to go to the university but they are not allowing, now what should I do?,” asked the person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-in-a-fix-sans-clear-rules-in-containment-zones-242127
21-04-2021||---||Ludhiana youth booked for raping minor||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped at Chand Colony and a case was registered at the PAU police station.The accused has been identified as Sunny, resident of Rishi Nagar.The victim’s mother complained to the police that Sunny had been raping her daughter for the past over two years. He had promised her daughter that he would marry her but now he refused to marry her.A few days ago her daughter revealed that Sunny had been sexually harassing her for the past two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-youth-booked-for-raping-minor-242126
21-04-2021||---||Man nabbed for murder||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20The Ludhiana police claimed to have solved the blind murder case in which a body was found near the Sidhwan canal on April 16.The arrested accused has been identified as Mohammad Abitab of Dhuri Lines, native of Bihar.Joint CP Deepak Pareek, Additional DCP Sameer Verma, ACP Jatinder Singh addressed a press conference regarding the matter.On April 16, Mohammad Firoz was found dead and his body had severe injury marks. The police had then registered a murder case against unknown persons.During preliminary questioning, the accused revealed that he had killed Firoz under the influence of liquor after he had scuffle with him over some issue on the intervening night of April 15-16.The police said during investigation the police found the role of the accused in the murder and when he was rounded up he confessed to the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-nabbed-for-murder-242125
21-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Strengthen online desks to deal with plaints, SHOs in Ludhiana district told||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20After the Ludhiana police suspended public dealing due to the rise of Covid cases in the district, police station heads have been told to strengthen their online desks to deal with complaints.The SHOs have also told their staff to avoid public dealing and attend only those persons who have some emergency and needs immediate help. The police personnel have also been told to postpone routine inquiries (cases), which are not of urgent nature.During a visit to some of the police stations, it was observed that police officials have started putting notices outside the stations which state that public dealing have been stopped at police stations and routine complaints should be sent either on police station email or the email of the Police Commissioner, Ludhiana.Kotwali police station SHO Harjit Singh said since routine public dealing at police stations have been suspended till April 30, police station staff have been told to take due precautions and attend only urgent cases.“We have deployed police personnel at the main gate of the station to prevent the entry of visitors and the person at the gate will attend the visitor. If the visitor has any urgency, the police will let him/her enter the station. Otherwise, the person will be asked to send complaint via email or they can also take the complaint at the gate for further action, SHO Harjit said.The SHO said after receiving a complaint via email, the same will be assigned to the investigating officer who would contact the complainant and start the investigation.“Our team at the police station will continue to clear backlog of complaints in minimum possible time.Focal Point SHO Davinder Sharma said due to the suspension of public dealing, cops at the station were told to postpone all sittings of disputing parties and make use of phones to solve problems. “We will not call any disputing parties involved in matrimonial disputes or other normal such cases. We will try to sort out such cases by interacting with parties through phone and if still parties seek sittings, we will call them after improvement in the present Covid situation,” said Davinder.The SHO said the police would not miss any major crime spot where police presence was required as the police would reach the spot by taking all Covid safety precautions.Due to the ongoing second wave of Covid, we have suspended routine public dealing in police stations and offices of the Ludhiana police till April 30.The police said the public is requested to contact the police on our email id cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.inHowever, emergency cases would continue to be attended. People can interact for their grievances online with the CP, Ludhiana, daily via Zoom app from 12 noon to 1 pm, Monday to Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/strengthen-online-desks-to-deal-with-plaints-shos-in-ludhiana-district-told-242124
21-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Choked, overflowing sewers lead to health issues||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20After the death of two children suspected to be suffering from dengue, a team of the Health Department in October 2019 conducted a survey at New Durga Colony in Ward 28. The street, leading to the houses of both children, was badly flooded with sewage due to overflowing sewers.After the survey, the Health Department team, however, did not confirm any dengue death. But, they had confirmed to have found a huge amount of larvae of culex mosquitoes, which can spread Japanese encephalitis (an infection of the brain), in stagnant sewer water on roads and vacant plots of New Durga Colony and nearby areas.Even after the passing of more than two years, the MC failed to resolve the problem as the sewers are still overflowing in New Durga Colony, Ishwar Colony and some nearby areas, giving an open invitation to diseases. The residents blamed the MC and its ‘poor’ sewer system for such ‘hell-like’ conditions.Surinder Singh of New Durga Colony, said, “Thousands of residents are forced to live under unsanitary conditions. Nothing has been done to provide us with any relief. The people are forced to pass through accumulated sewage in the streets and they generally suffer from health problems, including skin infections.”Sukhwinder Singh of the Guru Ravidas Ji Youth Sports and Welfare Club said, “In the morning, the sewers commonly overflow on Dharmashala Road at Dhandari Khurd.” The residents also accused the MC of failing to pay attention to the accumulation of dirty water in a park outside Metro Tyres at Dhandari Khurd.Disposal issue at Ward 2, 3The overflowing sewage is getting accumulated in several vacant plots and roads in the Ward 2 and 3 areas. Congress councillor from Ward 3 Pallavi Vinayak said, “A sewerage disposal unit was set up in a wrong manner during the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government. Whenever the disposal is run, the sewers overflow in a few areas, including Inder Vihar and Basant Vihar Extension. Thus, we have requested the officials to run the disposal unit at night to avoid water accumulation in these areas at daytime.”Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor from Ward 2 Gurmail Singh Jajji blamed the MC for keeping the disposal unit off due to which the sewers overflow at Saryansh Nagar, Deep Colony and a few other colonies in Ward 2. He claimed the disposal unit was functioning well during the tenure of the previous government.When contacted, MLA from Ludhiana East Sanjay Talwar said, “There are sewer-related issues in Ward 2, 3, 12, 15 and 21. A work to clean the Bhattian sewer line is already underway. We are hopeful that once the work is completed, the problem of overflowing sewers will get resolved. For a permanent solution in Ward 2 and 3, there is a plan for installation of a new sewer line.”‘Use super suction machines’Choked and overflowing sewers are also common in several areas in Ward 30 and nearby wards. RK Yadav of the Yadav Ahir Mahasabha said, “The sewage is getting accumulated at Mini Rose Garden at Giaspura and the problem must be resolved.” The residents also complained of choked sewers in flats at Giaspura in Ward 31.Davinder Singh Sherpuri, AAP leader, said, “The problem of overflowing sewers on Gurdwara Sahib Road and a few other roads in the Sherpur area should be resolved at the earliest.”Meanwhile, councillor from Ward 94, Gurpreet Singh, “I appreciate the work being done by the sewer men. But, the MC must ensure de-silting of the sewer lines with super suction machines on Jassian Road.”Whenever it rains, the sewers start overflowing on Chandigarh Road, Panj Peer Road and a number of other areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/choked-overflowing-sewers-lead-to-health-issues-242123
21-04-2021||Manav Mander||ESIC Hospital in Ludhiana sees high footfall||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20Amid the surging Covid graph, the ESIC Hospital here is witnessing a huge rush of patients who are generally seen giving Covid safety protocols a miss. With the OPD and the Emergency of the Civil Hospital also shifted here after a rise in cases in the second wave, the footfall of the patients at the ESIC Hospital has increased.All non-Covid cases are attended at the hospital.In April 2020 also, the OPD and the Emergency of the Civil Hospital were shifted to the ESIC Hospital but after decline in cases in November, these were shifted to the Civil Hospital.Today also, a huge rush of people was witnessed at the hospital, especially outside Room No. 60 where check-up and prescription for fitness certificate or injury or illness are verified for issuing certificates to ESIC card holders.Rachpal Singh Gabria, a visitor at the hospital who had come to get his certificate, said people start gathering here at around 9 am while doctors come late.“Nobody is following the Covid guidelines. People are jostling with each other and there is no social distancing. Some were not wearing face masks,” he said.He said some time ago, the card holders used to apply online for certificates but now they have to visit the hospital for the same.Another visitor at the hospital said the second wave of Covid was deadly and amid such a situation it was dangerous that a large number of people are gathering at a place without following any safety guidelines.“It is the duty of people to follow the safety norms, but they are ignoring the same. Besides, security arrangements should be made by the hospital to manage the rush,” he said.A patient visiting the OPD at the ESIC Hospital said there was a huge rush of patients. Though she came to the hospital at 10 am, it took over three hours for her to meet the doctor.Medical Superintendent of ESIC Hospital Anshul Aggarwal said doctors come to their respective offices on time and she herself monitors everything. The problem was that the hospital was witnessing a huge rush as the OPD and the Emergency of the Civil Hospital were also being run from here.“The rush of the patients has increased but our staff strength is same. Number of security staff is also same as earlier and all are deployed on duty. It is a tough time we are going through and everybody should understand his/her duty and follow all safety guidelines,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/esic-hospital-in-ludhiana-sees-high-footfall-242122
21-04-2021||---||Day 4: Hospitals in Ludhiana await Covishield supply||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20Four day gone and Covishield vaccine stock has still not reached private hospitals in the city. Things are further going to become difficult because the district has yet not received any intimation from the state govt regarding vaccine supply and if sources are to be believed it will take a few more days for the supply to be restored in the district.Beneficiaries who had their first dose from private hospitals have been left in lurch as they are making rounds of the hospitals but unable to get the second jab. Today also Covishield was administered at only four government centres in urban areas.Karanjit Singh, who got his father vaccinated from a nearby private hospital, is reluctant to take his aged father to government hospital. “I am waiting for the private hospital to get the stock,” he said.Another beneficiary said she was not ready to go to the government hospital. “I will get my second dose from the same hospital from where I got the first. I don’t feel comfortable going to a government hospital,” she said.Dr GS Grewal, former president of the Punjab Medical Council, said the private hospitals were made Covid centres but when it came to vaccination they were not provided the stock.“We are ready to run the vaccination free of cost because we do not want the people to suffer. The department should provide us the required stock as people are making rounds of the hospitals,” said Dr Grewal.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they had yet not received any intimation from the state about vaccine stock. “The moment we are informed we will go and get the supply of Covishield. Covishield is being administered at only four government vaccination centres in urban areas,” he said.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Covid nodal officer of Punjab, said there was no shortage of Covishield. When questioned why private hospitals were not given the supply, the nodal officer said they were making the supply in a phased manner. “We are hopeful that more stock will be given to the district in a day,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/day-4-hospitals-in-ludhiana-await-covishield-supply-242121
21-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district emerges as driver of Covid surge in state, says CMC study||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20Ludhiana is among five districts that have emerged as drivers of Covid surge in the state, a recent study has revealed. The other districts are Mohali, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala.The study, a copy of which is with The Tribune, was conducted by the Department of Community Medicine at Christian Medical College (CMC) in Ludhiana.In the advice sent to the state government, CMC experts have stressed the need to focus on prevention and restriction of public movement. They also suggested that the vaccination campaign should be regulated as there were large gatherings of people with doubtful measures witnessed outside most of the vaccination centres.According to the experts, the virus surge has changed to an exponential curve from April 14. “There will be a large number of positive cases and the state will report 6,000 cases per day by May 5 if urgent measures are not implemented in the driver districts,” they warned.The projection as on April 18 showed that the number of daily positive cases would continue to rise unabated till May 5 with daily figures projected to touch new high every day.The status as on April 14 revealed that the peak in the surge of fresh infections was recorded on April 3. “As of February 10, the curve shows the peak will stop at 1.5 lakh cases in the end of June after cumulative start from February.”Meanwhile, the state has ramped up the contact tracing to test and treat the patients. Touching an all-time high, the contact tracing mounted to 17.2 per case ratio between April 12 and 18.Since January, the contact tracing was ramped up gradually and it started from 12.3 between January 3 and 9; 11.8 between January 10 and 16; 12 between January 17 and 23; 11.6 between January 23 and 30; 13.1 between February 1 and 7; 10.4 between February 8 and 14; 16.6 between February 15 and 21; 11.6 between February 22 and 28; 12.9 between March 1 and 7; 15.6 between March 8 and 14; 14.4 between March 15 and 21; 13.8 between March 22 and 28; 13.1 between March 29 and April 4; and touched 15 per case ratio between April 5 and 11.Level-3 bed occupancy moreThe cumulative capacity and occupancy comparison as on April 18 showed that the level-3 occupancy was more than level-2 in the government and private hospitals across the state. While 45.1 per cent (627 of 1,389) L3 beds were occupied in private facilities, 31.3 per cent (206 of 658) L3 beds were occupied in the government hospitals.Similarly, 37.9 per cent (1,363 of 3,597) L2 beds in private hospitals and 14.5 per cent (568 of 3,909) L2 beds in government sector were occupied.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-emerges-as-driver-of-covid-surge-in-state-says-cmc-study-242120
21-04-2021||---||778 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 20As many as 778 persons tested positive for Covid, while five persons lost their lives today. Total positive cases from the district till now have reached 44,599, while death toll has reached 1,258. Active cases in the district today reached to 5,029.After Urban Estate, Phase I, and Phase II, Dugri, were declared containment zones on Sunday, 80 more persons have tested positive there. Today 1,103 samples were collected and 65 have tested positive, while yesterday 528 samples were collected, out of which 15 persons were tested positive.On Sunday both Urban Estate Phase I and Phase II were declared containment zones and the areas were sealed after 70 cases were reported from here.Residents of the areas were counselled for mandatory testing. People usually go for test only when they come in contact with a Covid positive person or have any symptoms. But people should understand that they have to come forward to give samples regardless of their symptoms or contact. The testing facility by the Health Department is completely free, Dr Avinash Jindal, SMO, ESI Hospital, Ludhiana, who is taking care of the sampling in Urban Estate, said.Those who tested positive today include three healthcare workers and an undertrial. As many as 174 persons have not been traced so far.Four men and a woman, belonging to Shimlapuri, Payal, Ram Nagar and Aluna Miana, lost their lives today.Today 23 persons were on ventilator support, out of which 16 are from Ludhiana district and remaining from other districts.As many as 7,282 samples were collected from the district and report of 475 is yet awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/778-test-positive-in-ludhiana-242119
21-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Amid fears, migrants in Ludhiana head back home||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20A large number of migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have started leaving for their hometowns from the industrial city of Ludhiana. While it is believed that seeing the surge in Covid cases and amid speculation about a “partial lockdown”, migrants have started leaving the city, industrialists claim it is the marriage season in UP and Bihar which is resulting in the movement.Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) former president SC Ralhan says many migrants had taken leave last month only, as from tomorrow there is a wedding season in UP and Bihar. “About 25 per cent of the labourers have gone back to their native places, but they will be back in a month or so. In Delhi, they might be returning because of a lockdown,” says Ralhan.However, labourers have something else to say. Priya, a domestic helper, along with her family left for UP all of a sudden because they wanted to be with their relatives in the Covid times.“You never know when a complete lockdown is imposed”, says a worried Priya. Migrants are not even bothered if trains are moving or not, they are hiring private buses to be with the families. “We will come back. But before the situation worsens, we wish to be in our native places”, says Siyaram, a painter here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amid-fears-migrants-in-ludhiana-head-back-home-241810
