22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Highest single-day spike, 879 fresh Covid cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana recorded the highest single-day spike of 879 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The virus also claimed the lives of seven more persons of the Ludhiana district during the past 24 hours.In the containment zones of Phases 1 and 2 of Urban Estate, Dugri, 70 more cases were reported today. As many as 1,890 samples were collected from these areas. About 150 cases were reported earlier from these areas.The Health Department today confirmed 974 fresh cases — 879 from Ludhiana and 95 from other districts or states. In Ludhiana, 93 patients came in contact with positive patients, 162 visited OPDs, and 408 visited Flu Corner. Ten healthcare workers, undertrial, cop and two persons with a severe acute respiratory infection have tested positive for the virus. Besides, 199 patients are yet to be traced.The department confirmed that 10 persons — seven from Ludhiana, one each from Hoshiarpur, Amritsar and Maharashtra — died of the virus. Those who died due to the virus include a 65-year-old man from Kochar Market Ludhiana, 84-year-old woman from Sarabha Nagar, 46-year-old man from Sahnewal, 56-year-old man from Janta Nagar, 57-year-old man from Giaspura, 43-year-old woman from Vishwakarma Nagar and 45-year-old woman from Guru Nanak Nagar.At present, there are 5,292 active cases that belong to Ludhiana. Twenty patients — 14 from Ludhiana and six from other districts or states — were on ventilator support. A total of 9,932 samples were collected today for Covid-19 testing.Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 45,478, while 6,936 patients belong to other districts/states. A total of 1,265 people from Ludhiana and 652 from other districts have lost their lives due to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/highest-single-day-spike-879-fresh-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-242472
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana records 2nd highest daily cases||Ludhiana, which has re-emerged as a hotspot and has become driver of Covid surge in the state, recorded second highest daily positive cases in the state between March 10 and April 13.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana logged an average of 341 daily positive cases during the past month, when the state had registered 2,544 fresh infections per day.Jalandhar with 342 daily cases topped the state, followed by Mohali 327, Amritsar 243, Patiala 230, Hoshiarpur 201, Gurdaspur 118, Kapurthala 117, Bathinda 103, Nawanshahr 76, Ropar 73, Sangrur 45, Faridkot 42, Tarn Taran and Pathankot 39 each, Fatehgarh Sahib 38, Ferozepur 35, Muktsar 32, Moga 31, Fazilka 30, Mansa 27 and Barnala 16.When it comes to average positivity rate, which is a key indicator of virus surge, Ludhiana recorded 8 per cent between March 10 and April 13, which was fifth highest in the state and even higher than state average of 7.2 per cent.While Mohali topped the state with highest positivity rate of 18.4 per cent, Patiala stood second with 8.6 per cent.Among other districts, Bathinda and Kapurthala recorded 8.3 per cent average positivity rate each, Ropar 8 per cent, Jalandhar 7.8, Amritsar 7.5, Hoshiarpur 7.4, Faridkot 7.2, Fatehgarh Sahib 6.9, Moga 6.2, Nawanshahr 5.2, Gurdaspur 5, Ferozepur 4.7, Barnala 4.5, Tarn Taran 4.4, Muktsar 4.3, Mansa and Pathankot 3.7 each, Fazilka 3.2 and Sangrur 2.9.The district-wise comparative data of total positive cases and positivity rate as on April 18 showed that Ludhiana reported 686 fresh infections and 9.28 per cent positivity rate.While Mohali topped the state with maximum 880 positive cases and highest 36.53 per cent positivity rate, Amritsar logged 742 new patients and 16.35 per cent positivity rate.Among other districts, Jalandhar recorded 445 fresh cases and 9.35 per cent positivity rate, Patiala 379 and 9.05 pc, Bathinda 293 and 14.69 pc, Hoshiarpur 265 and 9.5 pc, Fazilka 173 and 24.26 pc, Muktsar 170 and 9.94 pc, Pathankot 128 and 5.47 pc, Mansa 117 and 7.57 pc, Ropar 107 and 9.34 pc, Gurdaspur 104 and 3.09 pc, Moga 91 and11.9 pc, Ferozepur 70 and 9.02 pc, Kapurthala 67 and 10.69 pc, Fatehgarh Sahib 65 and 10.52 pc, Sangrur 63 and 4.09 pc, Faridkot 52 and 5.58 pc, Nawanshahr 32 and 2.34 pc, Barnala 20 and 5.36 pc and Tarn Taran 5 and 0.46 per cent.The state had registered 4,957 fresh infections with a positivity rate of 10.5 per cent on April 18.The ratio of daily testing and positive cases in the state between April 15 and 18 revealed that 34,409 tests were conducted on April 15, of which 4,333 were found positive with a positivity rate of 12.6 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-records-2nd-highest-daily-cases-242477
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Two notorious snatchers held||The Sarabha Nagar police have arrested two notorious snatchers wanted by the police in over 12 cases.The accused have been identified as Gobinda, alias Chiku (27), and Ajay (22), both residents of Jaspal Bangar. The police also recovered a motorcycle and a gold chain from the accused.Four more members of the gang, Satpal, Rekha, Chintan and Dharminder Singh, also residents of Jaspal Bangar, were still at large.Joint CP Deepak Pareek in a statement issued said the police had received a tip-off that the accused were chain snatchers and they were wanted in several cases of loot.Accordingly, the police laid a trap and nabbed the accused. During questioning, they confessed that they had committed chain snatching in various areas of the city and Mandi Ahmedgarh.The police said during further interrogation, more recovery of looted valuables could be made and the remaining members of the gang would be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-notorious-snatchers-held-242482
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Day 5: Covishield yet to reach pvt hospitals||Amid the shortage of Covishield vaccine, a number of beneficiaries are forced to wait for the second jab. Vaccine stock was not provided to private hospitals even on the fifth day.Currently, the Covishield vaccine was being administered at only four government vaccination centres in urban areas of Ludhiana. On Wednesday, District Immunisation Officer Puneet Juneja said at present, the Covishield stock was almost nil.He said the fresh stock of Covishield had not reached Ludhiana today. However, the vaccine stock was likely to reach here by Thursday evening.“There is no information that how much fresh stock will be delivered here. After the arrival of the stock, it will be distributed accordingly,” Dr Juneja said.Rush of visitors at Civil Surgeon’s officeA rush was witnessed at the Civil Surgeon’s office today as a number of persons visited the place for Covid-19 testing. Besides, several others visited the office to get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/day-5-covishield-yet-to-reach-pvt-hospitals-242487
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Liquor vends flout night curfew orders in Ludhiana||Liquor vends were found open in some areas in the city during the night curfew, which starts at 8 pm.This Tribune correspondent along with photographer conducted a reality check on Tuesday night. It was observed that more than 90 per cent shops and other commercial establishments were lying closed following the night curfew norms. The only shops found open were liquor vends in some city areas.A number of booze lovers were noticed at some liquor vends, where employees of liquor contractors were openly selling liquor during night curfew.At around 9.15 pm, liquor vend Param Wines and Sharma Brothers at Wadi Chandar Nagar Pulli was open. At this vend, the shutter was down but liquor was being sold through the holes made in the shutter.A liquor vend near the Police Lines, Ludhiana, was also seen selling liquor.Malik Wines at Jawala Singh Chowk, near the Jagatpuri Police Post, was also seen selling liquor. The entire market around the vend was lying closed. The vend had also not closed shutter, despite its location near the police post.Similarly, liquor vends at Laxmi Nagar, Dugri, Gill Road, Samrala Chowk, Civil Hospital road, etc, were also seen flouting curfew norms.Only two FIRs against liquor vendsOn Tuesday, the Ludhiana police registered only two FIRs against liquor vends that were found opened. The police registered cases against only employees of liquor vends and not the contractors.The first case was registered against unknown employees of Shiv Wine Shop at Basti Jodhewal. Another case was registered against an employee of Param Wines at Salem Tabri. Including these two cases, the police registered total 40 cases against 50 persons for curfew violations.Basant Ice-Cream owner booked for violating curfewAfter Tribune report, the Ludhiana police registered an FIR against the owner of Basant Ice-Cream at Fountain Chowk. On March 27, The Tribune had carried a special report that the ice-cream parlour, which is owned by a ruling party leader, paid scant regard to the night curfew orders. On April 17, the police registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/liquor-vends-flout-night-curfew-orders-in-ludhiana-242488
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Elderly woman’s earring snatched||Two bike-borne snatchers targeted an elderly woman at Punjab Mata Nagar yesterday and snatched her gold earring. She also suffered a minor injury on one ear during the incident. The victim, Surinder Kaur (67), a resident of Punjab Mata Nagar on Dugri Road, told the police that on Tuesday morning when she was standing outside her house, two-bike borne persons, who were wearing turbans and masks, suddenly pounced on her and snatched her one earring.When they tried to snatch the second earring, she raised an alarm after which they fled the spot.The woman said the miscreants had also conducted a recce before committing the crime.The victim said after the incident, the Dugri police were informed about the crime and the police reached the spot.The accused were also captured in CCTV cameras and the police were checking the footage to identify them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/elderly-womans-earring-snatched-242489
22-04-2021||Our CorrespondentLudhiana||Sale of platform tickets discontinued to avoid rush||In the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, the Northern Railway have announced suspension of sale of platform tickets in the city with immediate effect. Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, Rajesh Aggarwal, said the platform tickets would not be sold from today till further notice.He has also made a appeal to rail travellers to maintain discipline with regard to preventive measures against the spread of the virus by wearing masks, maintenance of personal hygiene and keeping social distancing on railway platforms and while travelling in trains.Meanwhile, the railway authorities have announced cancellation of unreserved pair of 04635/56 Ludhiana-Ferozepur-Ludhiana passenger train till further notice. The reason given for the suspension of the train was low occupancy on the route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sale-of-platform-tickets-discontinued-to-avoid-rush-242490
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||No check on commercial activities in residential areas||When the name of Ludhiana was announced in the list of first 20 cities to be developed as smart cities around five years ago, the residents had pinned many hopes to see major developments in the city. But, the authorities concerned seemed to be not serious for the same as many of the residents have been left to suffer due to illegal commercial activities in various residential areas in the city.The role of officials concerned and several politicians was also under scanner for promoting the violations and protecting the violators. The illegal commercial activities are rampant in even posh residential areas of Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar, Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, Rajguru Nagar Road and many others, creating a lot of nuisance. The questions are also being raised as to why a number of roads were declared commercial by ignoring the parking arrangements and traffic-related issues.Most of such unauthorised commercial units, factories and godowns in residential areas lack parking arrangements. Thus, vehicles are generally parked on roads causing traffic snarls. Moreover, the majority of such units lack fire safety arrangements, posing threat to the residents. Also, there is no check on noise pollution being created by the industrial units.Col JS Gill, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “The Ludhiana Improvement Trust had constructed shops and booths for commercial purposes at BRS Nagar but many of these are lying closed. On the other hand, the commercial units are being opened by violating the norms in residential areas. Why the government authorities turned a blind eye to such violations?”Col Gill said, “If the building branch and town planning wing officials have not to act against the violations, what is need of such branches? The exemplary punishment should be awarded to the erring officials so that no official can dare to ignore any such violation in the future. Besides, FIRs should be registered against the political leaders who protect the violators.”Another resident said, “Due to apathy and negligence of the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana Improvement Trust or other departments concerned, the residents are suffering. No action is taken on complaints against violations.”In 2019, a survey of commercial violations was conducted in 73 town planning schemes and development schemes across the city. Around 7,000 violations were found. Instead of taking action, the MC’s building branch had recommended for regularisation of such violations but some NGOs had raised voice against the MC’s such ‘wrong’ plan.Sources said political interference was very high in the MC’s building branch. Now, the MC was planning to get more roads declared commercial in the city, sources said.By violating the building bylaws, a number of commercial stores, restaurants and other units have been opened in residential areas of Sarabha Nagar. A resident of Sarabha Nagar, Rahul Verma, said, “The roads are being declared commercial by ignoring the safety of residents and traffic-related issues. If such wrong practices are to be allowed, the city can’t become smart.”“Due to rising commercial activities at Sarabha Nagar, we are forced to suffer. The visitors to unauthorised commercial units park vehicles outside houses. The MC and other departments concerned have created a big mess in various residential areas by ignoring such violations,” he added.A resident of Model Town, Amarjit Singh Tikka, who is Chairman of Punjab Medium Industries Development Board, said, “Hundreds of commercial establishments and nursing homes have come up in residential areas of Model Town. Even, ambulances of nursing homes are stationed on road. Unauthorised commercial activities are common in about 60% residential areas of Model Town. Such wrong activities should be stopped and building plans must be reviewed.” Municipal Town Planner (MTP) SS Bindra said, “We are not allowing any new commercial construction in residential areas. We are waiting for the government’s one-time settlement policy. If no relief is given for old constructions, we will take the required action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-check-on-commercial-activities-in-residential-areas-242493
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Three women among 10 nabbed with heroin||The Special Task Force has nabbed five persons, including two women, and recovered 1.20 kg of heroin from their possession.One of the women, Jaswinder Kaur, was a former member of the Istri Akali Dal, said sources.The accused have been identified as Manjit Singh Meeta (60), Jagvir Singh Jagga, Gurpreet Singh, Mandeep Kaur, all residents of Bhail Dhai village in Tarn Taran district, and Jaswinder Kaur Jassi (49) of Chambal village, near Tarn Taran.STF inspector Harbans Singh said after receiving a tip-off that the accused were on the way to deliver heroin to their clients, accordingly, a police party laid a naka and intercepted a Maruti Zen car for checking. During the checking of the vehicle, heroin was recovered. Four occupants of the car were arrested and during their interrogation, they revealed that they brought heroin from Jaswinder Kaur of Tarn Taran district.Harbans said accordingly, a raid was conducted at the house of the woman and she was held with 10 gm of heroin and Rs 70,000 drug money.During questioning, Manjit said he was a farmer and he had already been facing a drug case registered against him in the past. Jagvir is also a farmer and he is also a drug addict. Accused Gurpreet is a taxi driver while Mandeep Kaur is a housewife.Jaswinder Kaur owns three shops and she was already facing five cases of drug smuggling, attempt to murder, fake currency, etc.Meanwhile, the Ludhiana rural police nabbed five persons and recovered heroin from them in two separate cases.In the first case, the Jagraon police nabbed three persons, Balwinder Kaur, recovered 10 gm of heroin and a Maruti Swift car from them. ASI Gurcharan Singh said the accused were nabbed near railway crossing with heroin. They were waiting for their clients to deliver heroin. In another incident, the Sidhwan Bet police nabbed Puran Singh and Satpal Singh of Bhundri and recovered 25 gm of heroin from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-women-among-10-nabbed-with-heroin-242494
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Low motivation behind less school enrolment: Teachers||The enrolment of students in schools in Ludhiana district is on the decline as compared to last year. Teachers and principals may have expressed satisfaction about many new admissions in middle and higher classes this year, but data tells otherwise.When asked about the reason behind low admission in government schools this year, teachers said they were not properly motivated by the District Education Department to enrol more students in government schools.One of the principals of a senior secondary government school said earlier meetings were called and principals and teachers were motivated to enrol new students, but it was missing this time. “We were neither appreciated nor motivated to enrol more students in schools,” the principal added.Another senior teacher of a government school wishing not to be quoted said, “Recently, I went to a school and asked the authorities and parents to send their children to government senior secondary schools, but a local level politician, who was present there, asked me to refrain from doing so.”“The politician said those, who can afford to send their wards to private schools, should continue to do so. In such cases, how can we convince parents that the authorities concerned are making sincere efforts to make government schools better than private institutions,” the teacher added.The former Ludhiana DEO, Harjit Singh, said that there was some technical snag in the main software and city’s data was not collected properly. If data was collected now, one could definitely find a jump in enrolment, he added.Meanwhile, many teachers said the Education Department expected more from them. “How can we add more and more students each year. Ludhiana is a big district, but that does not mean that there will always be a jump in students’ enrolment,” said another teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/low-motivation-behind-less-school-enrolment-teachers-242496
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||New DEO: Will focus on quality education||Lakhvir Singh was appointed the new Ludhiana District Education Officer (Secondary) today. He is likely to join the office tomorrow.He has served as a lecturer and senior lecturer at DIET, Jagraon, for several years. At present, he was working as the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Barsal, near Ludhiana.Talking to Ludhiana Tribune, the newly appointed DEO said he would work as a team with teachers and principals to impart quality education to students.“We will make sure that more and more children get enrolled as many new facilities have been introduced in government schools. We are at par with many private schools in the city. Parents will definitely prefer government schools if we are able to provide students quality education at less fee than private schools,” he said.The new DEO also said he would make sure that there was transparency in the work done in his department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/new-deo-will-focus-on-quality-education-242497
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Halwais express concern  over cancellation of orders||The Ludhiana Halwai Association today expressed concern over cancellation of orders owing to the surge in Covid-19 cases and strict guidelines issued by the government.There are over 230 members in the district association. Members maintained that if things continued in the present manner, many would be forced to shut their businesses as customer footfall had already reduced by over 40 per cent.Talking to Ludhiana Tribune, Narinderpal Singh, president, Ludhiana Halwai Association, said the government had earlier announced night curfew to begin from 9 pm, which they later changed to 8 pm. Our business hours were being reduced, which had reduced the footfall at shops, he added.“From April 22 to May 3, there was a heavy wedding season and businesses had got bulk orders of sweets. But most of these orders now stand cancelled. Boxes for most of the orders were also printed. People are converting marriages into small family affairs owing to rise in Covid cases. This has led to losses to many sweet shops,” Narinder said.The association members also maintained that maximum orders were for April 30. “Now, many customers want advance payment back. We have already purchased the raw material for making sweets. These are real difficult times as the prices of raw material are also sky rocketing and orders are being cancelled,” said another sweet-shop owner.The association has requested the state government to intervene and find solution to the problem as all these trades are interlinked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/halwais-express-concern-over-cancellation-of-orders-242498
22-04-2021||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh||Commission agents come to rescue of procurement officials||Commission agents and rice millers of the town and surrounding areas have come to the rescue of officials of various procurement agencies to meet the shortage of ‘bardana’ (gunny bags) for filling and lifting wheat that has been purchased during the past few days.Around two lakh used gunny bags were collected by officials of various procurement agencies. The payment for these gunny bags would be made by procurement agencies.The development took place after the Mandi Ahmedgarh SDM, Vikramjit Singh Panthey, called upon commission agents and rice sheller owners to help the administration, which was under stress due to shortage of ‘bardana’.“After receiving information about the shortage of ‘bardana’ from farmers protesting for expeditious lifting of wheat in ‘mandis’ we called a joint meeting of officials of food grain agencies, commission agents and rice millers. Earlier, traders hesitated to provide old ‘bardana’. Later, they agreed to do so after we advised procurement agencies to pay for ‘bardana’ supplied by commission agents and rice sheller owners,” the SDM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/commission-agents-come-to-rescue-of-procurement-officials-242499
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||NGOs’ head joins AAP||An activist of the Haibowal area, Raman Sharma, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) with his supporters, said party leader Ahbaab Singh Grewal. Sharma joined theparty in the presence of AAP leaders, including Aman Mohi. “He heads various social organistions and NGOs. Sharma was influenced by the work of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal,” Mohi said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngos-head-joins-aap-242500
22-04-2021||Our CorrespondentDoraha||College students make farmers, labourers in grain markets aware of virus infection||The extension cell of Guru Nanak National College has initiated a campaign to make farmers, labourers, mandi staff and others at nearby grain markets aware of dangers of the Covid pandemic and the urgency to contain its spread by following all prescribed norms.Volunteers distributed masks and sanitisers among migrants and farmers and apprised them about the rising coronavirus cases.Taranpreet Singh, Karanpreet Singh and Karanveer Singh, all students of BCA-III at the college, who visited the grain market today, shared, “As procurement is in full swing, it is natural for famers and the labourers to work, which might lead to a spike in virus infection in ‘mandis’. Government officials are trying their best to take all possible measures to contain the virus. We too have been assigned the project of keeping a strict vigil at the Doraha grain market today and warn migrants and farmers not to lower their guard against the pandemic.”Sandeep Kaur and Sukhwinder Kaur, both students of BA-I at the college, also distributed masks with the assistance of the police among commuters on the Doraha-Neelon stretch and educated them about the importance of taking precautions in order to keep the virus away.“We have initiated ‘Jan Andolan’, a campaign to prevent the spread of Covid-19, which includes online poster making, essay writing and mask making competitions. These activities are shared through social media handles, including WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram with # hashtag Unite 2 Fight Corona, to make the people aware of the benefits of social distancing, wearing face masks and sanitising hands regularly,” they added.College president Roop Brar, along with other committee members and Principal Dr Narinder Sidhu, lauded efforts of the staff and students and urged them to understand their societal responsibilities and contribute constructively from time to time.The Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, appreciated efforts of college students in educating masses at grain markets regarding ways to save themselves from the virus infection. He also urged other educational institutions to help the district administration in its war against the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/college-students-make-farmers-labourers-in-grain-markets-aware-of-virus-infection-242501
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Restart disinfection drive in city: Residents||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, residents demand that the MC should restart disinfection drives at public places and other locations in the city for the prevention of the virus. The Municipal Corporation (MC) had launched such a drive last year but it was later stopped when the cases started declining.The MC had deployed some fire tenders and jetting machines to conduct disinfectant spray in the city in 2020. Even workers were deployed in each ward to conduct manual spray of disinfectant. The sanitisation was also conducted at the residences of the Covid-infected persons but no such drive is being conducted at present.A city resident, Col Harjap Singh, who is chairman of the Feroze Gandhi Market Association, said, “All required measures must be taken aggressively for the prevention of Covid-19. The MC and district administration should conduct a special sanitisation drive in the city. The disinfectant spray must be done at public places, markets and other areas.”A resident said, “The MC should conduct the disinfectant spray at all public places. It must conduct sanitisation in those areas from where cases are being reported.” A former councillor, Inder Aggarwal said, “I will meet the Mayor and request him to start a sanitisation drive in all wards at the earliest. The disinfectant spray must be done for the prevention of Covid-19 cases in the entire city.”An MC official said the sanitisation drive was stopped last year when cases started declining. The MC used to spray sodium hypochlorite as a disinfectant in the city last year. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said they were planning to start a sanitisation drive in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/restart-disinfection-drive-in-city-residents-242502
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Officials directed to make arrangements for rainy season||In view of the upcoming rainy season, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has given directions to the officials to make required arrangements to ensure the cleaning of sewers, drains and road gullies in the city.The Commissioner conducted a meeting with the officials of the Operations & Maintenance Wing, Buildings & Roads, and Health Branch officials on Wednesday.He asked the officials to ensure the replacement of broken covers of manholes. The officials have been asked to ensure correction of uneven manholes. The staff has been asked to also make arrangements in low-lying areas.An official said, “The MC chief has given directions to officials to ensure the availability of sandbags to tackle any emergency situation. He asked them to place the sandbags at weak points of Buddha Nullah. The B&R officials have been asked to ensure the repair of potholes.” Officials of the health branch have been asked to make arrangements for fogging in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/officials-directed-to-make-arrangements-for-rainy-season-242503
22-04-2021||Ludhiana||Cops distribute masks among commuters||In view of the present ongoing Covid pandemic and to emphasise on the necessity of wearing masks, a drive was conducted at important traffic junctions in the city today. Senior cops led by the JCP (City), Deepak Pareek, ADCP Sameer Verma and ACP Jatinder Singh took part in the drive.The police personnel, along with members of civil society and voluntary organisations, checked commuters on red lights, who were not wearing face masks.Cops also distributed free masks among commuters and requested them to follow the guidelines to curb the spread of Covid. “We also warned commuters that if they continue to violate Covid norms, strict penal action will be taken against them. Around 4,000 mask have been distributed among commuters and residents at bus stand, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Old Session Chowk and other important junctions,” said the JCP. The police would continue such awareness drive in future too, the JCP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-distribute-masks-among-commuters-242504
