23-04-2021||Ludhiana||New high: Ludhiana reports 1,099 new cases, 13 deaths||In a new high, the Ludhiana district on Friday reported the highest-ever 1,099 new Covid cases and 13 deaths due to the virus during the past 24 hours.The fresh infections included 995 from Ludhiana and 104 from other districts, and included six healthcare workers and a teacher.The deaths included eight from Ludhiana, and one each from Jalandhar, Faridkot, Barnala, Delhi, and Jharkhand.With this, the count of cases surpassed the 54,000-mark and mounted to 54,481, including 7,128 out-of-district patients.The death toll went up to 1,939, including 659 outsiders. The number of active cases also breached the 6,500-mark to reach 6,511, including 259 out-of-district patients.While 877 critical patients were hospitalised, 4,649 active cases were home isolated. However, 39,821 patients have already recovered from the virus in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/new-high-ludhiana-reports-1-099-new-cases-13-deaths-243117
23-04-2021||Ludhiana||Clerk arrested for graft||Wife, paramour held for murderRaikot: The police have arrested one Gagandeep Kaur, a resident of Pamal village, and her paramour Raghbir Singh, of Kailey village, for killing Ranjit Singh, Gagandeep’s husband, on the intervening night of April 13 and 14 after serving him drug-laced food. DSP Mullanpur Gurbans Singh Bains said cops led by Jodhan SHO Amritpal Singh arrested the accused when they were trying to leave the area yesterday evening.Thieves target PAU museumLudhiana: Thieves targeted the museum of Punjab Agricultural University last night from where they decamped with antique items, mostly utensils. Investigation officer, PAU police station, Ajit Singh said thief broke open the main wooden door to commit the theft. The incident came to fore when staff of the museum arrived in the morning. No CCTV cameras were installed there. Ajit Singh said it could be the work of some drug addicts. The police got some clues and soon thieves would be nabbed. A case against unknown persons was registered.26-yr-old man commits suicideLudhiana: A 26-year-old man, Karandeep Singh Golu, committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at a rented accommodation in Rishi Nagar today. Investigation officer ASI Gyan Singh said Karandeep was living alone. A few years back his mother had died due to some illness and later his father committed suicide. A few months back his elder brother had also committed suicide. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC were initiated by the police. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/clerk-arrested-for-graft-243045
23-04-2021||Ludhiana||Online poster-making contest||Workshop on NAAC assessmentTo help its faculty understand better the process of NAAC assessment and accreditation, SCD Government College organised a two-day national workshop. In-charges of various criterions attended the workshop offline while some members joined online. Principal Dr Gurpreet Kaur gave an overview of the NAAC assessment and accreditation process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/online-poster-making-contest-243044
23-04-2021||Ludhiana||World Earth Day celebrations||OP Gupta SDP Model SchoolWorld Earth Day celebrations at OP Gupta SDP Model Senior Secondary School comprised virtual poster-making and slogan-writing competitions. Balraj Bhasin from SDP institutions said the present pandemic had made us realise the importance of oxygen. To fight global warming, it was important to plant more trees.Drishti Public SchoolDrishti Public School commemorated World Earth Day. Students presented their views through a speech competition on the theme of environment. Students said humans were to be held accountable for the worsening condition of the Earth. They pledged to plant trees, avoid the use of plastic bags wherever possible, and follow the mantra of ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’.BCM School, Basant CityTo mark World Earth Day, BCM School, Basant City, organised competitions on climate change and global warming to spread awareness among students about the same. Students made posters on the theme of saving environment. Principal JP Singh said we should all act towards protecting the environment and focus on the need of conservation.Gujranwala Guru Nanak SchoolGGN Public School, Rose Garden, asked students of Class VII and VIII to plant a sapling in their houses to mark World Earth Day. For students of Class IX, a poster-making competition was organised on ‘Save Earth, save life’. Principal Gunmeet Kaur appreciated the efforts put in by students and urged them to be the torch bearers for protecting the environment.BCM Kindergarten, Basant AvenueBCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue, Dugri, celebrated World Earth Day by planting saplings. Students planted seedlings in plastic boxes and bottles, tin boxes. Some kids also made sprouts and sent pictures of the same to their school groups.BCM AryaBCM Arya marked World Earth Day by making posters on the impact of Covid-19. They also prepared speeches on how humans needed to repair the damage they had done to the environment.BCM School, Chandigarh RoadWorld Earth Day was celebrated at BCM School, Chandigarh Road. Students from all classes zealously participated in the activities planned. They showcased their creativity by reciting poems, and making posters and masks on healthy lifestyle. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-earth-day-celebrations-243043
23-04-2021||Manav Mander||Staff crunch ails Civil Hospital, Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 22Grappling with the shortage of staff amid the Covid-19 crisis, the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, is facing a tough time.Apart from doctors, supporting staff, including nurses and Class IV employees, at the hospital are facing acute manpower crunch.Starting with Senior Medical Officer, there are two posts out of which the post of the SMO of Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) is lying vacant, after Dr Malwinder Mala took pre-mature retirement in February. With Covid at its peak, the entire work of both the hospitals (Civil Hospital and MCH) is taken care by Dr Amarjeet Kaur, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital. The MCH has 280 functional beds.The civil hospital caters to the entire district and patients not only from Ludhiana city but also periphery areas such as Jagraon, Raikot, Mullanpur, Sahnewal, Doraha etc. come here for treatment. The hospital has only two medicine specialists although there are sanctioned posts for four in total.Presently, there are only two medicine specialists against four posts who are looking after the needs of the OPD patients, in house patients, doing medical for job entrants, VIP duties, post-mortem duties and making fitness certificates for various religious pilgrims from time to time. The civil hospital OPD caters to 250-300 patients daily.Gynaecology is another important department functioning at half the strength of doctors. Of the eight sanctioned posts, only four are filled. On a normal day, gynaecology OPD gets nearly 300 patients and conducts 500 deliveries per month.Against the sanctioned posts of four paediatricians, there are only two posts filled. MBBS Medical Officers sanctioned posts are 34 and only 15 are filled.Similar situation prevails for the nursing staff as well. The sanctioned posts of nurses in the hospital is 90 while only 50 are filled and 23 are working on user-charges basis and 17 posts are vacant.A doctor from the hospital, on the condition of anonymity, said the hospital needs more staff as Ludhiana is a big station and in addition to this, the supporting staff is of utmost importance and we are reeling under shortage of both doctors and supporting staff.Senior Medical Officer, Dr Amarjeet Kaur said that they have been writing to the authorities from time to time regarding the vacant posts. Ludhiana is a big district and needs complete staff for smooth functioning.20 volunteers requiredThe Civil Hospital is in need of 20 volunteers (nurses and attendants). Interested people can contact the office of Senior Medical Officer with their qualification and ability certificates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/staff-crunch-ails-civil-hospital-ludhiana-242981
23-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Edu Dept mulls pre-primary classes in middle, high schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 22Despite protest by anganwadi workers against the government’s decision to start pre-primary classes in a few schools, the Education Department has decided to start these classes even in middle, high and senior secondary schools.However, the official notification is still awaited but the message has been verbally sent to schools.Talking to Ludhiana Tribune, spokesperson of the department Pramod Bharti said the department planned to start nursery, LKG and UKG classes in middle, high and senior secondary schools in which space and infrastructure was available.“Punjab was the first state where pre-primary classes in government primary schools were started in 2017 but now it aims to start these classes in other schools as well. The Department is hopeful to get a good response,” said Bharti.He said the residents had started appreciating the facilities being given in government schools and that too, free of cost. “The motive is to enrol more and more students in all classes starting from LKG and UKG to senior secondary so that maximum kids receive education in the state,” he added.Meanwhile, many school authorities are unaware about any such development as they have received no written notification.Asha Sharma, an anganwadi worker, said it was not justified and this would put anganwadi workers out of work.“Why should new classes for small children be held in schools when we are there to take care of them in anganwadis. The government intends to make us jobless. We will fight this decision,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/edu-dept-mulls-pre-primary-classes-in-middle-high-schools-242982
23-04-2021||---||Foundation stone of PAU institute laid||Ludhiana, April 22 Dr Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India, today laid the foundation stone of Gurdev Singh Khush Institute of Genetics, Plant Breeding and Biotechnology at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) virtually. Dr Swarup said the institute will honour the work of Dr Khush, a world-renowned rice breeder.  “The Department of Biotechnology has been working closely with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and agricultural universities. Conventional plant breeding and genomics technology are important. The present scenario calls for combining new technologies with conventional tools of plant breeding,” she observed. World Food Prize laureate Dr Khush was the guest of honour on the occasion. He said: “The institute will provide unlimited opportunities to PAU scientists to pursue latest breakthroughs in genomics, biotechnology and for developing climate smart varieties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/foundation-stone-of-pau-institute-laid-242983
23-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||Give details of Orient Cinema site, LIT told||Ludhiana, April 22 Desperate attempts by the authorities of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and the present owners of Orient Cinema site at Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar to keep the matter of subsequent change of ownership, restoration of allotment, waiver of penalty and other relief granted to defaulting allottee under wraps have been foiled by directions of the Punjab State Information Commission to provide a complete file pertaining to the site to the appellant under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. In the appeal filed by city-based advocate Harjot Singh, State Information Commissioner (SIC) Asit Jolly ruled: “This Commission is of the view that disclosure of the requested information is in larger public interest. The respondent (LIT) is given one month time from today to submit a copy of the complete file pertaining to the cinema hall cited in this RTI application from the date of its original allotment.” In the second appeal preferred before the SIC, applicant Harjot Singh had made a submission that he had sought information under the RTI Act regarding the Orient Cinema site by way of the complete file vide his application dated August 13, 2020. The respondent pleaded that the present owners of the cinema, cited in the RTI application, had objected to the release of any information pertaining to the said cite claiming it as ‘personal information’. Expressing disagreement, the SIC observed: “However, in this RTI application, the appellant has sought information regarding the aforesaid cinema hall cite from the date of its original allotment which was many years before the present owners took possession of the same. The appellant voiced apprehensions that there have been considerable wrongdoings resulting in losses to the LIT.” The case will be taken up for next hearing on August 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/give-details-of-orient-cinema-site-lit-told-242984
23-04-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal seeks probe into Covid expenses||Mullanpur, April 22 The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president, Sukhbir Singh Badal, today accused CM Capt Amarinder Singh of ‘mismanaging’ the wheat procurement process and not providing basic facilities to Covid patients. He demanded a high-level independent probe into the Rs1,000-crore Covid expenditure claimed by the state government, alleging nothing had been done on the ground. He reviewed the ongoing wheat procurement at the local mandi and interacted with farmers. He said, “Farmers have complained of lack of gunny bags and delay in payment by government agencies,” he alleged.  Sukhbir alleged, “It is apparent that the state government has perpetuated another scam in the name of spending Rs1,000 crore to upgrade hospital infrastructure in the state in the last one year. An impartial probe is needed to find out where the money meant for hospital infrastructure and provision of much-needed medical services had gone.” He alleged that nothing had changed on the ground with new ICU facilities being created only in two districts of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sukhbir-badal-seeks-probe-into-covid-expenses-242985
23-04-2021||---||70 FIRs registered in a day in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 22The police have intensified the drive against violation of night curfew and Covid norms. In a day, more than 70 FIRs were registered against residents, who violated the night curfew and coronavirus guidelines.According to sources all police station heads and senior cops have been asked to register maximum cases against violators of the night curfew and also ensure compliance of the Covid norms during the day time in the city.Station House Officers (SHOs) of all police stations in the city have been instructed to check their areas after 8 pm and ensure compliance of the night curfew.The sources maintained that Police Commissioner (CP) Rakesh Agrawal had asked all police zone heads to register minimum 10 cases related to curfew violations.After Ludhiana Tribune carried out reports that liquor vends were not paying heed to night curfew norms, the police started registering cases against such violators. Contractors of liquor vends had also been strictly told by the police to follow norms else cases would be registered against them, the sources added.Meanwhile, the Khanna police have also registered 20 cases of curfew and Covid norms violations. The police even registered cases for not following the social distancing norm against commuters, shopkeepers and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/70-firs-registered-in-a-day-in-ludhiana-242971
23-04-2021||---||Ludhiana: 7 dead, 880 test positive for Covid||Ludhiana, April 22Ludhiana again broke its own record as 880 persons tested positive for Covid, while seven persons lost their lives to the virus today. Total active cases in the district reached 5,829. Today 20 patients were on the ventilator support.Total 1,671 samples were collected in Dugri, out of which 79 positive cases have been detected. Total 299 persons have tested positive so far in the area.Total positive cases in the district have reached 46,358, while 1,272 persons have lost their lives so far.Four men and three women, belonging to Urban Estate, Kitchlu Nagar, Mangli Ucchi, SBS Nagar, Shivala Road and Harnampura village, lost their lives today.Meanwhile, the mass media team of the Civil Surgeon office, Ludhiana, today visited persons who are in home isolation and educated them on circumstances in which they should contact the department immediately.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said team members, while visiting the homes of isolated persons, provided them with health education. They were asked to take certain preventive steps, such as staying in a separate room, not sharing utensils or clothes with other family members, always wearing a mask, proper disposal of waste, eating healthy food as recommended by the Health Departement, doing yoga, exercise, meditation, washing hands frequently, etc.When home-isolated patient should contact doctorIf the patient has persistent fever above 100°F, breathlessness, blue discoloration of lips, chest pain and discomfort, he/she should contact a doctor.Eligibility for home isolationPatients suffering from compromised immune systems (diabetes, HIV/AIDS, transplant recipients, pulmonary hypertension, cancer, etc) are not eligible for home isolation. Only after signing self-declaration form shall the patient be permitted to undergo home isolation.Elderly patients (60+) having comorbidities shall be permitted home isolation after proper evaluation by the medical officer. In addition, a caregiver should be available to provide assistance to the patient on a 24x7 basis. Only after signing self-declaration form shall the patient be permitted to undergo home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-7-dead-880-test-positive-for-covid-242972
23-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man injures jeweller, steals silver chain||A man posing as customer stole a silver chain from a jewellery shop at Saroop Nagar in Salem Tabri. The suspect also injured jeweller when the latter tried to prevent him from stealing chain. The suspect was captured in the CCTV cameras installed at the shop. Complainant Ranjit Singh of Pritam Nagar, Haibowal, stated to the police that yesterday a man posing as customer came to his jewellery showroom and asked for a silver chain. “I showed him several chains. During this exercise, I saw the suspect steal one silver chain and slip it in his pocket. When I asked him to return the chain, he entered into scuffle with me and hit something sharp on my face,” the complainant added. Investigation officer ASI Prem Singh said the police had got some clues about the suspect and he would be nabbed soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-injures-jeweller-steals-silver-chain-242974
23-04-2021||Nitin Jain---||Ludhiana district leads in vaccination, 4.42 lakh inoculated||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 22 Ludhiana, which was among the five high-burden districts that have emerged as drivers of Covid surge in the state, continues to lead in the ongoing vaccination drive. With the immunisation of 5,338 more persons on Thursday, the district has inoculated as many as 4,42,881 eligible beneficiaries so far. Sharing details, the Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, told The Tribune, here this evening, that all the persons who had been jabbed in the district so far were hale and hearty, while a handful of those who had reported after-effects following immunisation had since recovered. Making a fervent appeal to all the eligible persons to come forward and get themselves vaccinated at their nearest government or private health centres to help the district build the herd immunity to fight the deadly virus, the DC said the health experts had already made it loud and clear that the vaccine had no side effects on the human body and the hesitancy or unfound apprehensions based on rumours and non-scientific theories should be shunned to become partners in the sustained campaign against the Covid pandemic. In order to dispel the rumours, superstitions surrounding the vaccine and to help the residents shun the hesitancy and unfounded apprehensions, the district administration has roped in renowned health experts to further boost the inoculation of all the eligible persons. The panel of experts, comprising three specialist doctors Dr Bishav Mohan from DMC Hospital, Dr Harminder Singh Pannu from Fortis Hospital and Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia, Covid nodal officer for the district, has been tasked to answer the public queries pertaining to vaccination issues. In a maiden public interaction moderated by the DC himself, the experts stressed that Covid vaccine reduces severity of illness, even if the person gets an infection after taking the vaccine, and reduces the chances of hospitalisation. They emphasised that the vaccine will help build herd immunity, hence it would help to contain the pandemic. Comparing vaccine with seatbelt in the vehicles, they said as the belt minimises chances of fatal mishap, similarly the vaccine also protects human beings in case they contract infection at any stage post vaccination and in that case they would only suffer mild symptoms. They also ruled out that the vaccine has any effect on fertility, while claiming that the scientific trials have proved that the vaccine doesn’t cause infertility. Taking the calls of some residents, who were avoiding vaccination due to the myth that they have to avoid consuming alcohol for over a month after getting the jab, the experts said it is not true. They advised that if anyone has fever, throat infection or acute weakness, then the vaccine must be avoided for a few days till the person retains complete physical fitness. On the question of whether a heart/ kidney patient can take a vaccine, Dr Bishav Mohan said they must take the vaccine without any kind of doubt and there is no need to stop blood thinner, if anybody is already taking it. Dr Harminder Singh Pannu explained about the efficiency of the current two Covid vaccines on new mutant variants and made it clear that both Covishield and Covaxin are very much effective against the new variants of the virus. He also debunked the misinformation about the difference between vaccines being administered in the government and private hospitals and said it is the same government which is supplying the vaccines to both government and private hospitals. On a question when the Covid will be over, the experts said it mostly depends upon the people as to how they tackle it. They said as much as the people adhere to the Covid appropriate behaviour, the pandemic will be contained at the earliest. “We all must wear face mask, maintain social distancing and adopt hand hygiene daily, otherwise we will continue to face many more waves of the contagion in future,” added the experts in the presence of the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-leads-in-vaccination-4-42-lakh-inoculated-242975
23-04-2021||---||Three smugglers held with 150-gm heroin||Ludhiana, April 22 The Special Task Force (STF)arrested three drug smugglers and recovered 150 gm of heroin from their possession. The STF also recovered a pistol, revolver and motorcycle from them. The arrested smugglers have been identified as Lakhwinder Singh Bunty (35) of New Kanta Nagar, Amandeep Singh Romy (28) of Kot Mangal Singh and Iqbal Singh Vicky (19) of Iqbal Nagar. The in-charge, STF, Harbans Singh, said secret information was received that the trio were into drug smuggling and were on the way to Gill Road from Janta Nagar to deliver a consignment of heroin to their clients. A naka was laid at a strategic point where the three motorcycle-borne smugglers were stopped. During their checking, 150 gm of heroin and illegal weapons were recovered from them. During investigation, it came to fore that Lakhwinder was a carpenter and addicted to drugs, due to which he started the trade. Amandeep also have notorious past as he is facing cases of liquor smuggling. Inspector Harbans said they would seek their police remand from court so that entire supply chain could be busted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-smugglers-held-with-150-gm-heroin-242976
23-04-2021||---||Ludhiana: 40,000 doses of Covishield arrive||Ludhiana, April 22It has been six days that private hospitals are without the supply of Covishield vaccine. People coming for their second dose have to return without getting the jab administered.A stock of 40,000 doses reached the district in the evening. Only Covishield stock arrived today and now the stock of Covaxin is depleting in the district. Around 7,000 doses of Covaxin are left with the district now.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said the district received the stock of 40,000 doses in the evening. When asked if all the private hospitals will be given the supply, he said first vaccine would be given to government vaccination centres and later according to the stock availability private hospitals would be given the stock. “Our first priority will be government centres,” he said.Beneficiaries continue to return without getting the jab administered from private hospitals. “Every day we are asked to wait and come the following day but to no avail,” said a 72-year-old beneficiary.Meanwhile, doctors have condemned differences in the rates of Covid vaccines to be given to the Central government, state government and private practitioners from May 1.Now, vaccine makers will assign 50 per cent of the shots to the Centre and the remaining will be for states and private entities. The Serum Institute of India yesterday announced different pricing buckets for state and Central government and private hospitals.Dr GS Grewal, former president of the Punjab Medical Council (PMC), and Dr Arun Mitra former chairman of the ethical committee of the PMC, said the different prices had raised doubts about vaccine equity and fair distribution among the Centre, states and private hospitals. The government must fix one price for vaccines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-40-000-doses-of-covishield-arrive-242977
23-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Uncovered garbage dumps open invitation to diseases||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 22Children and youngsters usually play football and cricket at a vacant site near the cremation ground of Dhandari Khurd but they are facing a lot of inconvenience due to a huge amount of garbage being dumped near the site. After the recent rainfall, stink emanating from the dump has increased their woes once again as garbage is not lifted on time.The garbage collectors generally unload the waste from their carts in an open area, residents said. Moreover, the visitors to the cremation ground are also forced to suffer due to the garbage dump.Lovepreet Singh of Dhandari Khurd said, “It is hard to breathe due to foul smell emanating from the garbage dump. We usually play at the adjoining site. Whenever it rains, the dump creates more nuisance. We want that the civic body should address the matter at the earliest.”Uncovered garbage dumps (secondary garbage collection points) along roads and improper solid waste management remained a major issue in the city for a long time. The authorities concerned, however, set up waste compactors at some locations but no relief has been provided from open garbage dumps at many other locations in the city. A number of uncovered garbage dumps are giving an open invitation to diseases.A big garbage dump on road near the cremation ground at Daresi is also being ignored for a long period. Thus, the commuters and visitors to the cremation ground face a lot of inconveniences as waste is dumped on road. Sarabjit Singh Bunty, a Congress leader, said, “Nothing has been done to remove this garbage dump. The elected representatives and politicians have visited this cremation ground many times but they always ignored this garbage dump.”He questioned the role of the MC for ignoring the garbage dump located at the back of PU Regional Centre near Old Courts Chowk. “It is difficult to breathe due to stink emanating from the garbage dump. The people are suffering due to the negligence of the department concerned. Such garbage dumps should be removed at the earliest.”The Scooter Sellers’ Market Association has been demanding from the MC to remove the garbage dump, located next to the market under the flyover just near Bhai Chattar Singh Park, for a long time.When a retaining wall of the Gill Road flyover had collapsed in 2018, the MC had blamed the rats for damaging the wall. An official of the MC had then claimed that the rats used to breed at a garbage dump located under the Gill Road flyover.A committee, which had conducted an inquiry into the Gill Road flyover incident, had suggested for removal of all the garbage dumps located under or near the flyovers. But, the scooter market garbage dump still exists. A shopkeeper said, “A number of shopkeepers and employees have fallen ill due to unsanitary conditions caused by the dump.”Residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh 5 Nagar on Pakhowal Road have also been complaining about the uncovered garbage dump along the railway tracks. The MC had once spent lakhs of rupees to construct a covered garbage collection point at the dumpsite but the structure had collapsed within a short period, as per the sources.Besides, the open dumps on Gill Road, near Jalandhar Bypass, Chandigarh Road, Tajpur Road and various other locations are crying for attention.At present, lakhs of metric tonnes of waste has been dumped at the MC’s main garbage dumping site near Kakka village. The waste processing plant is not functioning since a private firm terminated its services. Moreover, the MC has failed to deal with huge heaps of legacy waste that look like hills at the main dumping site, leaving the residents of nearby areas to suffer a lot.The MC in 2016 had installed the first static compactor near Dugri Bridge. An official of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust said, “The waste compactors at Sarabha Nagar, Maharishi Valimiki Nagar and Kitchlu Nagar have been made functional. Compactors are ready at Lodhi Club Road, near Orient Cinema and Middha Chowk and these will be made functional soon.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, said, “Process is underway to install static compactors at various locations under the smart city mission and a few of them are going to be made functional very soon. Compactors will be installed at around 35 sites in the city by the end of this year. A total of 43 compactors are to be installed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/uncovered-garbage-dumps-open-invitation-to-diseases-242978
23-04-2021||---||Ludhiana: Oxygen helpline numbers launched||Ludhiana, April 22Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal today reviewed the oxygen supply situation in the district through a virtual meeting with all the major hospitals of Ludhiana.Varinder Kumar directed oxygen suppliers to ensure that oxygen for Covid patient remained their topmost priority and there should not be any pilferage of oxygen towards industrial activities in the wake of the unprecedented crisis.Amit Bambi, PCS, and J Elanchezian, JCP, Headquarters, have been made nodal officers to ensure smooth oxygen supply to the hospitals as well as to home isolated Covid patients in Ludhiana.Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal, who is recuperating from Covid, attended the meeting from home. He also launched the oxygen helpline numbers 7837018500 and 0161-2421091. These numbers will remain operational 24 hours and will be working from the Police Control Room, Ludhiana.“Anyone who is facing any difficulty in getting oxygen cylinders in Ludhiana for Covid patients can dial these helpline numbers and oxygen cylinders will be made available to them on payment basis,” added the CP . “We will also provide green corridors to oxygen-carrying vehicles in Ludhiana so that they promptly reach their destination,” said the CP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-oxygen-helpline-numbers-launched-242979
