25-04-2021||---||50 FIRs for violating Covid norms, curfew||Ludhiana, April 24The Ludhiana police have registered over 50 FIRs against residents for allegedly violating Covid-19 norms or curfew orders on Friday.In a containment area of Dugri, the police have arrested two persons for allegedly violating the orders.One of the accused was allegedly found roaming without any reason in the Phase 1 area while another was reportedly found running his chicken shop. Both have been booked in separate cases under Section 188 at the Dugri police station here.The police also booked staff of a private bus for carrying 40-45 passengers from Haibowal to Bihar. The police claimed that they had allowed over 20 persons in the bus against the orders issued by the Deputy Commissioner (DC), Ludhiana.Meanwhile, the police have also registered a case against the owner of a marriage palace on Sundar Nagar as 70-80 persons had gathered in the institution to attend the ‘bhog’ of a deceased person. In another incident, the police have booked an owner of a ‘ahata’ on Kailash Nagar Road for keeping it open after 8 pm. Unknown staff members of a wine shop on Kailash Nagar Road were booked for selling liquor during curfew.The owner of a liquor vend near Dandi Swami Chowk was booked for selling liquor after 8 pm.The police have also booked owners of a number of eateries, shops and others buildings for running businesses during curfew hours. A few were booked for selling juice after 8 pm.Khanna police act tough against violatorsGursharandeep Singh Grewal, SSP, Khanna, said the Khanna police had stepped up enforcement measures amid rising Covid-19 cases. People were being made aware about do’s and dont’s and innovative means had been adopted for the purpose such as release of short songs with the help of renowned Punjabi singers to convey the message to people in a simple and interesting manner, he said.He said the Khanna police have registered 46 FIRs under Section 188 of the IPC during the past two weeks for violation of government orders.“Also, over 1,670 challans have been registered since March 2021. A dedicated 24x7 corona cell is also functioning under the district control room for swift action against violators. Residents can share information regarding violation of the guidelines by calling at 112 or 95929-14053. People are requested to follow the Covid-19 related guidelines as violations of the same will be taken seriously,” the Senior Superintendent of Police said.Two held in dugri containment areaIn a containment area of Dugri, the police have arrested two persons for allegedly violating the orders. One of the accused was allegedly found roaming without any reason in the Phase-I area while another was reportedly found running his chicken shop. Both have been booked in separate cases under Section 188 of the IPC at the Dugri police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/50-firs-for-violating-covid-norms-curfew-243932
25-04-2021||---||Ten dead, 861 test positive||Ludhiana, April 24As many as 861 persons tested positive for Covid, while 10 lost their lives to the virus today. Those who tested positive include seven healthcare workers. As many as 180 persons who tested positive are still untraceable. Total positive cases in the district reached 48,214. The active cases were 6,620.Five men and five women, belonging to Rauni village, Rajguru Nagar, Sarabha Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Gurdev Nagar, Barewal, Sector 32 LIG flats, Preet Nagar, Ram Nagar and BRS Nagar, lost their lives today. The death toll in Ludhiana has reached 1,290.The number of patients on ventilator support was 26, out of which 18 belong to Ludhiana and remaining are from other districts.A total of 8,078 samples were collected and result of 361 is pending.The Mass Media team of the Health Department visited various crowded places, where they apprised local vendors of the precautions they need to take in order to keep coronavirus away from them and people who visit them.The health team visited the wholesale fruit and vegetable market on the Jalandhar bypass road of the city where vegetable vendors were told that wearing mask by every vendor and customer is mandatory as per the guidelines of the Punjab Government. They were also made aware of washing hands or sanitising them before and after selling fruits and vegetables. Apart from this an appeal was made to them to get themselves vaccinated against Covid at their nearest government health facility.Hotels, shops, malls to remain shut todayDeputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday made it clear that all shops, malls, restaurants, hotels and other non-essential outlets would remain shut on Sunday. However, milk vendors would be allowed to supply milk door to door.In a video message to the city residents, he said on Sunday only chemists, hospitals, business houses dealing in oxygen production and industries would be allowed to operate.He said the procurement of wheat in mandis would also continue on Sunday. Sharma said traffic on national/state highways would also be permitted. He urged the residents to avoid unnecessary socialising and stay indoors as much they could to contain the pandemic more effectively.Shortage of RemdesivirOwing to shortage of Remdesivir injection in the market amid the rising demand, the Deputy Commissioner has formed a team, led by Zonal Licensing Authority Dr Kulwinder Singh, to take strict action against those involved in the black marketing of Remdesivir. He said the team would submit daily inspection report to him by 5 pm. Remdesivir was not available in the wholesale market and even the hospitals were unable to procure the required stock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ten-dead-861-test-positive-243933
25-04-2021||Manav Mander||High demand shoots up oxygen cylinder price||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 24With the rise in level-3 Covid patients, the demand for oxygen has increased four times in the city. As the demand has increased, the prices of cylinders have also witnessed a sudden jump.The oxygen cylinder that was earlier sold for Rs 150-200 is now being sold at double the price and sometimes even more.Although an oxygen plant was recently set up at the Civil Hospital but it has failed to cater to the growing demand of oxygen at the hospital and it has to rely on the supply from private manufacturers. The production of cylinders every day at the Civil Hospital is around 125-130 but the consumption at the hospital is more than the production, as a result the Civil Hospital requires 150-200 more oxygen cylinders per day.Deepak Singla from Laxmi Medical Gases said amidst surge in cases he was supplying nearly 600 oxygen cylinders to Covid centres across the city daily. “I am supplying 150-200 oxygen cylinders at the Civil Hospital and nearly 400 cylinders to other Covid-care Centres set up at various private hospitals,” said Singla.He said earlier the price of one cylinder was between Rs 150-200 but now they were paying double the price and if there was an emergency, they had to pay even more.Gagandeep Singh, MD, Weltech Equipment and Infrastructure Limited, an oxygen-generation unit, said due to the pandemic they were supplying oxygen only to the medical sector. Their 100 per cent supply was going to the medical sector.When asked about the price, he said there was no change in the prices. “Our dealer price is same, Rs 150-200 for a cylinder, but we do not know at what price does the dealer sell oxygen cylinder to buyers,” he said.A doctor of a private hospital said ideally the prices decrease due to increase in demand but what is happening now is opposite. “Earlier a cylinder was sold for Rs 100-150 but now the same is sold anywhere between Rs 400-600,” he said.Owing to high nasal flow oxygen, a Covid patient requires around four cylinders per day.DC constitutes oxygen audit committeeIn the wake of a sharp increase in the use of oxygen for Covid patients in hospitals, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday set up an oxygen audit committee to monitor the consumption of life-saving gas in the district.The Deputy Commissioner said the 11-member committee would be headed by AETC-II Damanjeet Singh Mann.He said the committee was tasked to review the consumption of oxygen by the hospitals/other health institutions and the balance stock.Further, it would ensure that the use of oxygen for the treatment of serious Covid-19 patients was rational and per prescribed treatment protocols. The Deputy Commissioner has asked all hospitals to use oxygen only for the serious/critical patients to ensure rational use of the gas.The Deputy Commissioner also warned hoarders of oxygen. Severest of severe action would be taken if anyone was found involved in profiteering, the Deputy Commissioner added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/high-demand-shoots-up-oxygen-cylinder-price-243934
25-04-2021||Ludhiana||18 stolen mobiles seized, 3 nabbed||The police claimed to have arrested three persons and recovered 18 stolen mobile phones from them.The accused have been identified as Lalit Kumar of Dhandari Khurd, Raja Kumar Sahni and Sarwan Kumar Sahni of New Durga Colony.A case has been registered. The police claimed that the mobiles were recovered from the house of Sarwan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/18-stolen-mobiles-seized-3-nabbed-243936
25-04-2021||---||Man arrested for stealing bike batteries||Ludhiana, April 24The police have arrested a man for allegedly stealing motorcycle batteries. The police have recovered 25 batteries from the accused, who has been identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Girdhari, of Gurpal Nagar, here.A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered against the accused at the Division No. 6 police station.As per information released by the office of the Police Commissioner, the accused is a drug addict. The police said the accused used to steal motorcycles and sell their batteries to fulfill his need of drugs. Afterwards, he used to abandon the vehicles in various areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-for-stealing-bike-batteries-243937
25-04-2021||Nitin Jain||District leads state in testing, positivity rate remains high||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 24Ludhiana, which is among the worst-hit districts with high caseload, has led the state in Covid testing during the past week.The district conducted the highest 43,699 tests between April 15 and 21, of which 11.5 per cent cases were found to be positive. The state’s average positivity rate during this period was recorded at 10.3 per cent and the state touched a new high of 56,571 daily virus tests on April 21.The district-wise data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Jalandhar conducted second highest 38,013 tests with a positivity rate of 7.8 per cent, while Amritsar stood third with 28,182 tests at 10.2 positivity rate.Among other districts, Patiala reported 27,772 tests with 9.7 per cent positive cases, Mohali 25,308 tests with state’s highest 20.8 per cent positivity rate, Gurdaspur 22,581 tests with 5.3 per cent positive rate, Hoshiarpur 16,870 with 8.5 per cent positive rate, Bathinda 12,921 with 16.2 per cent positive rate, Sangrur 10,632 with 6.8 per cent positive rate, Pathankot 10,127 with 7.9 per cent positive rate, Nawanshahr 9,452 with 3.3 per cent positive rate, Kapurthala 8,884 with 9.2 per cent positive rate, Tarn Taran 8,412 with 6.6 per cent positive rate, Ropar 7,560 with 9.6 per cent positive rate, Muktsar 7,223 with 10.5 per cent positive rate, Mansa 6,811 with 9.7 per cent positive rate, Faridkot 6,274 with 10.3 per cent positive rate, Fazilka 5,205 with 15.3 per cent positive rate, Fatehgarh Sahib 4,484 with 7.6 per cent positive rate, Ferozepur 4,270 with 15.1 per cent positive rate, Moga 3,547 with 12.9 per cent positive rate and Barnala 2,728 with 8 per cent positivity rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/district-leads-state-in-testing-positivity-rate-remains-high-243938
25-04-2021||---||Selling Covishield at different prices unethical: Doctors||Ludhiana, April 24The Alliance of Doctors on Ethical Healthcare (ADEH) has condemned the Central Government for allowing profiteering in the times of pandemic.“It is strange and shocking that the Government of India has allowed Serum Institute of India to indulge in wanton profiteering by publicly announcing three different rates for the same vaccine in one country”, the ADEH said in a statement here today.The former president of the Punjab Medical Council and the core committee members of the alliance, Dr Gurinder Grewal and Dr Arun Mitra, called for immediate corrective measures whereby vaccine should be available to everyone across the country at an affordable price. “A large proportion of our population cannot even afford to pay the minimum price of Rs150,” the alliance said, while emphasising that the deserving people should get vaccine free of cost.Referring to three different rates of the Covishield of Rs150, Rs400 and Rs 600, in the country the alliance said, “Even in the normal times such practice is unethical and during the pandemic it is criminally outrageous.”Dr Grewal and Dr Mitra said, “It is strange that the Central Government is serially committing grievous mistakes one after another. First, it allowed itself to be caught napping by the second wave when we cannot arrange simple oxygen for patients. It is unimaginable that a country like India with such humongous potential for producing medicines is not able to fulfil demand for medicines and injections like Remdesivir, which are selling in the black market for Rs10,000 against the actual price of Rs 2,000.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/selling-covishield-at-different-prices-unethical-doctors-243939
25-04-2021||---||DC reviews wheat procurement||Ludhiana, April 24Giving a warning to officers/officials of strict action in case of any inordinate delay in the lifting of wheat from grain markets, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma said any sort of inconvenience to farmers in mandis would not be tolerated at any cost.Sharma reviewed the ongoing wheat procurement operations on Saturday.However, expressing satisfaction over the procurement of grain in markets, Sharma said all officers should ensure seamless and hassle-free operations in markets.The state government had already issued directions to ensure that wheat was lifted from the grain markets within 48 hours of the purchase, Sharma added.Any sort of deviance from this commitment would not be tolerated, said Sharma.Till April 23, around 6.04 lakh MT of wheat had arrived in the markets of which 5.96 lakh MT had already been purchased, Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dc-reviews-wheat-procurement-243940
25-04-2021||Sahnewal||Shed hesitancy & get vaccinated, says PYDB chief||While inaugurating two vaccination camps at Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara and in the Mundian area of Sahnewal today, the Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) chairman, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, said, “The administration is making all out efforts to vaccinate the entitled category against Covid.”“The PYDB has successfully organised 24 vaccination camps till now. The board will leave no stone unturned to ramp up the vaccination drive through its full support and assistance to the administration,” said Bindra.“Only accelerated vaccination drive can help build herd immunity. People must shed hesitancy and fear and get vaccinated. Vaccine is completely safe and effective to contain the spread of the virus,” Bindra added.He also thanked industrialists for supporting the PYDB and Capt Amarinder Singh led Punjab Government in several welfare schemes. Hardeep Singh Mundian, Mandeep Singh Micky, Surinder Chaudhary, Kamal Sharma, Sohan, Jaspal Singh, Ranjeet Chaudhary and Sonu Saini were also present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shed-hesitancy-get-vaccinated-says-pydb-chief-243941
25-04-2021||---||60-yr-old man held for sexual harassment||Ludhiana, April 24A man has been arrested for allegedly harassing a 43-year-old woman lecturer.The complainant alleged that the man, who is a former post office employee, harassed her during a hearing at the Court Complex.The police have registered case under Sections 354-A (sexual harassment) of the IPC against the man and arrested him. The accused has been identified as 60-year-old Sushil Kumar of Durgapuri, Haibowal, Ludhiana.The woman in her complaint alleged that the Sushil Kumar harassed and abused her when she visited the court for hearing in a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/60-yr-old-man-held-for-sexual-harassment-243942
25-04-2021||Ludhiana||World Veterinary Day celebrated||A week-long celebrations from April 19th to 24th were organised at Veterinary Hospital, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), here on the occasion of World Veterinary Day. The World Veterinary Day is celebrated on last Saturday of April every year all over the globe.The theme for this year’s celebrations was “Veterinarian response to the Covid-19 crises”. The hospital organised awareness camp for animal owners and distributed pamphlets regarding precautions to be taken at home, dairy farms and veterinary hospitals to prevent the spread of the virus.Dr SPS Ghuman, Dean, College of Veterinary Science, inaugurated the free anti-rabies and tick control camp for dogs. Dr Swaran Singh Randhawa, Director (Clinics), educated pet owners about the importance of proper vaccination and de-worming for keeping their pets safe and healthy from serious and life threatening diseases.Mineral mixture, calcium supplements, de-wormers and other feed supplements were distributed free of cost among dairy farmers. Various queries of farmers were answered by experts during celebrations. Brucellosis testing for veterinarians and farmers was also arranged with the help of Centre for One Health.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, said, “World Veterinary Day is celebrated to uplift the veterinary profession by working on one health concept for improvement of the animal and human welfare, the environment and food safety.” He also congratulated organisers on the successful completion of the week-long celebrations.Dr Raj Sukhbir Singh, Professor (Clinics), appreciated Carus laboratories Pvt Ltd, Virbac Animal Health India Pvt Ltd and MSD Animal Health for providing complimentary vaccines and feed supplements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-veterinary-day-celebrated-243943
25-04-2021||Ludhiana||Officials meet traders over Malhar Road project design||Days after the Malhar Road Shopkeepers Association raised questions over the Smart Street project design on Malhar Road, officials of Ludhiana Smart City Limited and the Municipal Corporation visited the project site and met traders on Saturday.The traders raised objections over the alleged reduction of road width and also discussed other issues with the officials.They said traffic snarls would be witnessed due to ‘reduction’ of road width. Meanwhile, arguments were also exchanged between the officials and the traders. The officials claimed that the project work was going on in a right manner as per the plan.The members of the association said they would meet Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu regarding issues related to the ongoing project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/officials-meet-traders-over-malhar-road-project-design-243944
25-04-2021||---||Official gets newly recarpeted road dismantled||Ludhiana, April 24After finding ‘poor’ road recarpeting work done by a private contractor, a senior official of the MC’s B&R branch, Harkiran Singh, took a strict action and got the recently recarpeted stretch dismantled.The officer has also ordered the contractor to recarpet the road in a proper manner at the earliest. Notably, a service lane stretch near Manju Cinema was recently recarpeted.Harkiran Singh said he had noticed that the road recarpeting work was not done in a proper manner. The contractor was asked to recarpet the road after removing newly laid layers.“When the contractor did not recarpet the road despite repeated instructions, I went to the spot and got the recently recarpeted road dismantled with a machine. Now, the contractor has been directed to recarpet the road in right way,” he added.Notably, some area residents were also not satisfied with the work done on the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/official-gets-newly-recarpeted-road-dismantled-243945
25-04-2021||Ludhiana||World Earth Day celebrated||William Shakespeare rememberedLudhiana: The birth and death anniversary of William Shakespeare was observed at MGM Public School through an online mode on Friday. Students showed immense interest in activities undertaken on the occasion. They participated in oration and highlighted contributions of Shakespeare. They also prepared portrait of Shakespeare, his one-act scene and rainbow of characters displaying the countless words and quotes he rendered. TNSWorld Book Day celebratedLudhiana: BVM School, Sector 39, Chandigarh Road, celebrated World Book Day with great enthusiasm. Considering books as bridge between the past and the present and across generations and cultures, BVMites listened stories from their parents and grandparents with keen interest and also read story books of their choice. One-act plays were also presented by students of Classes VI to VIII along with their family members. Budding writers from Classes IX to XII penned small stories and poems to pay tribute to their favourite writers. TNSLord Mahavira’s birth anniversaryLudhiana: Green Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, celebrated the birth anniversary of Lord Mahavira, the 24th Tirthankar, Prophet of Jains, with fervour. A special assembly was organised at the school wherein students learnt about the life and teachings of Bhagwan Mahavira. On the occasion, teachings of Lord Mahavira were shared with students through speeches. Students and teachers recited the ‘Navkar Mantra’. Students took a pledge to live a righteous life and follow the ethical principles of Jainism, including Ahimsa, Satya, Asteya, Brahmcharya and Aparigraha. TNSVirtual farewell ceremonyLudhiana: A function was held on the occasion of virtual farewell ceremony for Class XII of Ryan International School. The event started by seeking blessings of the Almighty. Melodious hymns filled the ambience with bliss. Outgoing students of Class XII expressed their emotions through speeches and videos. TNSBCM students make book marksLudhiana: To promote benefit of reading books, BCM School, Basant City, celebrated World Book Day. Students made book marks, wrote headlines from newspapers and shared reviews from books. Principal JP Singh said, “Books have once again proved that these are the best companions as people across the world struggle to come to terms with isolation amid pandemic.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-earth-day-celebrated-243946
