26-04-2021||Ludhiana||Three nabbed with narcotics in Ludhiana||Illicit liquor seized, 3 heldLudhiana: The police have arrested Bittu of Mohalla Peru Banda in Salem Tabri, while his accomplice Rinku of Manjit Nagar has been booked under the Excise Act after a police party raided the house of the latter and seized 28 cartons (336 bottles) of 999 Fine whisky. A manhunt had been launched to nab Rinku who managed to give the police the slip. Tarsem Singh of Mallewal village was nabbed from his shop at the bus stand in Koom Kalan where the accused was selling smuggled liquor. The police recovered 24 bottles of countrymade liquor from him. He was booked under the Excise Act. The police have also arrested Harwinder Singh of Walipur Khurd village, from near the Hambran T-point when he was coming on foot from his village towards Hambran. The accused was stopped by the police on suspicion and his search led to the recovery of 12 bottles of countrymade liquor. A case has been registered. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-nabbed-with-narcotics-in-ludhiana-244387
26-04-2021||Ludhiana||Cultural exchange programme at Sat Paul Mittal School||AFS Global hosted a cultural exchange programme on April 23, during which Sat Paul Mittal School collaborated with Instituto Pierre De Coubertin, Oaxaca, Mexico, to break down cultural boundaries with the aid of sustainable development goals.Students exchanged knowledge of their respective countries, religion and nations’ contributions in achieving sustainable development goals.Students explained the three principles of sustainable development — environmental, economic and social sustainability. Sitting thousands of miles away, students interacted with their counterparts on how to make the world better. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cultural-exchange-programme-at-sat-paul-mittal-school-244386
26-04-2021||---||2 arrested for procuring loans on fake documents in Ludhiana||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, April 25The police have arrested two persons — Dharam Veer and Jatinder Kumar, both residents of 33-Feet Road in Giaspura — on the charge of forging and fabricating documents, affixing them with bogus stickers bearing a logo of the Government of India to prepare fake identifications papers. They allegedly used the fake identification for opening bank accounts with public and private banks.They have been booked under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code.The police said the duo was obtaining vehicle loans from several banks and used to purchase vehicles from KK Motors and some other firms.The vehicles purchased were fraudulently sold to unsuspecting buyers without disclosing anything about the bank loans obtained by them against these vehicles.The police said further investigation in the matter was in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-arrested-for-procuring-loans-on-fake-documents-in-ludhiana-244385
26-04-2021||Open House What needs to be done to ensure beneficiaries get vaccinated ?||Rumours, lack of awareness making people reluctant||Despite the vigorous efforts by the authorities, most of the eligible citizens remain unvaccinated. Since citizens are aware of their fundamental rights, there is no way the government can assure that all of them get vaccinated against their willingness. The fact that people who are done with the vaccination are also catching Covid increases the reluctancy. So, the best the government and health authorities can do is to make people aware of the pros of the vaccination and boost their confidence towards the same. Previous successful methods such as awareness through caller tunes could also help. If the government wants to reach the required community one on one, they can access Aadhar Cards and send them automated messages or calls to ensure citizens get vaccinated.Vandita JainShare info on vaccine developmentResidents are in a dilemma regarding the Covid vaccination. They are unsure about the research and development of the vaccines and its side effects. They are reluctant to get themselves vaccinated as they are provided with vast information through TV, radio and social media, but all information is not correct, which causes confusion and panic. So, the government and the administration should give them complete details about medicinal and chemical content in the vaccine and how they will help us. Also providing them knowledge about possible aftermaths and how to deal with them may encourage people psychologically to get over this dilemma.Taranbir SinghOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONWith the situation turning grim leading to a state of emergency and Ludhiana district re-emerging as the hotspot of the pandemic in the state, what needs to be done to contain the further spread of Covid, especially when the second wave is more infectious and deadly?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comEducate people on benefitsAuthorities need to provide vaccination for free to those who cannot afford. It is a matter of concern that even those vaccinated are contracting infection. People must be educated on boons and benefits of the vaccine.Simarjot KaurFirms should make vaccination compulsoryResidents must be made to understand the prevailing conditions. Every institution should make it compulsory for its employees, students and workers to get themselves vaccinated as soon as possible.AMARPREET KAURInvolve expertsThe district administration should launch various vaccination programmes to educate people about the benefits of Covid vaccine. The programmes must consist of teams of professionals, doctors and consultants to guide residents the ingredients of the vaccine and its importance in overcoming the pandemic. The programmes should prevent the illiterate ones from getting trapped in fake news.Miyush TrehanTake action against those spreading fake newsFalse propaganda on the social media is mounting troubles for the government and the Health Department. The authorities should ban such rumours and impose high penalties on mongers. Also, the government should take the help of prominent television shows to publicise the benefits of vaccination.GURPREET KAURYoungsters may encourage othersThere are many people eligible for vaccination, but are unwilling. The government should conduct an awareness drive to encourage people. Youngsters should know the advantages of vaccination and come forward to encourage others. The government should issue licence to private hospitals so that they can help in managing the drive successfully. Like the government hospitals, private hospitals should also provide vaccination free of cost. The government should compensate for the expenses of all private hospitals. An important thing is to fulfill the demand of own country and then export the vaccines.Ritu PriyaNeed for support from Opposition leadersAll citizens must realise the need for getting vaccinated. It is for the safety and well-being of all in the family. The government rightly started the vaccination programme on a group basis, but a large number of people are unwilling to get the vaccination under one or the other fear or influence. It is indeed a sad state of affairs and height of ignorance in the country. Leaders in Opposition must stop criticising the vaccination drive and encourage their followers. To convince people to go in for vaccination, it must be made available free of cost even in private hospitals. A recent advertisement shows that a vaccine dose will cost Rs600 in private hospitals. This will discourage people from getting vaccinated. This must be changed immediately. Also, arrangements must be made to highlight those who got vaccinated and then escaped the virus. The current practice of showing one or the other personality getting live vaccination must be stopped. Also, if possible, the government may think of giving some incentive to the youth in the age group from 20 to 45 years for opting to get vaccination anywhere, including private hospitals.Gautam DevCounselling sessionsWe all must come forward and assist the government in the vaccination drive as it may put a curb on the spread of coronavirus. Local government should appoint some teams and give vaccination on the doorstep. Those who are refusing to get vaccinated must be counseled about the benefits. Awareness campaigns must be organised in schools, colleges, cinema halls, religious places and other gatherings on the importance of vaccines. Those who are spreading wrong information on the social media without any logic must be held responsible. The government should lift the age limit for vaccination. We all must share the responsibility to make people aware and pursue them to take vaccines.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiMedia can play a decisive roleThe first and the foremost reason for hesitancy regarding the Covid-19 vaccine is lack of awareness among people. The Health Department should make people aware of the safety of the vaccine. There must be a curb on the rumours on all social media platforms. The print and the digital media can play a decisive role in such a situation. The ones who have already got the vaccine shots should share their experiences with others and encourage them to go for the vaccine. Special teams can be formed by the government to spread awareness. The data regarding the number of people getting the shots can be shared with the public, so that they can make up their minds. Above all, people will themselves have to develop a positive attitude towards the vaccination drive to make it a success and help in tackling the pandemic.Bir Devinder Singh BediVaccine the only solutionThe situation is alarming and we must all pledge to fight Covid heads on. Only vaccination can save us and produce herd immunity. The media, religious bodies, healthcare workers and the administration should aggressively advertise the benefits of the vaccine. Those who have received both doses should tell others and put posters outside their houses and offices stating that 'we are fully vaccinated,' so that others can be motivated.Dr Sunil ChopraDoctors may suggest vaccinePeople are scared of getting vaccinated because of the rumours being spread about the vaccine. However, if the focus is laid on the advantages of the vaccine, people may not hesitate in taking it. Correct suggestions by doctors can lower the hesitancy among people. If we focus on how many people are getting cured instead of recognising the side effects, residents will be more likely to get vaccinated and they can prevent the disease from spreading. It is now necessary that youngsters get vaccinated.Ishita GuptaOrganise awareness programmesSurge in Covid-19 cases has put fear in the hearts of all citizens. The government and health authorities are leaving no stone unturned to vaccinate people but rumours about the vaccine is discouraging citizens not to get vaccinated. To deal with the rumours, governments at the national and state level should organise awareness programs so fear can be vanished from the minds of people.Kamaldeep KaurVaccination the way outA major reason why most people are not getting vaccinated is lack of faith in the government policies. There is a dire need for people to understand that by not getting vaccinated, they are putting their own lives in danger. Since the second wave of coronavirus is deadlier than the first one, many people are losing their loved ones. Hence, it becomes extremely important to follow all Covid-19 protocol. Even if politicians are politicising the issue, citizens don't have to.JBS NandaDistribute pamphlets on vaccinationThere is an alarming surge in the number of cases of coronavirus and it is creating a fear in people's minds. Newspapers are also filled with the news of people not getting vaccinated. It is the responsibility of the government and social organisations to remove the fear of vaccine from the minds of people. Each councillor in his ward must take the responsibility to organise camps for vaccination. It must be mandatory for those who are eligible to get vaccinated. Local government can also distribute some pamphlets about the importance of vaccines.Farzana Khan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rumours-lack-of-awareness-making-people-reluctant-244383
26-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Roads wear deserted look, migrants suffer in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 25The city streets today wore a deserted look on account of a total lockdown. All shops, except medical stores and essential services, were shut in the city.The district administration imposed strict measures on markets, which are usually bustling with people, namely Field Ganj, Chaura Bazar, Miller Ganj, Lights Market, Ghumar Mandi, BRS Nagar and Model Town.Steel industry confusedBusinesses in the steel industry today expressed fear of closure of steel units due to non-supply of oxygen. The businessmen said it might put the steel-making industry in big trouble.Badish Jindal, president, All Industries Trade Forum, said: “There was confusion over the supply of industrial oxygen during lockdown. The closure may affect the production of thousands of steel-consuming industries and may also lead to black-marketing of steel due to its scarcity in the state,” said Jindal.Factories run as usualMeanwhile, despite the lockdown, factories in the city operated their usual businesses today. The industrialists maintained that about 80 per cent of the units remain shut in the industrial city on Sunday anyway but a few were operational today.Shopkeepers all for lockdownThe shopkeepers maintained that they had no problem in closing shops on Sunday if it meant curbing the spread of the virus.Daily wagers sufferThe daily wagers had to bear the brunt in absence of any work today.Pushkar Yadav, a migrant, said he was working at a construction site but since everything was shut, he did not get any work today. He said several like him would suffer if the lockdown continued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/roads-wear-deserted-look-migrants-suffer-in-ludhiana-244360
26-04-2021||---||Now, food on the doorstep of Covid-19 patients for Rs 10 in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 25At times when the city is battling with spiralling number of Covid patients, there are many whose all family members have also contracted the disease and are either in home isolation or in quarantine. During these times, cooking good and healthy food, which is essential to bring patient back to good health, is sometimes difficult to manage.Taking an initiative to provide good and healthy cooked meals to Covid patients on their doorstep is a fledgling home delivery set up known as ‘Khaana Leia’. A brainchild of Monaa Chadha, ‘Khaana Leia’, provides the normal staple Indian food, including ‘dal, roti, sabzi, raita and chawal’, at nominal rate of Rs10 per thali.Besides normal’ Indian vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes, people can also choose from some exotic healthy eatables like immunity booster golden latte mix, organic lentils, mushroom bruschetta, quinoa salad, quinoa cake, granola bars, ginger garlic exotic vegetables, mushroom quiche, masala baked khichri with ginger-garlic chat, ginger garlic fish, homemade fruit chaat masala, grilled fish with sauted vegetables, ginger garlic exotic vegetable, egg bhurji, egg curry with roti/steamed rice, lemon butter fish and tomato fish gravy served with roti/rice. Even freshly baked cakes and sweet dishes form part of the fare. These dishes come at a small price.Elaborating on her venture Monaa Chadha said, “Being a food connoisseur myself and understanding the need for good and healthy food especially for patients at home, I decided to take up this initiative. Also, as I cook myself and know that the quality of my food will never go down.’’Monaa, who earlier worked in a major corporate house in the city, decided to leave the ‘rat-race’ and moved to pursuing her hobbies. “I inherited the taste for good food from my mother, though it’s only during the pandemic that I realised benefits of freshly cooked food. I did certain cookery courses online and set up ‘Khaana Leia’ my outfit,’’ Mona added.“Patients need to call before 11am for lunch and before 4 pm for dinner,” said Mona.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-food-on-the-doorstep-of-covid-19-patients-for-rs-10-in-ludhiana-244346
26-04-2021||Our Correspondent||2 land in police net in snatching case in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, April 25The police have arrested two persons, Sunny Pehra, a resident of Threeke village, and his accomplice Sonu Kumar of Sunet village under Sections 379 B and 34 of the IPC for allegedly snatching a mobile phone from Anuj Kumar, a resident of Jawaddi Khurd village, near Dugri Canal Bridge, on Saturday.Anuj in his complaint lodged with the police said he was returning from duty in the evening when the accused, who was riding a Bajaj Platina motorcycle (bearing registration number PB 10FJ 9693), accosted him near the canal bridge and fled the spot after snatching his Oppo mobile phone handset. During the investigation, the police nabbed the accused, who were being interrogated, said investigating officer SI Baldev Singh.In another case of snatching in which a mobile phone and cash were snatched from Harpreet Singh, a resident of Delhi, the police have booked Gurpinder Singh, a resident of Holl village, and his two unknown accomplices under Sections 379-B(2) of the IPC. The police said they were booked on the basis of reliable information that the accused were habitual snatchers and looters.“On April 21, the accused had given lift to Harpreet in their car (bearing registration number PB 13BD 0440) after which the three accused took away a mobile phone and cash from the victim,” the police said, adding that a search was on to trace the accused.House, factory burgledMeanwhile, a house in Sanyas Nagar, near Basti Jodhewal, was burgled on April 21 when Ankush Kumar, who was staying in the house on rent, had gone to visit his mother in Haibowal, along with his family members. Ankush told the police that when he returned late in the evening on April 21, he found lock of the room broken. Thieves had taken away gold and silver jewellery along with Rs 20,000 in cash. The police have registered a case under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC and are investigating the matter.In another incident, thieves targeted a factory in Ramgarh village which was lying closed since 2019 and took away office furniture, doors and windows, an LCD and an air conditioner from the place. On a report lodged with the police by factory owner Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Urban Estate, Dugri, the police have registered a case under various sections of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-land-in-police-net-in-snatching-case-in-ludhiana-district-244327
26-04-2021||Ludhiana||Eleven booked in 3 cases of assault in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police today booked 11 persons and a mob of nearly 40 people in three alleged cases of assault.In the first case, four assailants, along with a mob of 40 persons, allegedly beat up Mohit Narang of Gobind Nagar in Shimlapuri on Saturday.Mohit runs a mobile repair centre in Gur MandiIn the complaint, he said: “The assailants wanted to forcibly evict me from the shop and threw my merchandise out on the street. On Saturday, when I came to the police station to lodge a complaint, a mob of 40 to 45 persons attacked and threatened me.”In another case, the police have booked Avtar Singh, Poorni and Prince, all residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, under Sections 323, 341, 506, 34 of the IPC for allegedly assaulting Harmandeep Singh, a resident of the same colony. According to the complainant, the suspects were quarrelling and hurling abuses at each other in front of his house. He told the police that when he asked them not to create nuisance in the residential area, they attacked him and threatened to kill him.In the third case, four unidentified persons were booked for allegedly beating up two on the Kohara Link Road after they refused to give money.Kulwinder Singh of Ikbal Nagar on Tajpur Road complained that he and his employer, Abhay Sood, were assaulted on their way to an under-construction dyeing factory near Bhairo Munna village on Saturday.“When we reached a brick- kiln near the village, four youths on two bikes stopped us and demanded money. After my employer refused to give them money, they thrashed us and fled,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/eleven-booked-in-3-cases-of-assault-in-ludhiana-244326
26-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana MC fails to stop construction under high-tension wires||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 25After coming in contact with high-tension wires, three labourers were electrocuted to death in New Punjabi Bagh on Tibba Road in 2018. After this incident, the Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner had stated in a report that if the MC’s building inspector and a peon concerned had got the building construction work stopped with responsibility, such incident could have been averted.A number of persons, including children, have lost their lives after coming in contact with high-tension electricity wires at different locations in the city. The role of the MC and Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) remained under scanner after such incidents as a large number of buildings, including houses and commercial units, have come up under or near these high-voltage wires by violating the norms.When these buildings were being constructed, the MC took no steps to get the constructions stopped. Even PSPCL later gave electricity connections to these buildings. The questions are also being raised over the role of colonisers or other persons who sold the plots located under the high-tension wires.The high-tension wires are passing over or near many buildings on Tibba Road, Tajpur Road, Dhandari, Ishwar Colony, Haibowal, Guru Bagh Colony, Baba Mukand Singh Nagar, Daba Road and several other areas. Unaware of the norms, a number of people having low income purchased such plots and got their houses constructed.Now, these residents live under constant fear due to these wires. They demand from the government to get these wires shifted away from the residential areas to avoid mishaps.A resident of Dhandari said, “When I had purchased the plot, I was unaware of the law and I had no information that construction can’t take place under the wires. The wires are passing over our house too. Now, I and my family always live under threat since a tragedy happened near our house in the past. We don’t go to the roof of our house due to fear. We are not in the position to get a new house constructed at any other location due to poor financial condition. The government should take steps for shifting of wires away from the houses.”An AAP leader, Ahbaab Singh Grewal, said, “The MC’s building branch had earlier taken no action to get such constructions stopped. Thousands of houses have been constructed near or under the high-tension wires. Now, these wires should be removed to save the lives of people.”“Moreover, the responsibility of the officials concerned of the MC and PSPCL should also be fixed so that no such construction comes up under or near the high-tension wires in the future. Also, action should be taken against those officials who had ignored the violations in the past,” he added.Four persons were electrocuted to death after they came in contact with high-tension power supply wires in Ishwar Colony of Focal Point around three years ago when they were attending a birthday party. Also, a nine-year-old girl had died due to electrocution at Shimlapuri, while another girl had received severe burn injuries.A resident, Rashpal Singh Gabria, had also raised the matter regarding death of persons due to electrocution before the Punjab State Human Rights Commission and other government authorities concerned. Gabria said, “No lessons have been learnt from the mishaps and no steps have been taken on the ground level to avert such tragedies. Why the MC and PSPCL failed to get constructions stopped under the high-tension wires?”A PSPCL official said the high-tension wires were installed years ago before the construction of the buildings. As these buildings were constructed later, the MC was supposed to get such constructions stopped, the official said.Ahead of the last MC polls, residents of some areas had demanded that high-tension wires be shifted away from their houses.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-fails-to-stop-construction-under-high-tension-wires-244324
26-04-2021||---||30 held, 16 booked for violating Covid guildelines, curfew in Ludhiana||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, April 25Violations of restrictions imposed by the district administration due to Covid-19 continue unabated in the city with the police registering as many as 42 cases under Sections 188 of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act.The police said a total of 30 persons were arrested and 16 others, who gave the police the slip, were booked.Among those arrested are those who kept their shops open during the night curfew at Bindra Colony, Model Town and Sarabha Nagar; pizza outlets in Sarabha Nagar and Fountain Chowk; several street food vendors, dhabas and fast food joints; cigarette kiosks, a departmental store at Sessions Chowk, a spa in a renowned hotel on Pakhowal Road; and liquor vends.Others who were found violating curfew orders and not wearing face mask were also nabbed.The police said two persons, a driver and a conductor of a bus, who were picking up migrant workers bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar without Covid negative report, were also arrested from near the grain market near Salem Tabri. Another driver of an overloaded three-wheeler also was nabbed from main GT Road for violation of prohibitory orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/30-held-16-booked-for-violating-covid-guildelines-curfew-in-ludhiana-244323
26-04-2021||Manav Mander||Patients wanting hospitalisation face a tough time amid surge in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 25Patients, both Covid-positive and non-Covid, who need hospitalisation are facing a difficult time in the city due to the ongoing pandemic.Covid report is a prerequisite for admission to any hospital for patients. If a patient is having a positive report of Covid, he/she is accordingly informed by the hospital whether they have the capacity in the isolation ward or not but if the patient is without any Covid report, he is bound to face hardships. Firstly, he/she has to undergo the Covid test before admission. Patients with critical illnesses are among the most affected in the present circumstances.A patient, whose platelet count had gone down considerably, was brought to a city-based private hospital from a neighbouring town and required admission.At the hospital, the family was asked about the report of the Covid test, which they did not done.“The oxygen level of the patient is low and he is having high fever. We cannot admit any patient without test as it can be problematic for other patients, staff and the patient himself. Report is necessary to decide where the patient needs admission, regular ward or Covid isolation ward.“Seeing the condition of the patient and oxygen level, he is seemed to be Covid positive. Since we do not have any bed in the isolation facility, it is better that the family should take the patient to another hospital without wasting any time,” said a senior doctor from the private hospital.In a similar case, a patient, without Covid test report, was taken to the Flu Corner where a rapid test was done as he required immediate admission. After his report came positive, he was admitted to the Covid ward.Medical Superintendent of SPS Hospital Rajiv Kundra said the covid test report was the determining factor in deciding where to admit the patient — normal ward/room or Covid care ward. The Covid report had become necessary these days.Another patient Karamjit Kaur from Mullanpur, who came to the city hospital, having extreme pain in the stomach required admission. “Before admission the patient had to undergo the Covid test and we kept waiting for the report. The admission was done only after the report came negative,” said the kin of the patient, adding that they understand it was for the safety of all.Another patient who was in need of a ventilator had a 24 hours’ old Covid negative report. Even they had to visit a couple of hospitals as most of them have reserved their ventilators for Covid patients but they managed to get admission and no Covid test was conducted as they had the latest report by a ICMR-approved laboratory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/patients-wanting-hospitalisation-face-a-tough-time-amid-surge-in-ludhiana-244322
26-04-2021||---||Highest single-day spike, 1,389 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, April 25Today again the district broke all its previous records as 1,389 persons tested positive for Covid while nine lost their lives to the virus.Now, there are a total of 49,603 positive cases from the district while the death toll has reached 1,299 on Sunday. Those who tested positive include 10 healthcare workers and an undertrial while 307 persons are untraceable.Since the first case was reported in the district in March 2020, this is the highest single day spike in the district as positive cases crossed the 1000-mark. Active cases have reached 7,117.The nine men who lost their lives today belonged to the Jodhan, Janakpuri, Sita Nagar, Himmat Singh Nagar, Shimlapuri, Fatehpur, Sanhewal Khurd, Model Town and Maharah Nagar areas.As many as 22 patients were on ventilator support on Sunday of which 12 belonged to Ludhiana and 712 persons were sent for home quarantine.With increase in sampling, the number of people testing positive has also increased. Today, 8,826 samples were collected from the district.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has urged residents to avoid unnecessary socialising and stay indoors as much they could to contain the pandemic more effectively.Civil Surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar has appealed the public to come forward for vaccination and all persons above the age of 18 could get themselves registered in the Cowin portal from April 28 and their vaccination was going to start from May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/highest-single-day-spike-1-389-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-244319
