27-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Teachers to send wards to govt schools, set an example||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 26To set an example for the masses that government schools are not behind private schools when it comes to education and facilities, teachers and the staff of the Education Department have started getting admission for their own wards in LKG/UKG, primary and middle classes in government schools.Devinder Singh Chinna, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Shahpur, told The Tribune, “Three teachers of our school have preferred government schools over private ones. Five students have got admission in LKG/UKG and Class I recently. This step will motivate and encourage others to send their children to government schools.” “Our staff has got admission for their own kids here, which means that they have more confidence on government schools as compared to private schools,” he added.It is learnt that almost 1,500 teachers and staff have got their wards admitted to government schools.Amandeep Singh, a teacher at senior secondary school near Kaddon, said he preferred to send his child to government school because the education was almost free, all facilities were available and teachers were fully qualified to teach and develop personality of children.More and more students are taking admission in government schools because education in such institutions is almost free and all facilities are provided to students at no extra cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-to-send-wards-to-govt-schools-set-an-example-244833
27-04-2021||Ludhiana||DC inspects oxygen plant in Giaspura||Amid rising demand for medical oxygen for treatment of serious Covid patients in hospitals, the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner (DC), Varinder Kumar Sharma, today inspected an oxygen generation plant in the Giaspura area of the city. While interacting with plant owners, the DC directed them to ensure that no oxygen was supplied to non-Covid hospitals or industries in order to fulfil its demand at Covid care centres.  The DC also pushed for an increased production at the plant level to cater to local needs for oxygen. The DC further urged all industries to hand over empty or filled oxygen cylinders to gas generation plants so that these could be supplied to hospitals to save precious lives battling with the Covid disease. The DC also issued magisterial orders under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, directing all industries and non-Covid hospitals to return their empty cylinders to oxygen generation plants with immediate effect. Besides, he also ordered that no supplier would supply medical oxygen to non-Covid hospitals, any industry or individual. Suppliers would supply medical oxygen only to Covid hospitals in consultation with nodal officers, the DC added. The DC also warned that those not adhering to these directions would face action under the NDMA Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dc-inspects-oxygen-plant-in-giaspura-244834
27-04-2021||---||PIO to pay Rs 5K for not providing information||Ludhiana, April 26 The Punjab State Information Commission (PSIC) has imposed a penalty on the public information officer (PIO) at the office of the Secretary, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), here. Earlier, Manjinder Singh from Mohali had demanded information regarding challans and the challan register from the PIO at the RTA office. When the applicant was not provided the required information, he had filed an appeal before the commission. As per orders issued by the commission, neither the PIO concerned came to attend the hearing through videoconferencing nor he has deputed any of his representative to attend the same.  Manjinder stated before the commission that the information had not been provided to him. According to information, the PIO was directed on the previous hearing to file an affidavit which has also not been filed. The commission order reads: “Facts of the case prove beyond any doubt that the PIO/respondent does not deserve any leniency. Hence, in the exercise of the powers conferred by Section 20 (1) of the RTI Act, a penalty to the tune of Rs5,000 is imposed on the PIO.” The penalty is to be deducted from his salary, which is to be deposited in the state treasury under the relevant head. The PIO has also been directed to comply with the directions of the Bench given on the previous hearing as also to produce the evidence for having deposited the amount of penalty imposed, before the next hearing on July 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pio-to-pay-rs-5k-for-not-providing-information-244835
27-04-2021||Lovleen Bains---||College staff demand online classes||Doraha, April 26 Amidst coronavirus blast, college teachers have urged the government to allow them to take online classes from home. “The staff is forced to come to colleges daily as the government has not taken any decision in this regard despite the fact that Covid cases have swollen to a grave extent,” they complained. Presently, teachers are taking online classes from colleges, which can spread infection among them.  “This problem can be easily solved if the government allows us to take online classes from home. Students don’t come to college. Why should teachers be penalised when they can attend to students through online mode from home?” asked a college teacher.  The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU) president, Dr Vinay Sofat, demanded work from home to safeguard staff from the Covid-19 pandemic.  “Teachers can hold online classes from home in a better way. I have written Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh that the state seems to have entered the community transmission stage. The situation is going out of control for medical professionals,” he said.  “Although the Government of India has permitted inoculation of youngsters above 18 years from May 1 onwards, yet due to shortage of the vaccine, it may not be possible to vaccinate college students and faculty on the fast track. Therefore, I requested the CM to issue instructions so that colleges remain closed at least up to May 15 or till the government is in a position to vaccinate students and the staff of colleges,” he added. The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union state secretary, Prof Sukhdev Singh Randhawa, and the Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib district president of the teachers’ union, Dr Bikramjit Singh Sandhu, also urged the state government to take immediate action in this regard. “An immediate action of the state government will help prevent the spread of pandemic among families of the college staff, who come into contact with a number of people at their work place,” they added.  “Teachers can take online classes from their home, which will be safe for them. This will help them work more diligently and without any fear psychosis,” they said.   “Due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic health issues of college teachers must not be overlooked. We have submitted a memorandum to the Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, and the Director, Public Instructions, to intervene immediately and issue orders to colleges so that teachers can hold online classes from home,” shared Dr Inderpal Sidhu, former Panjab University fellow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/college-staff-demand-online-classes-244836
27-04-2021||Harshraj Singh---||Sanitation workers wait for masks, gloves, sanitisers||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 26 Since the Covid-19 pandemic was announced, many sanitation workers were provided a safety kit, including one mask, a pair of gloves, and small bottle of sanitiser only “once”. Despite the repeated demand of workers’ unions, these employees, who are working as frontline warriors, have yet to get MC’s attention in this regard.  When Covid-19 cases are on the surge, employees’ unions have demanded that the MC should make sure that required gear for the safety of thousands of safai karamcharis, sewermen and garbage collectors in the city is readily available. These employees come in contact with various kind of waste, including hazardous material.  A contractual worker said, “I received a safety gear only once, which included reusable mask, pair of gloves, and small bottle of sanitiser. Gloves and mask given by the MC got damaged within a short period. The sanitiser lasted for only a few days as it was used multiple times a day. Now, I am forced to buy these items from my own pocket despite my monthly salary being low. I am a contractual worker of the MC. All employees should be provided safety gear on time for protection.”  An employee of the MC health branch said, “Masks, gloves and sanitisers must be provided to sanitation workers on time. Many employees use washable masks, but they can’t purchase gloves and sanitisers on a routine basis. Garbage collectors pick up waste from various houses unaware of its kind. No information is provided to them about houses of Covid patients.”  Vijay Kumar of the Municipal Karamchari Sayunkt Committee Ludhiana said, “Masks and gloves were given to sanitation workers only once last year. I will write to the MC authorities to provide safety gear to all safai karamcharis, sewermen and other sanitation workers at the earliest.” Sudhir Kumar of the Municipal Karamchari Dal said, “The MC has not provided new gloves, masks, and sanitisers to sanitation workers. We have raised the demand before the authorities concerned many times, but to no avail.”  Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said safety kits, including masks, gloves, and sanitisers would be provided to sanitation workers soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sanitation-workers-wait-for-masks-gloves-sanitisers-244837
27-04-2021||Ludhiana||SAD protests poor wheat procurement||Senior SAD leaders and party activists held a protest outside the residence of Punjab Minister for Food, Supplies and Consumer Affairs Bharat Bhushan Ashu here today against poor arrangements for wheat procurement and exploitation of farmers on this account in grain markets across the state. Former ministers Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said there was an outcry in almost all mandis of the district with regard to procurement of wheat. “In most mandis, there is a shortage of gunny bags, which is affecting the procurement and lifting of wheat,” the leaders said. District president of the party and former MLA Ranjit Singh Dhillon and Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said nobody else but Ashu was responsible for the poor procurement. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-protests-poor-wheat-procurement-244839
27-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia---||Illegal lifting of lintels in buildings goes unabated in city||Ludhiana, Aprilr 26 The illegal work of lifting lintel of existing industrial and commercial buildings still continues in the city without any fear of the law or the authorities concerned.  It seems the Municipal Corporation (MC) and officials and staff of its building branch or for that matter other government bodies like GLADA have not learnt any lesson from the tragic collapse of a factory building in Giaspura on Daba Road here earlier this month in which six persons died and nine others were injured.  Fear gripped the area in and around Onkar Colony on Kakowal Road here on Thursday when people witnessed labourers raising level of the first floor of an existing building with the help of jack machines and wooden logs to support the structure.  The work was obviously carried out without permission from the authorities concerned or an approved building plan simply because there was no provision in prevalent building bylaws for such work.  Some area residents said by the time the authorities concerned (GLADA in this case) and the police were informed, the contractor and labourers had fled from the site.  Though GLADA officials said they would be issuing notice to the builder, it would just turn out an exercise in futility because seldom, if any, follow up action was taken in such cases. Eyebrows were also being raised over the undue haste shown by the authorities in issuing a clean chit to officials and the building branch of MC in the building collapse case in Giaspura on Daba Road.  In his enquiry report, the Commissioner of Patiala Division had indicted the factory owner and the contractor for lifting lintel of the building, which led to loss of six human lives. The factory owner was arrested while the contractor was still at large.  Questions were raised by city residents about how could MC employees and their supervisory officials, who were duty bound to curb illegal construction, be left off the hook for a tragedy in which six people lost their lives?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/illegal-lifting-of-lintels-in-buildings-goes-unabated-in-city-244840
27-04-2021||---||10 dead, 753 positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, April 26As many as 753 persons tested positive for Covid, while 10 lost their lives to the virus today. Total positive cases from Ludhiana have now reached 50,356, while 1,309 have lost their lives to the virus till now.Active cases from the district today reached 7,112, while 620 persons were home quarantined.Those who tested positive include a cop, five healthcare workers, teacher from GSSS Cemetry Road and an undertrial. The tracing of 152 is still to be done.Eight women and two men, belonging to BRS Nagar, Jawadi, Kailash Nagar, Ramgarh Sibia, Basti Jodhewal, Arya Mohalla, Khanna, Basti Jodhewal, Haibowal and Rajguru Nagar, lost their lives today.Total samples collected from Ludhiana till now are 9,54,488, while today 6,338 samples were collected.The Mass Media team of the Civil Surgeon office carried out an awareness drive in slums of Ludhiana. The team visited various slums of the city, where its members made the inhabitants aware methods to keep Covid-19 away and also distributed masks to the needy.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said, “As everyone knows that awareness is crucial in staying safe from coronavirus, but this becomes pivotal when it comes to slums. As density of population in these slums and vehras is very high and these people, who are mostly migrants, are not literate, so their lack of information can become dangerous to themselves and for other people of Ludhiana. So, in order to make sure that Ludhiana stays safe and away from coronavirus, the Mass Media team is spreading awareness messages and also distributing Mission Fateh pamphlets and posters.”He appealed to the public to come forward for vaccination and said all the persons who are above the age of 18 can get themselves registered on the Cowin portal from April 28 and their vaccination is going to start from May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-dead-753-positive-in-ludhiana-244841
27-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district to get priority in vaccination for 18-45 age group in upcoming drive||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 26Ludhiana, which was among the five high caseload districts driving the Covid second wave rapidly sliding into a devastating crisis in the state, will get priority in the upcoming vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group scheduled to take off from May 1.This was recommended by the expert group in the preliminary strategy for vaccination of all above 18 years of age beginning Saturday onwards.The expert group, led by Dr Gagandeep Kang and comprising Dr Jacob John and Dr Rajesh Kumar, has put Ludhiana on the top of all 22 districts in the state where the risk of disease and transmission rate are considered the highest. Ludhiana is also listed on the top under the population density category in the state.In a brief presentation made before the Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, on the strategy that can be adopted for inoculation of the people aged between 18 and 45 years in the state, the expert group said the disease distribution and risk by district variable will be the major considerations for deciding the priority areas under the mega vaccination drive.Noting that disease is highest in the areas with high population density, the experts presented that for 1.3 crore eligible population under 18-45 vaccination programme, 2.7 crore doses will be required and as many sessions will also be required for the purpose.Taking into consideration the total number of positive cases and the average daily infections being reported by each district, the expert group listed Ludhiana as the top district under the vaccination priority followed by Mohali, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Pathankot, Nawanshahr, Sangrur, Ropar, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazilka, Tarn Taran, Mansa, Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala.Under the vaccine supply and prioritisation recommendations, the experts sought inoculating those on priority who have comorbidities and were living in high-risk settings, who were in jobs that increase exposure and risk of transmission in high-risk settings, saturate populations in risk settings before spreading out, follow 1-2 for lower-risk settings before expansion and covering cities before villages in view of easy acceptance and delivery.The communication strategy recommended by the expert group suggested improving acceptance key to supply and delivery and giving influencers and leaders unambiguous messages to share with the population prior to the vaccination drive.The experts have also suggested geographical saturation in high caseload cities like Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mohali and Patiala, prioritisation based on medical needs (serious comorbidity) and professional groups (teachers, judges, journalists, elected leaders, lawyers).However, the expert group would give the final strategy for prioritisation of 18-45 year group (vulnerable groups in high-risk areas, high transmission and high mortality, including construction workers and industrial workers, in its first report by April 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-to-get-priority-in-vaccination-for-18-45-age-group-in-upcoming-drive-244842
27-04-2021||Manav Mander---||Vaccine supply runs dry||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, April 26 The vaccine supply has again run dry in the district. The next availability of the stock is yet not known to the authorities. Today vaccination was done at only a few vaccination centres, which had some stock left with them. Only 8,822 persons were vaccinated in the district. Vaccination drive has almost come to a halt at both government and private vaccination centres. District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said the stock of vaccines has depleted and vaccination was being carried out at a few centres which had some stock left with them. “We will be informed by the state government about the next availability of the stock. Presently only a few centres are running the vaccination drive with the stock left with them,”he  said. Dr Pardeep Mohindra, SMO, Civil Hospital, Jagraon, said they had 120 doses of Covishield and they would be administered to people. “After that no stock will be left with us and we will be informed by the department as and when the stock arrives,” he said. Former president of the Punjab Medical Council said it had been three days that private hospitals were without the stock of vaccine. “Beneficiaries are returning every day and we have no concrete reply to give to them,” said Dr Grewal. A 50-year-old man, Kishore Jain, is making rounds of the hospitals as his second dose of vaccination is due. “It has been four days that I have been making rounds of the hospital for the second jab but every time I get the reply that they are out of stock,” he said. Enquiries at various private hospitals reveal that they had no stock of vaccines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccine-supply-runs-dry-244843
27-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||1,025 cases of smuggled liquor seized||Ludhiana, April 26 The police made a big haul of smuggled liquor with the seizure of 1,025 cases from a closed-body truck (bearing registration No. HR 38T 4611) which was stopped for checking in the wee hours on Sunday near the Janta Nagar cut on the basis of a tip-off by a police party comprising Inspector Yash Pal Sharma, in-charge, anti-smuggling cell/CIA-3, and ASI Kashmir Singh, along with officials of the Excise Department. While the driver of the truck and his assistant managed to give the police the slip by taking advantage of the darkness, search of the abandoned truck led to the recovery of 500 cases (each carrying 12 bottles of 750 ml) of McDowell No 1 whisky, 300 cases of McDowell No 1 whisky (each carrying 48 nips of 180 ml), 75 cases (each carrying 12 bottles of 750 ml) of Royal Challenge whisky and 150 cases (each carrying 48 nips of 180 ml) of Royal Challenge whisky. The police have impounded the truck carrying the illicit liquor and the unidentified accused have been booked under Sections 61, 78(2), 1 and 14 of the Excise Act at the Division No. 6 police station. The police have launched search operations to apprehend the accused who are behind the big racket of liquor smuggling. In another incident, the police arrested Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Jawahar Nagar Camp, on a tip-off that the accused was indulging in smuggling of illicit liquor and had stored liquor under a staircase at his house. In a raid, the police seized 60 nips of XXX Dollar rum from his house. He has been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-025-cases-of-smuggled-liquor-seized-244844
27-04-2021||Ludhiana||Panel to ensure arrangements for last rites of Covid victims||District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday has formed a committee for ensuring necessary arrangements in crematoriums and graveyards for cremating/burying bodies of those succumbed to Covid-19 in the district.In the order, he said the committee would be headed by the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, as the Chairman and Joint CP (Headquarters), Divisional Forest Officer, Ludhiana, District Food, Civil and Supply Controller (west) and IOC LPG senior sales manager Sanchit Sharma would be members of the committee.He said the committee would have freedom to use any cremation ground and cemetery for cremating and burying bodies of the Covid victims.He said none of the management of cremation/burial grounds deny for performing last rites of the victims died due to Covid.The Deputy Commissioner warned that an FIR could be registered over non-compliance. If any crematoriums and graveyards deny to do so, the committee would have power to open locks of gates and even it would have authority to demolish boundary wall for ensuring the cremation or burial, the DC said. The DC added that the committee could also engage any NGO for ensuring proper arrangements, as per rituals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panel-to-ensure-arrangements-for-last-rites-of-covid-victims-244845
27-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||49 arrested for lockdown, curfew violations in Ludhiana city||Ludhiana, April 26 While city residents, more or less, complied with restrictions imposed during complete lockdown by the police authorities in the city on Sunday, but still violations like opening of shops and commercial establishments, holding functions with more number of guests than permitted, overloading in buses and auto-rickshaws and liquor vends selling or drinking places serving liquor were reported from different parts of the city. In all the police registered 44 cases for violations under Section 188 of the IPC with the arrest of 49 persons, while 17 others were booked. The police arrested 11 persons for either purchasing liquor or being served liquor in the adjoining ahata (drinking place) along the Canal on Gill road, while six unidentified persons were booked for opening their shops and selling fish in Tajpur Road Fish Market in violation of lockdown restrictions. The police arrested five owners, managers or security personnel of hotels and resorts for allowing more number of guests than permitted at functions, four vegetable sellers, nine karyana shop or general store owners, eight fast food outlet owners/managers, one auto-rickshaw driver for overloading and five others for opening hair-cutting saloons, a swimming pool, mutton and chicken shops. Three others were held for moving out at night during curfew hours without any valid reason. All the arrested persons were booked under Section 188 of the IPC and in some cases relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act were also invoked, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/49-arrested-for-lockdown-curfew-violations-in-ludhiana-city-244846
27-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||MC fails to resolve parking woes in markets||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 26In the absence of designated parking lots at many of the prominent city markets, the visitors are forced to park vehicles on the road. Traffic snarls are commonly seen at such markets and major city roads due to the lack of parking arrangements.When suggestions were sought around five years ago to make Ludhiana a Smart City, many participants had voted to see improvement of the traffic management and parking arrangements in the city but no concrete steps have been taken in this regard. However, the discussions were held to set up multi-level parking lots at some locations, including Books Market, Feroze Gandhi Market and an underground parking lot near Aarti Chowk under the Smart City Mission, but nothing was done in this regard.The visitors are forced to park vehicles on roads at various markets, including Model Town, Ghumar Mandi, Field Ganj, Jawahar Nagar camp market, Pakhowal Road, Mall Road and College Road. Currently, five existing parking lots remain jam-packed at Feroze Gandhi Market due to which many vehicles are parked on roads, causing traffic snarls. The market association concerned has been demanding from the authorities to resolve the issue for a long time.Besides, the vehicles are commonly parked on Kochar Market Road, Pakhowal Road, Ferozepur Road, Malhar Road, Gill Road and other roads in the absence of parking arrangements.Many of the commercial and other buildings have also come up by violating the parking norms but the MC and other departments concerned took no concrete measures against such violations. Also, a number of banks, hospitals, factories, educational institutes and other units lack parking arrangements.Residents demand that the government should resolve the parking and traffic-related issues at city markets and roads at the earliest. A resident of Model Town, Gurpal Singh Grewal, said, “Many of the city markets lack parking arrangements as the authorities concerned have failed to do the needful. There is no checking on newly constructed commercial units which violate the parking-related norms. Thus, the people are helpless and often park vehicles on roads and then their vehicles are also towed away. The government should take required measures to make arrangements for parking of vehicles at city markets and public places.”Sandeep Wadhwa, who is a coordinator of associations of Ghumar Mandi Market, said, “There is a dire need to resolve the issue related to parking of vehicles at Ghumar Mandi. We want the government to take necessary measures to set up a parking lot for the visitors to the market.”Sanjay Goel, who is chairman of the IIA, Punjab Chapter, and also one of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited said, “I have raised the matter with the authorities concerned. However, no new multi-level parking lot has been constructed under the Smart City Mission till date.” He had earlier also suggested that the departments concerned could identify government land or purchase private lands to set up parking lots.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said he would talk to officials concerned regarding the plan for construction of multi-level parking lots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-fails-to-resolve-parking-woes-in-markets-244847
27-04-2021||---||Amid surge, rural docs defer Covid duty boycott||Ludhiana, April 26Rural medical officers, who threatened to boycott the Covid duties from Monday if their demand for Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP) of cadre is not fulfilled, have deferred the move seeing the recent surge and assurance by the Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat.Demand equal financial benefitThe rural medical officers are wearing black bands to work as a mark of protest. “Rural medical officers are serving in remote areas of the state since 2006. Earlier, they were on contract and were later regularised in 2011. The cadre has been granted salary and allowances on a par with medical officers of the health department. In 2015, they became eligible for the application of DACP, but it has been delayed and the demand is still unfulfilled,” said Dr JP Narula, state president, Rural Medical Services’ Association.“It has been six years since we are eligible but have been denied our right. We had decided to protest but seeing the rising cases and assurance from the minister concerned, we have deferred our decision,” said a rural medical officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amid-surge-rural-docs-defer-covid-duty-boycott-244568
27-04-2021||Manav Mander||Pics: In Ludhiana, bodies of Covid patients arrive at crematorium in autos, rickshaws||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 26In a stark reality of how the second Covid wave has hit the health infrastructure, bodies of patients succumbing to the virus are being brought to the crematorium in Ludhiana in autorickshaws and cyclerickshaws without following the safety protocol."Forget beds in hospitals, the deceased are being denied dignity even in death," says the family of a 76-year-old man from Focal Point in Ludhiana who died of Covid on Monday.Unable to arrange an ambulance to carry the body, his wife and other relatives opted for an autorickshaw.“The hospital failed to arrange an ambulance nor could we. Left with no option and after a long wait, we got the body in an autorickshaw. Tough times indeed!” said the deceased's wife said, her voice choking with emotions.A few hours later, another body of a Covid patient arrived at the crematorium in Focal Point--in a covered rickshaw.Kanta Rani (60) was admitted to the Civil Hospital. Her sons narrated the same story of helplessness and failure to arrange an ambulance. "How long could we have waited for an ambulance or a hearse van. The cremation had to be done today," they said.There have also been reports of ambulance owners charging hefty amounts to carry Covid victims--Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 for a few km distance.Ranjodh Singh, president of Ramgarhia Educational Trust and Ramgarhia Shamshan Ghat which is cremating the bodies of Covid victims since last year, said, “The haunting scenes at the cremation grounds depict how we are trapped between a raging pandemic and a crumbling healthcare system."He called as inhuman and shameful the incidents of deceased's families being fleeced by some private ambulance owners. Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, Dr Amarjit Kaur said one such case had come to her notice. “It is a lapse on the part of the staff which handed over the body without following protocol. I enquired and came to know that the family was insisting on taking the body as early as possible. We had nine deaths of Covid patients at Ludhiana Civil Hospital today and the families were asked to wait a little and let the ambulance return. Still, I have asked for an explanation from my staff," she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pics-in-ludhiana-bodies-of-covid-patients-arrive-at-crematorium-in-autos-rickshaws-244478
