28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana ASI fires at brother over family dispute||An Assistant Sub Inspector, deployed at PAU police station in Ludhiana, fired at his brother, also an ASI, from his official weapon on Wednesday.The injured cop, Vijay Kumar, suffered a bullet injury to his stomach. He works in the police force engaged with the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana.ASI Vijay, along with the police force and a team of Municipal Corporation, had gone to demolish some illegal structure at Gopal Nagar. When the team was about to start the demolition, ASI Janak Raj reached the spot where an argument ensued with his brother Vijay. The ASI fired at his brother from close range.SHO Haibowal Neeraj Chaudhary said the reason for the firing was an old family dispute between the brothers.After the incident, the injured was taken to hospital in a private car.Senior cops, led by the ADCP Sameer Verma, ACP Gurpreet and others had reached the spot.The accused ASI fled from the spot after the incident. The injured cop is undergoing treatment at DMC hospital and is said to be out of danger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-asi-fires-at-brother-over-family-dispute-245409
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Police to rope in fair sex in fight against contagion||If you see an all-women police squad targeting the fairer sex on the city streets and roads don’t think otherwise. Ludhiana Police Commissionerate has constituted an all-women squad under the Mission Fateh to sensitise and involve the womenfolk in the ongoing fight against Covid.Led by a sub-inspector, the team of six constables has been tasked to roam around the length and breadth of the city to identify the women seen without masks and violating the Covid appropriate behaviour, especially the social distancing norm.The women cops will distribute masks and educate the violators about the gravity of the current situation with tips to save themselves and others from contracting the widespread virus.“The first time women offenders will be sensitised and roped in as volunteers to ensure enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour at their homes and outside,” Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal told The Tribune here on Tuesday.Himself recuperating from the virus even over a month after taking a second vaccine shot, Agrawal said the community outreach programme would also take to task the habitual offenders while building a public movement to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour in the right earnest.Sharing details, ADCP Dr Pragya Jain said a special team, comprising all women police personnel, was formed with a view to engage women as active participants in the fight against Covid. “It is a gesture to thank women for their stellar contribution in keeping families and communities safe while juggling professional responsibilities,” she revealed.She disclosed that the special team would distribute masks to the needy women as well as challan gross female violators.“The six-member team of women constables, who are themselves married and have kids at home, is headed by a woman sub-inspector, to bring home the message of enforcing strict Covid appropriate behaviour among family members, friends and colleagues in an easy-to-understand manner,” Dr Jain expressed.She said the special emphasis of the drive would be on risk posed to young children by the present mutant virus form.“Women have a special place in our society and form the bedrock of family. They can contribute effectively in keeping families resilient from the pandemic,” asserted the ADCP, while adding that the drive was launched on the directives of the CP, who had stressed the need to take care of women, children and elders, who were most vulnerable to the second Covid wave.Over 500 bookedThe Commissionerate Police has already distributed over 10,000 masks under the ongoing drive to emphasise on the necessity of wearing masks.Under the drive, police personnel and officials along with members of the civil society and voluntary organisations are going on foot at busy junctions and public places to check those who are not wearing masks while commuting on vehicles or pedestrians.The cops distribute free masks to such people along with the request to follow the Covid guidelines. “They were also warned of strict action, ” said the city police chief, adding that over 500 FIRs have already been registered against the violators so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-to-rope-in-fair-sex-in-fight-against-contagion-245220
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||13 dead; 1,136 test positive in Ludhiana||As many as 1,136 persons tested positive for Civid, while 13 persons lost their lives to the virus today. Total positive cases from the district reached 51,492, while 1,322 persons have lost their lives in the district so far since March 2020.Active cases in the district reached 7,462, while 1,040 persons were home quarantined today.Six women and seven men, belonging to Shivpuri, Sherpur, Subhash Nagar, Ghugrana village, Jugiana, Madhopuri, Aman Nagar, Basant Nagar, Dashmesh Nagar, Maachiwara, Azad Nagar, New Satnam Nagar and Udham Singh Nagar lost their lives today.People who tested positive include a healthcare worker, undertrial, five teachers from Government School, Pratapgarh, Government School, Sherpur, Mount Litera School, Sanhewal, Drishti Jain School, Narangwal, and GSSS, Pakhowal. As many as 240 persons are still untraceable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-dead-1-136-test-positive-in-ludhiana-245222
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Two thefts in Ludiana and Khanna||Miscreants committed two thefts in Ludhiana and Khanna and decamped with cash and valuables worth lakhs of rupees.In the first incident, complainant Jeet Ram told the police that he owns a scrap shop on GT Road in Khanna. On the night of April 25, he closed his shop and when he reached the place the next morning, he was shocked to see that thieves had made a big hole in the wall in the rear side of the shop.After entering the shop, they decamped with Rs 7.36 lakh in cash which was lying in the almirah.ASI Jeet Ram said the CCTV camera footage of nearby areas was being checked to get any clue about the thieves. A case has been registered.Another incident took place at an electrician shop in New Madhopuri from where miscreants took away goods worth lakhs of rupees. Deepak Sharma, owner of Bittu Electrician, said last night, thieves broke open locks of the main shutter and decamped with expensive cable rolls, fans and other electronic goods. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-thefts-in-ludiana-and-khanna-245224
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||‘Follow protocol for Covid victims’ cremation’||A day after the bodies of two persons who died of Covid reached the cremation ground at Dholewal from the Civil Hospital in an auto-rickshaw and a cycle-rickshaw, the panel, which has been formed to make the required arrangements for cremation of persons who die of the virus, conducted a meeting today.The hospitals have been told to follow the protocol. The meeting was headed by MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, who is chairman of the committee. It is learnt that a control room is to be set up at the hospital to avoid such incidents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/follow-protocol-for-covid-victims-cremation-245225
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana cops not to get leave||As the state government has advanced timings of night curfew from 8 pm to 6 pm, the Ludhiana police have also pulled up their socks to enforce the curfew strictly. For the purpose, routine leave applications of all police personnel have been cancelled and no new application will be entertained till the situation improves.Duty hours also increasedPolice sources said duty hours of the police personnel had also been increased. Police officials deployed at containment zones had been discharging duties for around 12 hours.This is being done to ensure enough deployment of force on city roads to ensure that residents do not roam in the city without any valid reason.Police sources confirmed that all routine leave applications would not be entertained and if any police official had any urgency or work which needs their presence, the request would be entertained.These directions have been conveyed to all police station heads. Even ACP and ADCP-rank officers may also not get routine leave as they have to manage their zones during these tough times.Joint Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) J Elanchezhian said routine leave would not be approved as the deployment of police personnel was required in the city to implement the night curfew.“If any cop has any valid reason or urgency, leave will be granted for minimum possible days. Police personnel seeking routine leave may have to wait till the time the Covid situation improves, “the JCP said.The sources maintained that duty hours of the police personnel had also been increased. Police officials deployed at containment zones had been discharging duties for around 12 hours.“Since Phase I and Phase II in Dugri have been declared as containment zones, we are performing duty for at least 12 hours. We have clearly been told by our seniors not to ask for leave. Being a cop, we also understand that the city needs our duties to save people and we will also not seek any routine leave,” said a policeman on duty at a containment zone.The JCP urged residents not to roam in the city without any reason and follow the Covid norms so that the virus could be contained in a joint effort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cops-not-to-get-leave-245229
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Vaccine shortage hits Ludhiana hard||Due to a shortage of stock, Covid vaccination was carried at only at three government vaccination centres — Civil Hospital, Civil Surgeon office and Urban Primary Health Centre — today.As many as 2,949 persons were inoculated in the district today.Beneficiaries visiting government and private vaccination centres had to return without getting the jab and are told to wait for the stock to arrive. Private hospitals have also been out of the vaccine stock for the past few days.Jagtar Singh, who got his first jab from a private hospital, said he had been making rounds of the hospital as his second jab was due for the past four days but he was informed that the vaccine was unavailable each time he visited the hospital. “Being a senior citizen, it is difficult to make rounds of the hospital every day,” he said.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they had received 28,000 doses of Covishield in the evening today and would start the vaccination at more sites from tomorrow. “We will be distributing the doses to private and government hospitals as per the stock availability,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccine-shortage-hits-ludhiana-hard-245232
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Stray cattle endanger lives of commuters on roads||A 45-year-old man had met with a mishap and received injuries when two bulls were fighting at Haibowal in Ludhiana. He was riding a scooter when one of the fighting bulls rammed into him. His leg got fractured and he spent about three months in bed due to the leg injury. He spent around Rs 80,000 on his treatment.Rahul Verma, a road safety activist, said, “The injured man was my driver. The mishap had taken place in October 2020. Even after the passage of nearly six months after the mishap, he is unable to walk properly. Due to the accident, he had to postpone the marriage of his daughter too. The authorities concerned must take steps to shift all stray cattle to shelters to avoid such mishaps. All the cattle should be registered.”Around five years ago, a tragedy had taken place when a toddler became the victim. A bull had rammed into a scooter due to which a woman, who was the riding pillion and carrying her one-and-a-half-year-old child, had fallen into Buddha Nullah. The woman was saved by residents but the toddler lost his life in the mishap. Besides, a number of persons have died or received serious injuries in other mishaps due to stray cattle roaming on the roads.Fighting bulls is a common scene in the city. Stray cattle have also attacked pedestrians at several locations in the past. A woman had earlier received serious injuries when she was attacked by a stray bull on Noorwala Road. A bull had also attacked an elderly man outside his home at Tilak Nagar on Rahon Road in the past.The MC collects crores of rupees as cow cess every year. Even, the stray cattle, which get injured in mishaps, are not provided timely treatment. The MC has recently set up a shed at Burj Pawat near Macchiwara but only for around 150 head of cattle. It is yet to take the measures for shifting hundreds of more stray cattle roaming in the city. The issue about the stray cattle has been raised many times in the MC’s House meetings, but to no avail.A number of such mishaps have also taken place in the areas outside the MC’s jurisdiction and rural parts of the district, but the authorities failed to ensure the safety of commuters.No check on those abandoning cattleThere is no check on the people who abandon the cattle, including cows and bulls, on roads after using them for years for their interests. It is learnt that when the cows stop producing milk, they are left on the city roads. Many of the stray cattle are also seen at open garbage dumps along various roads in the city.In 2019, a project was planned for the implantation of a microchip in the cattle at city dairies and gaushalas. It was then claimed that 20,000 head of cattle will be registered in the first phase and the project would help to trace the dairy owner concerned if any cattle are abandoned. The project was to be launched by the MC, but nothing was done.The MC has a cattle-lifting van but it is used rarely, as per the sources. Satish Thaman, a member of the Ludhiana West Grievances Redressal Committee, said, “There is no proper record that how many stray cattle are roaming in the city and outside city areas. A number of mishaps have taken place in which both humans and stray cattle have died or injured. The government should take concrete steps to shift stray cattle from roads and residential areas to gaushalas. The government should also construct new sheds for these stray cattle. As the MC is collecting huge cow cess, it should use this money on the welfare of the stray cattle.”He said, “The open garbage dumps also invite the stray cattle. Such dumps should also be removed. A record of all cattle should be maintained in the right manner. Strict action should be taken against those who abandon cattle on roads.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stray-cattle-endanger-lives-of-commuters-on-roads-245236
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||DM orders strict enforcement of addl restrictions||In view of the present Covid-19 situation, District Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma has ordered additional restrictions that would be strictly enforced throughout the district from Tuesday till further order.As per the orders, all shops, including those in malls and multiplexes, etc, should close everyday by 5 pm with home delivery allowed up to 9 pm. The daily night curfew (already in force from 8 pm to 5 am) shall now be from 6 pm to 5 am on all days prohibiting all non-essential activities. The weekend curfew is from 5 am on Saturday up to 5 am on Monday. However, all essential activities shall remain exempted. All private offices, including service industry, have been allowed to ‘work from home’ only, the DM said.Exempted activitiesThe activities and businesses that have been exempted from Covid restrictions include chemist shops and shops dealing with supply of essential goods like milk, dairy products, vegetables, fruits, etc. The movement of employees/labour of manufacturing industry and vehicles carrying them are allowed. However, the industry concerned shall issue them requisite permission for the purpose.To-and-fro movement of passengers travelling via air, trains, buses, etc, construction activities in both the urban and rural areas, agricultural, including procurement, horticultural, animal husbandry, veterinary services, e-commerce and movement of all goods and vaccination outreach camps have been exempted from the restrictions.“There shall be strict implementation of National Directives for Covid-19 Management guidelines, Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and advisories issued by MHA/state government on Covid appropriate behaviour, including social distancing norm of minimum 6-feet distance, regulating crowds in market places and public transport and imposition of penalties prescribed for violation of Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing of face masks and spitting in public places, etc. Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005 and the Indian Penal Code-1860,” as per the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dm-orders-strict-enforcement-of-addl-restrictions-245238
28-04-2021||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana||Dugri residents irked over food truck at parking lot||Encroachment on public places, roads and parks in the city has laid bare the apathy of the authorities towards the menace.The problem has assumed such an alarming proportion that it is neither frowned upon nor the officials concerned care to take any action against offenders.One such mobile eating joint has been operating at a parking area in the Dugri Urban Estate Phase I market, much to the inconvenience of residents. However, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has failed to pay heed to it.In a complaint to the GLADA Estate Officer, residents maintained that a food truck, named ‘Road Runner’, has been put up in the parking area of the main market adjoining their houses. The eating joint has not only occupied public space but the area around was also being used for setting up a ‘tandoor’, food and billing counters.“During late evening, there is a huge rush of customers at the eating joint and often, anti-social elements create nuisance for residents in the area. It is difficult for residents, especially women, to venture out of their houses,” said residents.The complainants also pointed out that shopkeepers and owners of other commercial establishments in the market had purchased shops and SCOs at very high rates and due to the nuisance created by the truck, shopkeepers were suffering losses. “Earlier, the truck used to be parked for a few hours in the evening, but now it is permanently located at the site that is meant for the parking of vehicles by owners of shops and SCOs and their customers,” the residents added.Citing a judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court (in COCP 1299 of 2009) with regards to encroachments on public places, residents have said officials of GLADA were duty-bound to remove all encroachments from public places/land and in case of failure in discharging their duties, they were liable to be hauled up for contempt of court and face disciplinary action, including suspension and imposition of penalty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dugri-residents-irked-over-food-truck-at-parking-lot-245240
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man killed in road accident||A 32-year-old man died in road mishap after the Bullet motorcycle he was riding got hit by a Maruti Brezza car on the Hambran road last night.The deceased has been identified as Kanu, resident of Badi Haibowal.As per information, Kanu was heading home on his motorcycle and when he reached near Kali temple, a Breeza car coming from the opposite side rammed into the bike. Kanu suffered serious injuries in the accident and was rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.Kanu was the only son of his parents and had three sisters. He was running a fruit vend at fruit mandi on the Hambran road.Investigation officer ASI Gyan Singh said the driver of Breeza car was identified as Paras Goyal, a resident of Joshi Nagar, Haibowal. He was driving the car rashly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-killed-in-road-accident-245241
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||MP inspects  Civil Hospital||Lok Sabha MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Tuesday visited the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, and took stock of the isolation wards and beds.After holding a meeting with officials at the hospital, Bittu inspected isolation wards and all essential equipment being used for the treatment of Covid patients. The MP spoke with the medical staff and appreciated their dedication and hard work.He said private hospitals had already set up special isolation wards in their respective premises to contain the current unprecedented hike in Covid cases. He said there was no need to panic and the Punjab Government was better prepared to deal with the ongoing wave.He also asked the drug department to keep check over the alleged hoarding of oxygen and other essential drugs and said this would be dealt with sternly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mp-inspects-civil-hospital-245242
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||NHM staff seek regularisation, boycott Covid duty||Employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) today boycotted their Covid duties and staged a protest at the Civil Surgeon’s office against the “anti-employee” policies of the government.They said the authorities were paying no heed to their long-pending demand of regularisation. Employees boycotted their duties across the state.Surjeet Kaur, a protester, said 9,000 NHM employees were working on meager salaries for the past 25 years. “The employees have been working under the TB programme and leprosy department from the past several years and many will be retiring while still working on a contract basis,” she said.“Amid the pandemic, we came forward and performed out duty. Nearly 500 employees got infected while on duty and a few lost their lives too. However, the government is not acknowledging the work done by us and not regularising our jobs,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nhm-staff-seek-regularisation-boycott-covid-duty-245246
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Steel processing units for lockdown||Steel processing units, which were recently directed by the government not to use the oxygen cylinders in factory units, maintain that in view of the massive spike in Covid cases, the government should impose a complete lockdown.Talking to The Tribune, Badish Jindal, president, FOPSIA, said oxygen cylinders were largely being used in the steel processing units, which were approximately 300 in the city. “Not just that, wherever welding is done, oxygen cylinders are used,” said Jindal.“If the government has decided to take even the empty cylinders from the industries, it means there is an acute shortage of cylinders and the situation is bad. In this situation, lockdown remains the only option,” said Jindal. He said the economy could be stabilised later, but lives lost lives could not be compensated for. He said it was unfortunate that the state government had no data of exact requirement of oxygen cylinders.Narinder Bhamra, president, Fastener Manufacturers’ Association of India, said indirect lockdown had been imposed in the country. “We are being affected as raw material has stopped reaching us. Perhaps, higher-ups are waiting for the Bengal election results before imposing a complete lockdown, but by that time, the situation will be uglier. We do not mind if our units are hit, but at least human lives will be saved,” said Bhamra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/steel-processing-units-for-lockdown-245249
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Upgrade health infra under Smart City mission, minister urged||One of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited and chairman of the IIA Punjab chapter Sanjay Goel has written to the Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs to uplift the health infrastructure under the Smart City mission.“Keeping in mind the current scenario as well as last one-year happenings due to Covid-19, our upcoming Smart City SPVs/board must first work on smart health infrastructure in respective city as only smart health can produce smart citizens for upcoming smart cities,” Goel said.“Hospitals in a majority of our cities are short of beds and many of the hospitals are either old or infrastructure is weak. The government must construct at least one new hospital in every upcoming Smart City so that people can get health services easily,” he said.“Smart City only is of no use if it is not properly livable. Infrastructure is more important than external beauty. Healthcare is the backbone of urbanisation. The government must construct more health centres for a healthy life of its citizens. CEOs of Smart Cities must work more immediately towards the best health infrastructure. Under pan-city initiatives, more work must be started to uplift the hospital infrastructure under the Smart City mission,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/upgrade-health-infra-under-smart-city-mission-minister-urged-245251
28-04-2021||Ludhiana||Practice proning to improve oxygen level: Experts||As the district was battling the fast-ravaging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and witnessing unprecedented surge in virus cases and deaths, Sanjivani Group of experts in association with the district administration on Tuesday interacted with people to dispel misinformation surrounding contagion and throw light on helpline numbers, home isolation and other requisites to contain the further spread of the virus.What is proningDr Rajesh Mahajan, who was part of the panel that interacted with residents, said lying face down was known as proning. He said it was a medically accepted position to improve comfort and oxygenation.The experts emphasised proning at home for Covid patients with breathing discomfort which would help to improve oxygen levels and would also reduce load on administration in arranging the life-saving gas at hospitals.Moderated by renowned cardiologist Bishav Mohan, the expert group, comprising Dr Rajesh Mahajan and RTA Secretary Sandeep Singh Garha from the administration side for arrangements of Covid patients, took questions from residents.Dr Rajesh Mahajan said those Covid patients who have mild symptoms, do need CT scan after they have already undergone the RT-PCR test.He said they could take multivitamin, Vitamin C and paracetamol tablets during their quarantine period with strict monitoring of oxygen level, not below 95.He said people must continue to maintain wearing masks, social distancing and hand hygiene to break the transmission chain.Answering the query of Covid patients, Dr Mahajan told him to use face mask even at homes to curtail the spread and anybody who had recovered from Covid, must wait for four weeks for getting the jab.Dr Mahajan also spoke about proning to improve oxygen levels to above 95.Dr Rajesh Mahajan added that lying face down was known as proning, which was a medically accepted position to improve comfort and oxygenation.He said if the oxygen level drops below 94, a patient in home isolation must lie on their belly as the position improves ventilation.The experts said home isolation patients must practice proning by learning the correct way from their doctors.Meanwhile, the RTA secretary said the administration was adopting an effective mechanism for home isolated patients.Sandeep Singh Garha said the department’s staff call them daily to inquire about their health status, including oxygen levels, fever, cough or other symptoms, so that if anybody develops serious issues, they could be shifted to nearbyhealth centres.He said people could reach the administration on helpline numbers — for beds (6284912553), oxygen (7837018500 and 0161-2421091), (9814718704) and (6284531852) for any kind of psychological help for Covid patients and the state health helpline 104.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/practice-proning-to-improve-oxygen-level-experts-245253
