29-04-2021||---||15 more succumb to virus, toll 1,337||Ludhiana, April 28Covid-19 claimed lives of 15 more persons in the district today. The Health Department has confirmed 1,052 fresh cases — 952 from Ludhiana and 100 from other districts or states.Those who died of virus in Ludhiana district are 57-year-old woman from Dugri, 77-year-old man from Shivaji Nagar, 50-year-old woman from Meharban, 77-year-old man from Nehru Nagar, 47-year-old woman from Sukhdev Avenue, 63-year-old woman from Ajit Nagar, 81-year-old woman from the Golf Link area, 64-year-old man from Subash Nagar, 49-year-old man from Vikas Nagar, 71-year-old man from Heran village, 62-year-old woman from Shimlapuri, 69-year-old man from Tajpur Road, 76-year-old man from Sundar Nagar, 79-year-old man from Rara Sahib and 33-year-old woman from Khanna.Besides, the Health Department confirmed death of three more patients — two from Jalandhar district and one from Sri Muktsar Sahib district.Out of 952 fresh cases from Ludhiana, 83 persons came in contact of positive patients, 105 visited OPD, 488 with influenza-like illness visited Flu Corner, while 243 are yet to be traced. Those who tested positive for the virus today include 10 healthcare workers, 13 undertrials, traveller, cop and six persons with severe acute respiratory infection.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said there were 7,853 active cases in the district. He said 43,254 patients had recovered till date.There are 30 patients — 15 from Ludhiana district and 15 from other districts or states — on ventilator support on Wednesday.A total of 8,152 samples were collected for Covid-19 testing. Now, the total number of confirmed cases belonging to Ludhiana is 52,444, while 7,690 patients belong to other districts/states. A total of 1,337 persons from Ludhiana and 682 from other districts have lost their lives due to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/15-more-succumb-to-virus-toll-1-337-245791
29-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district falls under Centre’s criteria for imposing additional restrictions||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 28Ludhiana continues to get ravaged by the current onslaught of the devastating second Covid wave and falls under the Centre’s criteria for imposing additional restrictions to contain the further loss caused by the deadly virus.Showing over 10 per cent positivity rate in the last one week and more than 60 per cent bed occupancy on oxygen and ICU support, Ludhiana was identified among 13 districts in the state that meet the Union Government’s criteria for stricter enforcement of Covid norms.Taking a serious note of the unprecedented and unabated surge in the virus spread, the Centre had on April 25 advised the states to impose complete 14-day lockdown in the districts and municipal areas reporting over 10 per cent positivity rate and 60 per cent occupancy of oxygen and ICU beds in the hospitals.In a presentation on current Covid situation in the state before Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday, a copy of which is with The Tribune, the Health and Family Welfare Department has listed Mohali, Mansa, Muktsar, Bathinda, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Faridkot, Amritsar, Patiala, Barnala, and Hoshiarpur, besides Ludhiana as the worst-hitdistricts that meet the Centre’s criteria of imposing stricter restrictions.“The Chief Minister has been apprised of the situation with facts and figures. Any decision on imposing stricter restrictions as per the Centre’s advice has to be taken at the highest-level,” a top government functionary told The Tribune.Besides advising complete 14-day lockdown, the Centre had sought appointment of nodal officers to identify local containment areas based on reported cases, imposition of night curfew, restrictions on gatherings and closure of all shopping complexes, exempting those dealing with essential and emergency services in such areas.The Centre’s advisory further sought to run public transport at 50 per cent capacity, all government and private offices at 50 per cent occupancy, allow all industrial and scientific establishments to remain open subject to following Covid protocol with their employees being RAT tested every weekand ensuring testing and surveillance, clinical management, vaccination and community engagement.The Union Government has recommended to put in place all these restrictions with complete enforcement for a period of 14 days before reviewing the situation for further course of action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-falls-under-centres-criteria-for-imposing-additional-restrictions-245792
29-04-2021||---||Stay indoors for 14 days to flatten Covid curve, DC tells residents||Ludhiana, April 28Maintaining that the present healthcare system has already stretched a lot due to the unprecedented rise in the Covid cases, especially Level-3 patients, in the district, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday evening urged the residents of the district to hibernate themselves for next 14 days, which would help in flattening the curve of the second Covid wave, which is turning more ferocious than the first one.Expressing serious concern over the devastating Covid second wave tearing throughout the country and hitting Ludhiana with more vengeance, Sharma said with the sudden surge in Level-3 patients, which require ventilator support, and heavy inflow of patients from other states, including Delhi NCR, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and other parts of Punjab, the district administration was supplying 3,600 oxygen cylinders daily to Ludhiana hospitals.“Since every system has its own limitations and if people continue to be negligent towards Covid protocols, this will further deteriorate the situation in Ludhiana and the district will turn Delhi and Mumbai, which are witnessing the worst crisis in the country,” the DC asserted.Admitting that the district was sitting on the edge and the situation was already serious here with up to 18 deaths daily for the past few days, Sharma said it was high time for people to abet the stress of healthcare and other frontline force by staying indoors for the next two weeks and adhering to Covid protocols.He said the district administration was already pulling out all stops and taking concrete steps for the availability of oxygen and beds as it was their responsibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stay-indoors-for-14-days-to-flatten-covid-curve-dc-tells-residents-245793
29-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Over 500 FIRs registered for violations in 2 weeks||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana April 28The Ludhiana police have registered over 500 FIRs for violations of Covid norms and night curfew in the past over two weeks. This include cases registered against prominent business houses and persons in the city.The latest example is a case against Bollywood actor Jimmy Sheirgill. The actor, along with his crew members, was shooting on the night of April 26 near Clock Tower here. When the police got information about the same, the Kotwali police reached the spot and stopped the shooting. A case was registered late on Tuesday night.Investigating officer SI Maninder Kaur said over 100 persons had gathered at the shooting venue and there were clear violations of the Covid and night curfew norms. The police had registered a case against Jimmy Shergill of Patiala, director Eeshwar Nivas of Mumbai, Akashdeep Singh of Ludhiana, Mandeep Singh of Zirakpur and other unknown persons under Section 3 of the Epidemic Act, Section 188 and 269 of the IPC.Sources said they were shooting for the web series ‘Your Honor’, a remake of an Israeli web show, at a private school without permission and in violation of Covid protocols.Earlier, the police also registered a case against famous Basant Ice-Cream parlour at Fountain Chowk. The parlour, which belongs to a Congress leader of the city, used to serve customers during night curfew. It was only after the Tribune carried a report regarding the violations, the police registered a case against it.A case was also registered against Sarabha Nagar-based restaurant ‘Just Baked’ which was found opened after 8 pm. The Dehlon police had registered a case against the owner and others of Ambrosia Green Palace near Kand canal where over 100 persons had gathered for some function.A case was also registered against Domino’s Pizza, Kipp’s Market, Param Wines, Malik Wines etc.During this drive, the police had also found a Swimming pool opened at Golden Colony, Chuharpur, during lockdown and it’s owner Hardial Chand of Jassian was booked by the police. Other important outlets that faced FIRs include Friends Chicken, BRS Nagar; Spa Centre at Imperial Hotel, BRS Nagar; Panj Tara Theka on the Pakhowal road; Mani RamBalwant Rai Karyana Store, Session chowk; King Marriage palace, Sundar Nagar; Orchid Flower Gallary, Pakhowal road; Rawat Ice-Cream at Model Town, German Bakery on the Pakhowal road.After the police started registering FIR against liquor vends for selling liquor during the curfew hours, now vendors keep their shutters closed during this period but to attend their customers, they have deployed their employees near the vend and whenever any client comes, employees take money and get them the liquor from a hole created in the shutter. At most vends, they close the shutter but remain inside to attend customers. The vends have also started selling liquor at high prices due to the strictness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-500-firs-registered-for-violations-in-2-weeks-245794
29-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||89% city area sans storm water drainage system||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 28Whenever it rains, even for a short period, waterlogging is witnessed in various parts of the city. The storm water drainage system is unavailable in around 89 per cent area of the city, as per the information. Besides, no concrete steps have been taken to promote the rainwater harvesting system.The MC had earlier planned to install the storm water drainage system but the project could not see the light of day due to the lack of required funds, as per the sources. In several low-lying areas, the rainwater flows into houses, shops and other buildings when it rains heavily.During the rainy season every year, waterlogging is generally witnessed at Transport Nagar, Gill Road, Hambran Road, Damoria Bridge, Rani Jhansi Road, Chaura Bazar area, Dholewal Chowk, near Clock Tower and many more areas. Even, waterlogging was witnessed many times outside the MC headquarters in the past.On rainy days, the sewers often start overflowing near Police Colony Chowk on the main Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana, Panj Peer Road, Ludhiana, and some other areas. The vehicles are commonly stuck on waterlogged roads.Advocate Prabhjot Singh said, “Flyovers and a lot of buildings have been constructed in the city but the drainage system is yet to be improved. The problems related to waterlogging have increased in recent years. Even after a short spell of rain, water starts accumulating in the streets. The authorities must take the necessary steps to resolve the problem. The drainage system must be improved. The road gullies and existing sewers should be timely cleaned.”Residents also complain that the road gullies in many areas generally remain choked as these are not timely cleaned. The residents of several areas also complained that the existing sewer system in the city often gets choked during rain. Even, in some of the areas where the old storm system is available, it is not functioning properly.Jaswinder Singh, a former superintending engineer of the Department of Punjab Water Supply and Sanitation, said, “The MC should make a proper plan for the installation of the storm water drainage system in all the areas to deal with the waterlogging problem. If a storm water drainage system is installed, it will help to sort out the problem of waterlogging. Besides, the MC should take the required steps for promoting the rainwater harvesting system. A rainwater harvesting system should be installed at all government buildings. The people should be encouraged to get the rainwater harvesting system installed in their buildings.”At present, the MC has planned to install a storm water drainage system at only a few locations. The MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said, “A project to install storm water drainage system near Clock Tower will be started soon. This project will be done with MC funds.”“We are waiting for the approval for the installation of a storm water drainage system to deal with the waterlogging problem on Chandigarh Road. The NHAI will provide funds for this project. After getting required approval, the tenders will be floated for the same,” he said.The officials claim the drive is already under way for cleaning of road gullies and sewers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/89-city-area-sans-storm-water-drainage-system-245795
29-04-2021||Ludhiana||Man nabbed for sexual  harassment||The Koom Kalan police nabbed a man on the charge of harassing a married woman by seeking sexual favours from her. The accused has been identified as Gurdeep Singh of Upplan village. The complainant told the police that the accused was her husband’s friend and he used to visit their house regularly. Whenever he comes, he asks her for friendship and sexual favours. “Since I refused the same, he threatened to defame me. He put up posters stating negative comments about me to tarnish my image,” the complainant said. ASI Dilbag  Rai said after registration of a case, the accused was arrested. In another case, the Sadar police registered a case of sexual harassment against Iqbal Singh of Mohi village. She told the police that the accused was his husband’s friend and he used to make sexual advances towards her. “One day, he took me and my husband to Omaxe flats on the Pakhowal road on the pretext of seeing a doctor and when we reached the spot, the accused offered some sedative-laced drink to my husband. He fell unconscious after drinking the same. Then the accused started touching me inappropriately,” the woman alleged. She said she managed to escape from the spot and raise an alarm. After which, the accused fled the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-nabbed-for-sexual-harassment-245796
29-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj ---||Family dispute: ASI fires at brother||Tribune News Service Ludhiana April 28 An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) deployed at the PAU police station fired at his brother Vijay Kumar, also an ASI, today. Vijay is deployed in the police force engaged by the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation. Vijay suffered a bullet injury in his stomach. The accused reportedly fired at his brother from his official weapon. As per the information, Vijay along with the police force and a team of the Municipal Corporation had gone to demolish some illegal structure at Gopal Nagar in Haibowal. When the team was about to start demolition, victim’s brother ASI Janak Raj also reached the spot and entered into arguments with him. In no time the situation took an ugly turn and Janak Raj took out his official weapon and fired at his brother from a close range. Sources said the accused also fired one shot into the air. The Haibowal SHO, Neeraj Chaudhary, said an old family dispute between brothers was cited to be the reason behind incident. Asked if demolition could be the reason behind incident, the SHO added that so far it was family dispute. The exact cause would be known once the accused ASI was arrested, the SHO said. After the incident, Vijay was taken to a hospital in a private car. Senior cops, led by JCP Deepak Pareek, ADCP Sameer Verma, ACP Gurpreet Singh and Haibowal SHO Neeraj Chaudhary, reached the spot after the incident. The accused ASI fled the spot after committing the crime. At present, the injured ASI is undergoing treatment at DMC Hospital and is stated to be out of danger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/family-dispute-asi-fires-at-brother-245797
29-04-2021||Ludhiana||Covid victims’ last rites: MP meets MC chief||Local MP Ravneet Singh Bittu today held a meeting with Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal to discuss the issue of last rites of Covid vicitms. The MP said due to the rise in the number of deaths over the past few days, the administration had already issued orders that the last rites can take place at any cremation ground in the city. A control room had also been set up at the Civil Hospital, here, to help families in the last rites of patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-victims-last-rites-mp-meets-mc-chief-245798
29-04-2021||---||Encroachments along Buddha Nullah removed||Ludhiana, April 28In a demolition drive conducted by the Municipal Corporation (MC) along the Buddha Nullah, near Pavitar Nagar Bridge at Haibowal in the Zone D area today, 19 encroachments were removed.Officials of the building branch of all the four zones of the MC were present during the demolition drive. ATP Mohan Singh said some persons had encroached on the Buddha Nullah land.The police deployed with the MC was present during the drive while encroachments were removed with the JCB machine. As per the information violators had constructed sheds and toilets on the encroached land.Meanwhile, residents complained that the MC demolished structures of the poor people, but no action was taken against violators, who were influential and had political support.Earlier, the MC demolished slums on the encroached Buddha Nullah land. Some residents questioned, “Why action is taken against constructions belonging to the poor and influential persons are always spared?”A project for the rejuvenation of the Buddha Nullah is under way. Sewer pipes are to be laid along banks of the Buddha Nullah under the project. Besides, the MC has to instal fencing along Buddha Nullah. The MC has already identified 965 encroachments along the Buddha Nullah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/encroachments-along-buddha-nullah-removed-245799
29-04-2021||---||Collect details of empty oxygen cylinders with industry: DC to PPCB||Ludhiana, April 28In the wake of increased demand for medical oxygen for the treatment of serious Covid patients, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today deputed the Punjab Pollution Control Board Superintending Engineer to collect details of empty cylinders with the industry in Ludhiana.The DC stated that being the industrial capital of the state, most industries/factories use oxygen cylinders on their premises. “The PPCB Superintending Engineer will compile a report about the number of empty cylinders in possession of industries/factories at the earliest. The report will be submitted to the ADC (General) at the earliest so that the administration can immediately contact the industries/factories in case of need,” Sharma added.Earlier on Monday, the DC had urged all industries/factories to make available empty or filled oxygen cylinders to plants as the same was required for filling oxygen gas so that they could be provided to hospitals. He had also issued a warning that violators of the above order would face action under the NDMA Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/collect-details-of-empty-oxygen-cylinders-with-industry-dc-to-ppcb-245800
29-04-2021||---||MC shifts 30 head of stray cattle to gaushala||Ludhiana, April 28 The Municipal Corporation has launched a drive to shift the stray cattle from roads to gaushalas. The MC’s Veterinary Services in-charge Dr Harbans Dhalla informed that around 30 stray cattle were shifted from city roads to a gaushala in two days. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, councillor Mamta Ashu and members of gaushalas management committees were present when the drive was launched. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said every effort would be made to control the menace of stray animals in Ludhiana city. Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal appreciated the efforts made by the veterinary services. Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana said three animal catchers were invited from the Animal Husbandry Department, Patiala, to help MC workers. The Mayor, Commissioner and officials conducted a meeting with members of the management committees of various gaushalas on Tuesday. The MC Commissioner, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, conducted a discussion with the members of these committees, while Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu told them that cow cess fund could be used for the construction of new cow sheds, if required, said a MC official. The MC’s Senior Veterinary Officer Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla said the Punjab Government had approved more than Rs 99 lakh for the construction of three new sheds but it needed approval from the MC House. He said 84 head of stray cattle were sent to Burj Powat shed by the MC and more would be sent soon. Vinay Singhal, president of the Krishan Balram gaushala, asked the corporation to send 100 head of cattle to his gaushala at Dulhon village and offered one truck for the lifting of stray animals. Mayor appreciated and thanked the Shri ji Gau Sewa Society for treating sick animals for free and the manager from Gobind Gaudham for offering to take 250 more head of cattle, sending trucks for catching animals and offering meals to workers. Swati Tiwana, Joint Commissioner, directed the officials to inform the gaushala management committee one day in advance before shifting the stray cattle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-shifts-30-head-of-stray-cattle-to-gaushala-245801
29-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||204 bottles of illicit liquor recovered||Sahnewal, April 28 The Koom Kalan police have recovered 204 bottles of illicit liquor from a resident of Raipur Bet village. The suspect was selling illicit liquor on the link road leading towards Pirthipur.  The suspect has been identified as Aftab Hussain. A police party of Koom Kalan received tip-off that Hussain was into the trade of selling illicit liquor on the link road leading towards Pirthipur. The police party reached the spot and caught the suspect selling illicit liquor.  The police party arrested the suspect and recovered 204 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against the suspect at the Koom Kalan police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/204-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-recovered-245802
29-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Seven huts gutted near Rasulpur village||Mandi Ahmedgarh, April 28At least seven thatched huts in a slum situated on the outskirts of Rasulpur village, near here, were gutted in an accidental fire caused due to electric sparking in an overhead high tension wire in the evening today. The fire spread in the slum due to wind.Three motorcycles, 50 poultry birds and household goods belonging to several families were burnt in the incident. A horse and a buffalo suffered serious burn injuries according to victim families.Although the fire was not completely doused at the time of filing this report, villagers and firemen managed to prevent it from spreading to nearby houses situated on the outskirts of Raslupur village. No casualty has been reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-huts-gutted-near-rasulpur-village-245803
29-04-2021||Our Correspondent||No temporary power connections for illegal colonies, orders PSPCL||Ludhiana, April 28It is now official that no temporary electricity connections will be provided to unlicensed or illegal colonies — either in the name of developers or residents — for domestic or commercial purposes.In a development which could have far-reaching ramifications on mushrooming of unlicensed and illegal colonies in the state, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has now laid down that temporary electricity connections to the colonies would be issued in the name of developers only after production of ‘no objection certificate’ (NOC) from the licensing authority concerned and deposit of bank guarantee (BG) as specified in the Electricity Code-2014.Citing directions issued by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC), the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Commercial has instructed field officials recently that with regard to colonies where temporary connections have already been released without NOC, fresh notices to such developers be issued forthwith to submit requisite documents along with bank guarantee for obtaining the NOC from the licensing authority within 90 days from the date of issue of notice, failing which the temporary supply may be discontinued till the compliance by the developer.The PSPCL has also asked the deputy chief engineers (DCEs) and superintendent engineers (SEs) concerned to obtain list of colonies to whom licenses have been issued for development of the colony from the area development authorities or offices of Regional Deputy Directors, Local Government, so that wherever temporary electricity connections have already been issued to developers without obtaining NOC and notices could be issued to such developers to obtain the NOC within the time stipulated in the licence, failing which the licensing authority should be informed with the request to proceed against the developer as per provisions of the licence.Instructing field offices should maintain a strict vigil against any misuse of temporary connections given to colonies for construction purposes only. It has been stated that such supply should not be allowed to be extended to the premises of residents/ allottees.“At the same time, the field official concerned should also have to give a certificate in the meter sealing register (MSR) that the supply from the said temporary connection was not being extended by the developer for any premises in the colony or for public purpose such as street light, water supply or sewage treatment plant (STP). Any misuse detected will be reported by officials to the competent authority,” the memo says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-temporary-power-connections-for-illegal-colonies-orders-pspcl-245804
29-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Railways starts special train between Prayagraj, Udhampur||Ludhiana, April 28The Northern Railway has announced a special biweekly train (04131/32) between Prayagraj and Udhampur. The train commenced its commercial run from Prayagraj on April 27 and return journey from Udhampur today.The 04131 train will leave Prayagraj on every Tuesday and Saturday at 4 pm and reach Udhampur at 12.45 pm the next day. The 04132 train will depart from Udhampur on every Wednesday and Sunday at 3.40 pm and reach Prayagraj at 1 pm the next day. The train will remain operational till July 31. Both trains will have a 10-minute stoppage at Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/railways-starts-special-train-between-prayagraj-udhampur-245805
29-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Man held with poppy husk||Sahnewal, April 28 The Koom Kalan police recovered 2 kg of poppy husk from a resident of Chandran village yesterday. The suspect was carrying poppy in a bag while travelling from Katani Kalan towards Bhaini Sahib. A case has been registered against the suspect at the Koom Kalan police station. Investigating officer Ashok Kumar said Sub-Inspector Dilbag Rai, who was coming from Katani Kalan towards Bhaini Sahib, noticed a man carrying a white polythene bag, which contained something suspicious. On investigation, the suspect was identified as Raju Ram, a resident of Chandran village. The suspect was arrested on the spot and 2 kg of poppy husk recovered from him.  A case under the NDPS Act was registered against the suspect at the Koom Kalan police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-with-poppy-husk-245806
29-04-2021||---||Forum chief seeks free Covid treatment for factory workers||Ludhiana, April 28 The president of the All Industries Trade Forum has written to the Centre asking it to treat factory workers infected with Covid-19 for free. Badish Jindal, in the letter, said vaccination was pertinent to protect people from this pandemic. “Many states are sponsoring these vaccinations from state funds. We also request that hospital and medical bills of unorganised workers be covered under this scheme.” Jindal added that the purpose of the ESI scheme was to protect the health of factory workers. “The ESIC Corporation has a surplus of Rs 65,808 crore in their kitty. This surplus is increasing every year from Rs 8,000 crore to Rs 10,000 crore. Even during the fiscal 2020-21, the proposed income of the ESIC was Rs 9,264 crores,” Jindal added. “Although workers of the unorganised sector are not covered under the ESIC scheme due to the format of the scheme, they have contributed to the working of the organised sector. The benefit of exemption to small and unorganised workers should not be a reason to remove health cover of workers,” Jindal said. Looking at the pandemic, rules should be relaxed and employees should be allowed to get cashless benefits directly from any empanelled or non-empanelled hospital, said the president of the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/forum-chief-seeks-free-covid-treatment-for-factory-workers-245807
