30-04-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district's average daily cases touch new high, maximum in state||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 29Continuing with the exponential rise being witnessed for the past over a month, Ludhiana district’s average daily positive cases touched a new high and reached 934, highest in the state, during the past week.The latest count recorded between April 20 and 26 has mounted from 717 between April 15 and 21 and 341 between March 10 and April 13.The unprecedented rise in the daily fresh cases, which has been setting new record with each passing day, has made the district most vulnerable with highest caseload in the state.According to the district-wise data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Ludhiana has beaten Mohali, which till April 21 remained the worst-hit district with maximum infections per day. In the past week, Mohali reported 821 average daily cases.Among other districts, Jalandhar reported 516 cases, Bathinda 484, Patiala 470, Amritsar 459, Gurdaspur 217, Mansa 216, Hoshiarpur 211, Muktsar 185, Pathankot 175, Fazilka 157, Sangrur 151, Faridkot 130, Ferozepur and Kapurthala 124 each, Ropar 115, Tarn Taran 110, Moga 83, Nawanshahr 58, Barnala 54 and Fatehgarh Sahib remained the safest district with the minimum number of 51 average daily cases in the last week. The state recorded 5,845 average positive cases per day during this period.However, Ludhiana’s average positivity rate, which is a key indicator of virus surge, came down from 11.5 per cent between April 15 and 21 to 10 per cent between April 20 and 26, which was even lower than the state average of 10.7 per cent during this period.With this, the district’s ranking improved from sixth between April 15 and 21 to twelfth between April 20 and 26.Mohali continued to report the highest positivity rate of 20 per cent in the state, followed by Mansa 19 per cent and Muktsar 17.7 per cent.Among other districts, Bathinda recorded 17.3 per cent average positivity rate, Fazilka 16.3, Ferozepur 16.2, Moga 14.1, Faridkot 11, Amritsar 10.3, Patiala and Barnala 10.2 each, Pathankot 9.6, Ropar 9.2, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar 8.8 each, Sangrur 7.4, Kapurthala 6.9, Tarn Taran 6.6, Gurdaspur 5.7, Fatehgarh Sahib 4.5, and Nawanshahr remained the least affected district with lowest 4.3 per cent positivity rate in the last week.The month-wise compilation of the state’s average positive cases per day and positivity rate since June last showed that the monthly positive cases shot up from 111 with 1.6 per cent positivity rate in June 2020 to the highest-ever 4,011 cases and 10.1 per cent positivity rate this month so far.Earlier, March reported 1,897 cases with 6.3 per cent positivity rate, February 317 at 1.7 per cent, January 218 at 1.2 per cent, December last 460 at 2 per cent, November 617 at 3.2 per cent, October 625 at 2.5 per cent, September 2,003 at 7.7 per cent, August 1,220 at 7.7 per cent, and July last had witnessed 355 infections at the positivity rate of 4 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-districts-average-daily-cases-touch-new-high-maximum-in-state-246243
30-04-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA Bains’ PSO dies in accidental firing||Ludhiana, April 29Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police Sewa Singh (45), personal security officer (PSO) of Atam Nagar MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, died in an accidental firing from his service revolver at his residence in the Shimlapuri area this morning.According to family members of the deceased police officer, he was cleaning his weapon before leaving for his duty at the residence of Bains when the loaded revolver went off hitting the ASI in the head. Sewa Singh was rushed to the CMC Hospital, where he succumbed to the bullet injury.The police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC (death by accident) on the basis of statements of the family members of the deceased.Bains has expressed his heart-felt condolences on the accidental death of his PSO Sewa Singh and has assured the family of the deceased of all possible assistance.He described his former PSO as a fine human being and a committed police official who always believed in performing his duty diligently. He prayed for eternal peace to the departed soul and courage to his family to bear this irreparable loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mla-bains-pso-dies-in-accidental-firing-246244
30-04-2021||---||18 dead; 1,350 positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, April 29As many as 1,350 persons tested positive for Covid, while 18 lost their lives to the virus today. In 2020 also the highest single day death toll was 18 on August 31.Positive cases in the district have reached 53,794, while 1,355 persons have lost their lives till now. Presently there are 8,012 active patients in the district.Total 39 patients — 20 from Ludhiana and 19 from outside the district — were on ventilator support today.Now, Ludhiana district has two containment zones and eight micro containment zones. Two containment zones are Urban Estate, Phase I and Phase II, Dugri. In Phase I a total of 210 positive cases have been detected, while in Phase II, 228 cases have been detected so far.Micro containment zones include Gali Number 18, Durgapuri, 2250, Haibowal, Akalgarh village, Church Road, Vivekanand Old Age Home, Model Town, 73 A, Rajguru Nagar, Geeta Mata Mandir, Tharkee, 407, Basant Avenue, and 32, Maya Nagar College Road.Twelve woman and six men, belonging to Doraha, Focal Point, New Aman Nagar, Jeewan Nagar, Gagan Nagar, Shashi Mohalla, Kohara Chowk, South City, Model Town, Indira Colony, Chandigarh Road, Shimlapuri, Rishi Nagar, Durga Colony, Civil Lines, Surjit Colony and Kabir Basti, lost their lives today.In Ludhiana district, 28,888 Covid patients, who were kept under home isolation, have recovered from the infection and 5,905 active patients are under home isolation.Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said mild symptomatic and asymptomatic patients need not be admitted to hospitals and choose the option for home isolation at the time of testing. He said so far 34,882 patients were advised home isolation, of which 83 per cent have recovered effectively and 89 patients were referred to institutional observation till date.Today 10,563 persons were vaccinated in the district.Meanwhile, Shreyans Industries Limited came forward to provide assistance to the overburdened health sector. As part of their corporate social responsibility the company contributed Rs 25 lakh to DMC Hospital, Mohan Dai Oswal Charitable Hospital and Manas Foundation for treating the poor and needy patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/18-dead-1-350-positive-in-ludhiana-district-246245
30-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||LIT offers 18 residential plots, 29 commercial sites for sale||Ludhiana, April 29The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has offered for sale through e-auction 18 residential plots of varying sizes, 10 shop-cum-offices (SCFs), 15 booths and four special purpose shops in its various schemes.The e-auction of the properties will be held on May 13 from 9 am to 3 pm, while the registration for bidders will remain open from 10 am on April 29 till 5 pm on May 10.Intending bidders will have to deposit eligibility fee of 2 per cent of the reserve price or Rs 3 lakh, whichever is higher for SCFs and booths, and Rs 50,000 for residential plots.As per the offer document, seven SCFs and one corner SCF, each measuring 181.5 sq yds in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar have been put on the block with a reserve price tag of Rs 1,69,90,000, two SCF sites with area of 156.40 sq yds each will be sold in Maharishi Valmiki Nagar with a floor price of Rs 69,31,600 each, while 15 built-up booths will be available for sale with area of 23.44/22.68 sq yds each in Maharishi Valmiki Nagar. The booths carry a reserve price of Rs 12,73,625 and Rs 12,38,390, respectively.In addition, four special purpose shops, reserved for coal depot, printing press, atta chakki and bakery, with an area of 68.04 sq yds each in Maharishi Valmiki Nagar will be put under the hammer at a reserve price of Rs 26,65,670.Among 18 residential plots in the lot, 13 plots are in Kitchlu Nagar with size varying between 100 and 500 sq yds each, two in Model Town Extension (197.90 and 500 sq yds), one each in Rajguru Nagar (250 sq yds), Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar (100 sq yds) and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (493.75 sq yds).These residential plots carry a reserve price ranging between Rs 27,940 and Rs 56,200 per sq yd depending upon prevailing prices in the respective colonies and location of the plots.2% eligibility fee have to be depositedIntending bidders will have to deposit eligibility fee of 2 per cent of the reserve price or Rs 3 lakh, whichever is higher, for SCFs and booths, and Rs 50,000 for residential plots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lit-offers-18-residential-plots-29-commercial-sites-for-sale-246246
30-04-2021||Ludhiana||20-yr-old woman commits suicide||A 20-year-old woman, Reshu Singh, a resident of Bhojpur village of Balrampur district in UP, at present residing at New Mata Bhagpur Colony, here, in a live-in relationship with Chand Babu, committed suicide by hanging herself in her room on April 26.In a complaint lodged with the police, father of the deceased Baby Singh said the paramour of his daughter had gone to his native village in UP for the past 15-20 days. He was not returning to the city and making excuses about the same.He said frustrated due to his behaviour, his daughter took the extreme step. The police booked the accused under Section 306, IPC.In another incident, Ravinder Kaur (32), a resident of Mohalla Begoana, near Dehlon, attempted suicide by setting herself afire. She was rushed to a local hospital where she was undergoing treatment. In her statement, the woman said she was married to Ajinderpal Singh of Mohalla Begoana. Since her marriage she was being harassed for bringing more dowry. A a case has been registered against him. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-yr-old-woman-commits-suicide-246247
30-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Green belts, parks cry for maintenance||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 29The grass and flowers are missing but litter is seen everywhere in a green belt near Cheema Chowk here. A pool with a defunct fountain is in a dilapidated condition, while some statues have broken down in the green belt. A compost pit is becoming a source for the collection of solid waste. Moreover, construction waste has also been dumped at this greenbelt. Residents said the green belt was being ignored for years.Similarly, the green belts near Partap Chowk, Gill Chowk, Sherpur Chowk, Dholewal Chowk and other areas of the industrial city have been crying for attention for a long time. The industrial ash and waste are also dumped in many parks or green belts in the Focal Point areas. A park near Metro Tyres remains flooded with industrial waste for the past several years but MC has failed to take any action. Besides, a number of the parks in the Ludhiana East and some other constituencies are yet to be developed.There are 870 parks (mostly located in Zone D) and 52 green belts in the city. Park management committees look after around 580 parks in the city. In the areas under the MC’s Zone D, many of the parks and green belts are well maintained by the park management committees or MC itself. But, a number of parks and green belts in other zones are yet to be developed.A resident of Tajpur Road, Surinder Singh, said a park near Tajpur Road was in a shambles but the department concerned had failed to maintain it. “The pollution level remains high in our area due to nearby industries. Thus, there is a need to increase the green cover in this area. Besides, there are several other parks which are yet to be developed. The department concerned should deploy gardeners to look after the parks. More trees and plants should be planted,” he said.Gurpreet Gogi, Chairman of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), said, “The MC is responsible for developing the parks in the Focal Point area but it has done nothing to develop these parks. The authorities should take immediate steps to increase the green cover and maintain the parks.”The MC’s horticulture wing is facing staff shortage. An MC employee said, “Once around 640 employees, including gardeners/beldars, used to look after the parks and green belts in the city but there are only 80 gardeners available to look after the city parks. Besides, some of the horticulture wing employees have been deployed in other branches.There is a need to recruit more gardeners for the development of the parks and green belts in the city.”MC fails to remove encroachmentsThe MC has failed to remove encroachments from several parks and green belts in the city. A few residents also moved the National Green Tribunal against these encroachments a month ago. These residents have also opposed the MC’s plan to set up a waste compactor at Bhai Chattar Singh Park.They had alleged that encroachments had come up in a number of parks and green belts in the Cheema Chowk circle, Basant Park circle, New Model Town circle, Focal Point circle, Dr Ambedkar Chowk, Jalandhar Bypass, Atam Park, Dugri, circle, Guru Nanak and Out Park Circle, BRS Nagar, etc.Parminder Singh Soma, a former councillor, said, “The green belts are also being misused by some firms on the Dholewal-Sherpur Chowk road. Encroachments should be removed from the green belts and parks. The MC should focus on the plantation in the green belts and parks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/green-belts-parks-cry-for-maintenance-246248
30-04-2021||Lovleen Bains||NGO comes to aid of Covid victims’ kin||Doraha, April 29Moved by reports of bodies of two Covid patients being ferried on a cart and an auto-rickshaw in the city for their last rites, an NGO, ‘We do not accept money or things’, has come forward by arranging an ambulance which will be parked at the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, to ferry bodies of Covid victims to cremation ground or cemetery.Anmol Kwatra and his team who have taken the initiative said: “We have arranged the vehicle which will be used only for the transportation of bodies from the hospital to the cremation ground. Humanity has been ashamed by the manner in which the bodies of the Covid patients were taken in a cart and an auto-rickshaw. It’s a complete failure of the system due to which such things happened.”“Now, I feel, we should stand up for this cause. The manner in which the bodies were being ferried, and that too of Covid patients, is really horrifying. Nothing can be more humiliating for a deceased person who fails to get a dignified adieu from his family and relatives,” Anmol said.“Many people are dying due to the virus every day. Hence, we let the ambulance stand at the Civil Hospital so that kin of Covid vicitms respectably take the bodies to cremation ground or cemetery,” members of the team said.“Earlier, we were using the ambulance to provide help to pregnant ladies and accident victims and make them reach the hospital as early as possible. We have already transported six bodies since yesterday after the ambulance was parked at the hospital. Ambulance driver Raj Kumar Pappu carries the bodies to the specified spot,” they said.Member, National Road Safety Council, Kamaljit Soi, said: “Videos depicting how bodies of Covid patients are being handed over to relatives in inhumane conditions are too disturbing. It has been learnt that a panel has been formed to look into the matter so that that hospitals should follow guidelines regarding the handing over of Covid patients’ bodies to their relatives. We hope that the panel keeps a strict vigil on hospitals in the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngo-comes-to-aid-of-covid-victims-kin-246249
30-04-2021||---||Last date to apply for admission to NIIFT is May 28||Ludhiana, April 29 The last date of submission of online applications for admission to various courses at Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT) is now May 28. All interested candidates can download the prospectus from the official website www.niiftindia.com. They can also apply online at http://applyadmission.net/NIIFTMOHALI2021. The institute is offering courses at its three centres in Mohali, Ludhiana and Jalandhar. More information is available on its official website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/last-date-to-apply-for-admission-to-niift-is-may-28-246250
30-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Crackdown on violation of lockdown continues in city||Ludhiana, April 29The city police continued their crackdown on violation of lockdown restrictions.As many as 13 offenders were arrested, while nine others were booked in 19 cases in different parts of the city today. Most of the violators include shopkeepers, fast-food vendors, karyana dealers and liquor shops found open after 5 pm.According to the police, among those arrested for violating prohibitory orders are three egg vendors from near gurdwara in Talwandi village, two vegetable sellers from Millerganj and Sewak Nagar, manager of a dinking place near Dholweal Chowk, a dairy owner from near Rehru Sahib gurdwara, a fish vendor from Dhuri Line, a karyana dealer in Jujhar Nagar and a hair salon owner from Rahon Road.The police also nabbed a driver of Tata Canter vehicle from Ladhowal on Main GT Road for violating restrictions imposed on commercial vehicles to carry passengers and overloading. He was coming from the Phillaur side carrying 45 passengers.Besides, a person was arrested from Prabhat Nagar for filling small LPG cylinders, which is in violation of lockdown orders. He was booked under sections 188 and 420 of the IPC and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act.Five cases under Section 188 of the IPC were also registered for violation of lockdown in Ghumar Mandi market on Wednesday evening against a department store owner, two garment shop owners, a sweet shop and a footwear store owner. However, no arrest was made in this regard.Among others booked for violation of the lockdown and evening curfew were a general store owner, a plastic dealer on Kalakh-Majri Road, a fast-food seller at Division no 3 Chowk and an owner of auto accessories shop in Dugri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/crackdown-on-violation-of-lockdown-continues-in-city-246251
30-04-2021||---||District admn issues SOPs for last rites of Covid patients||Ludhiana, April 29 After the incident of two bodies of the Covid patients being ferried in a cart and an auto-rickshaw for their last rites on Monday in Ludhiana, standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the management of bodies of Covid-19 victims were issued by the district administration here today. As per the SOPs, a Covid cremation management cell has been formed at Lord Mahavir Civil Hospital, here, which is functioning under the supervision of MC Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana and anyone can contact on the cremation cell’s helpline numbers 9501500101, 7719712797 and 9501500102 for ensuring that families of the deceased face no issues in performing the last rites. All hospitals having L-II and L-III facilities have been strictly ordered to ensure that whenever any Covid-19 patient succumbs, the body would be kept in the mortuary and hospital would immediately ring Dr Harveer on 98154 77868. None of the health facility would release the body in case of inadequate transportation arrangements for ferrying body to crematoriums or cemeteries. The hospitals can also contact at helpline numbers for mortuary van. Dr Harveer will inform the hospitals within one hour along with the allotted vehicle, crematorium/cemetery, timing of arrival of van. Further, in the crematorium/cemetery, Jasdev Sekhon (80542-00092) would ensure that teams going for the last rites will follow all safety protocols, including wearing of PPE kits, and the police would keep a vigil to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. Swati Tiwana said the district administration was having 10 mortuary vans, of which five had been arranged by the district administration and others by Samvedna, an NGO. In the coming week, more mortuary vans and ambulances would be roped in with the help of RTA Secreatry Sundeep Singh Garha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/district-admn-issues-sops-for-last-rites-of-covid-patients-246252
30-04-2021||Ludhiana||Book on life of ninth Sikh Guru||Lecture on battling CovidBCM School, Basant City, organised a virtual session with laproscopic surgeon Dr Vipan Goyal on World Day for Safety and Health at Work. Around 300 parents participated in the session. Dr Goyal told parents not to panic if someone in their family gets infected with Covid-19. Principal JP Singh also addressed the parents and advised them to take all precautions to keep the virus at bay. TNSStudents celebrate Itn’l Dance DayGreen Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, celebrated International Dance Day with great zeal and fervour. The day was chosen to commemorate the birth anniversary of Jean George’s Noverre, a French dancer. To hone the dancing skills of kindergartners, an inter-class competition was organised. TNSBVM, Kitchlu NagarBVM, Kitchlu Nagar, organised a talent show for its students to mark International Dance Day. Hundreds of students participated in solo dance competition on a virtual stage. Students showcased their skills through various dance forms, including semi-classical, folk and patriotic. TNSDCM Presidency SchoolStudents of DCM Presidency School celebrated International Dance day with zeal. The aim of the celebration was to inculcate interest of students in various dance forms. Teachers explained students the importance of the day through a PPT. Later, students and teachers enjoyed dancing to foot-tapping music virtually. TNSGreen Land Convent School, Sector 32To celebrate International Dance Day, Green Land Convent School, Sector-32, Chandigarh Road, organised an online solo dance competition for students of pre-nursery to Class V. Participants performed dance forms such as bhangra, hip-hop, classical and zumba. Teachers motivated students to take up dancing and told them that it was a great form of exercise. TNSBVM, Udham Singh NagarBVM, Udham Singh Nagar, organised dancing activities to celebrate International Dance Day. Enthusiastic performers of Class I to V showed their skills in folk dances while students of Class VI to VIII tapped their feet to the beats of patriotic songs. Dancers of Class IX and X enthralled the audience virtually with their semi-classical dance performances. Principal Ranju Mangal appreciated the efforts put in by students. TNSGreen Land Sr Sec Public SchoolGreen Land Senior Secondary Public School organised a virtual solo dance competition for pre-Nursery to Class V to mark International Dance Day. Performances ranging from folk dances to hip-hop, Bollywood, freestyle were praised by all. TNSCovid vaccination driveGMT Public School, Jalandhar bypass, organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp for its staff and parents on campus. Principal Jasbir Kaur Bal urged the attendees to motivate others to also get themselves vaccinated. She thanked the team of doctors for their services. TNSBirth anniversary of Guru Teg BahadurTo commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur Ji Guru Nanak International Public School, Model Town, have been holding year-long programmes. Students of Class I to VIII participated in a series of events from their homes. A Q&A round on the life of Guru Teg Bahadur was also organised. Besides, students composed poems and wrote sakhis on his life. Principal Gurmant Kaur Gill also shed light on the life of Guruji. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/book-on-life-of-ninth-sikh-guru-246254
30-04-2021||Ludhiana||36-yr-old Man dies in mishap||Two held with illicit liquorLudhiana: The police have nabbed Gurpreet Singh of Sunder Nagar, Mundian Kalan, while going on a Honda Activa scooter (bearing registration number PB 10HM 0779) for selling illicit liquor from near Hundal Chowk in Bhamian Kalan. Fortyeight bottles of Punjab country liquor were seized from the accused who has been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. Another person, Hoshiar Singh of Bonkar Gujjran village, was arrested from his house on the charge of selling smuggled liquor. In a raid, the police seized 36 bottles of First Choice whisky from him. In another incident, the police raided a hideout for storing liquor in the fields of Gagoo of Chaunta village on a tip-off. The police recovered 35 bottles of First Choice whisky. The accused managed to give the police the slip. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/36-yr-old-man-dies-in-mishap-246255
30-04-2021||Ludhiana||BCA Semester-III results||Kamla Lohtia SD CollegeStudents of Kamla Lohtia SD College brought laurels to the college scoring well in BCA Semester-III examinations. Sanwal Bhandari and Hanish Gupta secured first position in the college with 92.80 per cent. The second position was shared by Anmol and Karan Sharma with 90.67 per cent, followed by Gautam and Satpal with 89.87 per cent each. TNSDevki Devi Jain Memorial CollegeIn BCA Semester-III exams, Aprajita Kumari bagged first position in Devki Devi Jain Memorial College with 91 per cent, Shefali Sharma secured second with 90.75 per cent, followed by Jasmeen with 90.5 per cent. TNSArya CollegeIn BCA Semester-III exams, Kunal Nayyar bagged first position in Arya College by securing 98.93 per cent, followed by Harsh Singla with 96.53 per cent, Manjot Singh with 95.2 per cent. Meanwhile, the results of BBA Semester-III exams were also discussed today. Angad Vir Singh bagged first position in the college by securing 94.55 per cent. Honey Chaudhary and Deepak Kumar shared the second position with 89.82 per cent and Piyush Gupta came third with 88 per cent. TNSKCW, Sidhwan khurdIn BCA Semester-III exams, Harmanjot Kaur Gill stood first in KCW, Sidhwan Khurd, with 84.25 per cent, followed by Jaspreet Kaur with 79.75 per cent, Amritpal Kaur with 78.5 per cent. In BCA Semester-V examination results, Harpreet Kaur stood first by securing 92.25 per cent, Kamaljeet Kaur bagged the second position with 90 per cent and Bhavanpreet Kaur got third position with 89.25 per cent. TNSOnline essay-writing contestThe Department of Hindi of SDP College organised an online essay-writing competition on ‘The impact of Covid-19 on education’ and ‘Economic slowdown during nationwide lockdown’. A total of 45 students participated in the competition. TNSLecture on Guru Teg BahadurTo celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Civil Lines, organised a webinar on “Guru Teg Bahadur de Hukamname ”. Principal Dr Arvinder Singh Bhalla said the hukamnamas were a valuable source of the Sikh history. Speakers for the day were Dr Jasbir Singh Sabar, former head, Department of Guru Nanak Studies, Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Ludhiana; and Dr Anurag Singh, former director, Sikh Itihas Board, Shrimoni Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, Amritsar.TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bca-semester-iii-results-246256
