01-02-2022||New Delhi||Wife can’t become absolute owner of property Willed for her lifetime, if maintenance taken care: SC||A Hindu male, owning self-acquired property executing a Will giving a limited estate to his wife, would not mature into an absolute right, if all other aspects including maintenance are taken care of, the Supreme Court on Tuesday said.A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh decided in the second round of litigation the ownership rights accrued half a century after testamentary disposition by a Will dated April 15, 1968, by one Haryana resident Tulsi Ram, who passed away on November 17, 1969.“In our view, the objective of sub-Section (2) is quite clear as enunciated repeatedly by this Court in various judicial pronouncements, i.e., there cannot be a fetter in an owner of a property to give a limited estate if he so chooses to do including to his wife but of course, if the limited estate is to the wife for her maintenance that would mature in an absolute estate under Section 14(1) of the said (Hindu Succession) Act”, the bench said, while setting aside the order of High Court.It added that “sub-section (2) of Section 14 of the Hindu Succession Act would apply and this does inter alia apply to a Will, which may create an independent and new title in favour of females for the first time and is not a recognition of a pre-existing right”.The top court said in such cases of a restricted estate in favour of a female is legally permissible and Section 14(1) of the Hindu Succession Act will not operate in that sphere.“The objective cannot be that a Hindu male who owned self-acquired property is unable to execute a Will giving a limited estate to a wife if all other aspects including maintenance are taken care of. If we were to hold so, it would imply that if the wife is disinherited under the Will it would be sustainable but if a limited estate is given it would mature into an absolute interest irrespective of the intent of the testator”, the bench said.It said that the testator in the present case Tulsi Ram had taken all care of the needs of maintenance of his wife by ensuring that the revenue generated from the estate would go to her alone.“He, however, wished to give only a limited lift interest to her as the second wife with the son inheriting the complete estate after her lifetime. We are, thus, of the view that it would be the provisions of Section 14(2) of the said Act which would come into play in such a scenario and Ram Devi only had a life interest in her favour”, the bench said.It said that people who have purchased land from the wife Ram Devi are in no better position than her and the sale deeds in favour of them cannot be sustained.The bench said there is no doubt that Section 14 of the Hindu Succession Act is to give rights of a property to a Hindu female and was a progressive step and its sub-section (1) makes it clear that it applies to properties acquired before or after the commencement of the said Act.“Any property so possessed was to be held by her as full owner thereof and not as a limited owner. The Explanation to sub-Section (1) of Section 14 of the said Act defines the meaning of “property” in this sub-section to include both movable and immovable property acquired by the female Hindu by inheritance or devise or a partition, or in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance, or by a gift from any person, or by her skill or exertion, or by purchase or by prescription or in any other manner whatsoever, including stridhana”, the bench said, adding that the explanation is quite expansive.The Will bequeathed the Tulsi Ram’s estate to his son, and his second wife Rama Devi (the first wife being deceased) under which land measuring 175 kanals and 9 marla, a residential house and a Bara in Village Jundla, Haryana was bequeathed half and half to them.However, the nature of bequeathing was different for the two as the son was given absolute ownership rights to the extent of his share of land and property whereas the wife was given limited ownership for her enjoyment during her lifetime concerning her share of the land with a specific provision that she could not alienate, transfer or create third party rights over the same.Tulsi Ram in his Will stated that the property was to vest absolutely in Son after the lifetime of his wife. #property #SupremeCourt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wife-cant-become-absolute-owner-of-property-willed-for-her-lifetime-if-maintenance-taken-care-sc-366199
01-02-2022||---||14-year-old Rohtak shuttler is World No 217||Gaurav KanthwalChandigarh, February 1Unnati Hooda, a 14-year-old Rohtak shuttler, has been placed 217th in the latest BWF women's singles rankings released on Tuesday.After her recent Odisha Open title win, a Super 100 event, the Class IX student of DGV Senior Secondary School, Rohtak, has leapt 201 places.Her doubles ranking has leapt from 269 to 185.Unnati said, "I am very happy with my performance. I hope to be around 100th-ranked player by the end of this year. It has been hectic season for me till now. I will focus on training for next two months. I hope to compete in March now, my coach Parvesh Kumar at the Sir Chhotu Ram Stadium in Rohtak will take a decision."Coach Parvesh Kumar said Unnati's father Upkar Hooda has shaped her career from the beginning. He is himself a former shuttler, and many a times, helped her in training also. The Hoodas hail from Chamaria village, eight kilometers from Rohtak, but now live in Bharat Colony in the city.The youngest Indian to win a Super 100 tournament beat Smit Toshniwal21-18 21-11 in the final of the $75,000OdishaOpen in Cuttack.Unnati beat Indian Open finalist Malvika Bansod (World No. 61) 24-22 24-22 in her semifinal clash.Unnati recently won theInfosys Foundation India International Challenge in Bengaluru but Odisha Open was her first international tournament at this level.The shuttler's fledgling career, just seven years in the making, has shades of Olympics medallist Saina Nehwal but she says she likes PV Sindhu more. Two years ago, she was crowned the U-13 national champion in Patna in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-year-old-rohtak-shuttler-is-world-no-217-366126
01-02-2022||Tribune Reporters||Farmers mark 'betrayal day' across Haryana||Panipat, January 31Following the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmers across the state marked the day as ‘betrayal day’ (Vishwasghat Diwas) and submitted a memorandum to the President of India through their district concerned.No option but to resume stirFarmers will be left with no option but to resume their agitation, if the central government continues to renege on the promises made to them in December 2021. — SKMFarmers in Panipat and Sonepat held a protest against the government for not fulfilling the demands of the farmers, including the MSP, compensation to the kin of the farmers who died during the protest, cancellation of the criminal cases registered against the farmers and release of their vehicles etc. Farmers of various factions, along with employees’ organisations, aanganwari organisations, trade unions and student organisations, gathered near the mini secretariat in Panipat and held a protest against the Union government.BKU (Tikait) district president Sonu Malpuria led the protest. The farmers burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister to show their angern for not fulfilling their pending demands.sonepat: Scores of farmers held a protest march from Chhotu Ram Dharamshala to mini secretariat in Sonepat. Farm leaders — Jaikaran Dahiya, Manjeet, Shradhanand Solanki, Gulab Singh, Ishwar Singh Dahiya, Braham Singh Dahiya, Bhagat Singh, Rajesh Dahiya, Abhimanyu Kuhar and others — under the banner of the SKM held a protest and burnt the effigy of PM Narender Modi. Besides, the Samyuta Karamachari Sangh, student organisations, Aam Aadmi Party also supported the farmers’ protest.Jhajjar: Farmers belonging to various outfits on Monday assembled in front of the mini secretariat to register their protest against the central and the state governments for not honouring the promises made to the SKM at the time of the suspension of the year-long agitation. Two separate memoranda were handed over to the ADC for the President of India and Haryana Governor, demanding, among other things, the withdrawal of the Land Acquisition Act 2013 amended by Haryana, the damage to property recovery Act, compensation for the damaged crops and dewatering of flooded fields.Kurukshetra: On the call of the SKM, farmers held a demonstration and burn the effigy of the prime minister at mini secretariat in Kurukshetra to mark Vishwasghat diwas. The farmers also submitted a memorandum for the Chief Minister, demanding special girdawari for the crop loss due to excess rainfall earlier this month. Farmers also demanded ample availability of sunflower seeds and urea.The farmers held a demonstration in Ambala City and burnt the effigy of prime minister to mark their resentment.Rohtak: Farmers, led by their leaders, Preet Singh, Randhir Kala and Virendra Hooda, today took out a protest march from Subhash Chowk to mini secretariat here. They sat on the road outside the mini secretariat, demanding Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar to receive their memorandum. Later, the DC met the protesters and assured them of resolving their issues.Palwal: Over 250 farmers and residents of various villages, having affiliation to the BKU and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, assembled at Gurjar Bhawan in the city to observe the “Vishwasghat Day” on Monday. The speakers passed a resolution condemning the stance of the Union Government towards the demands of the farmers and announced that they would not hesitate to relaunch the agitation if their demands were not met.Hisar: The SKM celebrated “betrayal day” by burning an effigy of the government in front of the Hisar Mini Secretariat on Monday. Prominent farm leaders, including Ranbir Malik, Shamsher Singh Numberdar, Sombir Pilania, Seema Juglan, Rajpati Bhagana and Shraddhanand Rajli, participated in the event. #FarmersProtest #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-mark-betrayal-day-across-state-365996
01-02-2022||Karnal||Differences in Karnal farm unions to fore||Members of the BKU (Charuni) took out protest march from Jat Dharmshala to Mini Secretariat, and members of other unions took out march from Gandhi Chowk to Mini Secretariat. Members of other farmer groups blamed the Charuni group for weakening the protest by joining politics in Punjab, while Charuni group denied the allegations.“We protested on the call of the SKM. BKU (Charuni) was expelled from the SKM for four months at a meeting held on January 15 at the Singhu border,” said Rattan Mann, president BKU.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member, state core committee (BKU Charuni), said farmers were with them as they had been raising the issues of farmers. “During the past one year, 13 FIRs were registered against me for raising the voice of farmers. Not a single FIR has been registered against other leaders who are today claiming to be the well-wishers of farmers,” he added. — #FarmersProtest #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/differences-in-unions-to-fore-365997
01-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Schools, colleges reopen today, 92.5% teens jabbed||Karnal, January 31As schools and colleges are all set to reopen from February 1, 92.5 per cent teens (aged from 15-17 years) have been administered the first dose of Covid-19.“Of the 64,070 eligible teenagers in the district, 59,249 have been vaccinated with the first dose,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma, adding that the vaccination card of students would be checked when they rejoin schools and colleges.“The checking at schools will help in tracing the eligible teenagers for the first dose, while the checking at colleges will help in tracing those who did not take the second dose,” he said.In the age group of 18 and above, there are 11,88,298 eligible persons. So far, 11,93,533, which is 100.2 per cent, have been vaccinated with the first dose, while 9,09,958 got the second dose, which is just 75.8 per cent, according to the data of the department. The data further showed that 99.5 per cent healthcare workers, 96.8 per cent frontline workers, 69.3 per cent persons in the age group of 18-44 years, 81 per cent between 45-60 age group and 87.6 per cent above the age of 60 have been fully vaccinated.Following the directions of the government, fully vaccinated certificates are being checked at various government offices. Despite this, a large number of eligible persons are not coming forward for the second dose.“We are making all efforts to fully vaccinate the eligible population. Special camps are being organised at different places,” said the Civil Surgeon, adding that still a large number of eligible persons were not coming forward for the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-colleges-reopen-today-92-5-teens-jabbed-365999
01-02-2022||Ambala||Open playway schools too, say operators in Ambala||Playway school operators, under the banner of the National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA), held a protest march in Ambala City and submitted a memorandum to the City Magistrate, demanding the reopening of the playway schools.Playway operators gathered at the Aggarsain chowk, took out a protest march and reached the Deputy Commissioner’s office to submit a memorandum for the CM. The playway operators said the government should consider their demand, else they would be forced to launch an agitation. There are around 150 playway schools in Ambala.Abhimanyu Duhan, president of playway schools, said, “Playways have an important role in building the foundation for the school-going children, but these have been lying closed for over two years.” NISA president Kulbhushan Sharma said, “Not only the school operators but parents also want these schools to be reopened. There is no relation between the opening of schools and Covid spread. It doesn’t make any sense as all activities are on and only playways are closed.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/open-playway-schools-too-say-operators-366000
01-02-2022||---||Rs 515 cr proposed for mid-day meal scheme in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 31Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal has directed officers of the Department of Elementary Education to study the positive effect on the health of schoolstudents after providing them fortified flour and oil.Kaushal was presiding over a meeting of the State Level Steering-cum-Monitoring Committee of the Pradhan Mantri Poshan Shakti Nirman (mid-day meal) scheme through video conferencing here today.The Chief Secretary said there should be a correlation between the budget and expenditure approved by the department for the scheme. He told the officers that the main objective of implementing the scheme was to ensure the enrolment of students in elementary education along with their regular attendance, as well as to enhance their nutrition.A total budget of Rs 515 crore was proposed for the year 2022-23 in the meeting, out of which the Union Government would share Rs 194.52 crore and the state government would share Rs 320.48 crore.It also came to light during the meeting that there were 14,441 government schools in the state where the students were provided food made of wheat, rice and bajra, besides milk so that their body could get all nutrients. It was informed at the meeting that during Covid-19, dry ration was provided to the eligible schoolstudents in sealed packets after sanitising it. The food expenses have also been deposited in the bank accounts of these students. #middaymeal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/515-cr-proposed-for-mid-day-meal-scheme-366001
01-02-2022||---||Drones to map Haryana cities for developing infra||Kurukshetra, January 31Drones will be used in the mapping of urban areas for developing the infrastructure of Thanesar in Kurukshetra.Project to begin from ThanesarIt was decided at a meeting of the consultancy firm (on Monday) that the project would begin from Thanesar, making it the first city in the state where drones will be used. — Subhash Sudha, Thanesar MLAA consultancy firm was hired by the Urban Local Bodies Department for the survey of 18 cities of Haryana for developing their infrastructure under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme. Under this project, the firm will be mapping about 4,000 sq km in 18 cities.For Thanesar city, the confirm will deploy five drones in the mapping of about 238.60 sq km. The Thanesar Municipal Council will help the firm in the mapping work.Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said: “The city will be the first in the state where drones will be used for the mapping of urban areas to develop infrastructure. We met officials of the consultancy firm today. Under the Amrut scheme of the Centre, the state will carry out different projects, including work related to water supply, sewerage, urban transport and building amenities in cities.”“As per the orders of the urban local bodies department, the firm will be carrying out the mapping work in 18 cities covering about 4,000 sq km of which 238.60 sq km is under Thanesar city. Even the vacant and barren land will be marked in this project and after the completion of the mapping, the firm will hand over the data to the ULB and then the government will start the development work according to the mapping done. As soon as the required permission from the police is obtained, the firm will start the mapping work and it will take about one week to complete it,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drones-to-map-cities-for-developing-infra-366003
01-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Widening of Karnal-Meerut highway picks up pace||Karnal, January 31After the authorities lifted the ban on construction activities in the NCR, the widening work of the National Highway-709A has picked up pace. The construction agency has roped in adequate manpower to complete the project before the deadline (February 16), but locals say the completion could get delayed by a fortnight or so.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas had banned the construction and demolition (C&D) activities in the NCR in November and lifted it in December. “The agency has sped up the work now and we hope it will be completed within the fixed time frame,” said RK Chawla, sub-divisional engineer, NHAI.Around 90 per cent of the road widening and 95 per cent of the bridge work has been completed, he claimed.Residents said lot of work was still pending. “It seems it will take more than the expected time,” said Baldev Kumar, a resident of Sector 5.Saurav Sharma, project manager of DCC Infra Project Ltd, said the work got delayed due to several reasons, including delay in environmental clearance and axing of trees. “We have hired manpower to complete the project before the deadline,” he added.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said he had reviewed the progress of the project last week and pushed the agency as well as PWD officials to get the work completed without compromising on the quality.“The widening of this road will not only help in reducing the traffic congestion, but also the chances of accidents,” he added.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced to widen it in January 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/widening-of-karnal-meerut-highway-picks-up-pace-366006
01-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad agency takes over maintenance of parks from MC||Faridabad, January 31The Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) has offered to take over the upkeep of several large parks in the city from the Faridabad Municipal Corporation.The move comes in the wake of the acute financial crunch faced by the MC and the poor condition of majority of parks in the city.The FSCL, carrying out the Smart city project worth Rs 3,000 crore, has also announced a drive to refurbish the system and network of the storm water drainage and the infrastructure related to the sewage treatment plant (STP) facility.While an MOU for taking over several large parks (with an area of minimum two acres of land) has almost been finalised, official sources in the civic body said it was for the first time that civic maintenance burden had been shared by an agency other than the MC.In a communication to the CEO of the FSCL, the MC Commissioner has approved the handing over of 48 large parks for development and maintenance, along with the condition that while the funds would be borne by the FSCL, the ownership would remain with the MC.With as many as 11 parks covering area more than 20,000 sq meters, the largest of these is the Rose Garden in the NIT area, which is spread in over 65,736 sq meters.Revealing that the MC was still left with around 690 parks, sources said shortage of staff and funds had been a major factor behind the poor upkeep of the majority of parks.The civic body had just 200 gardeners against the requirement of 2,000, with many of these working at the offices and residences of senior officials or VIPs, the sources said.Admitting problems in the maintenance of parks, Birender Kardam, Chief Engineer, Horticulture, MCF said the move would be of immense help.Garima Mittal, CEO, FSCL, said besides the maintaining major parks, the FSCL had also proposed to build eight STPs and one common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at a cost of Rs 170 crore to overcome the problem of choking of sewage lines and waterlogging on long-term basis. #faridabad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-agency-takes-over-maintenance-of-parks-from-mc-366008
01-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak residents may have to pay for parking in city||Rohtak, January 31Residents may now have to pay for parking their vehicles inside white line (parking zone) on main roads in the city if a proposal to issue a contract for vehicle parking inside white line gets approval from the general house of the Rohtak Municipal Corporation.MC to face resistanceThe issue of towing away the vehicles from non-parking zone has already evoked sharp criticism as those vehicles parked slightly outside the white line are also being lifted. The authorities will have to face stiff resistance if it tries to approve the proposal.Kadam Singh Ahlawat, councillor, ward 11A meeting of the House is slated for February 1.Sources said the move was aimed at raising the income of the corporation.Some councillors were set to oppose the proposal at the meeting, sources said.Kadam Singh Ahlawat, councillor from ward 11, said the corporation’s duty was to provide residents all facilities in lieu of charging various sorts of taxes from them, but it was astonishing that the authorities now wanted to charge for vehicles parked inside white line.Hemant Bakhshi, president, Rohtak Traders’ Association, said the authorities should provide parking lots near all main markets before giving the contract of parking inside the white line.“The move will adversely affect the business as customers will have to think twice before coming to the market. Moreover, the possibility of vehicle parking outside the shops can also not be ruled out,” Bakhshi added.Kanchan Khuran, councillor from ward 13, said the proposal was not against the favour of shopkeepers but also residents. “That is why, I will not let the proposal pass in the House,” she said.Manmohan Goyal, Mayor, said the proposal pertained to draw white line on all main roads in the city so that people didn’t face any problem in parking their vehicles inside the line.“I will oppose if any proposal for issuing a contract for vehicle parking inside white line is placed before the House,” said Goyal, adding that the meeting’s agenda was prepared by the corporation officials.Nar Hari Bangar, MC Commissioner, could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-residents-may-have-to-pay-for-parking-in-city-366009
01-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Radio series on fighting Covid to go on air today||Gurugram, January 31To prevent the spread of Covid and address the ongoing wave, community radio Alfaz-e-Mewat FM 107.8, an initiative of SM Sehgal Foundation, will begin the broadcast of radio series “Corona se Jung, Savadhani ke Sang” from February 1.The six-episode radio series will focus on symptoms of the Omicron variant of the virus, treatment home quarantine, vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour.The series will be broadcast on Alfaz-e-Mewat every Tuesday at 9:45 am with a repeat broadcast at 7:35 pm.Alfaz-e-Mewat has been making programmes throughout the pandemic to increase awareness and promote Covid-appropriate behaviour among communities. The radio station is working closely with the district administration and Health Department to bring timely and accurate information to people, identify positive examples from the community on vaccination to spread the message and dispel myths around vaccination.The radio station reaches 225 villages of Nuh district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/radio-series-on-fighting-covid-to-go-on-air-today-366011
01-02-2022||---||Row over HAU's annual calendar on social media||Hisar, January 31A controversy has erupted on the social media about the annual calendar released by Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU), Hisar, as the photo of late Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh is missing from the calendar.After outrage from a section on the social media, the university spokesperson has denied any lapse while stating that the photo of the statue of Chaudhary Charan Singh was placed in the middle of the calendar. “The university is named after the former Prime Minister and also has a photo of his statue installed in front of the Vice Chancellor’s office. The controversy is unnecessary and baseless.” He stated that in the past, the university had released calendars which did not carry a photo. “Since the university is named and dedicated to the late leader who is known for his works for the uplift of the farmer community, the controversy is designed to rake up unnecessary controversy, ‘’ he said.Meanwhile, the university administration has geared up to celebrate the foundation day on February 2. The Vice Chancellor, Professor BR Kamboj, said that the university was established on February 2, 1970.Registrar Dr SK Mehta said they had planned to host many events on the university campus for the two days – February 2 and 3 as part of the celebrations which included book exhibition in Nehru Library. #hau||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/row-over-haus-annual-calendar-on-social-media-366012
01-02-2022||Panipat||Two arrested for looting shopkeeper in Panipat||The police have claimed to solve a loot incident within 24 hours and nabbed two persons of the three accused, who allegedly shot at and looted a shopkeeper in Panipat.The arrested have been identified as Aakash of Hari Nagar and Ajay of Khukhrain.Shashi, a resident of Shanti Nagar, in his complaint said he was sitting in his confectionery shop when three youths on a motorcycle on Saturday came to his shop and asked for a cigarette.“One of the accused pointed a pistol at him and demanded money. As I opposed him, the other youth shot him in the thigh. They looted Rs 2,000 and my mobile phone and escaped,” he added.The police have registered a case against Aakash, Ajay and Shehzad under various sections of the IPC. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-looting-shopkeeper-366013
01-02-2022||Sirsa||Two Sonepat cops among 5 booked for extortion||The Sirsa police have registered a zero FIR in a case of extortion and abduction against five persons, including two cops of the Sonepat police.The cops had allegedly extorted 30 bitcoins from an accused in a fraud case who was detained from Jaipur on January 22. A person, identified as Shashi Kant, was wanted by the Sirsa police in a case of fraud which was registered against him in 2013. Later, Shashi Kant was declared a proclaimed offender after he failed to join the investigation in the fraud case.However, a team of the Sonepat police traced him to Jaipur on January 22 and brought him to Sonepat for investigation. During interrogation, the cops reportedly came to know that the person had dabbled in bitcoins. Shashi Kant reportedly revealed that he was kept at a farmhouse in Sonepat and the cops forced him to get 30 bitcoins transferred into the account of the cops. Soon after the transfer of the bitcoins, the Sonepat police personnel took him to Sirsa and handed him over to the Sirsa police for further investigation in the fraud case pending against him since 2013.The Sirsa SP Arpit Jain said today that the Sirsa city SHO had stated that they had arrested Shashi Kant from Sirsa. “In fact, it was the Sonepat police which had handed him over to the Sirsa police. Thus, I have sent the SHO of the city police station and other police personnel to the police lines.” The SP said they had registered cases against the accused and sent the matter to Jaipur, which was the spot of the detention by the Sonepat police for further investigation.Meanwhile, sources said that the Sonepat police ASI Shiv Kumar had been placed under suspension, while a department inquiry had been started against the ASI and another cop. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-cops-among-5-booked-for-extortion-366015
01-02-2022||Karnal||Rs 25K reward for info on HSSC paper leak accused||The police have declared a reward of Rs 25,000 for any person who provides information on Parveen (pic), alias Billa, of Alipura village under the Uchana police station in Jind. He is also wanted in a case registered in Kaithal in connection with the paper leak for the post of police constable (male) conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) on August 7, 2021.So far, 68 accused have been arrested in this case, including 11 carrying a reward. Kaithal SP Lokender Singh has recommended a reward of Rs 25,000 on Parveen, alias Billa, which was approved by the Haryana Police. He said the police were making efforts to arrest him. The identity of the person providing the information would be kept secret. — #HSSC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25k-reward-for-info-on-paper-leak-accused-366016
01-02-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar releases Rs 5.3 cr under welfare scheme||Chandigarh, January 31Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar released a premium amount of Rs 5.33 crore to 3,14,446 beneficiaries of Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojna (MMPSY) during a state-level function held through video conferencing here today.“Our target is to cover maximum beneficiaries under all schemes by March 31. Therefore, those who are eligible to get benefits but are yet to enroll themselves should ensure the registration at the earliest,” he said.During the programme, out of the 3,14,446 beneficiaries under the MMPSY, 29 beneficiaries enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and all three Maandhan schemes, including Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maandhan Yojana (PMKMY), Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan (PMSYMY) and Pradhan Mantri Laghu Vyapari Mandhan Pension Yojana (PMLVMY) also received the scheme acknowledgement letter from the Chief Minister, while the rest received the same from their respective DCs. Under the MMPSY, beneficiaries are eligible to get a benefit of Rs 6,000 per year and this amount will be used to pay the beneficiary’s share of centrally sponsored schemes for pension and insurance, said the Chief Minister.“During today’s programme, an amount of Rs 3,32,82,480 has been released directly into the accounts of 1,00,856 beneficiaries of the PMJJBY, Rs 21,94,992 to 1,82,916 beneficiaries of the PMSBY and Rs 1,78,22,500 to 30,674 beneficiaries of Maandhan scheme (PMKMY, PMSYMY, PMLVMY),” said the Chief Minister.He said the MMPSY scheme was an umbrella of five central government schemes wherein the premium of PMJJBY, PMSBY and three Maandhan schemes (PMKMY, PMSYMY, PMLVMY) under MMPSY, would be reimbursed to the beneficiaries whose family income was less than or equal to Rs 1.80 lakh per annum. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-releases-5-3-cr-under-welfare-scheme-366017
01-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram police nab two snatchers||The Gurugram police nabbed two snatchers, including a former delivery boy of a food chain, who were active in different parts of the city. The accused UP residents have confessed to their involvement in 15 cases of snatching in the last 40 days. A motorcycle and 11 stolen mobiles have been recovered from their possession.The crime branch of Sector-40 arrested the accused from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. The accused have been identified as Nitin Pratap, alias Atul (25) and Sandeep Kumar (23), residents of Firozabad district in UP. The accused were produced in a city court today and sent into judicial custody.“Sandeep revealed that he used to work as a delivery boy in Gurugram. During the lockdown, he lost his job and started working with his friend Atul at a factory in Rajasthan, but the salary was not enough. Eventually, they came to Gurugram and took to snatching articles from people. They went to Firozabad to sell the stolen articles, said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-nab-two-snatchers-366018
01-02-2022||Palwal||22 head of cattle rescued, 2 held||The police rescued 22 head of cattle being taken in a truck in a cruel manner.A case under various Sections of the Prevention of Cruelty against Animals Act has been registered against two of the accused persons.Stating that a rescue operation was carried out by a police team this morning near the KMP toll plaza in the district, a spokesperson of the police said cops intercepted a truck (RJ- 32-GC-2986) on the basis of the information that some persons were involved in smuggling of cattle and were due to arrive at the spot today. He said on checking, the police found 22 head of cattle loaded in the truck with no facility of fodder and water being taken towards Rajasthan. The accused were identified as Ashok Saini and Ayub, both hailing from Rajasthan. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22-head-of-cattle-rescued-2-held-366019
01-02-2022||Kurukshetra||Workshop on time management||Webinar on chemistry, biologyKarnal: The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), in collaboration with the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS), organised a webinar on “The relationship between Chemistry and Biology”. The webinar was attended by students and faculty of various schools. Dr Yudhishtir Singh Rajput, a biochemist and ex-emeritus scientist with the NDRI, was the speaker for the day. He talked about the role of chemistry to understand biology and explained the role of various proteins in chemical reactions and their uses in providing immunity to the organism. Dr ML Madan, convener, NAAS, Karnal chapter, said the main purpose of such lectures was to bring awareness among students about agricultural sciences and make them aware about the opportunities available in these allied subjects.Principal nominated to advisory boardKarnal: The principal of Government College, Bastara, Dr Piush Kumar, has been nominated member of the advisory board of Pandit Jasraj Cultural Foundation, Mumbai. Dr Kumar said Pandit Jasraj originally belonged to Peeli Mandori village in Fatehabad district of Haryana and had a deep connection with Karnal. The Haryana Lalit Kala Sansthan, an organisation run by Dr Kumar, has been providing “Pandit Jasraj Samman” of Rs 2 lakh every year to honour the talented people of the state in the field of art.Science carnival organisedKurukshetra: In continuation of the “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebrations, the WIS forum of Kurukshetra University organised the second event of Science Carnival 2022. The day opened with an expert lecture on space sciences and technology by Prof Sandeep Sahijpal from Punjab University, Chandigarh. He also apprised the participants about various career options in space sciences. Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva spoke on the significance of online activities.Army School principal honouredAmbala: Dr Paramjit Singh, principal, Army Public School, was honoured by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar during the Republic Day celebrations for his contribution to the field of education. Dr Paramjit Singh has been awarded by many other educational organisations of repute at the national and international level for his exemplary contribution in the field of education and service towards community. He is an active member of the educational fraternity and is a member of many educational forums and committees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/workshop-on-time-management-366021
01-02-2022||STRAY cattle eating from garbage dumps along the roads have become a common scene in the city. The stray scrounging for food in those dumps results in scattering of garbage on the roads. The administration must shift the cattle to gaushalas and the garbage must be disposed properly||Stray cattle eating from garbage dumps||‘Keep your house in order’THE accompanying photograph since captured at the premises of the main post office in Sector 8 of Panchkula clearly provides acceptance of electricity bills. However, on my personal visit there recently, the lady manning the relevant counter informed that the same has to be deposited at the office of the UHBVN as the said facility was no longer available there. If this being the case, how come that the postal authorities have not cared to remove the display board. If done so on time, a lot of inconvenience can be avoided as one has to wait for his/her turn to get in touch with the counter staff concerned?. Kumar GuptA, PanchkulaCommuters face problems passing temporary passageA temporary bypass/passage has been provided along the bridge being constructed as part of the four-laning of the road from Kaithal drain to the proposed bypass. The bypass connects to the Ambala National Highway. Commuters travelling on the 3.85-km stretch face difficulties in passing this temporary passage. Authorities should evaluate if the provision of passage the along the bridge has been included in the budgetary provision of the project. Even if not included, a safe and convenient passage should be provided.– Om Parkash, KAITHALDamaged road poses safety riskThe road passing through Sector 58 in the NIT area of the city has been lying damaged with potholes. The potholes get filled with water during the rain, making it impossible for commuters, especially two-wheelers to drive. The road becomes more dangerous at nights, posing a huge risk to the lives of commuters. The road also needs to be widened. Recently, a motorcyclist had died after he fell on the road and an equipment-lifting machine ran over him, but no repair work was undertaken despite the tragedy.— SK Sharma, FARIDABADWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-eating-from-garbage-dumps-366023
01-02-2022||New Delhi||Gurugram namaz row: SC to hear plea against Haryana officials||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb’s plea seeking contempt action against senior Haryana Government officials for allegedly failing to take action against local Hindu groups that allegedly tried to prevent Muslims from offering Friday namaz in the open in Gurugram. “I will look into it and post before the appropriate Bench immediately,” Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, who headed a three-judge Bench, told senior counsel Indira Jaising after she sought urgent listing of Adeeb’s plea filed last month. Jaising said state government officials failed to follow the directions of the top court issued in 2018 to stop hate crimes.‘Will look into it’I will look into it and post before the appropriate Bench immediately. CJI“This is not only based on newspaper reports, we have ourselves filed complaints. We are not asking for any enforcement of FIR. This court has laid down preventive measures,” she submitted.In view of objections from Hindu groups, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar had on December 10 said that offering ‘namaz’ in the open “will not be tolerated”.He said the district administration’s prior decision to reserve some spots for holding Friday “namaz” in open spaces had been withdrawn. The CM had, however, said the state government would now work out an amicable solution to the problem.Alleging inaction by Haryana’s top officials in curbing communal and violent tendencies, petitioner Adeeb sought contempt action against Haryana Chief Secretary and the DGP of the state for failing to comply with the top court’s directions in Tehseen S Poonawalla case (2018) to control and prevent the increasing number of hate crimes, including mob violence and lynching. — #Khattar #Namaz||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/namaz-row-sc-to-hear-plea-against-hry-officials-365935
