02-02-2022||The green belt developed between Sector 5 and 6 of Karnal is lying in a neglected state. Most plants in that outer green belt have got ruined due to negligence. The boundary of the green belt is broken and residents are using this belt as a short cut road.||Karnal green belt lying neglected||– Dinesh Kumar, KarnalUnauthorised ad boards a risk for motoristsUnauthorised advertisement boards at the turning point of Sector 9 facing Luxmi Nagar from the main road leading to Inco Chowk, are hindering the visibility for motorists. The pictures are quite conspicuous that such advertisements do not carry official permissions. This defaced the entrance of sector which is a face-lift of any residential areas identity. We hope that the Municipal Corporation authorities will set things right so that any untoward action is averted. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/green-belt-lying-neglected-366340
02-02-2022||Karnal||Awareness programme on AIDS||10 girls awarded Rs25,000 eachKarnal: Tagore Baal Niketan Senior Secondary School paid tributes to Kalpana Chalwa on her 19th death anniversary. Mayor Renu Bala Gupta felicitated 10 girls of the school with Rs 25,000 each by. She inspired girls to take inspiration from Kalpana Chawla. Principal Dr Rajan Lamba said ND Mehra Memorial Trust, Delhi, had started this award in the memory of Kalpana Chawla.Faculty development programmeHisar: Department of Electrical Engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, is organising a faculty development programme (FDP) on “Recent trends in renewable energy: Opportunity and challenges” till February 5. Vice-Chancellor Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj said the topic of the FDP was pertinent in the present era, where energy was an indispensable ingredient for socio-economic development and a key aspect influencing sustainable development of a nation.Conference on communication techFaridabad: A two-day international conference on “Role of information communication technology during Covid”, organised by the Department of Computer Science and Learning Resource Centre, concluded on Tuesday. Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, Gurugram University Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar and Dr KP Singh from the DRDO, and Prof Naseeb Singh Gill from the Department of Computer Science, MD University, Rohtak, were among the keynote speakers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/awareness-programme-on-aids-366338
02-02-2022||Ambala||Aid to families of frontline workers of Haryana||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij handed over cheques worth Rs 3 lakh each as financial assistance to family members of four frontline workers who lost their lives during Covid pandemic.The assistance was provided by Mankind Pharma under the CSR (corporate social responsibility) activity.The minister appreciated the firm for providing financial assistance. The cheques were handed over to Rajeshwari of Yamunanagar, Omvati of Ambala and Asha Rani and Mohit of Rohtak. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aid-to-families-of-frontline-workers-of-haryana-366337
02-02-2022||---||Kaithal: Youth dies, kin allege murder||Kaithal, February 1Around 22-year-old youth died under mysterious circumstances in Kaithal on Monday. Claiming it to be a murder, family members and relatives of the victim blocked a road near the Sir Chhotu Ram Chowk in Kaithal for around 50 minutes on Tuesday afternoon. After being assured of registering a case of murder and a fair investigation, by DSP Ravinder Sangwan, they lifted the blockade.The deceased was identified as Parbhat of Manas village. He had gone to a coffee shop and later a woman took him to a hospital, claiming that he suffered a heart attack. He was declared dead by doctors.Naresh Kumar, the deceased’s kin, said he was murdered by the woman in connivance with two persons — a person of their village and an employee of the coffee shop.Later, the police registered a case against three persons under Section 302 of IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-youth-dies-kin-allege-murder-366336
02-02-2022||Karnal||Karnal: Two crushed to death on NH-44||Two men were crushed to death by some unidentified vehicle on the National Highway-44 near Uchani village this morning.Tarsem Singh, SHO Sadar, said the visibility at that time was low due to dense fog and they were probably crushed to death by a vehicle. Later, several vehicles crossed over them. The bodies were yet to be identified as these were badly mutilated. These had been kept in the mortuary house for identification.The age of the victims seemed to be between 30 and 35. “We have been inquiring from the nearby villages,” the SHO said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-two-crushed-to-death-on-nh-44-366334
02-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Government to take Rs 523 cr loan from SIDBI||CM Manohar Lal Khattar said the government had decided to take a loan of Rs 523 crore from the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) for cluster infrastructure development.This loan will be taken for 2021-22, which will be available at low interest rate. This loan can be used for the Programme to Accelerate Development for MSME Advancement (PADMA) scheme and other cluster development schemes of the government. — #sidbi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-to-take-523-cr-loan-366332
02-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana leads in Sustainable Development Goals Index||During the Economic Survey 2021-22 tabled in Parliament by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Haryana is continuously working towards achieving the social, economic and environmental goals under the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Index.As a result of this, Haryana is included in the leading states of the country in the NITI Aayog SDG India Index 2020-21. Haryana is at the top position in 2020-21 in terms of score improvement from 2019 with an increase of 10 points.The SDG Index development priorities have been set for each state, under which they are given 17 targets to achieve the desired goals. All parameters set to achieve the SDG Goals-2030 are being implemented in the state in a phased manner.According to the Economic Survey report, in the financial year 2021-22, Haryana has achieved the status of 100 per cent households with tap water supply under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). Now, the next target of the government is to provide 55 litre clean drinking water per person in the entire state by December 2022. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-leads-in-sdg-index-366331
02-02-2022||---||Rohtak: Blood camp marks death anniversary of Ranbir Singh Hooda||Rohtak, February 1Tributes were paid to former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s late father and Constituent Assembly member Ranbir Singh Hooda on his 14th death anniversary today.Several programmes, including a blood donation camp and a photo exhibition, were organised to mark the occasion.The former CM paid homage to his late father at his memorial in Kheri Sadh village of Rohtak district.Noted freedom fighter Ranbir Singh remained jailed in eight prisons during the British rule. He was a member of the Constituent Assembly, Provisional Lok Sabha, First Lok Sabha, Second Lok Sabha, United Punjab Legislative Assembly, Haryana Legislative Assembly and Rajya Sabha.“He is the only leader who has been part of seven Houses and this is recorded in the Limca Book of World Records,” said Hooda.Hooda also met the anganwari workers protesting at Mansarover Park in Rohtak and supported their demands. He demanded the terminated employees should be reinstated and cases registered against them withdrawn. #bhupinder singh hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blood-camp-marks-death-anniv-of-ranbir-singh-366328
02-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Notice issued to metal factories in Jagadhri||The units were detected by a team of a task force of Yamunanagar during an inspection of metal factories on Monday.“A team of the Special Environmental Surveillance Task Force conducted inspection at metal factories in Jagadhri and found that two metal units were being run in violation of norms laid by the HSPCB,” said Ajay Singh, Assistant Environmental Engineer of HSPCB, Yamunanagar.He said they had issued show cause notices to the unauthorised metal units on Tuesday and asked them to submit their reply within 15 days.According to information, the team also found that there was no waste water treatment facility in the factories, which were manufacturing stainless steel utensils. #Environment #haryana state pollution control board #hspcb #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-issued-to-metal-factories-in-jagadhri-366326
02-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana: Rs 7-cr grant for hearing, speech-impaired kids||The Haryana Welfare Society for Persons with Speech and Hearing Impairment has been sanctioned a grant of Rs.7.2 crore for the year 2021-22 at a meeting held under Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal here on Monday.The Chief Secretary directed the officers to review the work of the society every three years.Of the Rs 7.2 crore granted, the Education Department’s granted Rs 5.30 crore for the teachers working under the society, while the Social Justice and Empowerment Department gave Rs 1.5 for the maintenance staff and facilities provided to the children living in various centres of the society. The Health Department contributed Rs 40 lakh. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-7-cr-grant-for-hearing-speech-impaired-kids-366325
02-02-2022||---||Will complete land mapping by August: Haryana CM Khattar||Chandigarh, February 1Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the campaign being run on a large scale for agricultural land mapping work in the state should be accelerated so that the agricultural land data could be made available at the earliest.The Chief Minister was presiding over a meeting of land revenue officers regarding large scale land mapping here on Tuesday. He said three teams were deployed at Panipat, Karnal and Kurukshetra to carry out the work. A total of 44 teams will undertake drone mapping work across the state, which will be completed by August.Khattar said drone-based mapping work of most of the villages of the state had been completed. Like the SVAMITVA scheme, the work of mapping agricultural land would be done and the revenue record would be linked with the Parivar Pehchan Patra.Large scale mapping work will be completed in three phases. In the first phase, the work of mapping agricultural land of rural areas and mapping of the structures built on it will be done. In the second phase, mapping of industrial areas in the cities will be done. The Chief Minister said patwaris would be trained with rovers. #Khattar #manohar lal khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-complete-land-mapping-by-august-haryana-cm-366323
02-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||Calendar row: HAU VC apologises to farmers||Hisar, February 1Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) seeks to put an end to the ongoing controversy over the removal of the photo of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh from the annual calendar.University Vice-Chancellor Dr BR Kamboj has apologised to farmers over the incident and promised to release a new calendar carrying the photograph of the late farmer leader.A group of farmers met the Vice-Chancellor in the university today. Shamsher Nambardar, a farmer leader, said the VC apologised to them over the incident and promised that a new calendar would replace the existing calendar within three days.The Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to the VC, Dr Atul Dhingra, reiterated the regret on behalf of the university, stating that they had not meant to hurt the sentiments of anybody.Meanwhile, the Haryana Agriculture University Teachers Association (HAUTA) alleged that the photo was deliberately removed from the calendar on part of the university authorities, which had invited widespread condemnation.New calendar on wayA photo of the statue of Chaudhary Charan Singh is placed in the middle of the calendar. Still, we have ordered the printing of new calendars carrying the photo of Charan Singh. — Dr Atul Dhingra, OSD to the VC #chaudhary charan singh #haryana agriculture university #hau||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/calendar-row-hau-vc-apologises-to-farmers-366321
02-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||More road cameras for Faridabad||Faridabad, February 1The Faridabad Smart City limited (FSCL) has proposed to install 301 automatic (Vehicle) number plate reading (ANPR) cameras at various points in the city to keep a tab on crime.The FSCL, carrying out the Smart City project, approved the proposal in the meeting of its board of directors recently. The FSCL has already been working on the installation of 1,500 CCTVs across the city.Informing that a tender for the project, costing Rs 17.8 crore, is to be released shortly, a senior official of the FSCL said the motive was to improve surveillance in the city in order to curb incidents of vehicle thefts and to keep a track of the activities connected with the crime.He added the demand regarding such cameras had been taken up by the police.Claiming that hundreds of traffic violations were detected through the CCTVs installed at various locations, an official said the CCTV network was monitored through round the clock operational integrated command and control centre (ICCC) set up by the FSCL.With more than 15,000 challans generated for the violation of traffic norms in the past over one year, around 400 cases of crime have also been resolved with the help of the CCTV feed in this period, it is reported.Besides traffic violations and crime control, CCTV surveillance has come to the aid of the MC for monitoring waterlogging during rains and keeping a watch on the functioning of street lights, it is added.Round-the-clock CCTV monitoringThe integrated command and control centre keeps a constant watch on not only traffic violations but also on unlawful and anti-social activities noticed by the cameras. An official||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-road-cameras-for-faridabad-366320
02-02-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Officials walk out of Rohtak MC meet||Rohtak, February 1Drama was witnessed during the meeting of the local Municipal Corporation held on Tuesday as officials of the Public Health Department walked out of the House after a bitter altercation with the municipal councillors in the presence of the Mayor and Municipal Commissioner.Rohtak Mayor Manmohan Goyal told The Tribune that they had apprised the state authorities of the matter and recommended departmental action against the official concerned.As per sources, Deputy Mayor Anil Kumar told the House during the meeting that certain government officials talked rudely to them and did not take any action even after being personally apprised of the problems being faced by the residents.“I called up an Executive Engineer of the Public Health and Engineering Department for the installation of manhole covers in public interest. When I introduced myself, he asked me who the deputy mayor was. He did not give a satisfactory reply even after I explained my position to him,” he stated.The Executive Engineer, who was present at the meeting, rebutted the Deputy Mayor’s allegation, following which an altercation broke out.Meanwhile, the municipal councillor from ward number 8, Sunil Kumar, also levelled allegations of misbehaviour against the Public Health official concerned.An ugly scene was created at the meeting as councillors and officials traded charges and hurled abuses in the presence of Mayor Manmohan Goyal and Municipal Commissioner Narhari Singh Banger.Councillors said they were not accorded due regard by officials despite being people’s representatives.Amidst the exchange of hot words, Executive Engineer Rohit Kumar walked out of the meeting, along with two SDOs and a Junior Engineer.The councillors demanded strict action against the Executive Engineer and other officials for misbehaviour, misconduct and violating the dignity of the House. They also gave a written representation to the Mayor and Municipal Commissioner regarding the matter.Eventually, it was decided to call the Superintending Engineer of the Public Health and Engineering Department to the next meeting of the House scheduled for tomorrow.The councillors have decided that any further discussion on the agendas would be held only after strict action is taken against the officials for their misconduct.Take quick actionThe future course of action will be decided after we get to know about the action taken against the Executive Engineer and other officials. A councillorUnsatisfactory replyI called up an Executive Engineer for the installation of manhole covers in public interest. When I introduced myself, he asked me who the deputy mayor was. — Anil Kumar, Deputy Mayor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/officials-walk-out-of-rohtak-mc-meet-366317
02-02-2022||Hisar||Haryana cop dismissed on corruption charge||Hisar Range IGP Rakesh Kumar Arya has dismissed Inspector Paramjit, who was posted at Hans, from the police service recently on the charges of corruption.A police spokesperson on Tuesday said the inspector was accused of illegal custody and taking bribe, when he was the Ding town police station incharge in Sirsa district. A departmental inquiry was first conducted in Sirsa and the cop was transferred to Fatehabad. Later, he was acquitted of the charges in an inquiry in Fatehabad.The Hisar IG, however, in exercise of the powers conferred under the Punjab Police Rules (PPR), reviewed the inquiry and sought his reply by issuing a notice to the accused. When the reply was not found satisfactory, the IGP ordered his dismissal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cop-dismissed-on-corruption-charge-366315
02-02-2022||---||Constable exam: Panchkula police arrest 5 more for impersonation||Panchkula, February 1A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Panchkula police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested five more persons for impersonating as candidates during the physical screening test of police constables for the Haryana Police.The arrested persons were identified as Ajay Kumar, a resident of Matloda Barwala, Ranbir Singh, a resident of Beethmadha in Hisar district, Naveen, a resident of Surbra in Jind district, Dinesh, a resident of Gorakhpur village in Fatehabad district and Sandeep Singh, a resident of Kheri Uklana village in Hisar district.In December 2021, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission had conducted the physical test for the selection of male constables at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3. On December 20, 2021, the police got a tip-off that proxy candidates appeared for the test instead of the actual ones. The police have already arrested 19 accused in the case.A case was registered under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, 120 B of IPC at the Sector 5 police station, following which the SIT was constituted to conduct a probe.19 in net already #haryana staff selection commission #HSSC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/constable-exam-panchkula-police-arrest-5-more-for-impersonation-366314
02-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||SCERT tells Board of School Education Haryana to conduct exams||Rohtak, February 1In an interesting turn of events in the ongoing row over the conduct of the board exams of Class VIII for all government and private schools being run in the state, the State Council of Education Research Training (SCERT), Gurugram, has now entrusted the task to the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) for conducting the regular exams of the students of Classes V and VIII, pleading the BSEH possesses the expertise to hold such exams.Significantly, the development came days after the government withdrew the power and authority given to the BSEH to hold board exams for Classes V and VIII. It also notified the SCERT as “Academic Authority” and that the regular examinations would be held in accordance with the amendments made in Section 16 of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. “It was done in view of the separate petitions filed by private schools affiliated to the CBSE in the HC challenging the state’s move to conduct the board exams of Class VIII in all schools through the BSEH,” said sources.Ved Prakash Yadav, vice-chairman, BSEH, said they would formulate a policy to hold the board exams on behalf of the SCERT.Sunil Bajaj, deputy director, SCERT, said SCERT was an academic authority to prepare curriculum, design papers, etc. hence an agency was needed to conduct exams. “Since the BSEH holds expertise in conducting exams, we authorised it as an agency to conduct regular examinations with certain conditions,” he added.Private schools fumeIt is a new tactic to fulfil the Board of School Education Haryana’s intention to get Class VIII exams conducted by it. We will again approach the court as the BSEH has no right to conduct the exams of students enrolled in the schools affiliated to other boards. Anil Kaushik, progressive private schools association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scert-tells-board-of-school-education-haryana-to-conduct-exams-366313
02-02-2022||---||Haryana: Opposition slams Centre for 'anti-people' Budget||Chandigarh, February 1The Budget drew flak from the Opposition that said Haryana had been neglected and all sections of society were “disappointed”.Though the BJP-JJP government was pinning hopes on certain new Haryana-specific announcements in the Budget, there is nothing much to cheer about.It may be recalled that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, had come out with his wishlist before Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during recent pre-Budget meeting with the state finance ministers.Among the demands raised by Khattar were concessional loans at 2.75 per cent through the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) for infrastructure development in the National Capital Region (NCR) and financial assistance for the development of archeological site Rakhigarhi in Hisar.However, the Union Finance Minister had not acceded to the demands of the Chief Minister.Meanwhile, government sources claimed that certain Budget announcements would prove beneficial for the state. Since Sitharaman has announced 2023 as the International Year of the Millets, Haryana, being a major millet-producing state, stands to gain massively. Since Haryana is a major agriculture state, a substantial portion of the Rs 2.37 lakh crore set apart for procuring crops on the MSP in the country would come to state’s farmers.Besides, the Finance Minister’s announcement of constructing 80 lakh houses under the PM Awas Yojana in 2022 would set off realty boom in the NCR, a senior officer asserted. Other initiatives like construction of 25,000 km highways across the country and tax concessions for the startups would also benefit the state’s industry.Meanwhile, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja called the Budget “anti-people” with unemployment at its peak, inflation increasing continuously and the economy collapsing. “Amid failed policies of the government and the crisis arising during the pandemic, people expected that they would get big relief from this Budget, but it has disappointed all,” she said, adding that Haryana had also been neglected.Selja said the government had been speaking of doubling the income of farmers for many years, but their condition was worsening. “Yet there is nothing in this Budget for them,” she said.Meanwhile, former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda said no concrete steps were taken in this Budget to provide relief from skyrocketing inflation and unemployment, while the working class had been left disappointed due to non-extension of the income tax limit.“The ever-increasing prices of petrol, diesel, cooking gas and food items have spoiled the Budget of the common man. This Budget, entangled in the game of figures, is completely hollow,” he said.He said a provision had been made in the Budget to give Rs 2.37 lakh crore as MSP to farmers for wheat and paddy procurement but the government was least bothered about the guaranteed MSP. “Why the government is holding back from giving guaranteed MSP of the remaining 21 crops under the purview of MSP? It is a clear indication that the government does not intend to ensure MSP on all crops,” Hooda said.The Indian National Lok Dal also dismissed the Budget for “ignoring” the spiraling inflation, rising unemployment and “neglecting” education, health and agriculture sectors. Its senior leader Abhay Chautala said the Budget provided no solutions to the burning issues of the country. Critical of the slashed budget for MGNREGA, he said farmers had particularly felt cheated and all schemes, facilities and programmes meant for the common man had seen a fall in the Budget.The upsideThe Budget has laid a roadmap for the next 25 years. Focus on digitisation, infra development and increased capital expenses will strengthen the nation. — ML Khattar, CMAmid failed govt policies and the crisis arising due to pandemic, people expected that they would get some relief, but the Budget has disappointed all. — Kumari Selja, CongIt provides no solution to burning issues. Farmers have particularly felt cheated and all schemes and facilities for common man have seen a fall. — Abhay Chautala, INLDThe rising prices of fuel, LPG and food items have spoiled common man’s budget. This Budget, entangled in the game of figures, is completely hollow — Bhupinder Hooda, CongCentre only serves the interest of corporates. Budget for agri activities has been reduced from 4.26% to 3.84% and there is a cut of Rs1,100 crore on MSP. — Sampat Singh, ex-MinBudget will fulfil hopes of people. Agriculture, rural development, jobs, digital currency and MSMEs will help strengthen infra and economy. — Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/union-budget-2022-23-opposition-slams-centre-for-anti-people-budget-366312
