03-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||High Court stays Haryana govt's 75 per cent reservation rule in private sector||Chandigarh, February 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday stayed the Haryana government order of 75% reservation for state domicile in private sector.The Bench headed by Justice Ajay Tewari also admitted the matter.A bunch of petitions were filed against the government’s law providing 75 per cent reservation in the industries to the domiciles of the StateThe government earlier notified the “Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020”, which provided 75 per cent reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offered monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022. It covered private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms in the State, as per a notification issued by the State government.In its petition, Gurgaon Industrial Association had submitted that the impugned Act dated March 2 and further notification dated November 6 was against the provisions of Constitution and also against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive. #haryana reservation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-stays-haryana-governments-75-reservation-rule-in-private-sector-366687
03-02-2022||Theft cases||Theft cases on the rise in Panchkula||Poor roads belie smart city claimThe road connecting Faridabad with Delhi through shooting range and Pul Pralhad Pur is badly damaged. The government claims that Faridabad is a smart city, but the roads here depict a sorry picture with several potholes. What surprises the residents the most is that the road on the Delhi side is completely smooth. —Amit Seth, FaridabadAllow Bikaner-Haridwar train to halt at YamunanagarTrain number 14717/14718, BKN-HW Express, running between Bikaner and Haridwar has an important connectivity between northern and southern Haryana apart from linking the holy city of Haridwar. Barring the Yamunanagar railway station, the train stops at all important stations of Haryana. Since it is the only train that links southern Haryana with Yamunanagar city, it is imperative to allow it to stop at Yamunanagar so that residents can have direct access to southern Haryana. — –Suresh Kumar, YamunanagarWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/theft-cases-on-the-rise-in-panchkula-366624
03-02-2022||Hisar||Research journal makes it to UGC Care list||UHS HoDs get warm sendoffRohtak: Dr Smiti Nanda, head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, and Dr MC Gupta, head of the Department of Pharmacology, at Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, were given a warm sendoff by the university fraternity upon their superannuation. Vice-Chancellor Dr Anita Saxena and Registrar Dr HK Aggarwal appreciated their dedication and devotion towards their duties. PGIMS Director Dr SS Lohchab and Medical Superintendent Dr Ishwar Singh were also present. Prof Gupta has also served as the Director of the Rohtak PGIMS, while Prof Nanda has headed the department for 12 years. She is also a recipient of the NBE Distinguished Teacher Excellence Award.English, music depts hold webinarYamunanagar: A webinar on “human values leading to professional ethics” was organised by the Department of English and Music (instrumental) of Guru Nanak Girls College. Principal Anu Atreja said the college initiated its golden jubilee celebrations with this webinar. She said keynote speaker for the session was Vikram Duggal, CEO of NGO Abhiyakti-The Expression from Hyderabad. Ambika Kashyap, head of the Music Department (Instrumental), introduced the keynote speaker. There were about 750 participants from different states.MoU signed to share expertiseGurugram/Faridabad: To promote collaboration in the area of expertise in academic interest, the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, and Gurugram University have entered into an agreement to share the knowledge and expertise and to introduce joint academic programmes in emerging areas. They will work together in the areas of mutual interest along with faculty exchange to enhance the pace of growth of both the universities. The MoU was signed by SK Garg, Registrar of JC Bose University, and Shashi Bhushan Bharti, Registrar of Gurugram University in the presence of Raj Nehru, Vice-Chancellor of JC Bose University and Dinensh Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of Gurugram University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/journal-makes-it-to-ugc-care-list-366621
03-02-2022||Faridabad||Youth arrested for murder over Rs 150||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-arrested-for-murder-over-150-366620
03-02-2022||Kaithal||Kaithal: SHO held for 'taking bribe'||A high-voltage drama was witnessed at the Cheeka police station in Kaithal district today over the arrest of an SHO for allegedly taking bribe. However, no bribe money was recovered from him.Vigilance team members took the SHO into the custody, based on call recording and questioned by team members for over four hours.“We have arrested Cheeka SHO Jaiveer for taking bribe from a local resident. A case has been registered against him,” said Suresh Saini, inspector (Vigilance) Kaithal.Meanwhile, many local residents protested at the police station, claiming the SHO to be an honest person and said he was being targeted. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sho-held-for-taking-bribe-366619
03-02-2022||Ludhiana||Woman raped in car, dumped at Hisar; 8 booked||Six men allegedly raped a 25-year-old woman in a moving car. They took the woman in their car from the Ludhiana bus stand and after committing rape, dumped her in Hisar.The woman had lodged a complaint at the Azar Nagar police station in Hisar, where after registering a zero FIR, the police forwarded the case file to the Police Division 5 here. The Hisar police sent the case file to Ludhiana because the woman had boarded the car from the Ludhiana bus stand.A case under Sections 376 D (gang rape), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 354 (outraging the modesty of woman) of the IPC was registered against a man, Rakesh, woman Tarun of Clock Tower, another woman Mamta of Ludhiana and five unknown men last evening.The SHO, Police Division 5, Neeraj Chaudhary said Rakesh is the key accused, while five other accused are yet to be identified.“It is still unclear whether the woman was kidnapped or she boarded the car of the accused with consent. As per the case registered by the Hisar police, the accused raped the woman in the moving car and the initial occurrence of the crime was shown near the Ludhiana bus stand. We will conduct further probe in the case to find out the exact truth,” added the SHO.The SHO said only one person Rakesh was mentioned in the FIR but the complainant was not aware of the residence of Rakesh and other five accused. The police would also identify the five other accused in the case. Two women Tarun and Mamta were known to the accused and both reportedly hatched the conspiracy of rape.The complainant, who is a resident of Amardas Nagar, Jalandhar, told the police that she lives with her cousin Tarun at Jalandhar, while her aunt (cousin’s mother) lives in Ludhiana.“My cousin Tarun recently introduced me to Mamta. Early morning on January 31, Mamta asked me to accompany the six men, who took me to Ludhiana in a bus. After reaching the bus stand, Rakesh applied vermilion on my forehead. The accused then started driving the car from the bus stand. Initially Rakesh raped me and then other persons raped me,” alleged the woman.The complainant alleged that later in the evening the accused dropped her on the road and fled. When she enquired about the place, she found herself in Hisar where she lodged a complaint.Sources said the police suspect some foul play in the story. The Hisar police FIR has ambiguity as the FIR has not mentioned why the victim woman boarded the car of the accused and why she allowed the accused to apply vermilion on her forehead. Even the woman claimed that the first rape was committed by Rakesh near the bus stand in the moving car early morning, despite the fact that the road near the bus stand remains crowded and why the woman had not raised an alarm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-raped-in-moving-car-dumped-at-hisar-8-booked-366618
03-02-2022||Chandigarh||Sub-Inspector, assistant lineman held for graft||The Haryana State Vigilance Bureau caught red-handed an assistant lineman (ALM) of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) and a police official while accepting bribe. Both officials were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act.An official spokesperson said in the first case the Bureau team caught Hariom, an ALM of the DHBVN posted at sub-division sub-urban, Palwal, while accepting a bribe of Rs5,000 from the complainant Dharamveer Nath for a correction in his electricity bill.In the other case, Jaichand, sub-inspector (SI), police station (Central) Faridabad, was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs1,000 from complainant Narender Nagar of Tigaon village. The cop demanded money for processing the case for filing charge-sheet in court. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sub-inspector-assistant-lineman-held-for-graft-366617
03-02-2022||Gurugram||3 get life term for killing girl||Almost a year after a 26-year-old techie woman was shot dead in Gurugram in 2020, a local court today sentenced three accused to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 7.5 lakh.MNC executive Pooja Sharma was shot by the trio on November 4, 2020, when she refused to lower the window pane of her car. She was with her fiancé Sagar Manchanda. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-get-life-term-for-killing-girl-366616
03-02-2022||Hisar||Book exhibition marks Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University  foundation day||A two-day book exhibition was inaugurated at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) to mark the 53rd foundation day of the university today.Vice-Chancellor Prof BR Kamboj garlanded the statues of Chaudhary Charan Singh and Tau Devi Lal to inaugurate the event. The exhibition was organised at Nehru Library of the university. Around 7,000 books are on display at the exhibition and 10 famous publishers from Delhi are participating. The main objective of the exhibition is to select books of the highest quality so that they are easily available at the library. — #hau||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-exhibition-marks-hau-foundation-day-366615
03-02-2022||---||Additional charge for IAS officer Pratima Choudhary||Chandigarh, February 2The Haryana Government has given additional charge of Special Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, to Pratima Choudhary, Additional Controller, Civil Defence, Ambala, and Director, Art and Cultural Affairs Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/additional-charge-for-ias-officer-366614
03-02-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad: 2 workers die cleaning sewer line||Two workers, engaged by a private contractor, died while cleaning a sewer line in Sector 14 here this evening.According to the police, the incident took place around 5.45 pm. The victims were identified as Balbir (50) and Pradeep (40). They died of asphyxiation soon after entering a manhole.The spot is located close to a restaurant and the owner of the restaurant had contacted the contractor to clean the choked sewage.The police shifted the bodies to the Civil Hospital for post-mortem. Naresh Shastri, president, Nagar Palika Karmachari Sangh, Haryana, demanded action against the contractor for not ensuring safety measures for the two workers hired for cleaning the sewage line. He demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh and government job to the kin of the victims. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-workers-die-cleaning-sewer-line-366612
03-02-2022||---||Youth gets 20-year jail for raping minor||Sonepat, February 2The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Suruchi Atreja Singh on Wednesday sentenced a youth to 20 years’ imprisonment for raping a 12-year-old minor.The court has also imposed a fine of Rs60,000 on the convict. The court further ordered that in case of non-payment of fine he would have to undergo further imprisonment of one year.A man from Uttar Pradesh in his complaint to the police on January 27, 2020, stated that he, along with his family, was living in rented accommodation at village in the Gannaur area of the district. He further stated that Amit of Safidon in Jind district was also living nearby.The complainant alleged that he had gone to work on January 24 while his wife went to doctor for medicines. Their 12-year-old daughter was alone at home, the complainant added.When his wife came home she found their daughter missing. They searched for their daughter here and there, but could not find her.Following the complaint, the police registered a case and recovered complainant’s daughter on January 28, 2020.During probe, the police found that Amit had taken complainant’s daughter to a room and raped her several times.The police arrested the convict and booked him for rape and under the POCSO Act on the basis of the medico-legal examination reports and the victim’s statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-gets-20-year-jail-for-raping-minor-366610
03-02-2022||---||PGIMS Rohtak to resume OPDs, elective surgeries||Rohtak, February 2The Rohtak PGIMS authorities have decided to resume OPDs and elective surgeries for non-Covid patients partially with effect from Monday.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Prof (Dr) Anita Saxena, Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, today.The UHS Registrar, Dr HK Aggarwal, said as of now, the trauma centre would continue to function as Covid hospital.PGIMS Director Dr SS Lohchab said the registration of patients at the OPDs would be done from 9 am to 11 am from Monday.PGIMS Medical Superintendent Dr Ishwar Singh said 50 per cent elective surgeries would also be resumed from Monday. #pgims rohtak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-hospital-to-resume-opds-elective-surgeries-366609
03-02-2022||Rohtak||VRS of PGIMS Rohtak Ortho Dept head approved||An appeal by faculty members of the Department of Orthopaedic at the PGIMS here to the University of Health Sciences (UHS) for not accepting voluntary retirement from services (VRS) request of Dr RC Siwach has failed to bear fruit as it has been approved by the authorities concerned.Dr Siwach, senior professor and Head, Department of Orthopaedics, had, on January 28, sought VRS after completing over 31 years service by sending a three-month notice to the Director, PGIMS. He cited personal and family reasons for his decision.Sources said the faculty members had yesterday written to Dr Anita Saxena, Vice-Chancellor, UHS, requesting her not to approve Dr Siwach’s VRS application stating that his services were required for patients. — #pgims rohtak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vrs-of-pgims-ortho-dept-head-approved-366606
03-02-2022||---||Inmate hangs himself from tree at Bhondsi jail||Gurugram, February 2A 26-year-old inmate of the Bhondsi jail committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree, near hospital, on the jail premises. Inmate’s family raised suspicion over him being murdered. A magisterial probe has been ordered into the matter.The deceased has been identified as Vijay Pal, a resident of Jhajjar district. The inmate was arrested last month after he was booked on the chargeof molestation.He reportedly approached jail warden to tell him about his poor health late Tuesday evening, but did not return. When the jail warden went to the hospital on the jail premises to check on the inmate, he found him hanging from a nearby tree.After getting information a team of the Bhondsi police station and judicial magistrate visited the spot where the inmate’s body was found hanging. A judicial probe has been ordered into the matter.“Vijay was sent for health check up to hospital on the jail premises. He sneaked out and hanged himself from a tree near the hospital,” said a police officer.The inmate’s family has, however, refused to believe the information. The family demanded an inquiry while alleging that he was murdered. The family said Vijay could have never committed suicide.Meanwhile, the police today handed over the body to inmate’s family after a post mortem examination, which was conducted by a board of doctors. The magisterial probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inmate-hangs-himself-from-tree-at-bhondsi-jail-366605
03-02-2022||---||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya flags off 2 trucks of Covid essentials||Chandigarh, February 2Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya today flagged off two vehicles carrying 110 oxygen concentrators, masks and other materials to be used in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. All this material has been provided by Red Cross Society of India. These life-saving essentials will be distributed among district branches of Haryana State Red Cross Society, for their further distribution among the needy.Dattatraya said Red Cross Society officials should get in touch with more and more social workers and organisations and apprise them about society activities in the state so that common men can also join them in serving society.Congratulating Red Cross Society family members for their work in helping people during the Covid-19 pandemic, Dattatraya said they were corona warriors.Six thousand volunteers of Indian Red Cross Society are working to spread awareness and facilitate vaccination to prevent the spread of the third Covid wave. #bandaru dattatraya||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governor-flags-off-2-trucks-of-covid-essentials-366602
03-02-2022||---||2 contractors use fake papers to get Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC projects, booked||Yamunanagar, February 2Two contractors were allegedly found to have used fake documents to get contracts related to development works in Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ).On the complaint of Ravi Obroi, Executive Engineer of MCYJ, two separate cases were registered against contractors Puneet Kamboj and Anil Chug at City police station, Yamunanagar, on February 1.Contractor Anil Chug was booked under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and contractor Puneet Kumar Kamboj was booked under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC. In his police complaint, the complainant said that the Municipal Corporation had called for online tenders to carry out development works in newly approved colonies of ward number 12, 21 and 22 of twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri in December 2021.He said that while participating in online tender process, contractor Anil Chug submitted an experience certificate issued by an Executive Engineer of Public Works Department (PWD), Jalandhar Cantonment. He further said that when they wrote a letter to the Executive Engineer of PWD, Jalandhar Cantonment, to check the authenticity of the certificate, the Executive Engineer replied that no such experience certificate had been issued to anyone named Anil Chug.The complainant further said that another contractor, Puneet Kumar Kamboj, also applied for the online tenders.He alleged that the documents related to ESI and EPF of the agency of Puneet Kamboj — submitted to participate in theonline tendering process — were found to be doubtful after which he was booked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-contractors-use-fake-papers-to-get-mc-projects-booked-366599
03-02-2022||---||Haryana told to file reply on 'flouting' of bail terms  by accused||Chandigarh, February 2Less than five years after 16-year-old boy Junaid was stabbed to death on a train, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the State of Haryana to file a fresh reply on the alleged flouting of bail conditions by the main accused in the case.The direction by Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition filed against the state and another respondent by the victim’s brother Mohammed Hasim through senior advocate RS Cheema with Tarannum Cheema for cancellation of interim bail granted to main accused Naresh by the High Court vide order dated October 3, 2018.Cheema submitted the respondent-accused had failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the interim bail after the passing of the order. He brought to the court’s notice two instances when the respondent allegedly committed breach of the terms and conditions of the order.Referring to a news report published in a newspaper dated May 6, 2019, Cheema contended it showed the respondent entered Faridabad district where he was attacked. The second incident allegedly related to contents of a speech delivered by him in a ‘maha panchayat’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-told-to-file-reply-on-flouting-of-bail-terms-by-accused-366594
03-02-2022||---||Gurugram bird park to have homestay facility||Gurugram, February 2Out to provide the much-awaited boost to wildlife tourism in the state, Haryana will replicate Tikkar Tal’s homestay pattern in Sultanpur and Bhindawas.The declaration was made by CM Manohar Lal Khattar who was in the city today for the World Wetlands Day celebrations at Sultanpur Lake. As per the plan, homestays, will be developed in nearby villages to allow bird watchers’ easy lodging and camping while experiencing Haryanvi culture.The event was attended by Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Bhupender Yadav, Union Minister of State for Forest and Environment, Ashwini Choubey and Haryana Forest and Education Minister Kanwar Pal.Boost for tourismEvery year, 50,000 birds of more than 100 species reach Sultanpur. Similarly, 40,000 birds of more than 80 species come to Bhindawas. Many tourists visit these and, thus, the homestay development would give a major boost to tourism. —Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterKhattar proudly announced that Haryana was only state to give “pension to trees”. The state provides an annual pension of Rs 2,500 to the family or institution taking care of trees that have completed 75 years. The state is also carrying out war-level rejuvenation of natural ponds.“The Forest Department has a record 49 lakes of the country at the Ramsar site, including Sultanpur and Bhindawas lakes of Haryana. In future, work will be done to get 75 lakes of the country registered in the Ramsar sites. We should try to beautify these lakes and save these,” added Bhupender Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ggram-bird-park-to-have-homestay-facility-366593
03-02-2022||Karnal||Karnal: NDRI produces two cloned buffalo calves||Continuing with their success in the field of cloning, scientists of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), here, have achieved another milestone by producing two more cloned buffalo calves from somatic cells of elite bull and buffalo.Both were produced recently. After observing their health status for some days, the NDRI declared this now.With these two male and female calves, the NDRI has so far produced over 25 cloned animals. Of them 11 are alive and have good health. Out of the alive cloned animals both bulls and buffaloes are reproductively normal. The male animals are producing quality semen while female have produced several calves. “The team members comprising Dr Manoj Kumar Singh, Senior Scientist, Dr Naresh Selokar, Dr SS Lathwal, Principal Scientist, Dr Subhash Chand, Technical Officer and others have been successful in producing two calves, including female named ‘Karnika’ on December 20 and male ‘Gantantra’ on January 26. Both are having good health,” said Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan, Director, NDRI.“Both the calves have been produced with the help of somatic cells of elite male and female buffaloes. Female calf has been produced from cell of the buffalo, which has given 6,089-kg milk in fifth lactation. It is a top buffalo of its group. The male calf has been produced from elite germplasm of male buffalo,” said Director. — #NDRI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ndri-produces-two-cloned-buffalo-calves-366590
03-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Ambala MC names and shames tax defaulters||Ambala, February 2Acting tough against property tax defaulters, the Ambala Municipal Corporation has uploaded six lists on its website, making the names of tax defaulters public.The defaulters include commercial property owners, industries, fuel pumps, educational institutions, marriage palaces, hospitals, government offices and banks. To recover taxes, the corporation has been sealing the buildings and pasting show cause notices as well.An official said the tax defaulters owe from Rs 12,000 to Rs 53 lakh in the form of property tax. Despite repeated notices and appeals, a large number of tax payers failed to settle their dues. The corporation had been taking action against the defaulters by sealing their properties and soon after the action, the owners also reach the corporation to settle their dues. Still a large number of people were yet to clear their dues following which six lists mentioning names of over 800 business houses, commercial spaces, property owners, offices, schools, colleges, hospitals and banks under the limits of the Ambala Municipal Corporation have been made public.Ambala Deputy Municipal Commissioner Aman Dhanda told The Tribune that property tax was one of the main sources of revenue for the Municipal Corporation. “Though notices are served, people still claim they were not aware of the pending dues whenever officials go to take action. They even claim that the tax was not assessed properly. Their names used to remain in public domain in the past as well, but this time we have put up lists on the website too so that people can check and pay their dues in time and even get those corrected if they have any objection,” he said.“The corporation has recovered around Rs 10 crore in the past one year and still over Rs 5 crore are pending. Besides individuals and business houses, there are government offices on the list and we are taking up the matter with the departments concerned. The taxes will be recovered from all and there will no exemption. The corporation is serving notices but if they fail to pay taxes, the corporation will be forced to take strict action and it may include legal route and sealing of property,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-mc-names-and-shames-tax-defaulters-366588
03-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Protest over stalled ROB work in Palwal||Palwal, February 2A protest has been launched by residents here against the delay in the construction of the railway overbridge (ROB) at the Rasoolpur level crossing here. The work has been lying suspended for the past about a year, it is reported.Announcing an indefinite dharna, a spokesperson of the protesters said though the work on the ROB was started in October 2018, the authorities concerned had failed to complete it even in three and a half years, resulting in inconvenience to thousands of commuters daily.Tough for sick, expectant womenResidents have to travel extra 30 km to reach their destination as the level crossing has been lying closed for over three years. Transporting sick and expectant mothers to hospital is a major issue. —Kuldeep Baisla, Resident of lulwari villageRamkaran Bhardwaj, a local resident, said protest was the last option as the project had been hanging fire for about four years. Claiming that the work got halted about a year ago, he said this had left thousands of residents at the receiving end, as they had to face dust and dirty civic conditions round-the-clock with no direct passage to cross the railway tracks.Describing the matter as grave, Yogender Dagar, Rajkumar Garg and Surender, local residents, said the stir might be intensified if the work was not resumed soon.Residents of the areas located near the project site had earlier cut off the water supply from the booster pump on September 26 last year on the same issue to seek early resumption of the work.However, claiming that the delay was mainly on part of the Railways, Rahul Singh, Executive Engineer, Haryana State Roads and Bridge Development Corporation (HSRBDC), building the ROB, said the work was stopped after the Railways took up the work of laying the girders of the overbridge. He said while the matter had been taken up with the authorities, the HSRBDC had completed 65 per cent of the work. It was revealed that while the Railways had issued a notice to its contractor, the HSRBDC had also imposed Rs46 lakh penalty on its contractor. #palwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protest-over-stalled-rob-work-366586
03-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Poor roads irk locals in Sonepat city||Sonepat, February 2Sonepat city residents are a harried lot as all major roads in posh sectors here are riddled with potholes. Alleging that they have been forced to face these problems due to a political tussle between the ruling and the Opposition parties, locals say they have raised the issue before the authorities several times but to no avail.The roads including main entry road of Sector 15, Geeta Bhawan chowk, Purkhas Adda road, Old DC road, Sector 14 entry road, Baba Dham road, Sector 12, Sector 23 and other main roads in the city are in deplorable condition. One side of the old Rohtak-Sonepat flyover too has potholes, which are usually filled with sewage water.Two projects in pipelineWe have planned to lay a new storm water drainage line of 2-ft in Sector 14 and 15 so that the waterlogging problem is addressed. Besides, a proposal to construct a new RMC road of M-40 grade is in the pipeline. Tenders for both the projects have been floated. —Nikhil Madaan, MayorThe councillors, at a meeting with the Commissioner recently, had raised the issue of broken roads, poor drainage system, overflowing sewage and poor supply of potable water in the city.Mohan Singh Manocha, president, Sonepat Nagar Sudhar Manch and general secretary of Sector 15 Resident Welfare Association, said the main entry road in the sector had been in a state of neglect for the past three years.“The drainage system collapsed in Sector 15. Around two-ft deep water logged on the main road during monsoon and it did not drain out even after 18 hours,” he said, adding: “We have raised the issues of poor roads and drainage before the public representatives and officials but to no avail.”Residents blame the internal tussle amid the BJP and Congress for the problems. The MLA and Mayor belong to the Congress. They said no one paid heed to them as they were from the Opposition party.Anil Gupta, who had contested from Ward 15 unsuccessfully, said no road in the city was in good condition. “Even the main flyover on the Sonepat-Rohtak road is in dilapidated condition. It has over two-ft wide potholes, which are mostly filled with sewage water,” he alleged.Rajiv Jain, former media coordinator of the Chief Minister and BJP leader, said the city roads were in worst condition and needed to be immediately repaired. He also wrote a letter to the MC Commissioner to start the repair work at the earliest, Jain asserted.Mayor Nikhil Madaan said: “We have planned to lay a new storm water drainage line of 2-ft in Sector 14 and 15 so that the waterlogging problem is addressed. Besides, a proposal to construct a new RMC road of M-40 grade is in the pipeline. Tenders for both the projects have been floated.” #sonepat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-roads-irk-locals-in-sonepat-city-366584
03-02-2022||---||Security beefed up on Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border||Yamunanagar, February 2The police have intensified vigil on the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border in Yamunanagar district. The step has been taken to prevent liquor smuggling and entry of rowdy elements into poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP).The Yamunanagar district police have put up ‘nakas’ (check posts) at two places on the border at Kalanaur village and Hathnikund Barrage where all vehicles going towards the UP from Yamunanagar district are being checked.Saharanpur district of the UP shares its border with Yamunanagar district. The UP is scheduled to have a seven-phase election from February 10 to March 7.The Superintendent of Police (SP), Yamunanagar, Kamaldeep Goyal, along with the Deputy Excise and Taxation Officer (Excise), Amit Khanagwal, visited the ‘nakas’ at Kalanaur village and Hathnikund Barrage yesterday.The SP asked the staff members posted at ‘nakas’ to check every vehicle to prevent liquor smuggling and to keep a strict vigil on the movement of suspicious persons.Besides visiting check points at the border, the SP, along with DETC, also visited the distillery, situated in the Industrial Area, Yamunanagar. The SP asked the DETC to keep a tab on the movement of all vehicles loading liquor from Yamunanagar distillery.He also asked the authorities of the distillery to maintain the record of production and supply of the liquor and submit it with the police every day.He asked them to keep the CCTV cameras functional at the distillery. According to information, the officials of Yamunanagar and Saharanpur districts had also held a meeting in Yamunanagar recently over the UP Assembly elections. The purpose of the meeting was to prevent liquor smuggling and to keep a strict vigil on the movement of suspicious persons on the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-beefed-up-on-haryana-uttar-pradesh-border-366581
03-02-2022||---||BKU to oppose BJP in UP, Uttarakhand, says Gurnam Singh Charuni||Kurukshetra, February 2Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni today said that Haryana farmers would oppose BJP candidates in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in the Assembly elections. They would campaign for the candidates of Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP) who are contesting on 10 seats in Punjab.As part of Mission Punjab, Gurnam Singh Charuni had floated Sanyukt Sangharsh Party last year.Charuni held a meeting with the state body of his union at Jat Dharmashala in Kurukshetra on Wednesday.To campaign for SSP in punjabFarm activists will campaign for the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party candidates in Punjab Assembly elections where we have announced candidates on 10 seats. We have an alliance with Sanyukt Samaj Morcha in Punjab. Duties are being assigned to activists for the campaign. —Gurnam Singh Charuni, BNKU (charuni) chiefSpeaking to mediapersons, Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “A meeting was held to decide the future course of action. It has been decided that farm activists from Haryana will oppose the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in the Assembly elections.“We will appeal to the farmers and labourers of Uttar Pradesh to avenge the killing of farmers in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and also the deaths of over 750 farmers during the farm agitation. The BJP has not fulfilled its promises. We have to vote against the BJP to pay tribute to the deceased farmers and help the farmers who have been booked in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The voters will be asked to give their votes to good candidates of their choice and boycott the BJP.“The farm activists will campaign for the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party candidates in Punjab elections where we have announced candidates on 10 seats. We have an alliance with Sanyukt Samaj Morcha in Punjab. Duties are being assigned for the campaign. Our aim is to bring the right people ahead and purify politics,” he added.To a query, Charuni said, “Rakesh Tikait has contested elections twice. The comrades also contest elections. Yogendra Yadav has his own party and there are many others in the Samyukt Kisan Morcha who have contested elections. Moreover, the SKM was formed to raise the issues of the three farm laws and minimum support price. It was formed on a minimum agenda and not on all the agendas of this world. Every organisation has the right to contest or not contest elections.” #gurnam singh charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-to-oppose-bjp-in-up-ukhand-says-charuni-366579
03-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||High Court raps Haryana police for 'investigational apathy'||Chandigarh, February 2Taking cognisance of a growing tendency among the investigating officers to mechanically label accused as uncooperative even after joining the probe, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has told the Haryana Director-General of Police and Gurugram Commissioner of Police to look into their conduct.Describing the conduct of such officers as “highly deplorable”, Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill of the High Court has also rapped the investigating agency for “investigational apathy”. Justice Gill asserted that it was worth mentioning that the High Court had earlier noticed in umpteen cases that investigating officers passed on instructions to the Advocate-General’s office that the accused had joined the probe. But he was not cooperating with the investigating agency. “As a matter of fact, such a mechanism on the investigating officer’s part had become a growing tendency in the recent past. The instant case is a classic example of the lacklustre approach and investigational apathy on the probing agency’s part,” Justice Gill asserted.The matter was brought to Justice Gill’s notice after the accused filed a petition, seeking anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on September 18, 2019, at the DLF Phase-II police station in Gurugram for cheating and criminal conspiracy under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and the provisions of the Haryana Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment Act, 2013.Justice Gill observed that the petitioner’s counsel, on one hand, produced an acknowledgement/receipt issued by the investigating officer, mentioning that he had joined the probe. The investigating officer, on the other hand, stated that the petitioner had indeed joined the investigation. Yet he was not cooperating with the investigating agency.Justice Gill further observed that the perusal of the acknowledgment/ receipt made it apparent that the investigating officer did not mention even a single word about the petitioner not cooperating with the investigating agency. Ironically, he took a contrary stand in the “pairvi report”. Such an act and conduct on the investigating officers’ part in the State of Haryana, especially in Gurugram District, was highly deplorable.“As such, the State counsel is directed to impress upon the Director-General of Police, Haryana, and the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, to look into the conduct of such investigating officers,” Justice Gill ordered.Before parting with the case, Justice Gill added that the petitioner had joined investigation and the fact was duly authenticated by the investigating officer as deciphered from the acknowledgment/receipt. As such, the petition was allowed and order dated November 8, 2019, granting interim bail to the petitioner was made absolute.Cheating caseThe admonition came in a cheating case, where the State counsel — on instructions from the official concerned — submitted that the accused had joined the probe as directed, but was not cooperating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-raps-state-police-for-investigational-apathy-366577
03-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||23 to 50, villages with over 1,000 sex ratio rise in Rohtak||Rohtak, February 2Giving health authorities a reason to cheer, Rohtak has witnessed a two-fold rise in the number of villages having sex ratio at birth (girls per 1,000 boys) of more than 1,000.As many as 23 villages of Rohtak district, which had in the past gained notoriety for skewed gender ratio, had registered a sex ratio at birth (SRB) of more than 1,000 in 2020. The count of such villages rose to 50 in 2021, according to data prepared by the ANM (auxiliary nursing midwifery) association.Significantly, five villages recorded the SRB of more than 1,400, including Sisroli (1,428), Basantpur (1,545), Garhi Majra (1,833), Singhpur Khas (1,875) and Patwapur (1,923).It was last year that Rohtak district had topped the SRB tally across the state with the SRB of 945 girls even as Haryana’s average stood at 914. In 2020, Rohtak was ranked 16th with the SRB of 912. Earlier, Rohtak had recorded the SRB of 911 in 2019, 895 in 2018, 891 in 2017, 905 in 2016 and 859 in 2015.“We have toiled hard for long to achieve the target. Fortytwo raids have been conducted under the PC-PNDT Act since 2015 to unearth pre-natal sex determination rackets,” said Dr Vikas Saini, Nodal Officer (PNDT), Rohtak. He said 40 villages in the district still had the SRB of less than 800 and now they were focusing on these areas.Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla said special campaigns to make people aware about the ills of gender imbalance seemed to have worked. #sex ratio||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/23-to-50-villages-with-over-1-000-sex-ratio-rise-in-rohtak-366519
