04-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Can State restrict employment on domicile basis is the core issue: Punjab and Haryana HC||Chandigarh, February 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the core issue for adjudication before the court was whether a State could restrict employment even in the private sector on the basis of domicile. The assertion came in the detailed order staying the implementation of the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, providing 75 per cent reservation in Haryana industries for the domiciles of the State.Also read: Haryana moves Supreme Court against High Court order staying 75 per cent quota for locals in private jobsIn the order released on Friday, the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain asserted the counsel for the petitioners prayed for interim relief. On the question of stay, Solicitor-General of India Tushar Mehta candidly conceded that the writ petitions involved substantial questions, but vehemently opposed the prayer for interim relief.His first argument was that there was always a presumption of constitutionality of a statutory provision. Though the writ court had ample jurisdiction to ultimately hold that a statutory provision was unconstitutional, interim orders should not be granted. His second argument was that the insinuation that this law would affect even existing employees was incorrect. The law was prospective and saved all the existing staff.The third argument was that about 38,000 registered domicile workers and about 900 establishments had registered under the Act. This showed that only a handful of people were opposed to the Act’s implementation. “We have considered these arguments, but the core issue is whether any State can restrict employment (even in the private Sector) on the basis of domicile,” the Bench observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/can-state-restrict-employment-on-domicile-basis-is-the-core-issue-punjab-and-haryana-hc-367046
04-02-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  Chandigarh||Gurugram money heist: How doctors and a gangster planned multicrore burglary||The owners are claiming that theft in their flats was of just Rs 50 lakh, but the Special Task Force (STF) of Haryana Police investigating the burglary have already recovered cash, gold bricks, and US dollars worth close to Rs 6 crore from accused who range from doctors to gangsters, and also a Haryana IPS officer.  The curious case of this Gurugram burglary has unraveled in the last five months. The court hearing the case has commented that it is also a case of money laundering as well Income Tax Act.  As per the STF chargesheet, Santosh Singh, an employee of Alpha G Corp Management Services Private Ltd, filed a case of theft on August 21, 2021, at Kherki Daula police station. The previous day, he had discovered that cash and documents related to flats were stolen from the firm’s office-cum-flats in Sector 84, Gurugram. On August 26, Santosh Singh for the first time put the quantum of theft at Rs 50 lakh. He said that the amount was got collected after a land deal, and from their customers. He named the firm’s two employees—Praveen Singh and Mohit Kumar—as suspects. Both knew about the cash.  Praveen Singh and Mohit Kumar were arrested on September 11, 2021. From there onwards, the crime branch of Haryana Police made a number of arrests including ASI Vikas Kumar of the Delhi Police. Gangster Vikas Lagarpur’s name crime also figured.   DGP PK Agrawal transferred the case to STF on October 30. Till then, only Rs 2.15 lakh cash was recovered in the case.  As ASI Vikas Kumar had named Sandeep and Dr Ashwani Kumar in his statement; they were arrested on November 9, 2021. They were into the finance business and used to take the help of Lagarpuria for recovering their money.   Further on their disclosure statements, Dr Sachinder Jain Nawal and Dr Gurpratap Singh were arrested.  Shyam Singh, an employee of Alpha G Corp, who was known Dr Gurpratap Singh told him about unaccounted cash worth crores stashed in the company’s flats.  Dr Gurpratap Singh went along with Shyam Singh and shared the information with Dr Nawal in July that Rs 30-40 crore had been lying in the flats.  Dr Nawal had told STF that he had contacted then DCP Dheeraj Setia IPS, but he refused saying that the area didn’t fall under his jurisdiction. He had then contacted Lagarpuria. The gangster was the nephew of his driver, Joginder, who had introduced them.  The theft was then committed on the night of August 3, 2021. The stolen amount was handed over to ASI Vikas Kumar, Sandeep, and Dr Ashwani Kumar.   According to the STF, the accused transferred cash in gunny bags, cloth sheet, and bags twice from flats to the basement through the lift. They left in a Scorpio SUV at 11:19 pm-11:20 pm from the society building. Sandeep told the STF that ASI Vikas Kumar had brought cash which came out to be Rs 9.50 crore after counting and had taken one of the bags with him.  According to Joginder, the stolen booty was to be divided equally among Dr Nawal and Vikas Lagapuria and before theft Dr Nawal and Dr Gurpratap had conducted a recce of the area too.  Both Sandeep and Dr Ashwani got recovered a total of Rs 1.91 crore in cash, US $ 64,500, 3 gold bricks of 1 kg each on November 10-total recovery was Rs 3.90 crore.  As per Dr Nawal’s statement, Lagarpuria called up him on September 5/6 to get the matter hushed up. He sent a bag containing gold, dollars, and cash worth Rs 2.50 crore for Setia. Thereafter, Lagarpuria again asked Dr Nawal to contact Setia as the police were apprehending his people. Setia said that the matter was out of his hands as it had taken the shape of a scandal. He kept a few thousand dollars and returned the rest of the cash and gold.  Once again, Rs 2 crore was sent to Dr Nawal through Dr Ashwani for hushing up the case. Setia again refused.   Dr Ashwani got recovered two recordings of a conversation between Dr Nawal and Lagarpuria. The gangster was asking him to settle the matter through Setia and also told him that his share would be given after that. He was seeking better treatment of his men by the police.   On December 7, Ravinder Dahiya, a native of Sonipat, was arrested. He got recovered Rs 1.83 crore from his possession.  On December 8, STF interrogated the firm's Ashish Sareen and Vinod Chaudhary under a spy camera who revealed that for purchasing 3-acre land in sector 28 of Gurugram, Rs 30 crore was kept in the flats.    #gurugram money heist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-money-heist-how-doctors-and-a-gangster-planned-multicrore-burglary-367013
04-02-2022||Karnal||Karnal: 16 arrested in fake passport scam||Karnal Police said they arrested 16 involved in a fake passport scam on Friday.Police said they’d identified 21 people as being involved in the racket. Three of these are agents—one from Ambala, another from Delhi, and the third from Karnal. Two policemen, one employee from the passport department and one from the local post office were among those arrested, police said.Police are looking into passports that were issued in the last four years, Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said to the press.Most of those who were issued fake passports were from Punjab. Police claimed they’d identified at least 21 passports as forged. Police claimed most of the fake passport holders faced some criminal charges and wanted to flee.Fake documents were used to make the passports, Punia said.“We have registered seven FIRs in the case at the Sector-32/33 police station," Punia told the press.The two cops have been suspended from service pending investigations, he said. #fake passport racket||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-16-arrested-in-fake-passport-scam-367007
04-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||3 days on, 24% attendance in Haryana govt schools||Rohtak, February 3After three days, the reopening of government schools from class X to XII is yet to attain momentum as merely 24 per cent students attended classes across the state on Thursday.Yamunanagar, which happens to be home district of Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar, is among the three districts that have lowest attendance in the state.Officials at the Department of School Education observe that Covid fear is forcing parents not to send their wards to schools as a considerable number of Covid cases are being detected daily in the state. The schools were reopened on February 1 and 22 per cent attendance of students was registered in the government schools across the state on that day.The officials were hoping for a significant rise in students’ strength within a couple of days, but merely 2 per cent increase was recorded on the third day.As many as 11 districts witnessed students’ attendance less than the state average of 24 per cent.“A total of 67,117 students came to school on Thursday. Mahendragarh topped with 48 per cent followed by Jind (44 per cent), Fatehabad (41 per cent) and Jhajjar (38 per cent). Nuh and Kaithal recorded lowest attendance of 4 per cent each followed by Yamunanagar (9 per cent), Palwal (13 per cent) and Panchkula (14 per cent),” said sources. Sources maintained Nuh district was also lagging in terms of students’ vaccination. It is on the bottom and has registered 58 per cent vaccination against the state average of 88 per cent. Nuh is followed by Rohtak and Hisar with 79 per cent vaccination. Vijay Luxmi, District Education Officer, Rohtak, admitted that parents were still apprehensive about sending their wards to school but claimed attendance was improving day by day and it would become better in some days.On being asked, the DEO denied that vaccination was a major reason behind the low attendance stating that teachers take students to nearby the health centre for vaccination if any unvaccinated student comes to school. Inclement weather was also adversely affecting attendance, she added.Sudarshan Punia, Nodal Officer (Saksham), Jhajjar, said parents were in a wait-and-watch mode and were observing the situation before sending their children to school. “We are also motivating parents to prepare their wards to go to school,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-days-on-24-attendance-in-govt-schools-366844
04-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Stay at home, HC tells live-in couple who sought security||Chandigarh, February 3In a first of its kind judgment, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has virtually ordered a stay-in curfew for a live-in couple after they expressed safety concerns.Linked to threat perceptionThe petitioners may do away with police protection even before the week’s expiry if they no longer require it. After that, the officials concerned will extend the protection on a day-to-day analysis of the ground realities or upon their oral or written request. Justice Anoop ChitkaraThe Bench ordered protection to the couple on the condition that they would not move out except for medical purposes, buying household necessities or bereavements.“This restriction saves the petitioners from apprehended risk and ensures that the protection is not flaunted,” Justice Anoop Chitkara of the High Court asserted, while taking up the petition filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by the couple through counsel Sanchit Punia.Justice Chitkara observed the couple, fearing for their lives and liberty at the hands of the respondent-kin, had moved the court seeking protection through the State by invoking their fundamental right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.Justice Chitkara added that the petitioners— in a live-in relationship — were major, though one of them was not of marriageable age. The allegations and apprehensions of threat to their lives might result in an irreversible loss, if these turned out to be true. As such, it would be appropriate in the facts and circumstances peculiar to the case that the Superintendent of Police, the Station House Officer, or any officer to whom such powers have been delegated may provide appropriate protection to the petitioners for a week.Justice Chitkara further added that the petitioners might do away with the protection even before the week’s expiry, if they no longer required it. After that, the officials concerned would extend the protection on a day-to-day analysis of the ground realities or upon their oral or written request.Justice Chitkara clarified that the order would not operate as a blanket bail in any FIR and would not come in the way if their interrogation was required in any cognisable case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stay-at-home-hc-tells-live-in-couple-who-sought-security-366845
04-02-2022||---||Haryana quota case: Next legal step soon, says Dushyant Chautala||Karnal/Chandigarh, Feb 3Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on being asked about the stay by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on reserving 75 per cent posts for Haryana domicile in private sector, today said in a Karnal village that they have been making efforts for jobs to youths of Haryana and would continue to do so.Also read: HC stays Haryana's 75% quota in pvt sector jobsState Govt fails to defend ‘jumla’The government had recently raised the 'jumla' of giving 75% reservation to the youth of the state in private jobs, but this government could not even defend this in court, which was why it had been rejected by the court. — Bhupinder Singh Hooda, LOP“We will raise the issue in the High Court strongly and, if required, in the Supreme Court,” said the CM. Citing the example of the issue of panchayats having all literate representatives, he said, “We had initiated the step of educated panchayats and it was stayed by the High Court. We even went to the Supreme Court to implement the step.”Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today expressed optimism that the Haryana Government’s Local Employment Act would pass the judicial procedure and the youth would get the right to employment.He stated that he was awaiting the written copy of the court’s stay order and would evaluate it as quickly as possible with government’s legal experts. He said after reviewing the written order, the state government would soon take the next legal step and get this law implemented in the state.He added that all alternative provisions had been given in the law clarifying the doubts and problems of the industrialists and it was a constitutionally sound law.Meanwhile, former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today took on the BJP-JJP government “for its failure to defend its own ‘jumla’ of providing 75% reservation to local youth before the court”.“The state government has completely failed on the unemployment front. Haryana has been on the top in terms of unemployment for the past three years. First the BJP, and then the BJP-JJP coalition, has not been able to formulate any effective policy to overcome unemployment.”He added that to divert attention from this, the government had recently raised the “jumla” of giving 75% reservation to the youth of the state in private jobs, but this government could not even defend this in court, which was why it had been rejected by the court.Hooda, citing the latest Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE)’s data, pointed out that Haryana topped the country in unemployment in January also.The Leader of Opposition said the state had about 25 lakh educated unemployed and, if the government was serious about unemployment, it would have to complete all pending recruitment soon.“About 50,000 posts are lying vacant in the Education Department alone. The government will have to fill thousands of vacant posts in different departments, including education,” he said. #bhupinder hooda #dushyant chautala #Reservation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/quota-case-next-legal-step-soon-says-dy-cm-366848
04-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: NHAI nod to changes in NH-44 layout||Karnal, February 3The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has given its approval for change of scope on the National Highway-44, between the Nirmal Kutiya Chowk and Government College Chowk.Exit point from main laneDemarcation doneWe have completed the survey work and demarcation of the point. The work will be started soon. — Bhanu Pratap Singh, Section Engineer, NHAI , AmbalaUnder the plan, the present entry point between both the chowks will be closed and an exit point from the main lane to the service lane will be made. Presently, this entry point is being used to access the main lane of the NH-44 from the service lane.It was a long-pending demand of the residents here. Nirmal Kutiya Chowk is one of the main chowks of the city, as the diversions from it lead to the Mini Secretariat, key government offices in Sector 12, banking sector, Nirmal Kutiya, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Trauma Centre, Civil Hospital and others. In the absence of an exit point, the commuters had to travel to the ITI Chowk and then take a U-turn to return to the Nirmal Kutiya-hospital road.“The issue was been raised at the meetings of the district-level road safety committee for the past three years. I have apprised the higher authorities of the NHAI about the problems being faced by the commuters. Now, the NHAI has given permission for the change of scope on the NH,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-chairman of the committee.The NHAI authorities claimed that the work would be started soon. “We have completed the survey work and demarcation of the point. Presently, the agency is working at an exit point near Umri in Kurukshetra and after the completion of that point, the manpower with machines will be pressed into service here in Karnal,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, section engineer of the NHAI, Ambala. This will be made as per the norms and regulations of the Indian Road Congress (IRC), he said.The locals are elated with decision. “We had raised the issue with the district authorities several times. We are happy that the work will be done soon,” said Sagar Nagpal, a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nhai-nod-to-changes-in-nh-44-layout-366849
04-02-2022||---||Year after facing farmers' ire, Khattar visits Karnal village||Karnal, February 3Over a year after “facing the wrath” of protesting farmers, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday visited Kaimla village.Helipad was vandalisedThe village had grabbed headlines after farmers forced the CM to abandon his public meeting on January 10, 2021. His stage and helipad were also vandalised on that day by farmers protesting against the three farm laws.After paying obeisance at a temple, which was also scheduled, the CM addressed the residents and announced a ‘langar’ hall, renovation of ponds and a biogas plant in Kaimla.He did not want to go into the details of last year’s incident and said, “I was to come here last year, but circumstances did not allow my helicopter to land. I do not want to go into the details of that incident and will think of the future. Today, I came and paid obeisance here.”The CM is on a two-day visit of the district. His first programme was at Kaimla village where he was welcomed by the locals. Later, the CM was welcomed by residents of Barsat, Jamalpur and Panori villages.Accompanied by local MLA Harvinder Kalyan, the CM also reviewed the work of the NCC Academy in Ariapura village. Later in the evening, the CM also started the project of replacement of 25,000 conventional lights with LED lights at Ram Nagar.On the statement of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi about two countries and suppressing the voice of various agencies, the CM said that the Congress was saying what it had done during its tenure.The CM claimed that the BJP is performing well in the Assembly elections in five states. He said that the BJP would form the government in UP, Uttarakhand and Manipur. We will perform well in Punjab also and will form the government with like-minded parties,” said the Chief Minister. #farmers protest #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/year-after-facing-farmers-ire-khattar-visits-karnal-village-366852
04-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Delay in dues irks Ambala sugarcane farmers||Ambala, February 3Sugarcane farmers in Ambala continue to face a tough time, like in previous seasons, as the Naraingarh sugar mill couldn’t ensure timely payment to the farmers who have supplied sugarcane to the mill since the season started in November last year.Only Rs12.61 cr cleared, Rs73 cr pendingThe farmers delivered over 23.48 lakh quintals sugarcane worth around Rs85 crore till January 31. The payment of Rs12.61 crore up to Dec 4 has been cleared so far, while the payment of Rs73 crore is due. — Rajiv Sharma, General secy & Spokesman, BKU(Charuni)The farmers rue that they are forced to hold protests and make repeated requests to get their payments. Even the Rs 27.59-crore cash payment of the previous season that ended in April was cleared in December last year.Vinod Rana, president, Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said, “The mill started operations for the current season on November 23 and so far, payments up to December 4 have been cleared. Due to excess rainfall, the farmers have suffered wheat and mustard crop loss, and the payments of sugarcane are also stuck. In such conditions, farmers are finding it hard to manage their expenses. Moreover, the post-dated cheques of the previous season are also pending. A kisan panchayat has been called on February 7 to discuss the issue, and this time the committee will take a strict decision.”Sub-Divisional Magistrate Naraingarh Niraj, who is also holding the charge of the chief executive officer of the mill, said, “So far in this season, the mill has cleared around Rs 27.59 crore payment and around Rs 24 crore PDC (post-dated cheques) of the previous season, while around Rs 12.61 crore of the current season has been released. Due to the recent rainfall, the sugarcane didn’t reach the mill due to which the operations were stopped for around six days, and the production of sugar was affected. Besides, the price of sugar in the market was also ruling on the lower side due to which the mill couldn’t sell sugar. But things are coming back on track. On Monday, the mill released around Rs 90 lakh and all efforts are on to ensure timely payment to farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delay-in-dues-irks-sugarcane-farmers-366853
04-02-2022||---||Scheduled Caste plan funds diverted to other development works in Karnal||Karnal, February 3Funds running into lakhs, sanctioned for the Scheduled Caste Sub-Plan (SCSP), have been used for other development works like installing water harvesting systems in parks, near the IG office and schools, on high-mast and solar lights, construction of paths in educational institutions, and other works.To be used where majority population is SCAs per officials, the SCSP funds can be used only in the area where majority of population is of the Scheduled Caste (SC) community.This was revealed in a reply of an RTI query filed by city-based activist Rajesh Sharma, who sought information from the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), about the usage of the SCSP funds from the financial year 2016-17 to 2020-21.In 2016-17, besides utilising funds in the areas of the SC community, the KMC spent Rs2.42 lakh on the installation of high-mast light near a temple in Ward No. 12. Besides, funds were spent on construction of rooms and paths in schools.Solar light was also installed in Sector 7 at cost of Rs49,000, the KMC stated in its reply.Similarly, in 2017-18, funds were spent on various development works of different schools and installing of water harvesting system in Ward No. 2. In 2018-19, funds were used on various works in different government schools in the city, the KMC added.In 2019-20, Rs8 lakh was spent on construction of the two lanes in Sector 13, which is posh area of the city, the KMC stated in its reply. Besides, Rs6.50 lakh was spent on toilets and fixing of lights in Sector 7, Rs1.84 lakh installing fence at Mata Parkash Deaf and Dumb School, Rs2.25 lakh on installing five solar light in a corner of park in Sector 7, Rs4 lakh on the development of a park in Sector 8 and Rs7.36 lakh on installing rainwater harvesting systems near the IG office, Atal Park and cricket ground in Sector 9, the KMC added.In 2020-21, Rs2.41 lakh was used on development of the basketball ground in Sector 6 and Rs6.59 lakh was spent on the construction of boundary wall, laying interlocking paver blocks and sewer pipeline on the Nari Niketan premises in the city, the KMC stated in its reply.Yogesh Kumar, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), said the issue had come to his notice and he will get it checked. “Generally, funds of this head are used in the area where maximum population of the SC community resides,” the ADC added. #scheduled caste||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scheduled-caste-plan-funds-diverted-to-other-development-works-in-karnal-366856
04-02-2022||---||Woman 'raped' on promise of loan||Yamunanagar, February 3A woman was allegedly gang raped by three persons in Bilaspur town of Yamunanagar district on the pretext of providing her dairy farm loan from a bank.On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against three persons under Sections 342, 376-D and 506 of the IPC at Bilaspur police station on February 1.In her police complaint, the victim said that a man made a call on the mobile number of her woman friend and told her that he provided dairy farm loan. She said that she and her woman friend went to Bilaspur town from their village falling under Chhachhrauli police station on February 1.She alleged that he (caller) took them to a house in Bilaspur town on the pretext of having a meeting with the bank manager. She further alleged that he took her inside a house but asked her woman friend to stand outside the house.“Two persons were having liquor in the house. I was made to sit in a room. After sometime, the trio came into my room. I tried to flee from there but they bolted the room from inside. One of them had a broken glass bottle in his hand. They raped me by keeping the broken bottle on my neck,” alleged the victim.She said that when they entered her room, they told her that they belonged to Kapuri village of Yamunanagar district and would soon get her loan passed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-raped-on-promise-of-loan-366857
04-02-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Illegal dairies thrive in Yamunanagar, Jagadhri residential areas||Yamunanagar, February 3More than 150 unauthorised dairies are still operating in twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri as the Municipal Corporation Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) failed to shift those to four dairy complexes in the cities’ outskirts.Four complexes on cities’ outskirtsLocals complain of inconvenience and foul smell in the area as dairy owners throw dung in the open spaces, which are becoming breeding ground for mosquitoes. It is alleged that the MCYJ authorities took no concrete action against these illegal dairies.“Heaps of dung can be seen lying in open spaces at numerous places in twin cities. Its smell is unbearable. These places have become breeding ground for mosquitoes and flies, causing health-related problems,” said Anil Kumar of Yamunanagar.Himanshu of Jagadhri said wastewater of dairies and in some cases dung was discharged into drains, leading to problems of clogging and water pollution.He said the MCYJ authorities had started a drive to close down unauthorised dairies, but the drive lost steam and dairies continued to flourish in residential areas. According to information, four dairy complexes — one each in Kail, Darwa, Raipur and Aurangabad villages — situated in the outskirts of twin cities are spread over about 50 acres. As many as 609 plots have been allotted to dairy owners in these complexes.Sources said there were more than 350 dairies in twin cities, but only 194 dairies had so far been shifted to dairy complexes. The remaining 156 are still operating from twin cities.A dairy owner in Jagadhri said the complexes, which lack even basic facilities, were far from the twin cities, so most of the dairy owners didn’t want to shift.“The houses and dairy farms of most of the owners are situated in one building in city areas. Almost all family members help in dairy work because helpers are not easily available. It is not possible to shift houses in dairy complexes without all required facilities. Therefore, everyone wants to operate within the city instead of shifting to dairy complexes,” said the dairy owner.Anil Nain, Chief Sanitary Inspector of MCYJ, said they were making efforts to make the city free of illegal dairies. “We regularly take action against unauthorised dairies. We are now planning to launch a drive to shift those to dairy complexes,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-dairies-thrive-in-ynagar-jagadhri-residential-areas-366860
04-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat MC launches sealing drive to recover property tax||Sonepat, February 3Taking note of the slow pace of recovery of property tax, the Sonepat Municipal Corporation has launched a special sealing programme to speed up the process.Interest waiverWe have identified property defaulters and action will be initiated against them. Besides, the government has announced interest waiver scheme for people to deposit their property tax. Dharmender Singh, MC CommissionerThe MC has fixed the target to recover Rs 25 crore as property tax during this financial year 2021-22 but so far it has only been able to recover Rs 12 crore, less than 50 per cent of the proposed demand.The MC officials on Wednesday sealed two properties in Murthal — Garam Dharam dhaba owned by actor Dharmendra and his family for not depositing Rs 50 lakh property tax and Jugal Kishor rice mill in Murthal area that owed Rs 50 lakh.The MC has even prepared a list of 201 property tax defaulters, including government departments, institute owners and industrialists who owe Rs 70 crore for the past many years. The MC also served notices to such defaulters several times but to no avail. As many as 1.50 lakh properties are registered in the MC record of which 1,631 are agriculture units, 10,927 commercial, 2,017 industrial, 386 institutional, 8,583 mix-use units, 6,272 residential flats, 75,484 residential houses, 43,110 vacant plots and 693 units under special category. As per the details available, the Sonepat MC had passed the budget of Rs 184.73 crore for the present financial year 2021-22.Sources said Rs 156 crore property tax arrears were pending for the past many years in the MC record.Pavitra Gulia, Zonal Tax Officer (ZTO), said notices had been served several times to the defaulters and they did not bother to clear their dues. “Now, a special plan for sealing of the properties of the defaulters has been launched,” he added.“A special list of defaulters who owe more than Rs 5 lakh of property tax has been prepared and notices have been served to them several times,” said ZTO Rajender Singh.MC Commissioner Dharmender Singh said: “We have identified property defaulters and action will be initiated against them. Besides, the government has announced interest waiver scheme for people to deposit their property tax.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-mc-launches-sealing-drive-to-recover-property-tax-366862
04-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 3 held as gang stealing car silencers busted||The Gurugram police have busted a gang of silencer thieves. The crime unit of Manesar cops nabbed three accused, including the kingpin of the gang, and recovered 93 stone silencers, an iron rod-cutter and other equipment from their possession.The gang was active in Gurugram for the past six months and mostly targeted Maruti Eco vans. According to the police, the gang came in their vehicle from Delhi around 10 every night and did a recce for Eco vans. The time was fixed to steal silencers from 1 am to 4 am and after stealing four to 10 silencers, they returned to Delhi. They cut the silencer, took out catalytic converter and sold its metal parts in Delhi, while a silencer in good condition was sold on the black market. Those arrested were identified as Sunny of Sultanpuri, Delhi, Shyam Lal and Vinod.It was on December 30 when they stole the silencer of the van of Ravi Kumar Pathak, who filed a complaint and an FIR was registered. “The accused revealed that they had stolen more than 100 silencers from Gurugram and 150 from Delhi-NCR. They mostly targeted Eco vans,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-held-as-gang-stealing-car-silencers-busted-366864
04-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal MC ropes in pvt firm for upkeep of public toilets||Karnal, February 3To ensure better cleanliness, maintenance and monitoring of toilet complexes, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has hired a private agency to maintain around 60 toilets of the city and three Sherorooms-cum-nursing rooms.Were either closed or uncleanDeveloping app to monitor cleanlinessThe agency has made all toilets functional and is ensuring cleanliness. An app is being developed through Smart City project to monitor the cleanliness of these toilets. — Dheeraj Kumar, KMC Deputy municipal commissionerThe agency will ensure the cleaning and facility for the residents between 8 am and 8 pm daily. The facility is free for residents. If the agency is not found up to the mark, penalty will be imposed.There are around 100 public and community toilets in the city, of which around 40 are already given to a private company, while majority of the remaining toilets are either lying closed or in unhygienic conditions, making those impossible to use. The KMC has now handed over the remaining 60 toilets to Aash foundation, a private company, recently.“The agency has started the work and has made all toilets functional along with ensuring cleanliness,” said KMC Deputy Municipal Commissioner Dheeraj Kumar. An app is being developed through Smart City project to monitor the cleanliness of these toilets, he said.With an aim to provide several facilities to women under one roof, Haryana’s first women facilitation centre Sheroroom was constructed at the cost of around Rs 8 lakh on the railway road and it was inaugurated by former Urban Local Bodies Minister Kavita Jain on November 13, 2017. After this, two more Sherorooms were constructed with facilities for women like place for lactating women to feed their children, a waiting room, napkin dispenser and disposers, sockets for charging mobile phones, magazine facility free of cost under one roof between 8 am and 8 pm, but these were lying non-functional for the past over three years.“We have made these Sherorooms functional to facilitate women. The agency will ensure they are cleaned properly. One woman attendant has been deployed at every Sheroroom,” said the DMC.Besides facilitating residents, the functional and clean toilets will help the KMC in improving the Swachh Survekshan ranking, the DMC claimed. Residents said the authorities must ensure cleanliness of toilets. “We are happy that the KMC has made the toilets and Sherorooms functional, but the hygiene and cleanliness should be maintained,” said Dr Amanpreet, a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-ropes-in-pvt-firm-for-upkeep-of-public-toilets-366869
04-02-2022||Gurugram||3 fuel smugglers nabbed in Gurugram||The CM flying squad busted a petroleum smuggling racket being run from a closed dhaba on Sohna-Palwal road today and arrested three persons.Those arrested include two tanker drivers — Jahid of Bharatpur in Rajasthan and Vakeel of Khol village in Nuh — and dhaba worker Yusuf of Sacholi village near Sohna. The team also seized fuel and LPG cylinders. An FIR has been registered. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-fuel-smugglers-nabbed-in-gurugram-366872
04-02-2022||Gurugram||42-yr-old shot||A 42-year-old man was shot near his house in Rithoj village by unidentified assailants late on Wednesday night.An FIR has been registered at Bhondsi police station. The motive behind the crime is yet to be ascertained. The deceased is identified as Sanjay Khatana. He received two gunshot wounds in head and neck. According to the police, the victim was shot around 2 am. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/42-yr-old-shot-366873
04-02-2022||---||Hisar BDPO suspended||Hisar, February 3A Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) Bhagwan Das, who is in charge of Barwala and Hisar Block 2 in Hisar district, has been placed under suspension on charges of financial irregularities in panchayat funds meant for development works.According to the orders issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, Panchayat Department, Amit Jha, Bhagwan Das has been suspended with immediate effect. During the first six months of the suspension period, he will draw half the salary.According to sources, as the tenure of panchayats has ended in Haryana, there are reports of large-scale irregularities in utilisation of funds in panchayat accounts.Barwala MLA Jogiram Sihag had sought information from Hisar Deputy Commissioner Dr Priyanka Soni about these irregularities.Moreover, the dubious role of the BDPO has also been found in the tenders for fish rearing in villages. Sources said that the BDPO was at one point in charge of five out of the nine blocks of Hisar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-bdpo-suspended-366874
04-02-2022||Chandigarh||Congress starts digital membership in Haryana||With the aim of acquiring maximum members in Haryana by March 31 this year, the Congress has decided to start digital membership. Enrollees are being trained on how to use the app before enrolling for digital membership at booth level.Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja said a training camp would be organised at the PWD rest house, Panchkula, today for the digital membership drive. — #haryana congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-starts-digital-membership-366875
04-02-2022||---||Police remand for ex-SHO, residents protest decision||Kaithal, February 3The former SHO of Cheeka police station in Kaithal, Inspector Jaiveer, who was arrested on Wednesday by a team of the state Vigilance Bureau, allegedly for accepting bribe, was produced in the court on Thursday and was sent to one-day police remand.The police are yet to recover bribe money from him.“We have taken Inspector Jaiveer on one-day police remand,” said Inspector Suresh Saini, State Vigilance Bureau, Kaithal.After the court hearing, residents protested in support of the SHO and handed over a memorandum to the SDM and SP in the matter.“The SHO was trapped and was arrested without recovery of bribe money from his possession,” said Parmod, a local resident.He was arrested on the complaint of Chand Ram, a resident of Cheeka district, Kaithal, who had filed a complaint against the accused for demanding a bribe of Rs 5,000 in lieu of disposing a case pending against him at Cheeka police station.A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against the accused in at Bureau’s Ambala police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-remand-for-ex-sho-residents-protest-decision-366876
04-02-2022||---||'Fake ghee' packets seized in Ambala, case registered||Ambala, February 3The Ambala police have registered a case under charges of the copyright Act and cheating, using false property mark and counterfeiting property mark after fake packets of Patanjali ghee were allegedly recovered from a store in Barara of Ambala on Wednesday evening.Akhilesh Pal, a resident of Indore, stated that their company’s “investigation and detective services” had been authorised by Patanjali Ayurved Limited to keep a check on fake products. In his complaint to the police, Akhilesh said they came to know that two wholesalers, Narender Super Store and Sunder Lal Sunil Kumar Trader, in Barara were selling Patanjali Ghee at lower rates.A team comprising food safety officer Rajiv Kumar and Barara police conducted raids in this regard. During checking, 15 packs of 1 kg each of Patanjali Ghee were recovered from Narender Super Store which didn’t match with the company’s product. The printing, artwork and colour were different. Four samples have been taken by the food safety officer for testing.The complainant further stated that as per his experience, the packs were prepared to look like Patanjali’s ghee in order to cheat the customers.A case was registered under Sections 420, 482, 483, 485, 486 of the IPC and 63, 64, and 65 of the Copyright Act at the Barara police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-ghee-packets-seized-in-ambala-case-registered-366877
04-02-2022||---||Historians' committee formed for war memorial in in Ambala Cantt||Ambala, February 3A committee of historians has been constituted to identify the arms, medals, dresses, artefacts and script writing for “Azadi ki Pehli Ladai Ka Shaheedi Samarak” (war memorial) in Ambala Cantonment.As per the orders issued by Principal Secretary, Information, Public Relations and Languages Department, the department has agreed to the proposal to constitute a committee of historians for the under-construction war memorial.Dr Raghuvendra Tanwar, Professor (emeritus), Kurukshetra University, presently director, Haryana Academy of History and Culture, Professor Kapil Kumar, former professor of History, IGNOU, New Delhi, Professor Anupa Pande, director/ Pro-VC of National Museum Institute, New Delhi, Colonel Yogender Singh (retd), Dr Devender Kumar Sharma, archivist, National Archives of India, and Dr Udey Vir, retired head of the department of history from SD College Ambala, have been designated as the six members, while Director General Information, Public Relations and Languages Department has been designated as the convener of the committee.The committee will identify the script writing, arms, medals, dresses and artefacts to be displayed at the war memorial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/historians-committee-formed-for-war-memorial-366878
04-02-2022||---||Health outfit slams Centre for  'poor Budget'||Rohtak, February 3The Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, Haryana, a network of many organisations engaged in health awareness and advocacy, said the Centre had utterly failed to allocate the much-needed increase in the Budget for strengthening the public health system, National Health Mission Programme and Covid-related provisions.Dr Ranbir Singh Dahiya, core committee member of the organisation, said the Centre had made tall claims to meet the requirements to strengthen the health care infrastructure but it all fell flat.Dahiya called upon people to mount pressure on the Centre to fulfil the demand for essential allocations for public health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-outfit-slams-centre-for-poor-budget-366879
04-02-2022||Yamunanagar||World Wetlands Day celebrated at Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar||Online workshop on digital mediaRohtak: The Department of Journalism & Mass Communication of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) organised an online lecture-series cum workshop on capacity building and curriculum of digital media. Vic-Chancellor Prof Rajbir said acquiring digital skills was the need of the hour. The Vice Chancellor of Makhan Lal Chaturvedi National University of Journalism and Communication, Bhopal, Prof KG Suresh, was the resource person for the day. He said digital media is the future media, and media students must gear up for this future scenario and look beyond the conventional to become media entrepreneurs. The head of the department at MDU, Prof Harish Kumar, delivered the welcome address and said the lecture series was organised to facilitate capacity building of students.Interactive session on healthRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) organised an online interactive session “Are you healthy, food for thought” to create awareness among people about mental health and stress-free life. Dr Ritu Chauhan, senior consultant, gave the keynote address. She explained in detail various topics such as continuity, self-health, good relationships, goals, emotional health etc. Vice Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said stress was the root cause of many diseases. #ecosystem #wetlands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-wetlands-day-celebrated-366881
04-02-2022||The spacious park in Sector 20 of HSVP in Kaithal city is in a state of neglect. The boundary wall on the north side along the bypass has been broken at some places. The wall has not been repaired for years and anti-social elements use this broken wall to enter the park. The greenery in the park has also not been maintained||Kaithal: HSVP park lying in state of neglect||Hoardings at public places, traffic signals a risk to commutersThe menace of putting up hoardings, banners and advertisement boards at the public places has been going on unchecked in the city. These can be seen hanging/pasted on electric poles and dividers of almost all roads in the city. As the civic authorities and district administration chooses to ignore the violations and fails to take any prompt action, the hoardings have become a cause of inconvenience. It also results in defacement of public properties including the roads. At certain points in the city, hoardings can be on top of signal lights. One such crossing is MDPS Chowk in Sector 86, Faridabad. The police and civic authorities need to take strong action against the offenders as this can put commuters at risk. — Anoop Chaudhary, FaridabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsvp-park-lying-in-state-of-neglect-366883
04-02-2022||Chandigarh||HC stays Haryana's 75% quota in pvt sector jobs||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, providing for 75 per cent quota in Haryana industries for those having a domicile of the state. The order by the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain came on a plea filed by the Faridabad Industries Association and other petitioners.Also read: Haryana quota case: Next legal step soon, says Dushyant ChautalaThe government had notified the law in November last year. It provides for 75 per cent reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offered a monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022.In one of the petitions challenging the reservation, it was submitted that the impugned Act was against the provisions of the Constitution and also against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive.The petitioners submitted the Haryana Government wanted to create reservation in private sector by introducing policy of “Son of Soils”, which was infringement of the constitutional rights of the employers. It was stated that private sector jobs were purely based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who were citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to work in any part of India. — #Reservation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-stays-haryanas-75-quota-in-pvt-sector-jobs-366781
04-02-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||A first, Gurugram realtors to chip in for road project||Chandigarh, February 3In a first experiment of its kind, developers benefiting from the construction of the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) in Gurugram will now have to chip in for its construction and makeover.Will pay Rs 280 cr for access to finer infraOnce completed, the 14.3-km stretch will link the Faridabad road to National Highway-48 (Jaipur highway) and reduce the travel time from nearly one-and-a-half hours during peak traffic to just about 15 minutes. Sources say the main beneficiaries of this project will be the developers who have gated societies on either side of this road as it exists today. While there is a carriageway, here are no service lanes, cycle tracks and flyovers. The Rs 845-crore project was passed by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). Subsequently, the authority and the Town and Country Planning Department held a joint meeting with the developers where the government’s decision to rope them in for the construction of the SPR was discussed.At the meeting attended by 45 developers, it was proposed that the contribution of the developer would be in proportion to the land they hold. For colonies which sell plots, the contribution was pegged at Rs 3 lakh per acre, group housing projects would pay Rs 9 lakh per acre and Rs 14 lakh per acre would be charged from developers of commercial areas.“This will generate nearly Rs 280 crore and it is only fair that the developers must contribute since the project will lead to an increase in property prices in the area. The developers have agreed to the proposal,” a senior officer said, adding that this model would be the first-of-its-kind experiment where the expenditure on a project would partially be borne by those benefiting from it.In the proposed makeover, the SPR, formerly known as the Golf Course Extension Road, will get eight flyovers, service roads, drainage, footpath and electrification while the main carriageway will be strengthened and the junctions improved. #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-first-gurugram-realtors-to-chip-in-for-road-project-366789
