06-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Govt employee raped by friend in Yamunanagar||A data entry operator posted in a government department was allegedly raped by a man, who promised to marry her.The complainant said she met Vikas Kamboj, a resident of Kashmir Garh village, in 2018 and became friends.“Vikas met my parents and told them that he wanted to marry me. My parents gave their consent, but after some months, he refused to marry me, saying his family was not allowing him to marry a Dalit girl,” the victim said.“After the death of my father in 2020, Vikas promised again that he would marry me. He raped me several times after that and made an MMS. He threatened to post my photos and videos on social media,” she said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-employee-raped-by-friend-in-yamunanagar-367434
06-02-2022||Kaithal||Graft Case: Former SHO on remand for two more days in Kaithal||After failing to recover the bribe money from the former SHO of Cheeka police station, Jaiveer Sharma, during remand, the state Vigilance Bureau has sent him on a remand of two more days.He was arrested on February 2 while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000.On Friday, the team searched the police station, including the bathroom and sewerage manhole, but money was not recovered.Jaiveer was produced in court on Saturday again, from where he was sent on remand for two more days. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/graft-case-former-sho-on-remand-for-two-more-days-in-kaithal-367433
06-02-2022||---||Date for energy awards extended in Haryana||Chandigarh, February 5The New and Renewable Energy Department, Haryana, and HAREDA have extended the date of applying for State Energy Conservation Awards for eligible consumers for 2020-21 under various categories till February 22.Earlier, the last date for submission of applications was December 23.Eligible candidates can submit their applications in the office of the Additional Deputy Commissioner of their respective districts.An official spokesman said that the State Energy Conservation Award is given to institutions that are making proper use of technology and energy efficiency. The award is also given to those industrial, commercial, government, institutional, group housing buildings that are doing excellent work in the field of energy conservation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/date-for-energy-awards-extended-in-haryana-367432
06-02-2022||Chandigarh||Time limit for services of social justice department fixed in Haryana||The Haryana Government has notified various services, the time limit and the designated officers, first grievances redressal authority and second grievances redressal authority of Social Justice and Empowerment Department under the Haryana Right to Service Act.As per the notification, the timeline for providing services of various schemes being run by the department, including Ladli Social Security Allowance Scheme, Old Age Samman Allowance (pension Scheme), Handicapped Pension, Haryana Pension to Widows and Destitute Women Scheme (widow pension), Financial Assistance to Destitute Children Scheme, Financial Assistance to Kashmiri Migrant Families Scheme, Financial Assistance to Non-School Going Disabled Children, Dwarf Allowance Scheme and Eunuch Allowance Scheme is 120 days.District Social Welfare Officer of the district concerned will be the designated officer. Additional Deputy Commissioner of the district concerned will be the first grievance redressal authority and Deputy Commissioner of the district will be the second grievance redressal authority.The time limit for National Family Benefit Scheme for BPL families and issuance of identity card to senior citizens is 90 days. The limit for giving services related to Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Durghatna Sahyata Yojana is 60 days. The limit for inter-district migration of beneficiaries is 30 days. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/time-limit-for-services-of-social-justice-department-fixed-367431
06-02-2022||Chandigarh||Union Minister hails state for restoring Aravalli landscape||Bhupender Yadav, Union Minister for Forest and Climate Change and Labour and Employment, has congratulated Haryana for its work in restoring the Aravalli landscape.In a letter to Chief Minister ML Khattar, Yadav lauded the efforts made by the state government because of which the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram, which is ecologically restored, has been identified as the first Other Effective Areas Based Conservation Measures (OECMs) of the country under Aichi Target II of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and has been reported to the World Database on Protected Areas (WDPA).“I take this opportunity to congratulate the state of Haryana in restoring Aravalli landscape and inform that Other Effective Area-Based Conservation Measures (OECMs) is the new era of conservation approach where effective in-situ conservation of biodiversity is achieved mainly through effective landscape management lying outside forests and protected areas,” reads the letter sent by the Union Minister.“A wide range of sites in India has the potential to become OECMs and I am looking forward to you in bringing more such landscapes under the OECM category in Haryana,” the letter added. — TNSThe letter“I take this opportunity to congratulate the state of Haryana in restoring Aravalli landscape and inform that Other Effective Area-Based Conservation Measures is the new era of conservation approach where effective in-situ conservation of biodiversity is achieved mainly through effective landscape management lying outside forests and protected areas,” reads the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/union-minister-hails-state-for-restoring-aravalli-landscape-367430
06-02-2022||---||Adulteration: Deputy CM orders officials to take samples in Panipat||Panipat, February 5Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday directed to collect samples of milk products on a complaint of supply of adulterated ‘mawa’ in the city. He also directed that a mining official be chargesheeted and action be initiated against police officials for not fulfilling their duties properly in two separate complaints.Dushyant on Saturday presided over the District Public Relations and Grievance Redressal Committee meeting held at the mini-secretariat here. The Deputy CM resolved a total of nine complaints on the spot. He directed that a joint committee be constituted into three complaints.In a complaint, Om Prakash of Joshi village alleged that some people have done illegal mining from the land and taken out 1.5-ft deep soil from there. A case was also registered against eight people but no action has been initiated against them. Following the complaint, the Deputy CM directed to chargesheet the guard of the Mining Department and also directed the Mining Officer to produce the report after inspecting the site.On the complaint of Ambrish Kumar of Babbail Road, the Deputy CM directed the Police Department and food safety officers to collect 4-4 samples randomly and to check them from the laboratory and to produce the report of the samples in the next meeting.On another complaint by Ashok of Nanhera village regarding border dispute with the farmers in UP, Dushyant directed the Deputy Commissioner to resolve the issues after holding a meeting with DC, Shamli. He also said that work of laying pillars along the Yamuna river is underway to resolve the border dispute with adjoining Uttar Pradesh. Soon, this dispute would be resolved.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala also directed the officials to resolve public grievances on priority basis. MLA Pramod Vij, Congress MLA Balbir Valmiki, Mayor Avneet Kaur and administrative officials were present during the meeting.Reaches exporters’ meet 3 hrs lateDeputy CM Dushyant Chautala held a meeting with the members of the Panipat Exporters’ Association in a hotel here. But he reached the venue three hours late due to which many exporters left the venue. Dushyant discussed the 75 per cent job reservation for Haryana youth in private industries and also took their suggestions on the reservation policy. He claimed that 900 industries and 40,000 youth have registered in support of this policy so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adulteration-deputy-cm-orders-officials-to-take-samples-in-panipat-367429
06-02-2022||---||Dushyant Chautala visits Jind medical college site||Hisar, February 5Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday instructed the officials concerned to stick to the deadline for the construction of the medical college in Jind.During the inspection of the construction site, the Deputy CM told the officials that the medical college was the biggest project of the district.Tech-equippedMulti-storey buildings are being built for the medical college using better technology in lesser space. The medical college, when completed, will be technologically equipped. Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CM“Get it completed in a time-bound manner and keep checking the quality of the material used in the construction,” he said.Dushyant said around 15 per cent of the work was complete and the project work was set to finish by August next year. He said the medical college would provide better medical facilities to the district residents.“Multi-storey buildings are being built for the medical college using better technology in lesser space. Separate hostel buildings will be constructed for boys and girls in the college. The medical college, when fully completed, will be technologically equipped,” the Deputy CM said.During the Deputy CM’s visit, officials raised the issue of a 132-kV high-tension power line passing above the college, which needed to be shifted.Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal said a tender had been issued by the department to shift the power line, work for which would start soon.Julana MLA Amarjit Dhanda; and Nihal Singh managing director, Haryana State Roads and Bridges, accompanied the Deputy CM during the inspection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-chautala-visits-jind-medical-college-site-367428
06-02-2022||---||One arrested with 40 kg ‘ganja patti’ in Faridabad||Faridabad, February 5The district police have seized a consignment of 40 kg of ‘ganja patti’ (cannabis) worth Rs 4 lakh. It has arrested one person on the charge of drug peddling.A spokesperson of the Police Department said that the accused identified as Amit Kumar, a resident of Unchagaon village in the district, was nabbed from a spot near BPTP bridge on Friday evening on the basis of inputs received from sources.He said the accused has revealed that he had acquired the drug from someone in Palwal district for selling it here and has been in this business for the past four months. The accused has been remanded to police custody, said the police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-arrested-with-40-kg-ganja-patti-in-faridabad-367427
06-02-2022||---||Cyber fraudster dupes Gurugram private company of Rs 22.4 lakh||Gurugram, February 5A private company has been duped of Rs 22.40 lakh after a fraudster sent a fabricated email to its finance department in the name of its director, asking the employees to transfer money to five accounts. An FIR has been registered at the cybercrime police station.According to the complaint filed by Pankaj Sood, chief financial officer of Pragati Group, he had received several emails on January 19, 20, 21 and 22 from 89hnpol@gmail.com mentioning the name of one of the directors, Shubhendra Mittal, requesting to make several payments to several accounts. A total of Rs 22.40 lakh were transferred into five accounts whose holders were Lungdai Kumar Kaipeng, Jayama and Dharmendra Kumar.Believing that the emails were genuine and sent by director Mittal, the money was transferred but I was shocked when the director denied having made the request. Then I realised that I had been duped and approached the police,” Sood said.An FIR has been registered against an unidentified fraudster under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 66-D of the IT Act. SHO Bijender Kumar said the accused would be nabbed soon. #cyber fraud||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cyber-fraudster-dupes-gurugram-private-company-of-rs-22-4-lakh-367426
06-02-2022||Kurukshetra||Gender test racket busted in Kurukshetra||A joint team of Health Department officials from Kurukshetra and Karnal busted a sex determination test racket after conducting a raid at a private hospital in Kurukshetra on Saturday.Acting on a tip-off, health officials of Karnal constituted a team, arranged a decoy and the deal with tout Babita was struck at Rs 40,000. However later, the tout charged Rs 35,000.The tout went to a private hospital with the decoy. After the test was done, they came out of the hospital. After getting a signal from the decoy, a raid was conducted and the tout was held. The team recovered Rs 34,000 from her possession and Rs 1,000 were recovered from the gynaecologist.The decoy was also reportedly asked to deposit Rs 25,000 if she wanted to abort the girl child.Dr RK Sahai, Deputy Civil Surgeon and nodal officer for the PCPNDT Act, Kurukshetra, said, “The decoy was told that she has a female foetus. The ultrasound machine was sealed and a complaint has been given at Krishna Gate police station. While the tout was handed over to the police, the lady doctor, Rachna, managed to run away.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gender-test-racket-busted-in-kurukshetra-367425
06-02-2022||---||SUV hits two-wheelers, 2 die in Gurugram||Gurugram, February 5Two persons were killed after being hit by a speeding SUV near Atul Kataria Chowk here late on Friday night.As soon as the collision occurred, the youths, who were riding different two-wheelers, fell and their vehicles were tossed in the air. Both of them were rushed to a hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 14 police station and the driver, identified as Abdul Rahim of Uttarakhand who currently stays in Surat Nagar, has been arrested.The police said Rahim was a scrap dealer and was accompanied by his two friends who were also injured in the accident.According to the complaint filed by an eyewitness, Devender, his relative Sanjiv Kumar, who was riding a scooter and was accompanied by Kewal on the second scooter. As soon as they reached Atul Kataria Chowk, a speeding SUV came from CRPF Chowk and its driver lost balance, hitting both the scooters.Soon after the accident, the accused fled from the spot but was arrested today in the afternoon.“We have nabbed the driver and seized his SUV. We have also handed over the bodies to the victims’ relatives after getting the postmortem conducted. Further investigation is on,” said ASI Neeraj Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/suv-hits-two-wheelers-2-die-367424
06-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Man duped of Rs 8 lakh, 3 booked in Yamunanagar||The police have booked three persons for duping a man of Rs 8 lakh.On the complaint of Jayendra Sharma of Saraswati Colony in Jagadhri, a case was lodged against Sukhwinder Singh, Devender Singh and Amardeep Kaur, all residents of Govindgarh Farm in Jagadhri, under Sections 420, 406 and 506, IPC, at City police station. The complainant said he had finalised a deal with Sukhwinder and Devender to buy a house for Rs 35.50 lakh in the Govindgarh Farm area on July 6, 2017.“I had paid Rs 8 lakh to Sukhwinder and Devender as ‘bayana’ amount. The sale deed of the house was to be registered in August 2021. They are neither getting the sale deed registered nor returning my money.” Sharma said they threatened him with dire consequences when he asked the duo to either get the sale deed registered or to return his money. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-duped-of-rs-8-lakh-3-booked-in-yamunanagar-367423
06-02-2022||Karnal||Group clash over land leaves man dead, 5 injured in Kaithal village||A 24-year-old man was killed and five others were injured in a group clash between two parties in Deeg village of Kaithal. The clash took place over the possession of a piece of land.The deceased has been identified as Ankit of Pabnawa, who was a worker at the liquor shop of Jagdev Singh. The injured are Dhanpat Singh, Hoshiar Singh, Hirke Ram, Rajiv and Silo Devi.Dhanpat alleged that Jagdev and others attacked them when they were working in the fields. Ankit’s uncle Rajbir Singh said they got a call that his nephew had got injured. They took him to hospital where he was declared dead. He said they did not know about the incident, but people told them that a group clash had taken place in which several people were injured.Shiv Kumar, incharge of Pundri police station, said that they have registered two FIRs on the counter-complaints from both groups. Six people have been booked for murder and 50 others were booked for attempt to murder and other Sections of the IPC. In the preliminary investigation, they found that Jagdev’s group had a dispute with Dhanpat’s group over the possession of one-and-a-half acre of land. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/group-clash-over-land-leaves-man-dead-5-injured-in-kaithal-village-367421
06-02-2022||---||IO suspended in SGT University murder case||Gurugram, February 5An Inspector-rank officer and former incharge of the crime unit, Sector 10, has been suspended following a secret report of the higher authority in connection with the murder of a student on the SGT University campus here.The Inspector identified as Bijender Kumar, investigating officer of the case, allegedly demanded bribe from the accused to help him.On the allegations, made through sources, a special inquiry was marked into the matter by the DGP to the special task force (STF). Following this, STF officials sent a report against the IO to the DGP.Following the order of action by the higher authority, Commissioner of Police KK Rao suspended the IO and marked a special inquiry into the matter to be conducted by Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.The IO’s suspension, however, remains a matter of discussion between the Gurugram police and employees.Interestingly, the IO has not even been called for questioning in the matter and no notice was served on him yet. He was also likely to be promoted to the DSP rank but his sudden suspension has raised eyebrows.The incident took place on the afternoon of October 8 last year, when SGT University student Vineet was shot dead in a scuffle for protesting against talking to a girl student. An FIR was registered at the Rajendra Park police station against Punkil, alias Lucky, his brother Nitesh, friend Rahul and the girl. The girl and Rahul were later not found to be involved in the murder and the case was assigned to the Sector 10 crime unit.Punkil and others were arrested by the crime unit but after several days, the case was transferred to the STF. Now, the STF is conducting raids to nab an accused, Dhananjay, who is still at large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/io-suspended-in-sgt-university-murder-case-367419
06-02-2022||---||Panipat woman dies as car falls into canal||Panipat, February 5A car carrying a couple fell in a canal near Namunda village of Samalkha area in the wee hours of Saturday morning.The husband was able to escape. The divers later found the body of the woman near Khubru Jhal.The family of the woman alleged that it was not an accident and their daughter was murdered. Following the complaint by the deceased’s brother, the Samalkha police registered a case against the persons, including two women.The deceased has been identified as Sonia, wife of Jitender Kumar, a resident of Pardhana village of Samalkha.In his complaint, the brother of the deceased, Sudhir Kumar, said her sister had been married to Jitender for 12 years. “Jitender, his brother and sister-in-law used to torture my sister after marriage. Jitender also had illicit relations with another woman. Panchayats were also held several times on this issue,” he said.Recently, Jitender had demanded Rs 3 lakh from us, of which Rs 1 lakh was given to him on October 19, he said.“Jitender has murdered my sister by pushing the car into the canal. His brother and sister-in-law are also involved into the conspiracy,” he alleged.Following the complaint, a case has been registered against Jitender, his sister, brother and sister-in-law under Sections 302, 120B and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-woman-dies-as-car-falls-into-canal-367417
06-02-2022||---||NSG fraud: ITBP official surrenders in court, sent to police remand||Gurugram, February 5An assistant commandant in the ITBP — Naveen Khatodia — has surrendered in a Gurugram court in connection with a case of cheating in the name of getting a tender in the National Security Guard (NSG).Naveen has been remanded in five-day police custody of the economic offence wing (EOW) of the Gurugram police.After registering three FIRs, a special investigation team (SIT) had been formed and the crime unit, Manesar, led by its inspector Sandeep Kumar nabbed four persons, including the main accused Praveen Yadav, deputy commandant in the Border Security Force (BSF), his bank manager sister Rituraj Yadav, his wife Mamta Yadav and property dealer Dinesh Kumar for alleged fraud of over Rs 125 crore on the pretext of providing construction contract in the NSG. Naveen, brother-in-law of the main accused, had been on the run but surrender at a Gurugram court late on Friday night.Notably, after arresting the four accused, the SIT had recovered over Rs 13 crore in cash and six luxury cars from the accused. “The fifth accused, Naveen, is now in police remand. We are questioning him about his role in the fraud,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), crime.Meanwhile, in the investigation of the SIT, it has come to fore that Praveen Yadav had invested around Rs 70 crore of the Rs 125 crore in the stock market, which he said had been lost now. The investigating officers are also probing the accounts of the accused and his family members. #fraud case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nsg-fraud-accused-surrenders-in-court-sent-to-police-remand-367416
06-02-2022||---||After differences with Gurnam Singh Charuni, farmers float outfit||Ambala, February 5Farm activists have floated a new union ‘Bhartiya Kisan Union (Shaheed Bhagat Singh) today and appointed Amarjeet Singh Mohri as the state president.Unhappy with the call of “Mission Punjab” given by Gurnam Singh Charuni, several activists and office-bearers had quit the union, following which Charuni also had to rejig his union in Ambala last month.A kisan mahapanchayat was held at Mardon Sahib Gurdwara in Ambala to decide the future course of action today. The farm leaders said to continue farmers’ struggle and create their identity they have to form a new outfit as their ideology was not matching with that of Charuni.Mohri said: “Farmers were not happy with the move of contesting elections. We tried to persuade them but to no avail, so we decided to part our ways. Today, we have floated a new union and it will remain apolitical. It will motivate the youth and educated people to join them and fight for the welfare of farmers. We want to change the style of protest. We want the educated people to join the union so that farmers’ issues could be raised in an effective manner, instead of just focusing on blocking roads and having arguments with politicians.”“The union will make the government fulfil its poll promises. Soon we will expand our union in other districts for which a campaign will be run. People from other unions are also joining us,” he added.The new outfit has appointed Gurmit Singh as Ambala district president, Lakhvinder Kaur women wing president, Rinku Matheri state president Mazdoor union, Sukhvinder Singh Jalbera Block-I president, Manjeet Singh Block-II president, and Sukhvinder Kaur president women wing Ambala Block-1. Besides, Tejveer Singh has been appointed as in-charge Panchkula, Sukvinder Singh Jalbera in-charge Yamunanagar, and Jai Singh has been appointed as in-charge Kurukshetra district.Meanwhile, Rakesh Bains spokesman BKU (Charuni) said: “There can be a difference in the ideology but the motive is same. Both the unions will continue to raise farmers’ issues and we will congratulate the new outfit.”Say no to polls #gurnam singh charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-differences-with-gurnam-singh-charuni-farmers-float-outfit-367415
06-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad district surpasses Covid vaccination target||Faridabad, February 5With over 36.55 lakh people having taken the anti-Covid vaccine to date, the percentage of fully jabbed residents has mounted to 100.25% in the district.The percentage of the first dose has reached 129.89%, indicating the prolonging of the vaccination despite the achievement of the target.An official of the Health Department said around 20.54 lakh people had got the first dose, which is almost 30% higher than the eligible population of 15.81 lakh. He said with 15.85 lakh people getting fully vaccinated, the number had surpassed the given target by 0.25% on Saturday. Though the total targeted population is 15.81 lakh, it may be updated soon in the view of more number of residents being registered in the above 18 age group as per the revised voters’ list, according to sources in the department.However, claiming that the migrant or floating population had been the main reason for the inoculation crossing the target, Dr Man Singh, nodal officer, vaccination drive, said the jabbing would continue till further instructions as the department wanted to ensure that none of eligible persons were left out.Regarding the vaccination drive of those between 15 and 18 age group, he said a total of 88,000 eligible persons had been jabbed, which was 63.63% of the target. The remaining ones are likely to be provided the first dose of Covaxin within the next couple of weeks, for which, he said, special camps are also being held in educational institutions. This target, he said, may be revised, as more youths are added in this category each month. Dr Singh further said around 16,170 persons had also been administered the booster dose.Meanwhile, Faridabad district reported 253 new cases on Saturday. The number of active cases has been reduced to 1,996, of which 59 are hospitalised. With the recovery of 233 patients, the infection rate in the district has touched 10.09%.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-district-surpasses-vax-target-367414
06-02-2022||---||Now, 100% attendance allowed in Haryana offices||Chandigarh, February 5With the cases falling across the state, the Haryana Government on Saturday decided that all offices, government as well as private, can function at full capacity while adopting regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behaviour.Now, gatherings of more than 100 persons can be allowed with prior permission of the Deputy Commissioner concerned.All entertainment parks are allowed to open at 50 per cent capacity while following Covid-appropriate behaviour.Today’s guidelines will remain implemented up to 5 pm of February 15. As per the order of Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal, any person violating these measures would be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. #covid guidelines||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-100-attendance-allowed-in-offices-367413
06-02-2022||---||3 more held in Karnal for making passports on fake papers||Karnal, February 5A day after the Karnal police busted a gang allegedly involved in making passports on the basis of fake documents and arrested 16 persons, they nabbed three more accused, including a passport holder, on Saturday. With this, total 19 persons have been arrested in the case.CRIMINAL RECORD under scrutinyWe are collecting the criminal records of all passport holders. We will also inquire about all persons who have obtained a passport on local addresses. Ganga Ram Punia, Karnal SPMoreover, eight police teams, comprising three of the CIA, are on the job to break the nexus of fraudsters involved in the crime. The Karnal police have so far identified 21 passport holders, of them five have already been arrested while two are in a Punjab jail. Still 14 such persons are untraceable.“We have arrested Rupinder Singh of Delhi’s Virender Nagar, Gurdhiyan Singh of Ambala’s Mallour and Rohit Arora of Punjab’s Amritsar. Rohit is a passport holder, while the other two are middlemen,” said Ganga Ram Punia, SP. “Eight teams are working on different angles and are trying to arrest all persons involved in this nexus.”The number of such passports could go up as the police were going to look into the ones issued in the last four years, said an official.On Friday, the police had arrested 16 persons, including two cops, a postman, an employee of Delhi passport office, three agents, four passport holders and other gang members. Two passport holders are in a Punjab jail and the Karnal police will bring them here for further investigation.Sources in the police claimed two persons of Punjab allegedly involved in terrorist activities managed to get passports on fake documents, but Punia said he could comment on it after reviewing the criminal background.The sources further said the gang of fraudsters used to charge between Rs 1.5 and Rs 2 lakh per passport. Only the photograph was original, while the remaining documents like address proof and marksheet were fake.Meanwhile, the police are suspecting some of the accused might have fled abroad. However, the Karnal police have already issued look out circulars, so that no person who had obtained passports on fake papers could go abroad in future. Also, all passports were on the addresses that come under Sector-32/33 police station, mainly of SP Colony and Sandhu Colony, the police said.About the modus operandi, the SP said the applicants approached one of the three agents — Raman of Ambala, Amit Khatkar of Karnal and Mahesh Narang of Delhi. Mahesh had links with Munish who works in Delhi passport office. Karnal-based agent Amit had links with the cops and postman, who conducted the verification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-more-held-for-making-passports-on-fake-papers-367405
06-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||‘Poor show’, Punjab and Haryana High Court raps police in drugs case||Chandigarh, February 5The Haryana Police’s functioning has come under a cloud in a drugs case. Taking note of a case in which the police filed an incomplete challan without the FSL report despite its availability, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered the placing of the matter before the state Director-General of Police.Convey order to DGPThe present order be conveyed to the DGP, Haryana, for his information. In case it is so required or desired in accordance with law, further appropriate process may also be followed. Justice JS PuriJustice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri asserted the FIR pertained to the NDPS Act and no justification or reason had come forward explaining why an incomplete challan was presented without the FSL report despite its availability prior to the challan presentation.“A strong case of suspicion has arisen with regard to the method or conduct of the investigation by the police officer. Also due to their conduct, the petitioners have been released on default bail although they are entitled under Section 167(2) of the CrPC,” Justice Puri added.In a criminal case, the challan has to be presented within specified timeframe, or extension in time is required to be sought. Failure to present the challan within the stipulated period gives the accused an “indefeasible right” to get “default” bail, in the absence of extension in time granted by the court.In its order, the Bench also noticed that a deputy superintendent of police concealed “material fact” regarding grant of bail to an accused by a lower court during the matter’s pendency before the High Court.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after two accused filed petition for the grant of regular bail in the same FIR. Justice Puri observed the state was directed to verify whether a petitioner-accused had filed any other bail application before any other court during the present petition’s pendency.Palwal DSP, in affidavit dated January 17, stated that the bail application was dismissed by Palwal Additional Sessions Judge on November 24, 2021, and no bail application had been filed. But it was brought to the court’s notice on January 21 that the petitioner had already been granted bail on December 9, 2021. But the DSP did not disclose the same in the affidavit.Justice Puri added the DSP, in response to a notice asking him to explain the circumstances in which he concealed the material fact, tendered unconditional apology before stating that the investigating officer had not given sufficient information.Justice Puri added the FSL report was submitted on November 25, 2021, after the expiry of the 180-day period on November 21, 2021. As a result, both the petitioners became entitled to default bail. “The present order be conveyed to the DGP, Haryana, for his information. In case it is so required or desired in accordance with law, further appropriate process may also be followed,” Justice Puri concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-show-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-police-in-drugs-case-367403
06-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Board exam must for promotion to Class IX, says Haryana's top official||Rohtak, February 5No Class VIII Haryana student, whether in government or private school and irrespective of their board affiliation, would be admitted to Class IX in the upcoming academic session without clearing the mandatory annual examination that the Board of School Education-Haryana (BSEH) plans to conduct in March.Applies to pvt schoolsAll Class VIII students, even those of private schools, need to pass the board exam for promotion to Class IX. Ved Prakash Yadav, BSEH Vice-chairmanAdding another chapter to the ongoing controversy over board exams, the BSEH has, in an order issued to all district education authorities, said there shall be no annual exams for Class VIII at the school level in the ongoing session and these would instead be held by the board.The BSEH had earlier announced it would conduct annual Class VIII examination in schools, a practice that had been done away with years ago. Sources said the BSEH had asked all private schools to register themselves on the board website by February 15 for enrolment of Class VIII students. The order would even stand for schools that had been issued a no-objection certificate by the Education Department for affiliation to any other board for secondary and senior secondary examination, the sources said.Private schools affiliated to the CBSE have resolved to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the board’s “autocratic approach”. “We held a meeting today and unanimously decided to file a writ petition in the High Court. How can the BSEH conduct exams when the government has already withdrawn its powers to hold the exams of Classes V and VIII. Moreover, the State Council of Education Research Training (SCERT), Gurugram, has also misled the High Court by authorising the BSEH to conduct the exams,” said Anil Kaushik, the president of Progressive Private Schools Association, a group of schools affiliated to the CBSE.Ved Prakash Yadav, BSEH Vice-Chairman, said since the SCERT had authorised the BSEH as a nodal agency to conduct the examination, hence all private schools had been asked to get themselves registered with it so as to expedite the process to hold annual Class VIII exams. “We are planning to conduct the exams in March. The Class VIII syllabus has also been uploaded on our website. All Class VIII students, even those of private schools, need to pass the board exam for promotion to Class IX,” he added.Private schools affiliated to the CBSE had last month approached the High Court challenging the state government’s decision to conduct board exams of Class VIII in all schools in the state, including those under the CBSE and other boards, through the BSEH from the academic session. They pleaded that mandating board exam for Class VIII would mean dual affiliation, which was neither practical nor feasible.Later, the government informed the High Court that the power of conducting the exams had been withdrawn from the BSEH while the SCERT had been notified as an academic authority. The SCERT then asked the BSEH to conduct the exams as an agency, pleading that the BSEH possessed expertise to hold such exams.Another controversy #board examination||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/board-exam-must-for-promotion-to-class-ix-says-haryanas-top-official-367375
