07-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram woman swindled of Rs 10 lakh; cheaters promised to invest money in shares||A woman from Gurugram was reportedly cheated of Rs 10 lakh after some swindlers promised to invest the money in the share market, police said.In her complaint, Ritika Thakur said she lost her job in the tourism sector and that was trying to earn some money. She came across Balaji Traders while she was looking for trading tips. “I came across them through Google ad and they contacted me and seemed really good with the trade tactics,” she said in her complaint.They traded for three days and "it was very good”, she said. Initial trading was done through her Demat account, she said, and it was the suspects who suggested the plan.She found out later that she’d been swindled.“I never once transferred any money to a person. It was always transferred to a current account,” her complaint said.She said she’d registered a complaint with Google asking them how they could list the advertisement on their searches. The ad, she said, was among their engine’s top searches.Police said they’d booked a case of fraud and added provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-woman-swindled-of-rs-10-lakh-cheaters-promised-to-invest-money-in-shares-367872
07-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Woman lawyer commits suicide in Gurugram flat, live-in partner booked||Gurugram, February 7Gurugram police booked a man after his live in partner -- a 35-year-old woman lawyer allegedly committed suicide in their flat in Experian Society, Sector 108.Her body was found hanging in a bedroom in the flat, while her live-in partner was missing.The family of the deceased alleged it was murder and following the complaint of her brother an FIR of abetment to suicide was registered at Rajendra park police station.According to the police, the deceased is identified as Preeti Jaiswal, a native of Kota in Rajasthan, was a lawyer practising at Delhi’s Dwarka court. She was married and a case of divorce was pending in court.She used to stay with her live-in partner, identified as Vijay Rana. Yesterday, her family after getting information reached her flat and found her body hanging from a fan and called the police.When police reached the spot she was found hanging while her legs were on the bed.“My sister was under pressure as her live-in partner not only abused but also beat her. She can’t commit suicide and she was only killed by her live-in partner,” said Anuradha Jaiswal, elder sister of the deceased.As per the complaint an FIR has been registered under Section 306 (abatement to suicide) of IPC at Rajendra park police station.“We handed over the body to kin after the postmortem. The cause behind suicide has not been ascertained yet and the probe is on,” said inspector Praveen Kumar, SHO of Rajendra park police station. #Suicide||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-lawyer-commits-suicide-in-gurugram-flat-live-in-partner-booked-367862
07-02-2022||New Delhi||Haryana quota law: SC to take up state’s petition against HC stay order on Friday||The Supreme Court on Monday deferred to Friday the hearing on Haryana Government’s petition against the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order staying the state’s law providing for 75 per cent quota to local people in private sector jobs.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had last Thursday stayed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, and admitted a petition challenging its validity. The high court’s order had come on a petition filed by various industries associations from Faridabad, Gurugram and other places.Notified in November last year, the law provides for 75 per cent reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offer a monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022.On Monday, the matter could not be taken up by a Bench led by Justice LN Rao as it was listed at item number 45.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta urged the Bench to take it up on Tuesday but the Bench said nothing would happen in a few days and posted it for hearing on Friday.CJI NV Ramana had last week agreed to list it on February 7 after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that the matter needed to be heard urgently.“I appeared (before the high court)…therefore, I can make a statement that after giving me an opportunity of hearing for 90 seconds, the court proceeded to stay the Act. We have prepared the SLP and filed it today… I need to say much more, kindly list it on Monday subject to my placing the order on record,” Mehta had told the CJI.The petitioners contended that the Act under challenge was against the provisions of the Constitution and went against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive.The Haryana government wanted to create reservation in the private sector by introducing the policy of ‘Sons of Soil’, which was an infringement of constitutional rights of the employers, they submitted.The petitioners contended that private sector jobs were purely based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who were citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to work in any part of India.  #supreme court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-defers-hearing-on-haryanas-private-sector-quota-law-to-friday-367844
07-02-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Sirsa Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh granted 21-day furlough||Rohtak, February 7Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh has been granted a 21-day furlough for meeting his family residing in Gurugram.The dera chief is undergoing imprisonment at Sunaria jail in Rohtak for raping two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.Rohtak Divisional Commissioner Pankaj Yadav said the dera head had been granted a furlough from February 7 to 27 on his request that he wanted to meet his family living in Gurugram.According to official sources, the dera chief had applied for furlough to the Superintendent of Sunaria jail.The recommendation of Deputy Commissioner and Police Commissioner of Gurugram was sought. After the recommendation was received, the dera head was granted furlough.He is likely to be shifted to Gurugram under tight security on Monday. #dera chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-singh-granted-21-day-furlough-367835
07-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Haryana: Air quality panel nod to run NCR industry on all 7 days||Panipat, February 6The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region (NCR) has lifted the restriction on the operation of industries in the NCR and allowed operation for all seven days in view of the improvement in air quality in the National Capital Delhi.Take to PNG, biofuel by Sept 30Industries located in the NCR beyond the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi should, under all circumstances, completely switch over to PNG or biomass fuels up to September 30, failing which such units will be shut. Commission for Air Quality ManagementThe CAQM had, earlier, passed the order to shut industries for two days in a week in the NCR region. Though the CAQM’s order has given relief to the industrialists, it has also brought big tension to them. The CAQM, in its order, said the industries located in the NCR beyond the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) should, under all circumstances, completely switch over to the PNG or biomass fuels up to September 30 this year, failing which such industries would be closed down and not permitted to schedule their operations thereafter.The CAQM also ordered that till such time the industries made transition to the PNG or biomass fuels, these can use only the approved fuels by the respective state governments for industrial operations.The CAQM had passed the orders to shut industries for two days in a week and banned the running of diesel generator (DG) sets in the NCR in December last year due to severe level of air quality due to which industries in Sonepat, Panipat, Bahadurgarh, Gurugram and Faridabad were badly hit, while same situation was in the NCR areas of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.Various organisations, industrial associations, manufacturing associations, Panipat Exporters associations, Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Panipat, Faridabad, Gurugram, Bahadurgarh and other states have also sent their representations to the CAQM to lift the ban on the operation of industries as these were forced to face a huge loss due to the curbs imposed by the CAQM on them.Bheem Rana, president, Federation of Industrialists Associations and president, Panipat Dyers Association, said although the orders of the CAQM had brought big relief to the industries, these had also raised a big tension. It was not possible to switch over to the complete operation of industries on biomass fuels and the PNG, as it was too costly, he added. Industrialists in the NCR are fed up as it was not easy to run our own industries here, Rana rued.Panipat is a manufacturing hub of textile products and has an annual turnover of Rs 15,000 crore in exports and over Rs 35,000 crore in the domestic market. As per records, there are around 500 dyeing units in Panipat, of which 75 have only the PNG and LPG connections. #Environment #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-panel-nod-to-run-ncr-industry-on-all-7-days-367703
07-02-2022||---||Haryana Chief Minister's Relief Fund scheme to be brought online soon||Chandigarh, February 6Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the financial assistance scheme from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund will also be brought online soon through the “Antyodaya Saral” portal.Through Antyodaya saral portalWith this scheme going online, needy persons will be able to apply with the necessary documents at the nearest CSC or ‘Antyodaya Saral Kendras”.On Sunday, the Chief Minister was giving necessary directions to the officials concerned about making the financial assistance scheme from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund online. He said through the “Antyodaya Saral” portal, people were getting the benefits of various schemes in a timely manner. With the scheme running offline, the benefits of the scheme were not reaching the beneficiaries in a timely manner, so the aim of the government was to take the scheme online through Antyodaya Saral Portal to ensure timely delivery of services. He said after applying online on the portal, this form would reach the public representatives concerned and the Deputy Commissioner. After this, the application would go to the committee for final decision after verification from the tehsildar and Civil Surgeon in the online mode and after completion of all formalities, the amount will be released to the applicant.He said the government was starting the facility to provide quick help to the needy persons. Principal Secretary to Chief Minister V Umashankar was also present. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-ministers-relief-fund-scheme-to-be-brought-online-soon-367705
07-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Against BSEH order, Haryana's private schools release Class VIII exam date sheet||Rohtak, February 6Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), which has been authorised by SCERT Gurugram to conduct the annual exam of Class VIII in the current academic session, is gearing up to finalise the exam schedule. But several private schools affiliated to the Central Board of School Education (CBSE) in the state have released date sheet for term-2 exam of Class VIII without caring for the BSEH’s directive that no exam of Class VIII will be conducted at the school level this time.Parents worriedMy son’s term-1 exams were held in November and term-2 exams have been fixed from February 21. Both term exams were for 40 marks each. But the BSEH has planned to hold an 80-mark exam at the end of the term. That will be a big shock to the students. Ashok Kumar, a parentThe schools have this time adopted a two-term exam system for Class VIII on their level on the lines of matric and senior secondary classes introduced by the CBSE. Under it, the exam of term-1 for 50 per cent syllabus was conducted some months ago by the schools and the term-2 exam is due.“While many schools in various districts have already released date sheets for term-2 exam, many more will issue it within a couple of days as they have to make preparations for the board exams of 10th and 12th classes scheduled next month. Moreover, all CBSE schools are confident that the government’s move of holding class VIII exams through the BSEH will be stayed by the High Court. A writ petition against the move will be filed tomorrow,” said SS Gusain, president, Haryana Progressive School Conference, a group of CBSE-affiliated schools.The ongoing row between the BSEH and the schools has caused anxiety among parents. The BSEH has released its own syllabus for annual exams while the schools are still teaching students as per the syllabus for the term-2 exam.Ved Prakash Yadav, Vice-Chairman, BSEH, said the syllabus for Class VIII had already been cut by 30 per cent and it was almost similar to what was being taught in the private schools. Hence, parents need not to worry about it. “We are in the process of finalising the exam schedule for Class VIII,” he added.Private schools affiliated to the CBSE had, last month, approached the High Court challenging the state government’s decision to conduct board exams of Class VIII for all schools in the state. #BSEH||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/against-bseh-order-private-schools-release-class-viii-exam-date-sheet-367706
07-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad saw max deaths in January during 3rd Covid wave||Faridabad, February 6With 21 deaths in the past 24 days, January proved to be the most fatal in the ongoing third wave of Covid in the district. However, a downward trend is visible with remarkable decline in both new and active cases.The impact of the third wave, which started in the last week of December 2021, surged to maximum in January this year, with around 19 deaths in a period of just 18 days of the first month, according to official sources in the Health department. With no death in December, the first casualty in the current wave surfaced on January 13 when a patient died due to Covid co-morbidities. The fatalities took a sharp turn with a death daily between January 20 and January 31. The impact remained the hardest, with two deaths daily between January 22 and January 25, according to details compiled by the health officials.Earlier, no death took place between July 5, 2021 and November 5, 2021, which indicated that the impact of the Second wave that started in April last year had reduced to minimum between July and December. Both new and active cases remained the lowest, with the infection rate (current sample positivity rate) dipping to nil and remaining as such for almost five months till the second week of December. However, as many as 170 lives were lost in the period between May 1 and June 1, claimed the prime of the second wave surge in the district.The current sample positivity rate, which was 22.88 per cent on January 13 and jumped further to 38.19 on January 23, got reduced to just 6.05 per cent on Sunday (February 6), indicating a downward trend, according to Dr Ram Bhagat, nodal officer, Covid-19, in the district. He said with 101 percent of the residents fully vaccinated, the infection rate was expected to decline further.Meanwhile, the district reported 149 new cases and 316 recoveries on Sunday. The number of hospitalised patients has reduced to 56.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-saw-max-deaths-in-jan-during-3rd-wave-367707
07-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||When cricketer Dinesh Bana did a Dhoni to help lift junior World Cup||Hisar, February 6The family of under-19 cricketer Dinesh Bana, a resident of Sector 14 in Hisar, is basking in the new-found glory of the success of the Indian team after it won the junior World Cup.Also read: All-rounder the hero as India win record-extending fifth Under-19 World Cup in stylePicked MSD’s styleI am also a sports enthusiast and, thus, promoted Dinesh to play cricket since childhood. During his training, he naturally picked the style like Dhoni while improving his skills and became a wicketkeeper-batsman. Mahabir Singh Bana, Dinesh’s fatherBana’s winning six is being equated with that of former Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni when the Indian team won the World Cup about a decade ago.The player’s family and residents of Sector 14 here are now eagerly awaiting his and the team’s return to the country. “It was an electrifying moment when I saw my brother hitting those two sixes,” said Nitika, Dinesh’s brother. “I cannot explain the happiness today. I am proud of him,” she said.Dinesh’s neighbours recalled that Dinesh’s disciplined lifestyle and dedication had helped him excel at this stage. “It is like festival of Holi and Diwali for us, as one of our boys has brought us glory,” said Rajpal Singh, a resident of Sector 14.Dinesh Bana hit two successive sixes to ensure the Indian team won the final against England today. A fan of Sachin Tendulkar, Bana, 17, a resident of Dhansu village in Hisar district, has a playing style like MSD. He is also a wicketkeeper-batsman like the legendary player.His father Mahabir Singh Bana, retired from the Army and currently employed as a head constable with the Haryana Police, said he spotted the cricketing talent in his son from early years. “I am also a sports enthusiast and, thus, promoted Dinesh to play cricket since childhood. During his training, he naturally picked the style like Dhoni while improving his skills and became a wicketkeeper-batsman,” he said.Appreciating the innings of Dinesh in the final when he scored 13 runs by hitting two sixes while playing just five balls to seal the match in India’s favour, Mahabir said he was reminded of the moment when he brought a plastic bat for his son when he was just three years old.As his interest developed in the game, he was admitted to the Cricket Academy of Hisar when he was nine years old. He said he hoped that his son would also earn fame for Haryana like Kapil Dev and Virender Sehwag. His mother Darshna Devi, a homemaker, is on Cloud Nine at her son’s achievement. She said at one stage, she had asked Dinesh to reconsider his decision to take up cricket due to the high cost involved in coaching and equipment in the game. #Cricket||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/when-bana-did-a-dhoni-to-help-lift-jr-wc-367708
07-02-2022||---||Haryana: No power meter security, rental from consumers||Chandigarh, February 6The Power Department has decided not to charge electricity meter security and rental from the consumers who had installed these meters at their own cost.An order said if the meter security had been deposited earlier, it would be converted as the cost of the meter and no meter rent would be charged from such consumers. In future, no interest would be paid on meter security as the same stands converted as the cost of the meter, the order stated.“In areas, where smart electricity meters are being installed and old meters being replaced by smart meters, their cost may not be recovered from the consumers,” the order added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-power-meter-security-rental-from-consumers-367709
07-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||Hisar: New Civil Hospital building proposal pending for 2 years||Hisar, February 6Although there is requirement of a well-equipped government hospital in Hisar, the higher authorities have yet to finalise suitable land for its proposed new building. The present building of the Civil Hospital is short of space due excessive footfall of patients. On an average 1,500 patients visit the hospital OPD.3 sites shorlisted for hospitalThree places have been earmarked for the new hospital building. But the higher authorities have not given a nod for any of these sites in the city. — Health official, HisarThe existing building cannot be expanded due to restrictions of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The hospital building is located within the periphery of the ASI protected Hisar-E-Firoza Fort. The Civil Hospital is built on around 20 acres. The first block of the hospital was built in 1957 and the second block in 1974.The second Covid wave and later outbreak of dengue exposed the space crunch at the hospital and the need for better government health facilities in the district. Hisar recorded the highest number of deaths due to Covid in the first and second wave.During his visit to Hisar today, the Health Minister, Anil Vij, also directed district officials to identify land at the earliest so that a new building of the Civil Hospital could be constructed.“A state-of-art hospital will be constructed in Hisar as soon as land is earmarked for its building,” he told mediapersons here today.Sources in the administration sources, however, maintained there was a proposal for a multi-specialty hospital spread over 70 acres. “Three places have been earmarked for the new hospital building. But the higher authorities have not given a nod for any of these sites,” an official said.The sources said they need 70 acres for the project, which includes a Civil Hospital and TB Hospital. Three proposed sites include land of the Government livestock farm, the land near the BSF camp on the Sirsa road, the HSVP land in Sector 16-17 and the government land near airport roundabout on the Delhi Bypass.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-civil-hospital-building-proposal-pending-for-2-years-367710
07-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Sex ratio at birth dropped in Kurukshetra district last year||Kurukshetra, February 6After witnessing an upward trend for a couple of years, the sex ratio at birth dropped 17 points to 921 girls per 1,000 boys in the Kurukshetra district last year.Covid hit health dept workStrict measures by the Health Department over the years had helped the district in improving its sex ratio at birth. But due to the pandemic, officials got busy with Covid duties and somewhere, and the violators of the PCPNDT Act took advantage of the situation. A Health official, KurukshetraAs per the data, the figure stood at 743 in 2012 and improved to 887 girls per 1,000 boys in 2013. It witnessed a continuous decline for the next three years — 869 in 2014, 860 in 2015 and 859 in 2016. The situation improved in 2017 and the sex ratio increased to 924 and remained static at 924 in 2018 too.The sex ratio improved to 928 and then further to 938 in 2019 and 2020 respectively, but it dropped to 921 last year. The state average was 914.As per the data procured from the Health Department, 16,130 children — 8,398 boys and 7,732 girls — were born in Kurukshetra district last year.A senior health official said strict measures taken by the Health Department over the years had helped the district in improving its sex ratio at birth. But due to the pandemic, the health officials got busy with the Covid duties and somewhere the violators of Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act had taken advantage of the situation.Meanwhile, officials who conduct raids, have sought more powers for themselves, especially for inter-state raids, as they experience lack of support from their counterparts in other states during raids, particularly Uttar Pradesh.“Tightening the noose around violators of the PCPNDT Act and MTP Act, the department has caught 158 persons, including doctors and touts, for their involvement in sex-determination rackets since 2016. As many as 53 raids, including 18 under the MTP Act, have been conducted since 2016,” said Dr RK Sahai, Deputy Civil Surgeon and nodal officer for the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act.The department has even conducted raids in Uttar Pradesh. The pandemic has definitely made its impact, as the department got busy with the Covid duties,” Dr RK Sahai said.“Efforts are being made to improve the sex ratio and strict action would be taken against the people involved in sex-determination test rackets. Whenever we get a tip-off that any person is involved in a sex-determination test, a team is formed and efforts are made to trap violators,” Dr RK Sahai added.“The identity of the informer is not revealed and they are given incentives. The informers are given Rs 1 lakh each for helping the department in busting gender test rackets. Last month, Rs 4 lakh were given to four informers for their help in previous raids. The department is doing enforcement, but the things will not change until the mindset of people is changed,”Dr RK Sahai said. #sex ratio||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sex-ratio-at-birth-dropped-in-kurukshetra-district-last-year-367711
07-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||Probe ordered into Bhiwani green belt facelift||Bhiwani, February 6An amount of over Rs 52 lakh spent on the renovation and beautification of the green belt in Sector 23 seems to have gone down the drain as residents raised the issue of its poor condition with the district administration.GUILTY TO BE PUNISHEDSector 23 residents have complained to me several times about the bad condition of the Netaji Subhash Chandra Green Belt. They allege that the work is also not being carried out in a proper way… Action will be taken against the guilty as per law. — RS Dhillon, Bhiwani DCTaking serious note of the issue, DC RS Dhillon has ordered an inquiry into the works carried out for developing the green belt. The DC said a committee headed by ADC Rahul Narwal would conduct the inquiry into the funds spent on the renovation of the green belt.A total of Rs 52.61 lakh were spent on the green belt in two years. The other members of the inquiry committee are Executive Engineer of the PWD (B&R), Executive Engineer of Panchayati Raj and District Horticulture Officer. The committee has been directed to submit its report to the DC by February 28.“Residents of Sector 23 have complained to me several times about the bad condition of the Netaji Subhash Chandra Green Belt. They allege that the work is also not being carried out in a proper way,” the DC said, adding there should be no misuse of the government funds so he had formed a committee to probe the matter.Dhillon said: “If anybody is found guilty in the probe, action will be taken against them as per the law. However, necessary instructions have been issued to the officials concerned regarding the quality of construction material being used in other ongoing developmental works.”Residents during their meeting with the DC alleged that even after spending lakhs, the condition of the green belt hadn’t improved.Sources said the DC also sought the details of the works carried out by various firms. They added in 2021-2021, the MC got the green belt beautified by a firm that spent Rs 17.68 lakh, boundary walls and a footpath was built for Rs 7.24 lakh, a water storage tank was constructed for Rs 1.61 lakh, and repairs and patchwork was carried out at a cost of Rs 12.29 lakh. However, the MC again spent Rs 13.79 lakh in 2021-22 on the construction of footpaths around the green belt.MC chairman Ran Singh Yadav said the work to develop the green belt was underway. “I can’t comment on the matter at this point,” he said when asked about the inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-ordered-into-bhiwani-green-belt-facelift-367712
07-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Delay in Pipli-Kurukshetra University six-laning hits Kurukshetra beautification||Kurukshetra, February 6The Pipli-Kurukshetra University six-laning project has come to a standstill after the tender of the construction agency was terminated by the PWD (B&R) over a month ago due to the tardy pace of work.The project has not only become an ordeal for locals, but it has been affecting the beautification work of the city too. Started in December 2018, the project was scheduled to be completed by December 2019.PWD (B&R) Executive Engineer Arun Bhatia said: “As per the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the construction agency was given a hearing opportunity. But even after seven opportunities given by the Chief Engineer, the agency has attended only one hearing. Now a final hearing date has been given for Monday. A detailed notice inviting tender of the pending work worth Rs 27 crore has already been prepared. We have been maintaining the road and soon after the decision on the dispute, a tender will be floated.”On the other hand, the administration has set a deadline to get the beautification work completed by March 31.As per the information, Power Grid Corporation of India Limited had agreed to spend Rs 7.24 crore on the development and beautification of the city. An MoU was also signed and the central agency had earmarked the funds under its CSR project in 2019. The budget was to be spent in a year but just over Rs 4 crore have been utilised so far.Meanwhile, Kurukshetra Development Board CEO Anubhav Mehta, said “Due to Covid, the projects have gotten delayed. So far, two toilet blocks and two bus queue shelters have been constructed, fountains at the entrance to Pipli have been installed and lighting work in the KDB area and Pipli road have also been completed. We have to build a street-vending zone and place dustbins, the work for which will be carried out by the MC, while traffic lights are to be installed at four spots, for which a proposal will be submitted in a few days.”DC Mukul Kumar, however, said: “The delay in six-laning project has affected several development works on this stretch. Officials have been told to expedite the work.” #kurukshetra university||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delay-in-pipli-kurukshetra-university-six-laning-hits-kurukshetra-beautification-367715
07-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Panipat: Overflowing sewer an eyesore for locals||Panipat, February 6Overflowing sewer and the poor condition of Devpuri Road in ward number 10 of the city has left the residents irked.Devpuri Road is a commercial road where around 150 industries are operating. Besides, there are many shops that have been lying shut for a long time due to the pitiable condition of the road.Locals say they are forced to face problems due to choked sewers and drains on both sides of the road and poor sanitation for the past three-four years. They have raised the issues before the local councillors and officials several times but all in vain.Narender Sethi, a businessman, said Devpuri Road was important for the locals here as this was the main route to the cremation ground.“However, it’s in a pathetic condition for the past three-four years. The drains are overflowing and the sewers here are choked due to which dirty water comes onto the road,” he added.“Sweepers never come here. Heaps of garbage can be seen everywhere. Earlier, the sanitation workers made it a garbage dumping spot but the practice stopped after the locals opposed it,” Sethi added.He further said it was the main entry road to the HSVP sectors and industrial area but due to its bad condition, the total load had been diverted through the Housing Board colony.Another resident Ved Sethi said: “Earlier, commuters used this road to go to the cremation ground but now they are forced to change their way due to the overflowing sewer.”We had raised the issue before councillor Ravinder Bhatia several times and at times, sweepers come here to clean the drain temporarily, he added.Ravinder Bhatia, councillor, ward number 10, said we had raised the issue several times with the authorities concerned but due to their lethargic attitude, residents were facing problems. The sewer on Devpuri Road was choked for a long time due to improper maintenance, he added.Besides, MLA Pramod Vij on Sunday visited the area and took a serious note of the pitiable condition of the road, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/overflowing-sewer-an-eyesore-for-locals-367716
07-02-2022||Ambala||Ambala: MP's 'relative' held for assaulting policeman||The Ambala police have arrested a person, who is allegedly a relative of a Lok Sabha MP, under various Sections, including using criminal force to deter public servant from the discharge of his duty, rioting, criminal intimidation and unlawful assembly.The accused, Mohit, a resident of Mirzapur. He was produced before a court today which sent him to judicial custody. A case has been registered against Mohit, Prince and Sahil, Krishan, Mohit, a resident of Gaganheri, and Sapptar, and 3-4 unidentified youths, under various Sections of the IPC.The police stated that on Saturday night, cops got information that some youths in front of the HUDA commercial complex were consuming liquor and playing music at a high volume. The ASI stated, “I told them to leave the place as it was too late. Meanwhile, Mohit said they could not do anything to him and he would get them transferred.”The SP confirmed Mohit had been arrested. He was the main accused and was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mps-relative-held-for-assaulting-policeman-367717
07-02-2022||Chandigarh||Will restore old-age pension: Ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has alleged that the government is going ahead with the policy of ending pension of the elderly. He criticised the government for stopping the pension of the elderly since they had not yet received the pension for the month of December last year and January this year as the government had stopped elderly, widow and handicapped pension.Hooda said the parties that came to power by promising a pension of Rs 5,100 were now continuously deducting the pension. The pension of thousands of elderly people had been cut so far by linking it with the family ID and the government was planning to cut the pensions of thousands more.Hooda said pension for the elderly was their support in old age. “The government should stop the policy of delay in deduction and payment of pension. If this government does not do this, the pension of all persons impacted by government cuts, will be restored and increased as per the promise when we form the government,” he said. — #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-restore-old-age-pension-ex-cm-367718
07-02-2022||---||SUV overturns in Ambala, 7 hurt||Ambala, February 6At least seven people were injured after an SUV they were travelling in overturned near the Jandli area on the Ambala-Chandigarh National Highway here today.As per the information, a family and some relatives were on their way from Panipat to Patiala to attend a marriage function when a tyre of the SUV burst and the vehicle overturned after hitting a divider.The injured were helped by Army personnel and passersby. There were eight people in the SUV.An injured identified as Paramjeet Kaur was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, due to head injuries while the other accident victims were provided treatment at the Civil Hospitals in Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/suv-overturns-in-ambala-7-hurt-367719
07-02-2022||---||Youth booked for molesting minor girl||Yamunanagar, February 6A three and a half years old girl was allegedly sexually abused by a teenage boy at a village of the Yamunanagar district. On the complaint of the victim’s father, a case was registered against 16-year-old boy under Section 6 of the POCSO Act at the Sadar police station, Yamunanagar, on February 4.The complainant, who belongs to Bihar, stated to the police that he and his wife, along with their two children, were living in a rented room at a village of the Yamunanagar district.The complainant said he and his wife worked as a labourer in a plywood factory here. His three and a half years old daughter, along with his younger brother, was playing outside their rented room in the noon on February 4, the complainant added.When he went out of the room at 3 pm, his daughter was not present there, complainant said. “After sometimes, our daughter came back weeping. She told us that a boy living in their neighbourhood took her to a secluded place and sexually abused her,” the complainant alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-booked-for-molesting-minor-girl-367720
07-02-2022||Yamunanagar||112 liquor smugglers held in Yamunanagar district||The police have arrested 112 people for selling liquor illegally in Yamunanagar district last month. The police also recovered 1,235 bottles of country made liquor from their possession.Drive will continueThe police have recovered 1,235 bottles of country-made liquor and 11 bottles of Indian made foreign liquor from the possession of the accused. The drive will continue in future too. — Chamkaur Singh, Police SpokespersonChamkaur Singh, a police spokesperson, said on the direction of the Superintendent of Police, Kamaldeep Goyal, a drive was launched to nab liquor smugglers in the district.He said the police raided several places in Yamunanagar district last month and arrested 112 persons, who were caught selling liquor illegally. The police recovered 1,235 bottles of country-made liquor and 11 bottles of Indian made foreign liquor from the possession of the accused, he added. The drive would continue in future too so that no one could sell liquor illegally in the district, he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/112-liquor-smugglers-held-in-yamunanagar-district-367722
07-02-2022||---||Murder accused held after 17 years||Faridabad, February 6The police have arrested a murder accused after 17 years. A spokesperson of the Police Department said the accused, identified as Vikas, alias Vicky (30), hailing from Tuglakabad in Delhi, had allegedly been involved in the murder of one Pritpal, a local resident, in 1999.He said while the accused, along with five other persons, had been arrested soon, he jumped bail in 2005 and was at large since then.A dispute over some matter was reported to be the cause behind the murder. Both accused and the victim were known to each other as they had been working at the same place. The victim was stabbed to death, it was reported.While a reward of Rs 5,000 had been announced on his head, a team of the crime branch, Sector 3 managed to arrest the accused on the basis of inputs and information last night from Delhi. He was remanded to judicial custody today by the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-accused-held-after-17-years-367724
07-02-2022||---||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's visit to Rohtak postponed||Chandigarh, February 6The Rohtak Deputy Commissioner, Captain Manoj Kumar, has informed that due to the national mourning, Haryana Chief Minister (CM), Manohar Lal Khattar’s two-day visit to Rohtak has been postponed. He said on the death of Swara Kokila Lata Mangeshkar, the Central Government had declared two days national mourning. Due to this, the CM’s visit to Rohtak was postponed, he added. The Tricolour would remain at half-mast for two days to pay respect to late Lata Mangeshkar, he said.The CM was to lay the foundation stone for the reconstruction of shops located on Hisar Road and Old Sabzi Mandi Road, he added. Besides, the CM was to attend science exhibition at Pandit Nekiram Sharma Government College, he said. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-ministers-visit-to-rohtak-postponed-367725
07-02-2022||Faridabad||Haryana Diary: Passing the buck over road repair||House refuses to privatise parkingRohtak: Amid tug-of-war between advocates and workers engaged for towing vehicles in the city, the Municipal Corporation's move to privatise parking zones inside white line on main roads has failed to get the nod of the General House. It was obvious as several councillors as well as traders were strongly resisting the move. "The development has given a jolt to both the authorities and an influential local leader. The authorities wanted to raise funds by privatising parking zones while the leader wanted the contract of this project for his loyalist, who is already on the target of the Opposition due to political and other reasons," reacted an official.Gurnam Singh Charuni’s call didn’t go wellAmbala: The call of participating in active politics and mission Punjab given by the BKU (Charuni) chief, Gurnam Singh Charuni, didn't go well with his own union activists. While some farm activists joined other unions another group floated its own union. There are still Gurnam's supporters, who are sticking with his union, but they are not happy with the decision taken by him. A farmer leader said, "Some activists have left the union. Though it will not make any major impact on the union, it has sent a wrong message. There are many activists, who are still with the union, but not happy with Gurnam Singh Charuni's move of participating in active politics." Another farm leader said if they also started campaigning and seeking votes, then people would look at them as opportunists and politicians instead of farm leaders, who were struggling for farmers' cause.War of words over projectsPanipat: A war of words has erupted among supporters of the ruling party and people from the opposition people on the social media over some development projects in the city. Notably, two major projects - widening of Assandh Road and Gohana Road - are going at a slow pace. Some supporters appreciated the ruling party for these projects, but others mocked them by saying 'vikas' was done at a slow pace. Though the reasons for the slow pace of work may be weather disturbance, delay in completion of roads has created many problems for the people.Rural areas in electoral modeHisar: Haryana's rural areas, especially those bordering Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Punjab, are virtually in electoral mode these days with the two neighbouring states going to the polls. The Jat issue dominating the western UP has attracted interest of the people in Jind, the Jat heartland, and the old Rohtak region. The Punjabi belt adjoining Sirsa, Fatehabad and Narwana segments is not only keeping a track of developments, but are also involved in politicking. The new found love and brotherhood between Haryana and Punjab farmers when they came close during the farmers' agitation while sitting on the Delhi borders has also evoked interest of Haryanavi people in Punjab politics. "I am in regular contact with some of them and get an update about Punjab politics," said Kuldeep, a resident of Kharad village in Hisar district, who spent months at the Tikri border and jointly worked with Punjab farmers. "Residents of Sonepat, Rohtak, Panipat and Jind have close relations with the people in the western UP, who share the relation of 'Roti-beti'. The 'khap' system in Haryana and the UP is common. So, they are also politically connected with each other," said a political observer. #gurnam singh charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/passing-the-buck-over-road-repair-367726
07-02-2022||Kurukshetra||Dr BV Ramana Reddy joins as NIT Kurukshetra director||Dr BV Ramana Reddy joined as the director of the National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra on Saturday.Reddy has been working as professor at the University School of Information and Communication Technology, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi. He is also the chairman, Centralised Career Guidance and Placement Cell of the GGSIP University and programme coordinator of the NSS cell of the university. He possesses an academic track record both as teacher and researcher, besides administrative acumen in technology areas of the ICT. His current research interests include wireless communications incorporating mobile, sensor-based networks, computer communication networks, semiconductor and VLSI circuits and microwave and optical communications.He has more than 110 national and international journals to his credit. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dr-reddy-joins-as-nit-director-367727
07-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: IT companies to continue work from home||With reducing Covid cases the local administration while following government orders have allowed opening of all private and government institutions with full capacity.Though the move aims at returning to normalcy, but a majority of companies, especially in the IT sector, have decided to continue with work from home. Calling opening and closing frequently a big hassle, a majority of these companies have intimated their employees to work from home for as long as one year.“Opening and closing every three months is out of question as it involves a lot of logistics. A large number of employees are Chinese. Getting them here with ever-changing travel restrictions and then sending them back is difficult. So, we will continue with work from home,” said a senior HR official of a major telecom company.“We did try to open after the second wave, but couldn’t get the entire staff back and then the third wave came. Starting and shutting involves a lot of money. The efficiency is fine in work from home,” said Deepak Baweja of a software development firm. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/it-companies-to-continue-work-from-home-367728
07-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram University releases newspaper titled 'University Ink'||Workshop on creative writingYamunanagar: To celebrate the 50th year of postgraduation in English, a ‘Craft of creative writing’ workshop was organised at Mukand Lal National College here. Ritu Kumar, head of English department, said to become a successful writer, learning the nuances of writing was a must. Resource person Chetna Keer, a novelist and columnist, dwelled in detail on the art of characterisation in creative writing, the need to comprehend its content and context giving illustrations from classics and literary legends.College observes World Cancer DayYamunanagar: The NCC, NSS and Youth Red Cross units of Guru Nanak Khalsa College observed World Cancer Day. Principal (Maj) Harinder Singh Kang said this year's theme was 'close the care gap' as cancer was the second leading cause of death globally. NSS programme officers Dr Catherine Masih and Dr Sanjay Vij said cancer could occur at any age and if it was not detected and treated at the right time, it might increase the risk of death.Training for competitive examsMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana has started a programme titled ‘Prayas’ in order to impart special training to the students for competitive examinations like National Eligibility Test (life sciences)/JRF/GATE. Vice Chancellor Prof Tankeswar Kumar said it would help the students to develop their academic abilities for making their career bright.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-varsity-releases-newspaper-367730
07-02-2022||The photograph captured outside the boundary wall of the Civil Dispensary in Sector 8 of Panchkula speaks volumes about the highly reckless attitude of some residents living nearby. Let the Panchkula administration urgently rise to the occasion and take necessary remedial steps to get rid of their uncivilised and unbecoming behaviour and come to the immediate rescue of others. — Kumar Gupt||Waste dumping a nuisance||Telecom dept land cries for maintenanceA piece of land allotted to the Telecommunications Department 30 years ago by the HSVP for developing its own infrastructure in Sector 9 of the city has become a cause for concern for nearby residents. During monsoon, rainwater accumulates in the area, wild growth increases and the place becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes and a home to poisonous reptiles. According to the HSVP policies, a handsome amount is charged annually from the owner of the land/plot for maintenance. In this case, the matter has not been accorded due attention and residents are suffering for the past 30 years. We hope the department concerned will take appropriate action in this regard. — Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityTax survey raises questionsThe recently issued property tax bills by the Municipal Corporation have become a matter of concern for the residents. The bill mentions that it is based on a latest survey, while the residents deny any such study being conducted. It seems that the particulars mentioned on record have been modified/updated on imaginary basis. There have been many instances of incorrect particulars found on the bill such as the wrong name of the occupier or mobile number. Cases have also been observed where occupancy on the first floor was evaluated but there was no such construction in actual. The number of such cases are quite high. The residents have to stand in queue with supporting documents to get the errors made by the MC office removed. The survey and its reliability raise questions. — Pankaj Aneja, KarnalDung chokes Rohtak drainsThough the Municipal Corporation recently challaned several dairy owners in the city for throwing cow dung into drains, the situation is yet to improve. Sewers are overflowing in the main dairy complex behind Durga Bhawan Temple and adjoining Kaccha Beri Road, resulting in the accumulation of dirty water on the road and causing inconvenience to commuters. The Municipal Corporation authorities must send their teams daily to such areas to challan the violators. — Ashok Kumar, RohtakWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribuneinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waste-dumping-a-nuisance-367732
07-02-2022||Rewari||Indira Gandhi University don to get Rs30L for project||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/igu-don-to-get-30l-for-project-367733
