08-02-2022||Rewari||Haryana: Sex racket operating from spa busted in Rewari, 13 held||A sex racket operating from near Dharuhera Chowk in Rewari was busted on Tuesday with the arrest of 13 people, including 10 women, police said.An FIR under the Immoral Trafficking Act has been registered, police said.   Police are conducting raids to nab the spa owner.According to police, a raid was conducted based on a tip-off that some women are involved in prostitution and operating a sex racket.“We sent our constable as decoy customer to the spa. He met a woman and managed to go inside where he found some couples in an objectionable position. After receiving a signal from him, we raided the spa and arrested 13 persons, including 10 women,” said DSP Hansraj.  Police said the kingpin of the racket is yet to be identified.The arrested women are natives of other states and all aged between 25 and 35, said police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-sex-racket-operating-from-spa-busted-in-rewari-13-held-368185
08-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana to bring anti-conversion Bill in upcoming budget session of Assembly||The BJP-led government in Haryana will bring in a bill against religious conversions carried out through force, allurement or fraudulent means, with a provision for declaring marriages solemnised by concealment of religion null and void, in the upcoming budget session of the Assembly.According to the draft bill, the burden of proof “lies on the accused”.A meeting of the Haryana Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here, approved the draft of The Haryana Prevention of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Bill, 2022 on Tuesday.Several BJP-ruled states, including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, have such legislation against illegal conversion.The Bill will now be moved in the Haryana Assembly, whose budget session begins on March 2.In November 2020, state Home Minister Anil Vij had announced the setting up of a three-member committee to draft a bill against “love jihad”, a term used by BJP leaders to describe the alleged religious conversion of Hindu women in the guise of marriage.The Bill’s draft statement of objectives and reasons said that there were instances where, “to increase the strength of their religion”, people were marrying persons of other religion by concealment of their own religion and then forcing them to convert.The bill, therefore, seeks to prevent religious conversions which are effected through the use of force, under threat, misrepresentation, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage or for marriage by making it an offence.The provisions provide for declaring marriages, which were solemnised by concealment of religion, null and void.The Bill’s draft statement said the provisions provide greater punishment for such conversion in respect of the minor, women, Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.Also, individuals converting from one religion to another have to submit to the prescribed authority a declaration.“The said Bill (to be tabled in Assembly) seeks to prohibit religious conversions which are effected through misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage or for marriage by making it an offence, hence the draft Bill is approved,” an official statement said after the cabinet meeting.The Bill’s draft statement of objectives and reasons read, “The Constitution confers on each individual the fundamental right to profess, practice and propagate his religion.“However, the individual right to freedom of conscience and religion cannot be extended to construe a collective right to proselytize; for the right to religious freedom belongs equally to the person converting and the individual sought to be converted”.”Still, there have been umpteen cases of religious conversions, both mass and individual. Obviously, such incidents have been hotly debated, more so in a multi-religious society, such as ours.“The presence of pseudo-social organisations with a hidden agenda to convert the vulnerable sections of other religions. There have been instances when gullible people have been converted by offering allurement or under undue influence. Some have been forced to convert to other religions,” said the bill’s draft, as per the official statement.The draft statement further read, “In recent past several instances came to the notice that with an agenda to increase strength of their own religion by getting people from other religions converted, people marry persons of other religion by either misrepresentation or concealment of their own religion and after getting married they force such other person to convert to their own religion. Recently Supreme Court also took judicial notice of such instances.”Such incidents not only infringe the freedom of religion of the persons so converted but also militate against the secular fabric of our society that conversion just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable, it said.“.. Provide that the burden of proof as to whether a conversion was not affected through misrepresentation, use of force, under threat, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage or for marriage for the purpose of carrying out conversion lies on the accused,” the draft bill read.“Provide that every individual converting from one religion to another shall submit to the prescribed authority a declaration that the conversion affected through was not misrepresentation, use of force, under threat, undue influence, coercion..,” it said.  #religious conversions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-bring-anti-conversion-bill-in-upcoming-budget-session-of-assembly-368181
08-02-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Faridabad: No check on dust pollution at highway bypass project site||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com No check on dust pollution at highway bypass project siteConstruction work going on at various places in the city has become a major reason for air pollution. Thousands of commuters face inconvenience everyday due to the dust pollution caused by inadequate measures taken by the construction agencies concerned. One such road is the 13-km stretch on the highway bypass, where the construction of an elevated flyover is underway. Thousands of vehicles use the stretch every day. The road becomes a cause of concern even during rains as it becomes muddy and slippery after the downpour. The authorities concerned, including the pollution control board and Municipal Corporation have paid no heed to the violation of the rules by the contractor. Kuldeep Singh, FaridabadIron pillars, poles obstructing roadAbout six months ago, the work of laying of 3-km stretch from Dhakal head to Mela mandi started. Poles have been erected throughout the stretch and occupy major road space. The residents were promised that all such obstructions would be relocated before the construction of the road. The UHBVN must act fast and begin work on priority basis. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-check-on-dust-pollution-at-highway-bypass-project-site-367955
08-02-2022||Rohtak||Kalpana Chawla remembered||Workshop on research paper writingFaridabad: The research and innovation hub of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, organised a two-day workshop on the topic of research paper writing and publication. Principal Dr KK Gupta said the aim of the event was to help students to hone their research paper writing skills. Parul Kumar from the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University, Govt of NCT, Delhi, was the keynote speaker. Emphasising upon the importance of research in higher education, he said research work was a never-ending process and a prerequisite to innovation. He explained the meaning of research and shared detailed information on the process. Doubts raised during the programme were also discussed.Webinar on inspired livingFaridabad: A webinar on ‘inspired living’ was organised by the office of the Dean, Students’ Welfare, DAV Centenary College. Jaya Row, founder of Vedanta Vision, and internationally known exponent of the Bhagvada Gita was the keynote speaker. She shared the mantras of living a happy and dedicated life, and quoted numerous examples from the Vedanta. She also talked about the highly successful lives of eminent people in various parts of the world. “The most important thing is that one should think beyond self. One cannot achieve greatness with a small mind and we must expand our minds to attain new heights in life,” she said. #kalpana chawla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kalpana-chawla-remembered-367953
08-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Woman duped of Rs 10 lakh||A woman was duped of Rs 10 lakhs on the pretext of investing in share market. The victim had planned to invest this money after she lost her job during the pandemic.The complainant, Ritika Thakur, said she was searching for intraday trading tips when she came across Balaji Traders through an advertisement on Google.“The firm contacted me and explained me the details of trading over phone. The initial trading was done through my Demat account and after three days, I was duped of Rs 10 lakh,” she said, adding that “I have also registered a complaint with Google on how they could place this ad on the page.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-duped-of-rs-10-lakh-367952
08-02-2022||---||Palwal YouTuber held for objectionable post||Faridabad, February 7The police here have arrested two persons in connection with posting objectionable and misleading content on social media platforms recently regarding the alleged incidence of cow slaughter in the district.A spokesperson of the Police Department said two of the four accused, identified as Kamal Tomar and Yogesh, had been arrested in connection with the case booked against them recently. While Yogesh, a resident of Palwal, had allegedly posted the matter on his Youtube channel of “Amazing Farming” about the incident of the remains found of dead cattle (cows) in the Surajkund area here, projecting it as a case of mass cow slaughter, the other accused Kamal Tomar, hailing from Fatehpur Beri in Delhi, posted it on the Facebook page. The police had booked a case under Sections 153-A and 295-A of the IPC on February 4.It has been alleged that sharing the matter on social media had resulted in provoking the religious sentiments of a large number of people, while it was just a case of improper disposal of the remains of the dead animals by the contractor assigned the job of the removal of the carcasses in the city. He said a case had also been registered against the contractor for the improper disposal of the carcasses. #YouTube||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youtuber-held-for-objectionable-post-367951
08-02-2022||---||Four Haryana educational officials to get national award||Rohtak, February 7Four officials of the Education Department, Haryana, have been shortlisted for National Awards for Innovation and Good Practices in Education Administration after following a multi-stage process of evaluation.The awards have been instituted by the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA) with the objective of recognising, awarding and disseminating innovations, good practices in educational administration by district and block-level education officers.NIEPA Vice-Chancellor Prof NV Varghese has shared this information with Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Secondary and School Education, Haryana, through a communiqué. He has also been urged to depute officials to attend the award function on February 10.The awards will be given by Union Minister of State for Education, Dr Subhash Sarkar, through virtual mode, while higher officials of the Ministry of Education, education officials from different states and the UT would also attend the function.Krishna Phogat, Deputy DEO, Rohtak, said the award was considered as an important step towards strengthening the governance of education at field level which can, in turn, help in improving the efficiency of the delivery system. The awards had been declared for the year 2019-20.“I have been selected for the award for making the Sampla block in Rohtak district a Saksham+ block by establishing a good mechanism and adopting good practices. Saksham+ means more than 80 per cent of the students of III, V and VII in government schools of Sampla are grade-level competent in Hindi, mathematics and English subjects. Sampla was the lone block across the state in 2018-19 to become Saksham+,” she said.Krishna said teachers of all schools under the Sampla block worked extra time even on holidays to enhance the learning level of their students so that over 80 per cent among them could obtain over 60 per cent marks in the exams conducted by third party.Those shortlistedThe officials shortlisted for the award include district education officers (DEOs), Ritu Chowdhary and Indu Boken Kasana, Deputy DEO Krishna Phogat and Alka and her team posted at the Block Education Office in Mahendragarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-educational-officials-to-get-national-award-367950
08-02-2022||---||Gurugram: Students of Guru Dronacharya College protest conduct of exams, seek change in pattern||Gurugram, February 7Students of Guru Dronacharya College blocked the new Railway Road today and raised slogans against the conduction of examinations.Students said the syllabus was not even completed and the exams were approaching near. If the college held exams in offline mode, students would have trouble appearing for exams, they said, adding that mode of conduct of examinations should be given to students.“Syllabus of courses has not been completed. Keeping this in mind, the pattern of examination and question paper should be changed. The management has not taken any decision on the demands put forth by students. In these unusual circumstances, the college cannot ask students to appear for exams in offline mode” the protesters said.“We do have not the authority on the mode of conduct of exams. That decision is taken by the university VC,” said principal Satymanyu Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-protest-conduct-of-exams-seek-change-in-pattern-367949
08-02-2022||---||LED lights for Gharaunda-Jalandhar stretch||Karnal, February 7Two thousand LED lights are being installed on a stretch of the National Highway-44 heading from Gharaunda to Jalandhar by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in order to make commuting safe for motorists.“The foundation work has been completed. Almost all poles have been erected and the wiring process has also been initiated,” said an official.The road heading from Gharaunda to Jalandhar is a busy stretch. Motorists often complain about darkness on the stretch during nights, making them vulnerable to gangs of highway robbers.The authorities concerned claimed that the installation of LED lights would make commuting easier on the NH-44.“The NHAI has started installing LED lights on both sides of the National Highway-44 heading from Gharaunda to Ambala at the cost of Rs45 crore. One LED light is being installed at a distance of 40 metres,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, section engineer, NHAI, Ambala.“In Gharaunda 30 LED lights while in Karnal city 800 lights are being installed from stretch heading from Madhuban and Baldi bypass. Fifty lights will be installed in Nilokheri, 500 in Kurukshetra city limits, 300 in Shahabad and 400 in the Ambala urban area limits on the NH-44,” he added.“High-mast lights are being installed at the junctions, flyovers, T-points and chowks by the NHAI to ease the traffic movement during nights,” he said. “We are installing high-mast lights on every junction, which will help motorists drive safely,” he added.He claimed that LED lights would also enhance beautification of the NH-44.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/led-lights-for-gharaunda-jalandhar-stretch-367948
08-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Civic amenities poor in Greater Faridabad||Faridabad, February 7Greater Faridabad, known as the hub of high-rise residential societies here with a population of over one lakh, is yet to be equipped with basic civil amenities.Also known as Neharpar, the area does not have an efficient sewage disposal system, water supply system and public parks. The area was claimed to be developed as a modern habitat.No functional sewerThere is no functional sewer line in about 15 residential sectors carved about 15-20 years ago. Residents have been mainly dependent on ground water supply. The majority of roads have been damaged with no news on repair work. Pramod Manocha, greaterFaridabad residents’ associationNo fire, power stationThe living conditions here are pathetic. Residents have been paying all kinds of taxes, but have received no amenities. There is no fire station and power substation, and the green belts are also lying ill maintained. Satinder Singh, greater Faridabad residents’ welfare associationWater lines laidSewage pipes and water supply lines have been laid along the master roads. It is the job of the societies to get connections for the same. The road work has been handed over to the Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority. Rajiv Sharma, Superintending Engineer, HSVP“Despite shelling an amount of over Rs 5,000 crore as external development charges (EDC) and internal development charges (IDC), there is no functional sewer line in the about 15 residential sectors carved about 15 to 20 years ago,” said Pramod Manocha of the Greater Faridabad Residents Association.Manocha said residents here had been mainly dependent on ground water supply. “The majority of roads have been damaged with no news on repair work. Unauthorised colonisation, illegal constructions, encroachments and garbage littered in the open has also become a common sight,” he added.Describing the conditions as pathetic, Satinder Singh of the Greater Faridabad Residents Welfare Association said it was the only area without any public park.“Residents have been paying all kinds of taxes, but have received no amenities. There is no fire station and power substation, and the green belts are also lying ill maintained,” he added.“Greater Faridabad is reeling under the fake commitment model with deep rooted nexus of politicians and builders,” said Paras Bhardwaj of NGO ‘Save Faridabad’.He said the roads were pathetic, the sewage disposal was run by tanker mafia, who enjoyed patronage of influential leaders, making the societies bear an average monthly bill of over Rs 6 lakh. “The mafia enjoys such power only because the administration has failed to provide any facility,” he added.Roopa Somasundaram, a resident who lodged a petition with the NHRC in 2021 regarding poor civic amenities, said the issue remained unaddressed despite claims by the authorities concerned.However, claiming that sewage pipes and water supply lines had been laid along the master roads, Rajiv Sharma, Superintending Engineer, Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) said it was the job of the societies to get connections for the same.“With a sewage treatment plant of 30 MLD under construction, the road work has been handed over to the Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civic-amenities-poor-in-greater-faridabad-367947
08-02-2022||Hisar||Two killed in road mishap||Two workers employed under the MNREGS were killed and six others injured when a trolley loaded with bricks overturned and fell on them near Sultanpur village of the district today.The workers were taking a break in the morning along a roadside when the mishap occurred. The workers were engaged in strengthening the banks of the road. A group of them sat along the roadside for lunch around noon. However, the tractor lost control while giving way to another vehicle. It overturned and the workers were buried under the trolley. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-in-road-mishap-367946
08-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps Haryana for ‘adamant attitude’||Chandigarh, February 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the State of Haryana for its ‘adamant attitude’ and acting in a “most lackadaisical manner” in case of an employee not accorded the benefits of regularisation after completing around 33 years of service.Coming to his recue, Justice Arun Monga directed that the petitioner’s services would be regularised from the date his juniors were accorded the benefit after observing that none of the defenses put forth by the State of Haryana and other respondents were legally sustainable. The petitioner was also directed to be given consequential monetary benefits, along with seven per cent annual interest, from the due date till payment.Justice Monga asserted the arrears were restricted to 38 months from the filing of writ petition for regularisation in certain cases. But the petitioner had been running from pillar to post from the date his services were terminated. Though he was later reinstated, consequential benefits were not accorded, compelling him to indulge in multiple rounds of litigation. In his petition, Jagdish through counsel Jagdish Manchanda had contended that he was first hired on January 1, 1988, as a watchman. But his services were summarily terminated after he had put in 15 years unblemished service. The Labour Court vide award dated January 12, 2015, held that the petitioner’s services had indeed been terminated illegally. Resultantly, he was held entitled to reinstatement with continuity of service and 50 per cent back wages.The Labour Court award was upheld by the High Court. Though he was reinstated, full benefits were not given. Justice Monga observed the respondents remained unmoved despite the petitioner’s legal notice, compelling him to approach the High Court in second round of writ petition.It was disposed after directing the respondents to decide the legal notice by passing a speaking order. But he was merely given part benefit of 50 per cent back wages vide the impugned speaking order dated June 4, 2018.Taking up the matter, Justice Monga observed the petitioner was before the High Court yet again in what was his third foray after having been compelled to repeatedly litigate with the ‘unrelenting respondents’.Justice Monga further observed: “It seems that at every step the petitioner was to seek benefits despite the same having been found admissible and as upheld by this Court. His requests were met with resistance by the respondents and their adamant attitude continues.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-haryana-for-adamant-attitude-367945
08-02-2022||Gurugram||Woman commits suicide, live-in partner booked||The police have booked a man after his live-in partner, a 35-year-old woman lawyer, allegedly committed suicide at their flat in Experian Society, Sector 108. Her body was found hanging in bedroom of the flat while her live-in partner was missing. Family of the deceased alleged it was murder. Following complaint of the brother of the deceased an FIR of abetment to suicide was registered at the Rajendra Park police station.According to the police the deceased has been identified as Preeti Jaiswal, a native of Kota in Rajasthan. She was a practicing lawyer at Delhi’s Dwarka Court and was married. A case of her divorce was pending in the court. She was residing with her live-in partner identified as Vijay Rana at the flat in society.Yesterday, her family after getting information reached the flat and found her body hanging from fan. Later, the police was called.When the police reached the spot body of the deceased was found hanging from fan while her legs were on the bed.“My sister was under pressure as her live-in partner abused and thrashed her. She can’t commit suicide. She was killed by her live-in partner,” said Anuradha Jaiswal, elder sister of the deceased.As per the complaint an FIR has been registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide), IPC, at the Rajendra Park police station.“We handed over the body to kin after the post mortem. The cause behind suicide has not been ascertained yet and the probe is on,” said Inspector Praveen Kumar, SHO, Rajendra Park police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-commits-suicide-live-in-partner-booked-367943
08-02-2022||---||Two more arrested in fake passport racket case in Karnal||Karnal, February 7The police have arrested one more agent in a case involving nexus of fraudsters, allegedly making passports on the basis of fake documents of the people, who never lived in Karnal. In all, 21 people have been arrested for the fraud.21 passports made on fake idsWe have identified 21 passports, which have been made on the basis of fake IDs. Of these passport holders, 15 have been identified. So far, six passport holders have been arrested. For the remaining accused, our eight teams are on the job and we are hopeful they will be arrested soon.Himadree Kaushik, ASP, IndriThe accused has been identified as Shyam Walia, a resident of Shimla, who is an agent, and Malkiat Singh, a passport holder from Punjab.So far, the police have arrested four agents, six passport holders, two police personnel, one postman and one employee of the passport office in Delhi.“We have arrested one more agent and a passport holder. We are inquiring about whereabouts of others as well as their involvement in this nexus,” said Himadree Kaushik, ASP, Indri.“We have identified 21 passports, which have been made on the basis of fake IDs. Of these passport holders, 15 have been identified. So far, six passport holders have been arrested. For the remaining accused, our eight teams are on the job and we are hopeful they will be arrested soon,” the ASP added.The police had busted a gang of fraudsters on Friday. The gang members were allegedly involved in making passports on fake IDs. Sources in the Police Department claimed that most passports had been issued to those people from Punjab, who already had criminal background. The police are inquiring into their history. The police are also checking passports issued in the past four years.3 furnish fake documents for passport, bookedAmbala: The police have registered a case against three people for furnishing fake documents to get a passport. The accused have been identified as Rohit Arora of Amritsar, Raman Singh of Patiala and Shunty of Ambala. As per the information, Rohit Arora, while applying for a passport at the Regional Passport Office, Delhi, presented himself as Aditya Kumar of Ambala City and submitted fake documents in October last year. During Aditya’s (Rohit) passport verification, Raman Singh and Shunty also furnished fake documents as witnesses.All three had given wrong addresses. While Raman Singh, a resident of Patiala, had presented himself as Raman, a resident of Ambala City, Shunty had presented himself as Mandeep.Rohit Arora was arrested by Karnal police for his involvement in passport scam recently. A case has been registered under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-b of the IPC and 12 of the Passports Act at the Ambala City police station.Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said, “Rohit will be brought on production warrant for further investigation while the remaining two are yet to be arrested. Their background is being checked.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-more-arrested-in-fake-passport-racket-case-in-karnal-367942
08-02-2022||Hisar||Actress Munmun Dutta joins probe in SC/ST Act case, gets interim bail||The “Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah” fame actress Munmun Dutta appeared before investigating officer DSP Vinod Shankar before the Hansi police today in connection with a case registered against her under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes Atrocities (SC/ST) Act.Dutta was formally arrested and taken to the office of the DSP for interrogation. She was questioned for about four hours. The actress was later released on interim bail.The police had deployed adequate force at the SP office as a precautionary measure to avoid rush of people. Dutta, along with her lawyer, reached the DSP office accompanied by two security personnel and bouncers. She did not talk to any mediapersons during her arrival in Hansi.The police had booked her on the complaint of a Hansi-based activist Rajat Kalsan on May 13, 2021. She later filed a petition in the Supreme Court to quash the case filed against her which was rejected by the Supreme Court on September 22, 2021.Dutta later approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for anticipatory bail after her petition for anticipatory bail was rejected by the Special Court in Hisar on January 28. The Punjab Haryana High Court February 4, has asked her to appear before the investigating officer in Hansi to join the investigation and directed the IO to release her on interim bail after interrogation. The court had also directed the IO to submit the investigation report before the High Court on February 25.The complainant, Rajat Kalsan, said she had released a video on May 9 last year, in which she made indecent and derogatory remarks against the Scheduled Caste community. Kalsan lodged a complaint with the police against Munmun Dutta on May 13, 2021, seeking the registration of a case under the SC/ST Act. — TNS‘Derogatory remarks’As per the complainant, the actress had released a video on May 9 last year, in which she had made “derogatory” remarks against the SC community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/actress-munmun-dutta-joins-probe-in-sc-st-act-case-gets-interim-bail-367941
08-02-2022||---||Haryana govt has failed on all fronts, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Sonepat, February 7Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the Haryana’s BJP-JJP coalition government had failed on every front and the government had not taken any decision of public interest in its entire tenure.‘No doctors in hospitals’The situation is that there are no doctors in hospitals and there are no teachers in schools and colleges. Instead of government offices, employees are seen on the streets as they are worried about the policies of the government. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former Chief MinisterThe former Chief Minister was addressing a press conference at the PWD rest house here today. He paid tributes to the legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar and lauded her contribution to the nation.Commenting upon the working of the state government, Hooda said every government department was facing shortage of employees today, but the government was not recruiting staff. “The situation is that there are no doctors in hospitals and there are no teachers in schools and colleges. Instead of government offices, employees are seen on the streets as they are worried about the policies of the government,” he said.“Not only employees but all sections of society, including farmers, are agitating against the coalition government. Farmers are being hit by the double whammy of government apathy and bad weather. Farmers are facing losses due to continuous unseasonal rains, but far from giving compensation, the government is yet carried out complete girdawari till now and even last year’s compensation is still pending. Farmers are waiting for compensation and solution for drainage, but no step is being taken by the government,” he said.Hooda said the government had also cheated the agitating farmers as their cases had not been withdrawn so far. Similarly, the government was continuously cheating youths of the state who were facing the highest unemployment in the country, he added.Taking a dig at the government’s quota policy for jobs in the private sector, the former CMr said the government was touting the slogan of 75% reservation in private jobs, while it had reduced the condition of domicile in Haryana from 15 to 5 years. #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-has-failed-on-all-fronts-says-bhupinder-singh-hooda-367940
08-02-2022||---||Karnal: Cotton growers begin sit-in for compensation||Karnal, February 7Farmers from various districts today started two days dharna outside the Mini Secretariat for compensation for the cotton crop. The farmers also threatened and also raised slogans against the government to extend dharna if compensation was not released. Members of various farmer unions are participating in the dharna.Dilbag Hooda, a Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, said they were here to raise the issue of compensation for cotton farmers, who had suffered losses in 2020. There were discrepancies in the survey conducted by the insurance company and the Revenue Department, he added.“The Punjab Government has paid Rs 5 lakh to the family of each farmer, who died during farmers’ agitation. In Haryana, families of all deceased farmers have yet to receive compensation. The FIRs have also not been fully cancelled,” he said.Suresh Kumar, a farmer from Fatehabad, said they were protesting for the compensation. A case should be registered against insurance company for not releasing compensation, he added. He also raised the issue of discontinuing farmers’ pension.Mandeep Singh from Pagri Sambhal Jatta Sangharsh Samiti said the compensation amount had not been credited in farmers’ bank accounts. “We will decide future course of action at a meeting tomorrow,” he added.A woman protestor said the government was claiming to have disbursed compensation, but in reality many farmers were still waiting for it. Besides, many farmers are waiting for tube well connections even after depositing the fee. #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cotton-growers-begin-sit-in-for-compensation-367939
08-02-2022||---||Ambala: Sugarcane farmers threaten to stage dharna from February 14||Ambala, February 7Sugarcane farmers on Monday held a protest and a panchayat over the delay in payment of dues by Naraingarh Sugarmills Limited. They have given an ultimatum to clear payments as per the 14-day norm by February 13, else they will begin a dharna in front of the SDM’s office in Naraingarh from February 14.Rs 72 crore yet to be paidPayments worth around Rs72 crore are running late. Every year, the payments get stuck and farmers have to either accept post-dated cheques (PDC) or wait for months even after the end of the crushing season to get cash payments. Rajiv Sharma, General Secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni)Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) general secretary and spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “Payments worth around Rs 72 crore are running late. Every year, the payments get stuck and farmers have to either accept post-dated cheques (PDC) or wait for months even after the end of the crushing season to get cash payments. The cash payment of Rs 27.59 crore of the previous season that ended in April was cleared in December last year and farmers don’t want a similar situation this year.”Vinod Rana, president, Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said, “The mill started operations for the current season on November 23 and so far, payments up to December 8 have been cleared. The mill hasn’t been able to clear dues as per norms.”Bhartiya Kisan Union (Shaheed Bhagat Singh) chief Amarjeet Singh said, “As per norms, the payment has to be cleared within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane, but here the payment is running late by almost two months. The farmers are not happy with the situation hence it has been decided to start a dharna in front of the SDM office from February 14, if the payment as per norms are not cleared by February 13.”Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Naraingarh, Niraj, who also holds the charge of the chief executive officer of the mill, said, “The farmers wanted the mill to clear all their dues, which is not possible. The sugarmill has got sugarcane worth around Rs 90 crore in this season so far. The mill has already cleared dues of around Rs 73 crore (including the dues of the previous year and Rs 18 crore of the current season) in the ongoing crushing season so far. A payment of around Rs 72 crore of this season is outstanding. We will take up the matter with the higher authorities soon.” #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cane-farmers-threaten-to-stage-dharna-from-february-14-367938
08-02-2022||Chandigarh||Pension is  being given on time: Haryana Govt||After the Opposition alleged that the old-age pension had been abolished, the state government today issued a statement, claiming that it was being provided to beneficiaries in a timely manner.An official spokesperson said those who had not received their pension yet would get it in their accounts in the next one or two days.He said in 2013-14, the pension amount was Rs 1,000. This amount was raised to Rs 1,200 in 2014-15, Rs 1,400 in 2015-16, Rs 1,600 in 2016-17, Rs 1,800 in 2017-18, Rs 2,000 in 2018-19, Rs 2,250 in 2019-20 and Rs 2,500 in 2020-21.The spokesperson said at present, a pension of Rs 2,500 was being given to the elderly in Haryana, which was much higher than other states. Compared to Haryana, the elderly in Congress-ruled Punjab get only Rs 1,500 as pension. In Delhi, the elderly get around Rs 2,000 as pension, whereas in Rajasthan this pension ranges from Rs 750 to Rs 1,000.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the old-age allowance would automatically be applied to those who attained 60 years of age. He said those who did not have any proof of date of birth, the same would be verified in another way. The government will soon consider a method to be adopted for this, he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pension-is-being-given-on-time-haryana-govt-367936
08-02-2022||Chandigarh||Kumari Selja flays Haryana govt for ‘stopping’ pension||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja said those who took votes from senior citizens by promising to give old-age pension of Rs 5,100 per month, were now exploiting them.“Instead of increasing the pension amount as promised, the pension has been stopped. The senior citizens in the state have not received pension for the last two months, due to which a financial crisis has arisen in front of them.”In a statement issued here today, Selja said there were thousands of families in the state, who had been surviving on the old-age pension. — #kumari selja||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kumari-selja-flays-haryana-govt-for-stopping-pension-367935
08-02-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Armed Forces Tribunal tells General Court Martial to decide Brigadier Suresh Gupta’s plea on limitation afresh||Chandigarh, February 7The Chandigarh-bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) has set aside the order of a General Court Martial (GCM), trying a Brigadier for demonetisation scam, on the period of limitation and directed it to decide the “Plea in bar” of the officer afresh, after affording the parties to produce evidence.Brigadier Suresh Gupta allegedly abetted the exchange of old currency notes, and the preparation of 5,944 forged forms with fake IDs for cheating, from December 12, 2016, to January 10, 2017. He is also accused of pressurising Brigadier MK Khan, the then Director, Army Postal Service Headquarters, Western Command, for not submitting an investigation report into the scam, for improperly interfering in the internal functioning of the post office during demonetisation.Brigadier Gupta’s counsel Rajesh Sehgal submitted that since he was on deputation with the Army Postal Service (APS), he couldn’t be subjected to disciplinary action under the Army Act.The AFT said being a temporary commissioned officer in the APS, Brigadier Gupta “is subject to the Army Act for all intents and purposes, including disciplinary action”.The AFT ruled that each and every order passed by the GCM during the course of the proceedings cannot be challenged by the way of appeal under the AFT Act, 2007, but it pointed out since an order to dismiss “Plea in bar” mixed question of law and facts, an appeal against such an order was maintainable.Brig’s Gupta “Plea in bar” was that the trial against him commenced beyond the period of limitation which is three years. His counsel submitted that as per the Army Act, the trial against him would have commenced within three years from the date when the competent authority came to know about the offence.However, the AFT said that the General Officer Commanding made an endorsement of action against Brigadier on July 6, 2018. It added that the trial against the accused “prima facie” commenced within the period of limitation as it noted that the order for the convening of the GCM was passed on June 2, 2021, and the first proceeding was held on June 15, 2021.But as the “Plea in bar” was decided without affording an opportunity to Brigadier to produce evidence in support, the AFT ordered the GCM to decide it afresh.Colonel Subhash Chandra, Captain Gagan Bawa and Warrant Officer G Rajendran are also facing trial in the case while Lieutenant Colonel Sudhir Kumar Singh was awarded forfeiture of two-year service after being held guilty.Demonetisation scam trial #indian army #indian defence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aft-tells-gcm-to-decide-brigs-plea-on-limitation-afresh-367934
08-02-2022||Sonepat||Haryanvi 'Ragni' singer Sarita Chaudhary found dead at Sonepat house||Famous Haryanvi “Ragni” singer Sarita Chaudhary was found dead at her house at the Housing Board colony in Sector 15 here today under suspicious circumstances.The Sector 27 police reached her house to inquire about the matter. The cause of the death would be ascertained after the postmortem.Sarita Chaudhary, aged 56, was working as a head teacher at Government Primary School in Sector 12 here. She is survived by her son Paramvir and daughter Bulbul. Her husband Ombir had died earlier. Bulbul is preparing for the UPSC examinations and living in PG accommodation in Delhi.Sunny, brother of the deceased, said he used to go to Sarita’s house daily to give her milk. He went to Delhi after giving milk to Sarita on Sunday evening. He called her to talk to his sister on Sunday night, but didn’t get any reply. He again called her on Monday, but the situation was the same. Then he called her niece Bulbul and she also said that her mother was not picking her phone also, he said.Getting suspicious he, along with Bulbul, reached Sonepat from Delhi and informed the police.The police found the gate locked from inside. The police entered the room after breaking the gate in the presence of her family members and found that Sarita was lying dead on the bed and also found blood from her mouth. Sarita had given scores of stage performances and huge mobs gathered at her programmes. She was active on social media platforms also. #haryanvi ragni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singer-sarita-chaudhary-found-dead-at-sonepat-house-367932
08-02-2022||Tribune Reporters||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim will have to surrender on February 27||Gurugram/Rohtak, February 7Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, after being granted a 21-day furlough, reached the Naam Charcha Ghar (ashram) in Gurugram this evening amidst tight police security.His family members had reached earlier and were seen busy arranging for a party, and a cake was also ordered.Also read: Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim gets furlough ahead of Punjab electionsSGPC questions parole to Gurmeet Ram RahimMeanwhile, Rohtak Divisional Commissioner Pankaj Yadav said the dera head had been granted the furlough on his request that he wanted to meet his family members residing in Gurugram.“He had applied for furlough before the Jail Superintendent, Rohtak, who referred the matter to the Deputy Commissioner, Gurugram. The Commissioner of Police as well as the District Magistrate of Gurugram sent their recommendations to grant him a furlough for three weeks,” Yadav told The Tribune.He said he had granted a furlough to the dera head from February 7 to 27, 2022, to meet his family.The Divisional Commissioner clarified that one of the conditions of furlough was that the dera chief would not leave the place in any manner and would have to surrender at the Sunaria jail on February 27.Wanted to meet kin #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-will-have-to-surrender-on-february-27-367930
08-02-2022||---||Haryana Govt to give Rs 561 cr for crop damage||Hisar, February 7The farmers who were staging a dharna outside the mini secretariat in Hisar for the past nine months have called off their dharna after the government announced a compensation of Rs 561 crore for the damage to kharif crops in 2021 for the state. Out of this amount, Rs 173 crore has been sanctioned for the Hisar farmers.The All India Kisan Sabha leaders said the SDM Ashveer Nain reached the dharna site today to inform about the acceptance of their demand by the state government.He urged the farmers to end the dharna.District president of the Kisan Sabha Shamsher Numbardar said it was the victory of the farmers that was achieved after a long struggle. The numbardar said the Financial Commissioner, Revenue, had been raising objections to the compensation to farmers, so they started the dharna.He said there were some other demands, which were pending with the government. “We have decided to call off the dharna for now, but will review the situation on the pending demands and will gather on February 18 at the commissioner office regarding these demands,” he said. #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-to-give-rs-561-cr-for-crop-damage-367924
08-02-2022||---||Manohar Lal Khattar: Budget seeks to ensure holistic development of Haryana||Chandigarh, February 7Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the pre-Budget consultation meeting was held with ministers and administrative secretaries to prepare a democratic budget aimed at holistic development of the state.Khattar said this while speaking at the pre-Budget consultation meeting held here today. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and other ministers along with Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal, Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister D.S. Dhesi, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) TVSN Prasad and other administrative secretaries also shared their suggestions for the Budget 2022-23.The Chief Minister said three years ago, while taking a new initiative he had started the tradition of holding pre-Budget consultation meeting with the Council of Ministers, MLAs, secretaries and other stakeholders before preparing the Budget.“In the last two years, due to the pandemic, as it was not possible to conduct these consultations physically, all the ministers, legislators, secretaries and other stakeholders were asked to send their suggestions in writing,” said the Chief Minister.He said important suggestions were also included in the state’s Budget. Today’s pre-Budget meeting was organised to seek suggestions from the stakeholders and every possible effort would be made to include these in the Budget.“No scheme will be stopped due to financial constraints. The all-around development of the state is the priority of our government,” added Khattar.The Chief Minister said the accessibility of new schemes for the common man should be made hassle-free with the use of better technology so that the concept of ease of living could be realised.At today’s meeting, he also did department-wise review of the Budget presented last year.FOCUS ON AGRICULTURE, HEALTH #BUDGET #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manohar-lal-khattar-budget-seeks-to-ensure-holistic-development-of-haryana-367918
08-02-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim gets furlough ahead  of Punjab elections||Chandigarh, February 7Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh has been granted a 21-day (February 7-27) furlough to enable him to meet his family in Gurugram. He was shifted from the Sunaria jail to Gurugram under tight security this afternoon.Also read: SGPC questions parole to Gurmeet Ram RahimDera chief will have to surrender on February 27His release at a time when electioneering in Punjab is picking up is significant as deras in the state have the potential to influence polling. However, both Haryana CM ML Khattar and Dushyant Gautam, the Punjab BJP in-charge, denied any link between the sect leader’s temporary release and the Punjab elections on February 20, calling it a coincidence. But the Congress sees it as a BJP ploy to “help the SAD” in Punjab’s Malwa belt.“The furlough granted to Dera Sacha Sauda chief ahead of the elections in Punjab shows a tactical understanding between the BJP and Akalis. We are assessing the situation and will change our poll strategy accordingly,” a Congress spokesperson said. Punjab has six big deras with a sizeable following — Dera Sacha Sauda, Noormahal dera (Divya Jyoti Jagriti Sansthan), Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Dera Sachkhand Ballan, Sant Nirankari Mission and the Namdhari dera.These deras play a decisive role in the poll outcome in 68 constituencies, at least. Dera Sacha Sauda can turn the tables in at least 27 Malwa constituencies.Sirsa dera Can turn tables in 27 seatsSangrur | Dirba | Sunam | Dhuri | Barnala | Bhadaur | Mehal Kalan | Mansa | Sardulgarh | Patiala | Rajpura | Samana | Bathinda Urban | Talwandi Sabo | Bucho | Mansa | Rampura | Bathinda Rural | Budhlada | Kotkapura | Jaito | Muktsar Patiala Rural | Gidderbaha Sanaur | Moga & Faridkot #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-dera-chief-gets-furlough-ahead-of-punjab-elections-367899
08-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Grain damage in 3 Haryana godowns||Karnal, February 7A large quantity of wheat stored in three godowns in Karnal has rotted. While one of the godowns at Indri belonged to HAFED, the other two at Jundla and Assandh are owned by the Food and Civil Supplies Department. The issue came to light during the dispatching of wheat to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) by the two agencies. It exposed negligence on the part of officials concerned, sources said.A HAFED official said around 10 lakh bags of wheat were stored at the Indri godown. Notices had been issued to two inspectors, seeking explanation on the issue, he added.HAFED District Manager Amit Kumar could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts. Managing Director (HAFED) A Sreenivas, however, said, “Whenever grains are stored in the open, bottom layer of bags generally gets damaged.” “I initiated an inquiry and a report has been received. Action will be taken against those found responsible for the loss. Good quality grains are delivered to the FCI in exact quantity and wherever the quantity is short, action is initiated,” he said. The Jundla godown reportedly had around 4,156MT wheat, while the quantity was around 620MT in case of the Assandh facility.The exact loss is yet to be ascertained. District Food Supply Officer Ashok Rawat said, “I have constituted two teams to see the reasons behind the damage. Categorisation of grain has also started, after which we will be able to know how much wheat has gone rotten. We will charge the amount from those responsible.”DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “I have marked an inquiry to the ADC.”All in Karnal dist; notice to 2 officials #hafed #Haryana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/grain-damage-in-3-haryana-godowns-367898
