09-02-2022||Karnal||Policeman killed, another hurt as truck hits emergency response vehice in Karnal||A policeman was killed and another injured after a truck loaded with paddy bags hit a Dial-112 emergency response vehicle near Pakakhera Chowk on Karnal-Assandh road in the wee hours of Wednesday.The incident took place at around 3 am when the speeding truck coming from Assandh side hit the police vehicle parked on the roadside.The deceased has been identified as 37-year-old exemptee head constable (EHC) Surinder, a resident of Munarehri village in Kaithal, while the injured is ASI Mukesh Kumar, who is undergoing treatment at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), the Nissing police said.The truck driver fled after leaving the truck there.The impact of the collision was so much that the police vehicle was dragged some distance.The two policemen were trapped inside and police took an hour to take them out.They were taken to KCGMC, from where Surinder was taken to a private hospital. He was declared dead there, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-killed-another-hurt-as-truck-hits-emergency-response-vehice-in-karnal-368406
09-02-2022||---||Disciplinary action against 113 Revenue Dept employees in Haryana||Karnal/Kaithal, February 8In a major action against revenue officials, the Finance Commissioner, Revenue and Disaster Management Department has ordered disciplinary action against 113 officials of the department, comprising 34 tehsildars/sub-tehsildars, 57 patwaris and 22 registration clerks of Karnal, Kaithal and Panipat districts, a part of Karnal Division, for alleged violation of Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975.Violation of Section 7-AThe action has been initiated based on probe into checking of registration of land or deeds between April 3, 2017, and August 13, 2021, which indicated violation of Section 7-A of the Act, under which a buyer has to submit NOC from District Town and Country Planning Department for the registration of landIrregularities not to be tolerated: Dy CMStrict action will be taken for any irregularities found in land deed or other revenue matters. Dushyant Chautala, Dy Chief MinisterThe action has been initiated based on the inquiry into the checking of the registration of land or deeds between April 3, 2017, and August 13, 2021, which indicated a gross violation of Section 7-A of the Act, under which a buyer has to submit an NOC from the District Town and Country Planning Department for the registration of land. As per sources, the violation of Section 7-A indicated that the registration of properties in illegal colonies was done by the revenue officials.The Finance Commissioner has directed the deputy commissioners of the three districts to seek explanation from them and sent to the government so that disciplinary action against them under Rule 7 of the Haryana Civil Services (P&A) Rules-2016 be initiated, the order said, a copy of which is with The Tribune.In the issue of tehsildars and sub-tehsildars, the report has to be submitted in 15 days, while in the issue of the registration clerks and patwaris, the reports have to be submitted in a month to the government, said the order.Among 34 tehsildars and sub-tehsildars, eight were in Karnal during this period, four in Gharaunda, eight in Kaithal, one in Siwan, four in Panipat, one in Matlauda and eight in Bapoli. “The government has decided to initiate disciplinary action under Rule 7 of Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 2016, against 34 sub-registrars and joint sub-registrars in the Karnal division who were involved in the registration of 9,774 instruments without NoC during the period April 3, 2017, to August 13, 2021, while it is mandatory for them under Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Amendment) Act 2017,” said the order.Among the patwaris, 23 are from Karnal district, 24 from Kaithal district and 10 from Panipat district. “Action would be taken against patwaris for their involvement in changing the nature of the land (gair mumkin) in the khasra girdawari an action that facilitated the large number of registrations for the violation of Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Amendment) Act 2017,” the order stated.Among the registration clerks, six are from Karnal district, 5 from Kaithal district and 11 from Panipat district. “These registration clerks are involved in the registration of properties/deeds for the violation of Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975,” said the order.Pradeep Dahiya, Deputy Commissioner, Kaithal, said they will initiate action against them and submit the report to the government.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, Karnal, said explanation would be sought from them and action initiated accordingly. #dushyant chautala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/disciplinary-action-against-113-revenue-dept-employees-368252
09-02-2022||---||Haryana CM squad unearths lab giving fake Covid reports||Gurugram, February 8The CM flying squad raided a diagnostic lab allegedly preparing fake Covid reports. The team nabbed a lab assistant while the operator of the lab was not found there. The lab allegedly took Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 to prepare fake Covid reports. An FIR has been registered at the DLF phase-3 police station.DSP Inderjeet Yadav of the CM flying squad said they got information that in Good Health Diagnostic, located on the Nathupur road, DLF phase-3, Covid test reports were being prepared fraudulently. They also charged Rs 900 for Covid test while the rate of the test is fixed at Rs 299. The lab is a franchise of SRL lab and was started around five months ago.“We informed the Health Department and the drug controller. A joint team was formed which conducted a raid at the lab. A decoy customer was sent seeking fake Covid report and the lab assistant promised him same after taking money. When the decoy customer signalled, our team nabbed the lab assistant who has been identified as Sanjeev, a resident of Delhi.The lab operator, identified as Anuj Sharma, was not available at the lab and our team during search found that they were giving Covid positive reports after taking money and the report was being made on behalf of the SRL lab. An FIR has been registered under various sections at the DLF phase-3 police station,” said the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-squad-unearths-lab-giving-fake-covid-reports-368253
09-02-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Gurugram theft: IPS officer Dheeraj Setia's plea for transfer of case dismissed||Chandigarh, February 8The multi-crore Gurugram burglary case has been transferred out of the court of Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) Jasbir Singh.‘Setia tried to cover up theft’In an order of December 16, the ASJ had pointed out that Setia “might have tried to cover up the multi-crore theft with the active concurrence of his superior officers and with the active involvement, by way of arm twisting, of his junior officers of crime branch”.Absconding IPS officer Dheeraj Setia had alleged in a transfer application that a co-accused in the case was a Facebook friend of ASJ Jasbir Singh, but the Sessions Court dismissed his application. However, later ASJ Jasbir Singh himself recused from the case.The key conspirator of the burglary, Dr Sachinder Nawal, had disclosed to the STF, Haryana Police, that gold, cash, and US dollars, worth Rs 2.5 crore, were given to Setia for hushing up the burglary case when he was posted as the DCP in Gurugram. But later, he returned it, saying the matter was out of his hands though he kept a few thousand dollars.As per the STF chargesheet, the theft at two flats of a private firm in August 2021 could be of around Rs 30-40 crore, and doctors, along with gangster Vikas Lagarpuria and a Delhi cop, were involved in the matter.In his transfer application, Setia alleged that Dr Nawal and ASJ Jasbir Singh were Facebook friends for long and “the exchange of messages too had taken place between them”. He added that the disclosure statement of Dr Nawal was false and that was why he refused the polygraph test.Setia added that the ASJ, without any material on record, treated Dr Nawal’s statement as Gospel truth and recorded the observations that to hush up the case, some illegal gratification was paid to him.Meanwhile, in his comments, ASJ Jasbir Singh, while refuting the allegations of any prejudice or bias against Setia, admitted that Dr Nawal was his Facebook friend. He added that he had “no objection” if the case was transferred to some other court.Sessions Judge Surya Pratap Singh observed that when Setia moved the transfer application on January 19, neither any of his bail application nor any chargesheet against him was pending before the court of ASJ Jasbir Singh. While dismissing his application on February 4, the Sessions Judge concluded that he had no “locus standi” to seek transfer of the case.On Dr Nawal being a Facebook friend of the ASJ, the Sessions Judge said the most significant fact to be noted was that when Dr Nawal moved an application for regular bail after being in custody for more than two and a half months, the ASJ had dismissed it on January 21.On Setia’s objections to the ASJ’s directions to the Investigating Officer, the Sessions Court said since those observations were made in the judicial order, the remedy available before him was to challenge it before the appropriate forum.On February 7, ASJ Jasbir Singh again made a reference that in order to avoid any wrong impression, he didn’t want to hear the case. This time, the Sessions Judge accepted it and transferred Setia’s anticipatory bail application as well as the trial of the case to ASJ Amit Sahrawat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-theft-ips-officer-setias-plea-for-transfer-of-case-dismissed-368255
09-02-2022||---||Cotton farmers end dharna in Karnal||Karnal, February 8After assurance of a meeting with Agriculture Minister and senior officials of the department in a week, cotton farmers of several districts, who have been staging a dharna here outside the Mini-Secretariat for compensation for crop loss, ended their protest. However, they threatened to resume the dharna if the demands are not fulfilled.They took this call after a meeting with Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav at his office. The DC assured the farmers of the cotton belt of Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind, Hisar, Bhiwani etc that a meeting would be arranged with the Agriculture Minister and officials of the department.“A meeting of the farmers with the minister and the higher officials will be organised soon,” said the DC. “We were told that our demands would be fulfilled by forming a committee,” said Gurpreet Singh Gill, a farmer.Bahadur Singh Mehla, BKU (Charuni) IT Cell incharge, said after the assurance, they had postponed the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cotton-farmers-end-dharna-368256
09-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Govt depts owe crores to Sonepat MC as property tax||Sonepat, February 8Government departments are among the top 201 property tax defaulters of the Municipal Corporation (MC), Sonepat. As per the list, the Police Lines, the judicial complex, grain market, PWD colonies and other departments have to pay crores as property tax to the MC. However, the MC has served several notices to the government department to deposit the property tax.Matter being dealt by headquartersThe matter is being dealt by the headquarters and we have also sent the notices at the local level too. A list with full details of pending property tax of the government depts has been sent to the Director, ULB. Dharmender Singh, MC, SonepatThe MC had set the target of recovering Rs 25 crore as a property tax in the current financial year 2021-22 but it has recovered only Rs 12 crore of the current year’s target. A total of Rs 156 crore property tax arrears are pending for many years, sources added.There are around 1.50 lakh properties, including residential, commercial, mix use and others, registered in the MC records.The MC authorities have prepared a list of 201 defaulters who owe Rs 5 lakh or more property tax. Several government departments and institutions in the list owe crores of rupees as property tax from many years.As per the list, the biggest defaulters include a multi-storey building in Rai which owes a property tax of Rs 21 crore, the Police Lines which owes Rs 18 crore of property tax. The court complex owes Rs 1.16 crore, Devi Lal Colony Rs 80 lakh, government institute in Sector 26 owes Rs 67.25 lakh, state institute in Jagdishpur village Rs 46.30 crore, PWD rest house owes Rs 46.20 lakh, the DC office Rs 27.18 lakh, PWD office 44.56 lakh, HSVP complex 30.97 lakh, HSVP office 30.64 lakh, MNSS Rai 30.50 crore, State government houses in Jain Bagh colony Rs 24 lakh, HVPN Rs 18.10 lakh, HSIIDC Rs 17.18 lakh, Excise Department Rs 10 lakh, Haryana Agro Industries Corporation Rs 28.96 lakh, Panchayat Bhawan Rs 26.48 lakh, Red Cross Society Rs 11.06 lakh, Subhash Stadium Rs 10.14 lakh, SAI Centre Rs 24 lakh, Sugar Mill Rs 22.39 lakh, Zila Sainik Board Rs 11.61 lakh, vegetable mandi Rs 16.96 lakh, HAIC Agro Centre Murthal Rs 32.45 lakh and some other departments owed Rs 5-10 lakh of property tax.Pavitra Gulia, ZTO, MC, Sonepat said several notices had been given to government departments also and the matter is being taken up by the government by senior officials.Dharmender Singh, Commissioner, MC, said the matter is being dealt by the headquarters and we have also sent the notices at the local level too. A list with full details of pending property tax of the government departments has been sent to the Director, ULB, the Commissioner maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-depts-owe-crores-to-sonepat-mc-as-property-tax-368257
09-02-2022||---||Budget Session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha from March 2||Chandigarh, February 8Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here today that the Budget Session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha would begin on March 2.Talking to reporters here after a meeting of the Haryana Cabinet, Khattar said the exact duration of the session would be finalised at the meeting of the Business Advisory Committee meeting of the Vidhan Sabha.Meanwhile, the meeting took following decisions:Rules amended: The Haryana Cabinet today approved the proposal regarding amendment in the Punjab Distillery Rules, 1932. The amendment would make it mandatory for all distilleries to install flow meters to plug the possibility of pilferages by distilleries. Meanwhile, the meeting approved a proposal regarding granting relief of Rs 2,19,56,524 in license fee for the year 2020-21 to the retail liquor licensees.Working capital: The cabinet accorded approval of working capital loan of Rs 1000 crore to Haryana State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (HSIIDC) for the acquisition of land and development of infrastructure facilities and make payment of enhanced compensation to the farmers.Bill approved: The Cabinet approved the draft of the Repealing Bill 2021 for placing before the Budget Session of the Vidhan Sabha. As per the Draft Bill, 20 Acts of Revenue and Disaster Management Department which, are no longer in use, have to be repealed.Approval: The Haryana Cabinet gave ex- post facto approval of the MoU, signed on January 21, 2022, between Himachal Pradesh and Haryana Government for the construction of Adi Badri Dam under Sarasvati River Rejuvenation and Heritage Development Project for Rs. 388.16 crore.Scheme: The Haryana Cabinet today approved the implementation of Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojana (MMPSY).Under MMPSY, sanctions amounting to Rs 270.84 crore to the 8,77,538 families were issued during 2019-20 and 2020-21 on the self-declaration basis as per the applications received on the MMPSY portal.Sugar mill: Through another decision, a proposal regarding sanction of term loan of Rs 8.92 core to the Shahabad Sugar Mills for setting up of an ethanol plant was approved.Finance Department: The meeting approved a proposal regarding the revival of Department of Institutional Finance and Credit Control (IFCC) under the Finance Department with the creation of 15 new posts.Grant: The meeting also gave ex-facto approval to a proposal regarding providing financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh to the family members of Late Brig Lakhwinder Singh Lidder, a Haryana resident, who lost his life in the Tamil Nadu helicopter crash accident.Utilities Bill: The Haryana Cabinet approved the proposal regarding the framing of “The Haryana Prohibition of Change of Public Utilities Bill, 2021”. Over a period of time,, public utilities in the form of government buildings have come up on the lands belonging to private individuals/entities. As per the Bill, these individuals will not be able reclaim the land concerned after a period of 20 years. #haryana budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/budget-session-from-mar-2-368258
09-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Convict's right to conjugal relations not 'absolute': HC||Chandigarh, February 8The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a convict’s right to have conjugal relations was not “an absolute one”. It was, among other things, subject to reasonable restrictions, social order, security concerns, and good behaviour in the jail.Subject to conditionsA convict’s right to have conjugal relations was subject to ‘all those conditions as prescribed under the statute’. As such, the right was not an absolute and subject to ‘reasonable restrictions’, ‘social order’, ‘security concerns’, ‘good behaviour’ in the jail etc. Punjab & Haryana High Court BenchThe ruling by the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi came on a wife’s petition seeking parole for her convict husband to enable them to have conjugal relations for procreation. In an alternative, she sought permission to procreate/maintain conjugal relations within the jail premises.The Bench was told that the petitioner’s husband was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment, vide judgment dated May 31, 2018, after a murder case was registered in July 2016 under Sections 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act at the Rajendra Park police station in Gurugram. He was sentenced to “life imprisonment till the remainder of his life without remission”, vide judgment dated January 22, last year, in another case as well. The petitioner submitted she got married in April 2016 and her husband was arrested in August 2016. He had been in custody ever since.Referring to the High Court judgment in Jasvir Singh’s case, the Bench asserted that a convict’s right to have conjugal relations was subject to “all those conditions as prescribed under the statute”. As such, the right was not an absolute and subject to “reasonable restrictions”, “social order”, “security concerns”, “good behaviour” in the jail etc.The Bench added that the Full Bench of High Court of Judicature at Madras was also “quite categorical” of the opinion that the right to have conjugal relations was not absolute and “what is available to a convict is his right to obtain infertility treatment”. It added that a convict could not enjoy the same rights available to a common man as a distinction was required to be drawn between a law-abiding citizen and law-violating prisoner.The Bench further said that the convict’s right to avail parole would be governed by Jasvir Singh’s judgment until jail reforms committee formulated a scheme for creating an environment for conjugal and family visit for jail inmates.The Bench observed that Haryana had constituted a jail reforms committee on September 27, 2021, and would make its recommendation within a year after visiting major jail premises. The petitioner/her husband were at liberty to apply for parole in terms of the instructions emanating from Jasvir Singh’s case and their application would be considered in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Act subject to conditions prescribed under the statute. In the alternative, they could await the policy’s formulation by the jail reforms committee and apply thereafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/convicts-right-to-conjugal-relations-not-absolute-hc-368259
09-02-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar: Wood shortage, rise in prices leave manufacturers dejected||Yamunanagar, February 8Shortage of poplar wood and a rise in its prices have left plywood manufactures dejected in Yamunanagar district. Meanwhile, this development has brought a cheer to the faces of farmers, who will make profit out of the same.Increase in demandEarlier, farmers harvested poplar tree crop once in five to six years, but they now have began planting the crop once in three to four years due to an increase in the demand of the wood. — Vijay Sharma, Farmer from Behrampur villageNo boost to industryOur association made an increase of 8% in the rates of all type of plywood, block board, etc, in January 2022 following an increase in rates of raw material. But this step also failed. — Anil Garg, plywood manufacturer, JagadhriThe rising cost is also adversely affecting the production in the industry as factories are being run only in one shift. Earlier, the production ran in two shifts.According to information, the plywood industry of Yamunanagar district comprises about 350 plywood factories, 700 peeling factories, saw mills and chipper factories, which had been facing acute shortage of poplar wood for past some months.Sources said the poplar wood supply (including some quantity of eucalyptus wood) had reduced to 1.25 lakh quintal per day this time.However, the industry had been getting a supply of about two lakh quintal poplar wood every day before the lockdown was imposed in the country in March 2020.Sources said one of the major reasons behind the sharp fall in supply of poplar wood was that farmers put a halt on the plantation of poplar saplings after the rates of the wood touched a new low to Rs 500 per quintal in 2017 due to recession in the market.The rate of the poplar wood was about Rs 1,200 per quintal in 2012. Since then, the rates have witnessed a decline every year up to 2017. However, the rates have now reached to Rs 1,100 per quintal, which were between Rs 950-Rs 1,000 per quintal in October 2021 and Rs 800 per quintal in February 2020. Vijay Sharma, a farmer of Behrampur village, said the farmers were happy as the rates of poplar wood were increasing.The plywood industry of Yamunanagar district receives about 80 per cent supply of poplar wood from Uttar Pradesh, 15 per cent from Yamunanagar district (which is considered to be a hub of poplar tree crop in Haryana) and the rest 5 per cent from Punjab.JK Bihani, president, Haryana Plywood Manufacturers’ Association, said most plywood factories were struggling for survival as they were being run only in one shift following a shortage of poplar wood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wood-shortage-rise-in-prices-leave-manufacturers-dejected-368261
09-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||Farmers protest outside Haryana Agriculture University over asst scientist's transfer||Hisar, February 8The Kisan Sabha and Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) started a dharna in front of Chaudhary Charan Singh  (HAU) demanding that the assistant scientist who was transferred to Panipat be shifted back to the university.Farmers alleged that Vinay Mahla, assistant scientist, was transferred from the university after he raised the issue of removing the photograph of Chaudhary Charan Singh from the annual calendar of the university.The university authorities, however, denied any link between the calendar row and his transfer. “The matter of the photo was not brought to the notice of the administration by him or any other person until January 31. But he was transferred on January 25. It is clear that the photo row has nothing to do with Mahla’s transfer. It was only an administrative reshuffle. The HAU is a higher educational institution and all teachers and non-teaching staff here are hurt by the episode, which is being given political colour. Farmers are requested not to indulge in any misleading propaganda and help maintain a cordial atmosphere in the university,” a spokesperson of the university said today.Shamsher Numbardar, Kisan Sabha’s district president, alleged Mahla was transferred to Panipat as he raised the issue the photo of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh being removed from the calendar. He said nine farmers started the fast on the first day of the chain hunger strike. #haryana agriculture university #samyukta kisan morcha #SKM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-outside-hau-over-asst-scientists-transfer-368262
09-02-2022||Ambala||Ambala: 3 cops suspended in fake passport case||Three policemen have been suspended for negligence of duty in connection with passport verification in Ambala. ESI Balwan Singh, Head Constables Sahib Singh and Dalwinder Singh were posted at Ambala City police station. SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa has also ordered departmental inquiry.Randhawa said: “A person attempted to obtain passport on the basis of fake address and documents. A case has been registered. As per the procedure, police verification is done to check the criminal record of the applicant. The investigation officer concerned didn’t physically visit the address to complete the verification process.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-passport-case-3-cops-suspended-368264
09-02-2022||---||Haryana Govt staff to attend office on regular basis||Chandigarh, February 8With the decline in Covid cases, the state government today issued an order that all employees or officers “shall, without any exemption, attend office on regular basis with effect from February 9”.“Heads of Departments or Heads of Offices shall also ensure that all employees wear face masks at all times and continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly,” added the government order.Earlier, on January 21, the government had restricted the attendance of officers below the level of Under Secretary and all Group C and D officials to 50 per cent up to February 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-staff-to-attend-office-on-regular-basis-368266
09-02-2022||Parveen Arora||'Every 5th baby through C-section in Haryana district'||Karnal, February 8Graph of caesarean section (C-section) deliveries continues to increase in the district. In the past six-years, the C-section deliveries increased three folds. At present, nearly, a fifth delivery is through caesarean.Complication during pregnancy on riseComplication during pregnancy is increasing, while the pain tolerance power has been decreasing among women due to several reasons. They want less pain during delivery. Doctors prefer normal deliveries until unless there is no complication. Dr Harpeet Kaur, gynaecologistThe data obtained through RTI by Karnal-based activist Rajesh Sharma and by The Tribune revealed this figure that the caesarean section deliveries increased. After the outbreak of Covid-19, the trend for C-section deliveries has increased.In 2015-16, as many as 1,207 deliveries had taken place through C-section, which now increased to 3,799 in 2021-22.In 2015-16, out of total 26,158 deliveries, 1,207 were through C-section, while in 2016-17, 1,770 deliveries had taken place through C-section out of a total of 28,243, and in 2017-18, 1,971 deliveries through C-section took place out of 27465 deliveries, the data said.In 2018-19, a total 24,775 deliveries took place, of them 2,204 were through caesarean, the data added.During pandemic in 2019-20, the district has witnessed a sudden rise in caesarean deliveries as it reached to 3740 deliveries out of total 29419 deliveries in the district. In 2020-21, a total 26785 deliveries were taken place, of them 3291 were through caesarean, while in 2021-22, as many as 21601 deliveries have been taken place, of them, 3799 were through caesarean.Doctors and experts consider several factors responsible for it. Dr Prabhjot Kaur, a gynaecologist of the city, says no doubt, now in these days, women prefer painless deliveries, due to which they want caesarean. They must take healthy diet and should be surrounded by positive energy.Dr Sonam Sachdeva, another gynaecologist, says women now-a-days marry late and hence do not want to take risk. “The C-section deliveries have also reduced the the maternal and infant deaths,” she said, adding that there is a need of regular anti-natal check-up. “There should be a proper planning of pregnancy keeping in view all health factors that may lead to any complication,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/every-5th-baby-through-c-section-in-dist-368267
09-02-2022||Chandigarh||Kumari Selja targets  govt over joblessness||The president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC), Kumari Selja, on Tuesday said the condition of the state had become worse in regards to unemployment.“Neither the poor daily wage earners have guaranteed employment, nor the youth are getting job opportunities after completing their education. The condition of the state is much worse than the average condition of the country in case of non-availability of work on demand under MGNREGA. Haryana is in the first place among in regards to unemployment.”Selja said the reports released by the Union Ministry of Rural Development were enough to expose the BJP-JJP alliance government in the state. “According to this report, 11.6 crore people in the country demanded work under MGNREGA in 2021, but 16.3 per cent of those did not get work,” the HPCC chief added.  #kumari selja||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-targets-govt-over-joblessness-368268
09-02-2022||---||Ambala: Open-air gyms to come up at 24 locations||Ambala, February 8Open-air gyms will now be installed at 24 locations in various wards of the Ambala Municipal Council Sadar zone. The gyms are being set up at a cost of Rs 50 lakh.Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, who has released the grant, said open-air gyms the work to set up the gyms would start soon. The gyms will be set up in parks and grounds to motivate people to stay fit.Earlier, open-air gyms were set up at Subhas Park and several other locations. Now, in view of the increasing demand, more gyms are being installed in other parks and places as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/open-air-gyms-to-come-up-at-24-locations-368269
09-02-2022||---||Action on FIR should be listed under time-table: Haryana Chief Secretary||Chandigarh, February 8Haryana Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal, while presiding over the 19th meeting of the State Apex Committee constituted for the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network System (CCTNS) here today, directed the officers to list the action to be taken by the police on the FIR under a time table so that monitoring of action taken at every level and speedy disposal of cases was possible.Kaushal said the police implemented the (CCTNS) with the aim of curbing crime in the state using Information Technology. There have been further efficiencies in the methodology, as a result of which Haryana continues to top the CCTNS system in the country since September, 2021.It was informed that under CCTNS system, Citizen Portal - All Time and Core Application Software (CAS) have been started. At present, a total of 39 services are being provided to the citizens of Haryana under the Right to Service through online citizen portal. It was also decided at the meeting that by February 28, the auto appeal system would be implemented under the Right to Service in the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/action-on-fir-should-be-listed-under-time-table-chief-secy-368271
09-02-2022||---||In major reshuffle, 21 IAS, 3 HCS officers shifted in Haryana||Chandigarh, February 8The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of 21 IAS and 3 HCS officers on Tuesday.SN Roy, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Forests and Wildlife, has been posted as ACS, Archives, Archaeology and Museums. Mahavir Singh, ACS (School Education), has been posted as ACS, Sports and Youth Affairs, in addition to his present duties.AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Public Health Engineering Department, Sports & Youth Affairs Department, has been posted as Principal Secretary, Public Health Engineering, and Forests and Wildlife Department.Pankaj Yadav, Commissioner, Rohtak Division, has been posted as Managing Director, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN).Wazeer Singh Goyat, Secretary, Haryana Human Rights Commission, has been posted as Director-General (Higher Education). Sanjay Joon, Commissioner, Faridabad Division, has been posted as Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi, in addition to his present duties.Bhupinder Singh, Secretary, Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), has been posted as Managing Director, Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited. Geeta Bharti, Registrar, Cooperative Societies and Secretary, Revenue & Disaster Management, has been posted as Registrar, Cooperative Societies.Chander Shekhar Khare, Director (Higher Education), has been posted as Special Secretary, Haryana Human Resources Department. Yash Garg, Gurugram DC, has been posted as Secretary, HPSC. Naresh Kumar, Jind DC, has been posted as Commissioner, Karnal Municipal Corporation.Dhirendra Khadgata, Commissioner, Ambala Municipal Corporation, has been posted as Commissioner, Yamunanagar Municipal Corporation. Ajay Singh Tomer, Commissioner, Yamunanagar Municipal Corporation, has been posted as Sirsa DC.Manoj Kumar-I, Rohtak DC, has been posted as Labour Commissioner. Shakti Singh, Nuh DC, has been posted as Rohtak DC. Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal DC, has been posted as Gurugram DC. Virender Kumar Dahiya, Director, State Transport, has been posted as Jind DC. Anish Yadav, Sirsa DC, has been posted as Karnal DC. Manoj Kumar-II, Commissioner, , Karnal Municipal Corporation, has been posted as Nuh DC.Virender Lather, Chief Executive, Haryana Khadi and Village Industries Board, has been posted as Commissioner, Ambala Municipal Corporation. Balpreet Singh, awaiting posting orders, has been posted as SDM, Ambala Cantonment.The HCS officers transferred are Ashwani Malik, Samalkha SDM, who has been posted as Panipat SDM, in addition to his present duties. Dheeraj Chahal, Panipat SDM, has been posted as Deputy Secretary, Haryana Revenue and Disaster Management Department. Pulkit Malhotra, Additional CEO, Zila Parishad, Kurukshetra, has been posted as Additional CEO, Zila Parishad, Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-major-reshuffle-21-ias-3-hcs-officers-shifted-368272
09-02-2022||---||Fiancé demands motorcycle, Jagadhri woman kills self||Yamunanagar, February 8A 26-year-old woman committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance some days before her marriage at her house in Jagadhri.The woman allegedly took the extreme step as her fiancé was demanding a bullet motorcycle in dowry in their marriage, which was scheduled to be held on February 21 this year.On the complaint of Ajay Kumar of Chunna Bhatti Colony of Jagadhri, a case was registered against the fiancé of the deceased, Sandeep Kumar, of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) at the City police station, Yamunanagar, on February 7.The complainant said the marriage of his sister was fixed with Sandeep Kumar of Saharanpur for February 21, 2022. He alleged that Sandeep Kumar used to call his sister and demanded a bullet motorcycle in dowry in the marriage.He said his sister told her family members about the demand being made by Sandeep in dowry.“Fed up with the demand, my sister consumed some poisonous substance at about 2.30 am on February 7,” alleged the complainant.He said she was taken to Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar, where she was declared brought dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fianc%C3%A9-demands-motorcycle-woman-kills-self-368273
09-02-2022||Hisar||Two killed in Bhiwani, Jind||A 30-year-old man was killed by unknown men in Hariyawas village village of Bhiwani district on Monday night. The victim has been identified as Surender. The police said he was sleeping in his fields when the incident happened.In another incident, a 40-year-old farmer, Rakesh, was shot dead at Budakhera Lather village in Jind district. The police said three Rakesh was working in his fields when three persons opened fire on him. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-in-bhiwani-jind-368274
09-02-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad: Bijli nigam staffer held for taking bribe||The Vigilance Department officials here today nabbed a commercial accountant of the DHBVN here on the charges of taking a bribe of Rs 26,000 from a consumer.It was alleged that the accused had demanded the money for correcting the reading of a power bill of the complainant Joginder Singh, a resident of Fatehpur Billauch village in the district. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bijli-nigam-staffer-held-for-taking-bribe-368275
09-02-2022||Kurukshetra||INLD protests poor condition of roads in Kurukshetra||Activists of the INLD on Tuesday held a demonstration and burnt an effigy of the Thanesar MLA to mark their protest against poor condition of roads in the city. They also performed a ‘havan’ in the middle of the road. They said the government was claiming to promote Kurukshetra as a tourist destination, but it had failed to create poor infrastructure and improve the conditions of roads. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-protests-poor-condition-of-roads-in-kurukshetra-368276
09-02-2022||Rohtak||Ex-min writes to Anil Vij on staff crunch at PGIMS Rohtak||Former minister and senior Congress leader Krishanmurti Hooda has written to Health Minister Anil Vij, requesting him to resolve the issues being faced by patients and the authorities at PGIMS.“The PGIMS has been grappling with the shortage of doctors, nurses and other supportive staff. It has 16 operation theatres, but several of these are lying non-operational,” claimed Krishanmurti in the letter. — #anil vij #pgims rohtak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-min-writes-to-vij-on-staff-crunch-at-pgims-368277
09-02-2022||Karnal||Surya namaskar activity||Lecture on gender sensitisationThe internal complaints committee against sexual harassment of women at workplace of the KVA DAV College for Women conducted an online extension lecture on “Gender sensitivity: Protection of women against sexual harassment” for the staff and students. The keynote speaker for the lecture, Prof Neelam Dhanda, chairperson of the committee, told the participants about the fundamentals of gender, its constitution, role and importance.Webinar on career opportunitiesFaridabad: The faculty of arts and centre for counselling cell of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, in collaboration with Dynamic World Education Community (DWEC), organised a webinar on “Exploring advanced career opportunities in Europe” for students. Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta elaborated various career pathways via international higher education and spoke on studying with a global perspective. He also discussed international education options in Europe and the UK, and apprised students of scholarship programmes offered by foreign universities.Industrial interaction programmeHisar: The Industrial Interaction Programme Club of the training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, in collaboration with the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences of the college, organised an industrial interaction programme on the “Research analytics: Job opportunities in present scenario”. Arun Dhankar, consultant at pharmaceutical industry, Canada, was the guest speaker of the session. He informed the participants about the Research and Development Department, Research and Analysis Department, clinical trials, drug approval, drug distribution and pharma co-vigilance.NCC cadet honouredAmbala: Gandhi Memorial National College, Ambala Cantonment, honoured Rabnoor, a student of BA-III for her achievements in the field of NCC and cultural activities. Rabnoor is one of the cadets who got the opportunity to participate in the January 26 parade in New Delhi. She was a member of the Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Directorate. Her directorate secured first position in Line Area, first position in the PM Rally and eighth position in group dance in inter-directorate competitions. She was also selected to be a member of the Central Cultural Committee, gave her the opportunity to virtually present their self-composed song to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.JC Bose varsity in top 10Faridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, has featured consecutively for the sixth time in top 100 institutions on SWAYAM-NPTEL local chapters. The university has scored highest “AAA” grade and is the only university is the only institution in Haryana to secure a place in the top 100. Dr Neelam Duhan, director of the computer centre digital affairs cell of the university said the NPTEL had released the list of top ranked 100 institutions for January-December 2021, in which the university has been ranked 9th based on the parameters such as enrollment etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surya-namaskar-activity-368278
09-02-2022||Large potholes were formed in our lane at the Defence Colony after the recent heavy rain. These were fairly deep and full of slush. Commuters and pedestrians were facing a harrowing time due to the problem. Rather than complaining and waiting for the authorities to act||Residents fix potholes||Simian scareStray monkeys have become a nuisance for Rohtak residents. One can see large groups of monkeys wandering even in posh colonies and HSVP sectors. They not only scare away people on the streets but also enter houses and take away eatables. There have been incidents where they have injured residents or damaged household articles. Navdeep, RohtakRadium collars for stray cattleThere’s a need to put radium collar tapes on the stray cattle roaming on the roads. The district administration should start a campaign in order to avoid accidents at night. An NGO is already working in this direction. Yogesh, BhiwaniMust hold OPDs full time, patients sufferEven though the PGIMS authorities have restarted partial OPDs, patients are at the receiving end due to time restrictions for obtaining patient cards. The cards are made between 8 am and 11 am, forcing many to return without check-up. The authorities should now hold the OPDs full time keeping in view a decline in Covid cases. Abhishek Saini, RohtakGarbage segregation not being doneIn most of the residential societies of Gurugram, households are not segregating garbage. "Atmanirbhar Bharat" means equal responsibility. We must reduce the waste at source, recycle and segregate. If this is done, we can create a zero-waste system. If this is done at the individual level with enforcement from the administration, we will not require any external agency for garbage management. Unmukt, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribuneinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/residents-fix-potholes-368282
09-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana schools to open for Classes I-IX from tomorrow||3 youths drown in canalJhajjar: Three youths drowned in a canal passing near Aasoda village under the Bahadurgarh sub-division late on Monday evening, while two were saved by passersby. The deceased were been identified as Gaurav, Shailesh and Dilkhush of Bahadurgarh town here. The incident took place when the five went there to immerse the idols of goddesses. TNS'Haryana GST Kosh' launchedChandigarh: Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday launched "the Haryana GST Kosh", an e-repository of updated GST Acts and Rules based on feedback received from taxpayers of Haryana. After the launch of the portal, Chautala informed said this initiative taken by the Haryana Government in order to create awareness among taxpayers about the latest HGST/CGST Act and Rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-to-open-for-classes-i-ix-from-tomorrow-368283
09-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana okays draft Bill on conversions||Following in the footsteps of several BJP-ruled states, the Haryana Cabinet today approved the draft of the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion Bill aimed at tackling “love jihad” and forced religious conversions. The Bill will be tabled in the forthcoming Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha.“Cases of forced conversion have been reported in Yamunanagar, Mewat, Gurugram and Panipat districts. The Bill has been approved to stop such conversions. Strict action will be taken against those indulging in forced religious conversions,” Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said after the Cabinet meeting.The Bill, however, does not mention the term “love jihad”. The expression is used by BJP leaders and the Sangh parivar to describe alleged conspiracy to “convert” Hindu women to Islam.The draft Bill seeks to prohibit religious conversions effected through misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage.Now, individuals converting from one religion to another will have to submit to the authority concerned a declaration that the conversion was not effected through misrepresentation, use of force, threat, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage. The marriages solemnised by concealing religion will be declared null and void. — #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-okays-draft-bill-on-conversions-368193
