10-02-2022||---||Roof collapses in Gurugram housing complex; many feared trapped||Gurugram, February 10A portion of roof from sixth floor to ground floor collapsed in Chintal Paradiso High Rise Society in Sector 109, Gurugram, on late Thursday.Two persons were reported dead and six trapped till filing of the report though there was no official confirmation and NDRF team was still busy in rescue operations.The accident occurred as renovation work was going on in the 6th floor flat in D block of this society. A room on the floor was under renovation and its drawing room floor collapsed.All roofs and floors starting from the sixth floor to the ground floor of the building collapsed at once.Though majority of flats were empty, some people are feared buried in the debris. One of trapped residents is believed to be an employee of PMO who had reached home with family from airport minutes before the accident.Residents have accused builder of negligence and poor construction quality but the builders in their official statement have held renovation contractor responsible.“This is an extremely unfortunate incident and we have taken it very seriously as safety of our residents is of utmost concern. Upon preliminary investigation we have come to know that some negligence in repair work done by contractor in apartment led to the incident. We are cooperating with authorities and ensuring all support,” said Chintel in their statement.No official statement has been released by Gurugram administration yet.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is personally monitoring the rescue operation following the incident. He tweeted: “Administrative officials, along with SDRF and NDRF teams are busy in the rescue & relief work after the unfortunate collapse of the apartment roof at the Paradiso Housing Complex in Gurugram.” “I am personally monitoring the situation and I pray for everyone’s safety,” the CM added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/apartment-roof-collapses-in-gurugram-housing-complex-368755
10-02-2022||---||Maid sedates Gurugram family, loots house by bringing in 4 accomplices||Gurugram, February 10A house help sedated a woman and her daughters and got their house robbed by bringing in four men in Sector 10A area here.The men held them hostage and robbed the house.An FIR has been registered at Sector 10A police station. Police have started investigation.According to a complaint filed by Sumita, a resident of Sector 10A, maid Aarti was working at their home from last some months. Mostly, she used to come to the house for work in the morning, but on Tuesday she came in around 5 pm.“I asked her for juice and she gave me and my daughters sedative-laced juice and soon we all fainted. In the meantime, Aarti called in four men. They held us hostage and threatened to kill us. One of them strangled my throat and asked to hand over all valuables. We were in semi-conscious condition when they robbed jewellery, watches, Rs 50,000 in cash and two mobile phones. It was in the next morning when I got conscious and raised the alarm. My tenant Vishal came and took us to hospital,” Sumita told police.Following the complaint an FIR has been registered against maid Aarti and others under Sections 328 (causing hurt by mean of poison), 381 (theft by servant), 341 (wrongful confinement) of IPC.“It was all pre-planned by maid and her accomplices as they also destroyed the CCTV cameras installed at house before committing the robbery,” said Ishwar Singh, a relative of Sumita.Inspector Naveen Kumar, SHO of Sector 10A police station, said a team of police station along with crime unit team is conducting raids to nab the accused. The police verification of accused maid was not done by the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maid-sedates-gurugram-family-loots-house-by-bringing-in-4-accomplices-368740
10-02-2022||Panipat||3 killed as car falls into canal in Haryana's Panipat||Three people were killed as a car fell into a canal near Budshyam village in Samalkha on Wednesday night.All four occupants of the car were fished out by the passers-by and were rushed to the hospital at Sewaha village where doctors declared three of them dead.Details are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-killed-as-car-falls-into-canal-in-haryanas-panipat-368685
10-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Rs 5,000 to register for Class VIII exams: Haryana board to private schools||Rohtak, February 9In a new development in the ongoing row over the board exam of Class VIII, Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) has asked all private schools affiliated to Central Board of School Education (CBSE) and other boards to deposit Rs 5,000 as registration fee and Rs 100 per student as enrolment fee for academic session 2021-22.The Progressive Private Schools Association, a group of private schools affiliated to the CBSE, has approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the move. The case will come up for hearing tomorrow.The state has more than 2,000 private schools affiliated to the CBSE and other boards where over 1.5 lakh students study in Class VIII.“We oppose the BSEH’s directives asking private schools to get registered with it by depositing Rs 5,000 as it will mean dual affiliation, which is neither practical nor feasible. Moreover, the BSEH’s bylaws also clearly state that no student of any school affiliated to any board other than BSEH can be enrolled for board exams. Hence, the BSEH is also violating its own bylaws. Hence, our association has challenged the move in the High Court,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools Association.Kaushik maintained since the students would have to pay the fee for the board exams, it would put burden on parents, majority of whom were already facing financial crisis due to Covid pandemic.SS Gusain, president, Haryana Progressive School Conference, said the BSEH’s move was nothing but a means to earn hefty money from private schools affiliated to the CBSE and other boards in the name of registration and enrolment fee for the exams of Class VIII.“Authorising the BSEH to conduct Class VIII exams for all schools located in the state is also contempt of High Court as the state government withdrew the power and authority from the BSEH to hold any exams and also informed the court about it,” he added.Ved Prakash Yadav, Vice-Chairman, BSEH, while denying the allegations, said every step had been taken as per law. “The SCERT has authorised the BSEH to conduct the exams. Hence, the exercise of registering all schools and enrolling their students is necessary to hold the exams. The registration and enrolment fee is as per already determined structure,” he added.Hearing todayThe Progressive Private Schools Association, a group of private schools affiliated to the CBSE, has approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the move. The case will come up for hearing on Thursday. #BSEH||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-5-000-to-register-for-class-viii-exams-haryana-board-to-private-schools-368578
10-02-2022||---||Trouble for Gurnam Singh Charuni, farm leaders quit kisan union||Karnal, February 9Upset at BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni’s decision to field candidates in the Punjab elections, scores of state and district-level farmer leaders here today announced to quit the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Charuni) and tendered their resignation.They alleged that they had told Gurnam Charuni not to indulge in politics, but focus on farmers’ issues.A meeting, led by Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member BKU (Charuni), was organised at Jat Dharamshala, in which farm leaders parted ways with Charuni.Should’ve focused on farm issuesWe are not happy with Charuni’s decision of using BKU’s name for political gain. The BKU chief should have avoided fielding candidates in Punjab. He should have focused on farmers’ issues instead. —Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, State core committee member, BKU (Charuni)“We are not happy with his decision of using the BKU name for political gains. He should have avoided fielding candidates in Punjab. Instead, he should have focused on farmers’ issues,” said Aulakh.Bahadur Singh Mehla, district president IT Cell, said thousands of farmers of the district always stood with Charuni, but he did not consider their feelings. “We had asked him not to go in politics and continue to raise the issues of farmers, but he did not pay heed to us,” Mehla said. Around 50 office bearers have resigned from their posts, he added.Ajay Rana, district president, BKU (Charuni), during farmers’ agitation, said they could not continue to support Charuni for his political gains. “We will continue to raise the farmers’ issues in future without any banner,” said Aulakh. #BKU #farmers #gurnam singh charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trouble-for-charuni-farm-leaders-quit-kisan-union-368583
10-02-2022||---||Decide Bhupinder Singh Hooda's plea, HC tells special court||Chandigarh, February 9The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed a Panchkula special court to take a decision on an application filed by Haryana’s former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. He had requested the special court to defer the arguments on charges in the Enforcement Directorate case till the High Court’s decision and “completion of further investigation”.“We appreciate the candid fairness of Additional Solicitor-General and with the agreement of counsel for the petitioner, proceed to direct the trial court to decide the application filed by the petitioner and, thereafter, to give him and the other accused persons some reasonable time of one week to prepare their case on charge/take appropriate proceedings against the order which may be passed,” the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain asserted.The matter was argued before the High Court by senior advocates Kapil Sibal and RS Cheema, with advocates Pardeep S Poonia, Tarannum Cheema, Adit Pujari and AS Cheema. The respondents were, among others, represented by Additional Solicitor-General of India SV Raju and Arvind Moudgil.In his plea, Hooda had initially challenged an order passed on July 5, 2021 by the trial court. Among other things, the trial court had made clear to the defence counsel and special public prosecutors for the ED that the arguments on charge would also be heard along with the applications on the date fixed. If the court found merit in the applications, the case would be adjourned beyond the date fixed by the High Court. Otherwise, charge would be framed on the same date in accordance with the law.Challenging the July 5 order, Hooda stated in his petition that the High Court had stayed the proceedings before the special judge regarding the CBI case in the AJL plot allotment case. He also brought out commonality of issues in the CBI and ED case. “The limited issue we are taking up is whether the court could have taken such a precipitate view that in case it did not find any merit in the application filed by the petitioner, it would proceed to frame the charge then and there,” the Bench added. #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decide-hoodas-plea-hc-tells-special-court-368584
10-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Palwal fields inundated, farmers worried||Palwal, February 9With rainwater still present in hundreds of acres of agricultural land in the district, farmers of several villages are worried as standing crops have either been damaged or face similar fate.Meanwhile, a demand for immediate survey of the loss and relief to the affected farmers has been taken up under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).A perennial problem: expertsWaterlogging has become a perennial problem here. The water consumption capacity of the land in 10,000 acres has become minimal or has been lost completely, affecting cropping in the area. —Agriculture expertsWater up to 1.5 feet has been standing in the fields of around 20 villages in the vicinity of the Gonchhi drain or in low-lying areas in the district for the past about two months.Claiming that the recent rains had also increased the problem, Uday Singh, sarpanch, Ferozpur Rajput village, said dewatering from the affected areas had been missing as no measures had been taken up to tackle the problem.In a memorandum submitted to the district administration recently, a spokesperson of the SKM said more than 5,000 acres had become the victim of acute waterlogging in the villages like Gahlab, Reedka, Ferozpur Rajput, Kalsara, Janoli, Alawalpur, Kishanpur, Bhamrola Badoli, Devli, Mandkol, Badram, Batta,Lulwari, Dhatir, Alika and Rahimpur villages.Alleging that no girdawari or assessment of loss to the crops had been ordered so far, Rajkumar Ohlyan, Member, Block Samiti, said the delay had left the farmers worried as the loss could be up to Rs 30,000 per acre. Standing crops of wheat, mustard and sugarcane had been left damaged, it was claimed.Admitting problem in the low-lying villages, an official of the Agriculture department said dewatering was taken up by the Irrigation department.Pumps had been installed or were operational in some of the affected areas, said an official of the Irrigation Department (mechanical) in the district. The district has a total of about 70,000 hectares of agriculture area, it was reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-fields-inundated-farmers-worried-368587
10-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Two flyovers to ease traffic  on Karnal-Meerut highway||Karnal, February 9Aimed at easing traffic congestion, two flyovers will be constructed on the National Highway-709A, connecting Karnal with Meerut.One of the flyovers will come up at the Sector 5 and 6 intersection, while the other at Nagla Chowk. The authorities claimed that both flyovers would help in regulating the traffic on the busiest highway which connected the two states.Estimates of both flyovers have been sent to the government for approval. “The estimate of 2 km-long flyover at Nagla Chowk will be constructed at a cost of Rs 69.41 crore, while the second flyover on the intersection of Sectors-5/6, which is of nearly1km, will be constructed at a cost of Rs 22 crore,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, Karnal.Viaduct won’t hit marketThe viaduct of the Nagla Chowk flyover will be of nearly 700 metres so that it does not affect the present market. The viaduct of the proposed flyover at the Sector 5 and 6 interaction will be of around 100 metres. —RK Chawla, SDE, Provincial sub division-2 pwd (B&R) NHAI worksHad apprised CM of problemsWe had apprised the Chief Minister of the problems being faced by residents,after which the CM accepted it. —Megha Bhandari, Councillor, Ward 8After nod, work to startAfter the approval, we will start the work. This will help in the smooth flow of traffic. —Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy commissioner, Karnal“After the approval, we will start the work. This will help in the smooth flow of traffic,” said the Deputy Commissioner.The Nagla Chowk is the busiest chowk on this road and the market here caters to the need of various surrounding villages, due to which there is a heavy flow of traffic here. Residents of the vicinity have demanded the construction of flyovers so many times, following which the district authorities have given permission.Similarly, during Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to the city last year, Megha Bhandari, a Councillor of Ward 8, along with other residents raised the issue of accident threats and traffic jams on the Sector 5 and 6 intersection , following which the Chief Minister had directed the authorities to check the feasibility. After the positive response from the technical teams of (PWD B&R), the district authorities had given the nod to construct it.“The viaduct of the Nagla Chowk flyover will be of nearly 700 metres so that it does not affect the present market. The viaduct of the proposed flyover at the Sector 5 and 6 intersection will be of around 100 metres,” said RK Chawla, Sub-Divisional Engineer (SDE), Provincial Sub Division-2 PWD (B&R) NHAI works.Megha Bhandari, Councillor of Ward 8, said they were thankful to the CM for accepting their demand, which would help in reducing accidents on this major intersection. “We had apprised the CM of the problems being faced by the residents, after which the CM accepted it,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-flyovers-to-ease-traffic-on-karnal-meerut-highway-368589
10-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Despite action, illegal mining goes on unabated in Mahendragarh||Mahendragarh, February 9The registration of 149 FIRs, seizure of 243 vehicles and recovery of Rs 4 crore in the past 13 months indicate that the mining mafia is still active in the region despite the efforts being made by the district authorities to check this illegal trade.An inquiry conducted by the mining officials into the cases reveals that locals are involved in illegal mining. Recees are carried out to find out the exact location of patrolling parties with an intention to evade action, said sources.Illegal mining had resulted in a landslide at Aravali Forest Area in Jainpur village here last month leaving one person dead and several others injured. The incident forced the district authorities to make extra efforts to tighten the noose around the mafia. Consequently, 11 FIRs were lodged, 22 vehicles were seized and a penalty of Rs 35 lakh was recovered for illegal mining in January alone.Niranjan Kumar, Mining Officer, confirmed the involvement of locals in illegal mining stating that different teams had been formed to carry out surprise inspections.“A majority of the cases of illegal mining have been registered in the Nangal Choudhary region. Besides recee, youths on motorbikes were also seen chasing vehicles of raiding parties to pass the information to those indulged in this illegal trade,” he said, adding that surprise inspection was also being conducted at night.Ajay Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, said a meeting of the district-level taskforce comprising officers of various departments was conducted regularly to review the arrangements for curbing illegal mining.“Mining officials have been advised to take help from the police if they face any issue of carrying out patrolling in sensitive zones. People have also been exhorted to provide information about those engaging in this illegal act so that appropriate action could be taken against them. The identity of the informer will be kept secret,” said the DC. #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/despite-action-illegal-mining-goes-on-unabated-in-mahendragarh-368592
10-02-2022||Karnal||Cop killed, another injured in mishap||A policeman (35) was killed and another injured after a speeding truck loaded with paddy bags rammed into a Dial-112 emergency response vehicle near Pakakhera Chowk on the Karnal-Assandh road in the wee hours of Wednesday.The incident took place around 2.45 am when the speeding truck coming from the Assandh side hit the emergency vehicle parked on a roadside, said Ajayab Singh, SHO, Nissing.The deceased has been identified as Exemptee Head Constable Surinder of Munarehri village in Kaithal, while the injured is Exemptee ASI Mukesh Kumar, who is undergoing treatment at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here, he added.The truck driver fled the scene, leaving the vehicle behind. “The impact of the collision was so much that the police vehicle was dragged to some distance. Both the cops were taken to the KCGMC, from where Surinder was referred to a private hospital. He was declared brought dead there,” the police said.Karnal Range IG Mamta Singh also reached the crime scene and inquired about incident. “We have registered a case under Sections 279, 304A, 335 and 422 of the IPC,” the SHO said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-killed-another-injured-in-mishap-368593
10-02-2022||Sunit Dhawan||High Court notice to CBI, Haryana & Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences||Rohtak, February 9The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued notice to the CBI through its director (Chandigarh zone); Haryana Government through its Chief Secretary; Additional Chief Secretary (Medical Education and Research), Haryana; Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, through its Registrar; Director, PGIMS, Rohtak, and ex-director of BPS Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, on a petition filed by a former Additional Chief Vigilance Officer (ACVO) at the UHS.Irregularities in recruitmentI had conducted a fact-finding inquiry into the allegations of large-scale irregularities in recruitment carried out at BPS Medical College during the tenure of director Dr RC Siwach. —Dr RB Singh, Ex-Addl chief vigilance officer, UHSIn his petition before the High Court, the former ACVO, Dr RB Singh, had stated that he had conducted a fact-finding inquiry into the allegations of large-scale irregularities in the recruitment carried out at BPS Medical College during the tenure of director Dr RC Siwach. Dr Siwach is presently the head of the department of orthopaedic surgery at Rohtak PGIMS, while Dr Singh retired in 2017.Meanwhile, a regular inquiry was instituted in the matter and RP Bhasin, a retired District and Sessions Judge, was appointed the inquiry officer. In the inquiry report, Bhasin remarked that “from the facts on record, I am of further clear opinion that Dr RB Singh has misled the Health Minister and other authorities of the state government and UHS/PGIMS, Rohtak, by twisting facts.“Later, in a letter to the UHS VC, Haryana Additional Chief Secretary (Medical Education and Research) said the state government had conveyed its displeasure to the former ACVO regarding a fact-finding inquiry conducted by him against Dr Siwach. The letter maintained that “it was this reported misconduct ofDr RB Singh which needlessly caused avoidable action to be initiated and wasted precious time and energy, besides causing hardship to the affected parties.“Dr Singh moved the High Court to challenge the order containing the said displeasure note issued against him. He also sought a fresh probe by the CBI into the allegations of irregularities in recruitment at the government medical college. In the orders, HC Judge Mahabir Singh Sindhu maintained that the said order be kept in abeyance till the next date of hearing, which is March 11. He also issued notices to the authorities/persons concerned. #CBI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-notice-to-cbi-state-uhs-368595
10-02-2022||Karnal||2 Hafed staffers suspended for wheat damage in Indri||In a case pertaining to the “damaging of wheat” at a godown in Indri, two employees of Hafed have been placed under suspension. The action was taken on the recommendation of a team that visited the godown, said an official.After the reports of wheat grains getting rotten in an open godown in Indri, A Sreenivas, managing director, HAFED, ordered an inquiry. “Two employees, technical officer (storage) Anil Kumar and field inspector Ishwar Mor, have been suspended,” said Amit Kumar, district manager, Hafed. — #hafed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-hafed-staffers-suspended-for-wheat-damage-368596
10-02-2022||---||e-Vidhan training centre inaugurated||Chandigarh, February 9Legislative Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta inaugurated the training centre of the National e-Vidhan Application on Wednesday.With this, the training of officers of the Assembly, National Informatics Centre and Finance and Power Departments also started.After this, the training will be given to the MLAs and officers of other departments of the state government. A team of the Union Parliamentary Affairs Ministry has arrived to impart training.Speaking on the occasion, Gupta said, “We will soon go digital as far as the proceedings of the Assembly and the working of the secretariat is concerned. For this, we have set a deadline of April 30.”He said the digitisation project would cost Rs 8.53 crore, which had been approved. Of this, the first instalment of the grant has been released.Regarding the Budget session, Gupta said the Press Gallery and the Janata Gallery could be made operational. He said the Covid numbers were going down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/e-vidhan-training-centre-inaugurated-368597
10-02-2022||Faridabad||NGT forms panel to look into burning of e-waste in Sarurpur||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a four-member committee to look into the burning of e-waste in the Sarurpur industrial area here. It has directed the committee to submit the report within three months.“The panel may recommend remedial action for compliance of the statutory rules at the ground level,” says the order delivered on February 4.Petition alleges acute pollutionThe magnitude of pollution is such that not only the visibility is affected, but the health of residents has also been hit. Radhey Shyam of Sarurpur says he is among those residents who have become a victim of the toxic air. He says he is undergoing treatment of his eyes at AIIMS for the past two years.A population of over one lakh in localities like Nangla, Gonchhi, Sarurpur, Kheri, Ghazipur Qureshipur and Anekpur village have been impacted, he says. The e-waste is burnt in the open at night and the ash is dumped in the open area and landfills. With the local authorities hand in glove, the illegal activity has been going on unabated, it is claimed.“We have constituted a four-member joint committee, comprising Member Secretary, State PCB, CPCB, Faridabad DC and Faridabad MC Commissioner. The committee may hold its meeting within one month to ascertain the number of units and scale of operation in the area and its vicinity, infrastructure for waste management and specifying the reasons for inaction against the violations, pollution and health hazards and fixing the accountability based on verified facts,’’ says the order.“The NGT has also ordered all state PCBs to file a status report regarding the operation of the e-waste recycling industries as well as industries causing environmental degradation and health hazard to the CPCB within a month. The matter will be dealt with as per the order,” says Yashpal Yadav, MC Commissioner. — #Environment #NGT #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngt-forms-panel-to-look-into-burning-of-e-waste-in-sarurpur-368600
10-02-2022||Chandigarh||12 IAS, 2 HCS officers shifted in Haryana||The state has issued posting and transfer orders of 12 IAS and two HCS officers with immediate effect.Pankaj Yadav, who was on Tuesday posted as DHBVN MD, has been posted as Director General (Transport). Phool Chand Meena, UHBVN MD, has been posted as DHBVN MD. Mandip Singh Brar, HARTRO MD, has been posted as Director General (DG), Industries and Commerce, in addition to his present duties. Saket Kumar, DG, Industries and Commerce, has been posted as UHBVN MD.Chander Shekhar Khare, Special Secretary, Human Resources Department, has been posted as Director, Science and Technology, and Special Secretary, Science and Technology Department, in addition to his present duties. Mani Ram Sharma, MD, Haryana BCs and EWS Kalyan Nigam, has been posted as Special Secretary (Home-II) and Commissioner and Special Secretary, Labour Department.Jaibir Singh Arya, Director, Governance Reforms Authority, and MD, CONFED, has been posted as MD, Haryana BCs and EWS Kalyan Nigam, in addition to his present duties.Jhajjar DC Shayam Lal Poonia has been posted as Mahendragarh DC. Manoj Kumar-I, Labour Commissioner (Designate), has been posted as Director, Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare. Mahendragarh DCAjay Kumar has been posted as Nuh DC.Jind (Designate) DC Virender Dahiya has been posted as Jhajjar DC. Nuh (Designate) DC Manoj Kumar-II has been posted as Jind DC. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-ias-2-hcs-officers-shifted-368602
10-02-2022||Gurugram||Addict held for murdering wife, minor daughter||The police today arrested a man for allegedly murdering his wife and daughter in an inebriated state recently.Confessing to the crime, the accused said he was an addict and he killed his wife and daughter with a pestle in inebriated state on Sunday. The police questioned the accused after taking him on a daylong police remand.The accused has been identified as Deepak of Bhangrola village. On Saturday night, the accused in an inebriated state attacked his wife Rajnesh and seven-year-old daughter Vidhi with a stone. The mother-daughter duo was rushed to a hospital. While Rajnesh died soon. On Sunday, Vidhi too succumbed in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital.On the complaint of Rajnesh’s brother Dinesh Kumar, a case under Section 302, IPC, was registered at Khedki Daula police station and Deepak was arrested today. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/addict-held-for-murdering-wife-minor-daughter-368604
10-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram man gets 5-yr jail for rape bid||The Court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Raj Gupta today sentenced a man to five years in jail and imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 for rape attempt on a girl.As per the order, if the convict fails to pay the fine on time his imprisonment shall be increased. The accused — Pratap of Bhogpur Mandi — was booked under Section 376 and 511 of the IPC at the Sohna Sadar police station in 2021 and was convicted today.As per the police records, it was on February 5, 2021, when the father of the girl, a resident of the Sohna area, had filed a complaint against the accused for rape attempt. An FIR was registered and the accused was arrested, who confessed to the crime and was then sent into judicial custody. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-man-gets-5-yr-jail-for-rape-bid-368606
10-02-2022||Karnal||Webinar on biotechnology||Training on cloud computingFaridabad: A week-long short term training programme (STTP) on "Cloud computing and Internet of things (IoT)" was inaugurated at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad. This programme is aimed at bringing eminent speakers who are experts of industry and academics from reputed institutes, to enrich the participants with modern trends, in the field in IoT and cloud computing sector. The programme is organised by the Electronics engineering department and sponsored by the AICTE. Gopi Srinivasan, industry executive of Microsoft who was chief guest at the inaugural session enlightened the participants about the latest trends of IoT. The session was presided over by Vice Chancellor Raj Nehru.Inter-disciplinary refresher courseHisar: 'Prof Avnesh Verma, Registrar of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar (GJUST), an instrumentation expert, said no industry could run without instrumentation as it played a vital role in qualitative and quantitative growth of industrial productivity. He said this while addressing the teachers of physical sciences, chemical sciences, life sciences and pharmaceutical sciences of different parts of the country as a chief guest on the occasion of inauguration of two-week inter-disciplinary refresher course organised by the human resource development centre of the university.three-day Workshop organisedHisar: A three-day workshop was organised at Government College, Nalwa, in Hisar district by the career and placement cell of the college. Principal Leena Kajal said Pratap Singh Malik, director of training cell in placement of Guru Jambheshwar University, Hisar, gave tips to the students on how to frame an effective resume. All members of the career and placement cell, Dr Ashok Yadav, Dr Sunita, Deepak Arya along with the senior professor of the college, Shailendra Singh, contributed in the successful conduct of the workshop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-biotechnology-368608
10-02-2022||Karnal||Karnal: 2 more held for making passports on fake papers||The Karnal police have arrested two more agents in connection with a nexus of fraudsters allegedly involved in making passports on fake documents. With these two arrests, the total number of accused has reached to 23.The accused have been identified as Sudhir Kumar from Gurugram and Mainak Nandi from Kolkata. Nandi will be brought on transit remand to Karnal, said Himadree Kaushik, ASP, Indri. A passport of Abdul was rejected in Delhi due to some reason and Nandi had managed to make it in Kolkata as he had links in the passport office there, she added. She said Sudhir was arrested from Gurugram and he would be produced in the court on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Karnal police have produced three of the earlier arrested accused –Rupinder Singh, Gurdyal Singh and Rahul Sharma — in the court, from where they were sent to jail.They were on three-day police remand. During the remand, they revealed that Rahul managed to get his passport through Rupinder, who made fake documents for Gurdyal with the help of his laptop and printer, said the police. The police have also recovered the laptop and printer, the police added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-more-held-for-making-passports-on-fake-papers-368611
10-02-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Sanitation official to click pics before & after cleaning||Yamunanagar, February 9Now, Safai Daroga (sanitation official) of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), will have to take photographs ‘before’ and ‘after’ cleaning roads and other public places, every day.The photographs will be sent to the officials concerned, including inspectors of the civic body.Anil Nain, Chief Sanitary Inspector, said the authorities of the MCYJ had taken this decision to strengthen the sanitation system of the twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.Trying to keep cities clean, beautifulWe are working on all fronts to keep the twin cities and villages associated with the MCYJ area clean and beautiful. —Anil Nain, Chief sanitary inspector, MCYJ“We want to ensure responsive and effective services to residents of the twin cities. Therefore, the staff members associated with the sanitation work will have to upload before and after photographs of the cleanliness work done by them in their assigned areas on the WhatsApp group of the officials concerned,” said Anil Nain, Chief Sanitary Inspector of MCYJ.He said the decision of taking photographs and uploading them on the WhatsApp group of the officials concerned would be implemented, soon.The MCYJ slipped to 243 place in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 survey, while in 2020 it was at the 147th position.According to information, the authorities of the MCYJ have intensified efforts to get good ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2022, the survey of which is expected to start in the near future. The work of door to door garbage collection, sweeping of public places and all roads of the twin cities, installation of compost pits in parks are being undertaken by the MCYJ.Besides, people are being made aware of the importance of sanitation and given tips to handle garbage and to keep their areas clean.Anil Nain further said they were trying their best to improve the ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2022.“We are working on all fronts to keep the twin cities and villages associated with the MCYJ area clean and beautiful,” said Anil Nain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sanitation-official-to-click-pics-before-after-cleaning-368614
10-02-2022||---||Urban local bodies to get 7% of Budget: Haryana CM Khattar||Chandigarh, February 9Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that this time, the budget of urban local bodies (ULBs) would be 7 per cent and 2 per cent budget would be kept separately for local bodies with low income. Besides, the ULBs get 2 per cent of the budget in the form of stamp duty apart from 2 per cent amount by way of electricity surcharge.A new advertising policy will be formulated to increase the income in all municipal corporations, municipal councils and municipalities. The Chief Minister was presiding over a meeting organised in connection with the discussion on financial stability and budget preparations of the ULBs here today. He said all civic bodies should prepare their budget from March 15 to 31 at the local level and send it to the headquarters.Later talking to mediapersons, Khattar said that big departments were being consulted before presenting the Budget in the Vidhan Sabha. The Urban Local Bodies, Health, Development and Panchayat and Education Departments were being consulted to present a balanced Budget. #haryana budget #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/urban-local-bodies-to-get-7-of-budget-368616
10-02-2022||Karnal||Anganwari workers, helpers protest in Karnal||Hundreds of anganwari workers and helpers on Tuesday protested outside the CM’s camp office to press for their demands. They are seeking promotion of workers as supervisor and increase in wages of workers by Rs 1,500 and helpers by Rs 750.They have served an ultimatum of one week to the government. They said they would hand over memorandums to MPs on February 13 and stage a state-level protest on February 14 in Karnal. Rupa Rana, district president, Anganwari Workers’ and Helpers’ Association, said they had been staging a dharna for the past two months but the government had failed to take note. She said they would continue the protest if their demands were not fulfilled. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anganwari-workers-helpers-protest-in-karnal-368617
10-02-2022||---||Bank executive thrashes woman||Gurugram, February 9A woman employee of a private hospital was brutally thrashed as she objected to a youth smoking in a shared auto-rickshaw. The victim was injured and admitted to a hospital. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 50 police station and the police have nabbed the accused working as an executive with a private bank. The police let him off on police bail after making him join the investigation.According to the complaint filed by Suman Lata, a resident of Wazirabad, working as a general duty assistant with Artemis Hospital, that it was on Monday when she was returning home from the hospital in a shared auto when the incident took place.“When the auto reached near the Greenwood City, Sector 46, a youth and a girl also boarded the auto. The youth was already smoking a cigarette and continued to do so after sitting in the auto. I asked him to stop smoking but he became angry and refused.I pulled the cigarette from the youth’s mouth and threw it out of the auto. He then punched my face near the eye and abused me. When I objected, he again hit me on the nose and it started to bleed.The auto driver stopped the auto and people nearby gathered there and then I informed the police and my family”, the complaint read.After getting the information, a police team reached the spot and took the youth in custody who is identified as a bank executive Vasu Singh, a resident of Ballabhgarh in Faridabad. The woman was rushed to the hospital where she is being treated.Following the complaint of woman, an FIR has been registered against Vasu Singh under Sections 323 (causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 509 (insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC at the Sector 50 police station and the police arrested him. “The accused joined the investigation and was let off on police bail. Further, the probe is on”, said probationer Sub Inspector Amit Kumar, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bank-executive-thrashes-woman-368619
10-02-2022||Apole in the middle of the dividing road of Sectors 10-11 is an example of how Smart City Faridabad is becoming a haphazard place in the name of development. Wrongful planning and lack of initiative are adding to the woes of the public. Favouritism and corruption is on the rise at all levels. The administration and local leadership seem to shut their eyes and close ears. The authority must check and correct the wrong doings. —Devinder Singh Surjewala||Bad planning adding to miseries of residents||Stray cattle roam freely, pose risk to commutersHundreds of stray cattle roam freely on roads of the city already tagged as the Smart City. Despite the claims of making the roads free of stray animals, the authorities seem to be ignorant of the menace faced by commuters daily in every nook and corner of the city. Be it a posh residential sector or a densely populated residential colony, the stray cattle are present in great numbers. Despite complaints, the civic authorities have failed to remove these and impose penalties on owners of such animals, though it was claimed a few years ago that the city had been made free from the menace. —Ajay Bahl, FaridabadWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bad-planning-adding-to-miseries-of-residents-368620
10-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||29% women in Nuh district victims of child marriage||Gurugram, February 9In a startling revelation highlighting the plight of women in Nuh district, it has come to light that nearly 29 per cent of them were married off before turning 18.The figures came to fore in the National Family Health Survey-5 carried out between 2019 and 2021. At 28.7 per cent, Nuh topped the state in terms of early marriage of girls, followed by Palwal (23.8 per cent) and Gurugram (20.7 per cent). Women in the 20-24 age group were surveyed wherein many confessed that they were married off before 18.Most struggle with early pregnancyNuh has long been battling the issues of child marriage and early pregnancies, which also lead to poor maternal health and high infant mortality rate. The district saw a spurt in marriages after the proposal came up law to raise the marriagable age of women to 21. “We have been running awareness drives. Many girls had even approached the Centre for its intervention. We hope this law changes the scenario,” said Sunil Jaglan, a social activist.An official said such women struggle with malnourishment and high-risk pregnancy. #child marriage #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/29-women-in-nuh-dist-victims-of-child-marriage-368518
