11-02-2022||Panchkula||Panchkula: Assamese woman accuses Haryana IPS officer’s wife of torture, confinement, bonded labour||Panchkula Police have booked the wife of an Indian Police Service Officer on charges of assault and bonded labour after a 22-year-old Assamese woman said she had been tortured and confined at the couple’s Panchkula residence.The suspect in the case has been identified as Manisha, the wife of IPS officer Rajesh Kalia, who’s the Superintendent of Police of Emergency Response Support System and holds the additional charge of SP, Telecom. He’s currently posted at the Haryana Police headquarters.Manisha has been booked under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 374 (Unlawful compulsory labour), 379 (theft) and section 16 of the Bonded Labour System Act.The complainant said she was hired through her mother’s acquaintance in March 2021 for Rs 20,000 a month. She’s quoted as having said in the FIR that the suspect had treated her well in the first month but then the assaults began. Her employer would beat her up and would refuse to allow her to speak to her parents, the victim said in the FIR.A week ago, the assaults escalated—the FIR said her employer beat her up, took away her phone, and locked her up in a room.Then, on February 5, the suspect took the help of another domestic help to kick the victim out of the house, the FIR said.“My phone is in their possession. Some uncle called my father, who then took to me to Delhi,” the FIR reads.The victim’s family lives in a rented accommodation in Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri.After this, Delhi Police registered a zero FIR but transferred the case to Panchkula Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-assamese-woman-accuses-haryana-ips-officers-wife-of-torture-confinement-bonded-labour-369039
11-02-2022||Satya PrakashNew Delhi||Haryana domicile quota law: Supreme Court seeks to enlarge scope of hearing||Seeking to enlarge the scope of hearing on a Haryana law providing for 75 per cent quota to local people in private sector jobs, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Solicitor General if it should hear all such matters pending in various high courts together.The question was posed by a Bench led by Justice LN Rao during the hearing on the Haryana Government’s petition against the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order staying the state's domicile quota law.Pointing out that similar laws have been passed in Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand and they have been challenged in the high courts, the Bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to verify it and gather the details.“If the matters are pending before other high courts, we can hear the larger issue after calling for the papers from high courts, you can inform us,” the Bench said, deferring the hearing to Monday.Mehta argued that a law has been stayed by the high court without any reasoned order after a 90-second hearing. Only a handful of people were opposed to the Act, he added.While senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing one of the parties, said this issue required consideration by the top court, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said he would consult his clients.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on February 3 stayed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, and admitted a petition challenging its validity. The high court’s order had come on a petition filed by various industries associations from Faridabad, Gurugram and other places.Notified in November last year, the law provides for 75 per cent reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offer a monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022.The petitioners before the HC contended that the Act under challenge was against the provisions of the Constitution and went against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive.The Haryana government wanted to create reservations in the private sector by introducing the policy of 'Sons of Soil', which was an infringement of the constitutional rights of the employers, they submitted.The petitioners contended that private-sector jobs were purely based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who were citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to work in any part of India. #haryana domicile quota law #supreme court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-domicile-quota-law-supreme-court-seeks-to-enlarge-scope-of-hearing-369031
11-02-2022||Hisar||Man burnt alive as car catches fire after crashing into tree in Haryana||A 32-year-old man was burnt alive when the car he was driving caught fire after crashing into a tree on the Hisar-Tohana road on Friday, police said.He was identified as Bhim Singh (32) of Naya Gaon in Bhiwani.According to the police, the car was coming from Smein village to Naya Gaon when the accident took place around 45 km from here in the early hours of Friday.Singh could not get out of the car as it caught fire and was burnt alive, they said.His wife, Neelam, and their two daughters, besides two children of a relative managed to get out of the vehicle and save them, they said.The body has been sent to the Agroha Medical College for post-mortem, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-burnt-alive-as-car-catches-fire-after-crashing-into-tree-in-haryana-368987
11-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram police register FIR against builder after 2 die in building mishap||The Gurugram police have registered an FIR against Chintel builders following complaint by the husband of the woman killed in the mishap.The deceased has been identified as 31-year-old Ekta Bhardwaj. Her husband Rajesh Bhardwaj was in office when the accident happened.Meanwhile, Gurugram administration on Friday has confirmed the death of two women. The body of one woman was recovered on Thursday night. The second was spotted on Friday and efforts are on to pull the body out. In his complaint, Rajesh said, “I got a call from son Yatharth that the ceiling of some floors of our tower had collapsed. My wife Ekta was injured who later died.“Rescue and police teams were working on the spot and after removal of debris my wife's body was recovered. The accident happened due to the negligence and sub-standard construction undertaken by MD, Chintels group, Ashok Saloman, and the contractor. There could be more deaths and injuries. Legal action should be taken against the accused.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-register-fir-against-builder-after-woman-dies-in-mishap-368965
11-02-2022||---||Two Haryana cops held in Himachal extortion case||Shimla, February 10The Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to probe into extortion by an impostor posing as an IGP of the Central government today busted a multi-crore extortion racket and arrested two Haryana Police personnel.Following complaints that Vinay Aggarwal, fake IGP, extorted money in the industrial areas of Kala Amb, Baddi, Nalagarh and other areas in the past three years for getting work done by showing proximity with VIPs. A case under the IPC was registered at CID police station, Bharari (Shimla).Investigation revealed that the two police personnel Ravinder, who is posted in Sonepat district, and Jail Warden Jasveer, posted in Jagadhri jail, Yamunanagar, used to escort Aggrawal in uniform, armed with automatic weapons.During the investigation, it was revealed that Aggarwal and PSOs of an officer of Haryana were conduits. This also indicates the involvement of a senior police officer of Haryana. Two personnel of Haryana police were arrested and involvement of more police personnel from Haryana is suspected.Both arrested persons have been remanded in nine days police custody. #haryana police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-haryana-cops-held-in-extortion-case-368891
11-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Tepid response, 5% pupils turn up in Haryana's govt schools on first day||Rohtak, February 10The first day of the reopening of schools from Class I to IX saw a tepid response as merely 5 per cent students turned up at government schools across the state on Thursday.Reopening Info came lateInformation about the reopening of the schools came after office hours. The attendance is likely to rise in coming days as parents are observing the situation. Moreover, many schools in different districts could not upload the attendance on the Avsar app. Dr Sudershan Punia, Nodal officer (saksham), JhajjarThe figure also includes the attendance of students studying in classes X to XII that resumed on February 1. Merely 50 per cent strength of the students is allowed in the schools in view of the third wave of the Covid pandemic. Officials with the Department of School Education claimed that unawareness among parents about the reopening of the schools was the main reason behind the marginal attendance of students on the first day as the orders came after office hours.As per official information, Mahendragarh topped the attendance tally with 12 per cent (4,375) students attending the schools followed by Jhajjar and Jind with 11 per cent each, Fatehabad and Rohtak with 8 per cent each. A total of 7,380 students in Jind, 3,583 in Jhajjar, 5,404 in Fatehabad and 3,002 in Rohtak came to schools.Surprisingly, Nuh registered the students’ attendance less than 1 per cent (725), followed by Palwal with 1 per cent (1,176) and Yamunanagar with 2 per cent (1,268). Seven per cent of the students turned up at government schools each in Sonepat and Charkhi Dadri districts.Vijay Luxmi, District Education Officer (DEO), Rohtak, could not be contacted for her comments despite repeated attempts. Meanwhile, the body temperature of 281 students at government schools across the state was found to be more than 99 on Thursday. They were immediately sent back to their homes after informing their parents. Sixtyone such students were in Fatehabad, 34 in Jind, 30 in Bhiwani, 22 in Charkhi Dadri, 17 in Rohtak and 16 each in Hisar and Jhajjar districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tepid-response-5-pupils-turn-up-in-govt-schools-on-first-day-368815
11-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||Term over, Ajay Chautala released from Tihar Jail||Hisar, February 10Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) supremo Ajay Singh Chautala’s release from the Tihar Jail on the completion of 10-year sentence has come as a sigh of relief for the three-year-old party and its cadre in Haryana.9-yr nightmare endsToday ends a nightmare of 9 years and 25 days for us as a family and as a party. Your continuous presence will be a much-needed blessing, pitaji. You are our hero. Glad to have you back home. — Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CMThough Ajay has been in and out of jail for the past three years, party workers maintained that the end of his jail term is a new beginning for the party. “He is known as an organisational person. His release is the beginning of a new chapter for the party which needs to strengthen its roots in Haryana especially after it joined hands with the BJP to form the government in October 2019,” stated a political commentator while reacting to Ajay’s release.Ajay and his father, former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala, were convicted in JBT recruitment case in 2013.The party cadre had to go on the back foot to defend its decision to enter into a post-poll alliance with the BJP in Haryana during the farmers agitation on the demand of withdrawal of the three agriculture laws.“Ajay is a free man now. He has his task cut out for him — rejuvenate the party cadre and reconnect with the young voters who helped JJP win 10 seats in the inaugural electoral test in the 2019 Assembly poll,” said a senior party worker.Ajay along with his sons Dushyant and Digvijay had formed a new party — JJP —in December 2018 after infighting in the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD). Dushyant led the party in the Assembly poll. #ajay chautala #dushyant chautala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/term-over-ajay-chautala-released-from-tihar-jail-368817
11-02-2022||Sirsa||Wife of slain journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati dies at 68||Kulwant Kaur, 68, wife of late journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, died of a cardiac attack at her residence in Sirsa town today.Chhatrapati, editor of “Poora Sach”, was killed by assailants in 2002 for carrying out reports about the Dera Sacha Sauda, headed by Gurmeet Ram Rahim.Prabhu Dayal, a close family aide, said her last rites were performed on Thursday afternoon in Sirsa. Kaur, along with her son Anshul Chhatrapati, had waged a long legal battle to get justice for her slain husband. Finally, the court convicted the Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim in the Chhatrapati murder case and he was sentenced to life imprisonment on January 17, 2019, by a special CBI court.Her husband was the editor of the vernacular evening “Daily Poora Sach” and published an anonymous letter which accused the Dera chief of rape.Chhatrapati was shot dead on October 24, 2002.Lekhraj Dhot, Sirsa-based advocate and family friend of Chhatrapatis, stated that Kulwant Kaur was a fearless woman like her husband who never felt afraid of any kind of pressure. She showed nerves of steel during the entire legal battle.Kaur raised her four children after her husband’s murder and fought a long legal battle. At the time of the murder, her eldest son Anshul was only 14 years old. On the day the dera chief was awarded the life sentence, she recalled her long and painful fight for justice, stating that even her close family relatives had lost hope of justice as the dera chief was a very influential and wealthy person.Her family also used to get threats during the court trial in the case, but she never retracted and kept on fighting for justice.  #gurmeet ram rahim #ram chander chhatrapati||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wife-of-slain-journalist-chhatrapati-dies-at-68-368818
11-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Jhajjar: Won't follow order not to run 245 brick-kilns, say owners||Jhajjar, February 10Brick-kiln owners and the state government are at loggerheads over the latter’s directive to run one-third kilns in the district in view of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order regarding air quality index in the National Capital Region (NCR).Orders leave two-thirds owners joblessThe govt has directed to let merely one-third kilns operate this year. But we will not follow the directives as those will render the remaining two-thirds kiln owners unemployed. — Mahabir Gulia, President, dist brick kiln owners association, JhajjarThe kiln owners have refused to follow the directives citing financial losses and also approached the Supreme Court pleading that it should allow all kilns in the NCR to operate in the upcoming production session commencing from March 1. Jhajjar district has 368 licensed brick kilns.“A hefty amount is invested before starting operations at a brick-kiln. All owners have already invested heavily by taking loans for buying tractors and other machines. The government has directed the district authorities to let merely one-third kilns operate this year for which draw system is to be adopted. But we will not follow the directives as those will not only render the remaining two-thirds kiln owners unemployed but also cause them a heavy loss,” said Mahabir Gulia, president, District Brick Kiln Owners Association, Jhajjar.He maintained the loan was repaid from the income from the kilns. The owners would be ruined if they do not operate the kilns this year. Migrant labourers would have to either engage in other works or go back home. Hence, they were demanding exemption from the directives this year.“We will adopt the system from next year as two-thirds kiln owners will not invest in this business. But the district authorities are gearing up to hold a draw to finalise those one-third kilns which will remain operational this year. A joint case has been filed in the Supreme Court by all kiln owners of NCR to get relief,” said Gulia.JP Saini, Inspector at District Food and Supply Controller office, said as per the state government’s decision, a total of 123 (one-third) kilns were to be run in the district this year. The operation of the remaining 245 kilns would remain suspended.“The date to hold a draw for selecting 123 kilns had been scheduled twice in the past few months, but kiln owners did not turn up on both occasions. As the kilns will start on March 1, we are in the process to finalise the date for another draw,” Saini added. #Environment #NGT #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-follow-order-not-to-run-245-brick-kilns-owners-368821
11-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Service charge scam comes to fore in Sonepat MC, case filed||Sonepat, February 10A service charge scam of lakhs of rupees has come to fore in the Municipal Corporation (MC), Sonepat, by a private contract company in connivance with MC officials. The Civil Lines police have registered a case against the owner of the private company, officials of the sanitation wing of the Sonepat MC, Executive Officer of the MC and others under various sections of the IPC on the basis of the inquiry report of the SP, Cyber Crime of the Haryana Police.Pvt Company ‘claimed’ 15% instead of 2%Officials bookedThe Civil Lines police have registered a case against the owner of the private company, officials of the sanitation wing of the Sonepat MC, Executive Officer of the MC and others under various sections of the IPC on the basis of the inquiry report of the SP, Cyber Crime of the Haryana Police.Appropriate action will be takenThe matter came to my knowledge through the media. No official information has been received. Appropriate action will be initiated after taking directions from the headquarters. Dharmender Singh, Commissioner, MC, SonepatThe MC had allotted a tender to Pooja Consulations, a private company, for two months only for providing manpower for sanitation work in July 2019 on the condition of 2 per cent service charge. But, the company allegedly claimed 15 per cent service charge instead of 2 per cent from the MC in connivance with the MC officials, a complainant alleged in his complaint to the Chief Minister, Haryana. Even, the tender of the company was enhanced by the MC officials without any fresh tender process.The complainant also alleged that the company was working with the MC since 2008 and the number of employees were also shown double by the company for withdrawing payment from the company from the MC.When the scam in the service charge came to light in 2020, the private company immediately deposited Rs 22.25 lakh to the MC office without any notice or direction by the MC, said the complainant.Even the inquiry was conducted by the officials of the MC but it was closed after giving a clean chit to the company as well as the employees of the MC involved in the matter. After which the complainant filed a complaint to the Chief Minister in the matter. Following the complaint, the Superintendent of Police (SP), (Cyber Crime), Haryana Police conducted a special inquiry into the matter.As per the inquiry report, the crime branch found that there was embezzlement of government fund by Pooja Consulations in the bills of the employees and also found connivance of the sanitation wing of the Sonepat MC with Rajkumar, owner of Pooja Consulation company, in the bills between January and March 2020.The ADGP (Crime) sent a letter to the Sonepat SP in which he recommended registering of a case against the MC Executive Officer, Rajkumar, owner of the company, and the employees of the sanitation wing of the MC.Inspector Savit Kumar, SHO, Civil Lines, said a case had been registered against Rajkumar, owner of Pooja Consulations company, employees of the sanitation wing of MC and the Executive Officer of the Sonepat MC under Sections 409, 419, 420,467, 468, 201, 202, 175, 193 and 120 B of the IPC on the recommendations of the ADGP (Crime) on Wednesday. A probe will be initiated into the matter after collecting proper records related to the matter, the SHO maintained.“The matter came to my knowledge through the media today. No official information has been received into the matter so far from the police,” says Dharmender Singh, Commissioner, MC, Sonepat. Appropriate action will be initiated after taking directions from the headquarters, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/service-charge-scam-comes-to-fore-in-sonepat-mc-case-filed-368822
11-02-2022||---||HSVP to auction 23 commercial, residential properties in Karnal||Karnal, February 10The Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) will hold an e-auction of commercial and residential properties in the city. As many as 23 properties including, 11 residential and 12 commercial properties, have been put on e-auction. These properties are being auctioned for the first time by the HSVP and the auctioning process will be held on February 16.“After conducting a survey, we prepared a list of properties, which was sent to the administrator of the HSVP for approval. After the approval from the e-auction cell of the HSVP, we started the process of e-auctioning ,” said Sumit Sihag, Estate Officer, HSVP.Base prices of each property have been fixed by the e-auction cell.The bidders have to deposit 5 per cent as earnest money to participate in the auctioning process, the Estate Officer said. In the last auction that was held on January 30, the HSVP received good response from the buyers, he claimed. The residential properties to be auctioned include five sites in Sector 4, two in Sector 5, two in Sector 6, one in Sector 12, and one in Sector 32P. Similarly, 10 properties of the booth category with storage on the first floor and basement is to be auctioned in Sector 5 and two properties of the booth category without basement have been put up for auction in Sector 9 of the city, said Sihag. Besides, the HSVP has started the process of conducting a survey for identifying unallotted plots and unplanned pockets, so that they can also be put for auction in the near future. “We are going to conduct a sector-wise detailed survey to identify the unallotted properties and unplanned pockets in the HSVP ”, said the Estate Officer. #hsvp||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsvp-to-auction-23-commercial-residential-properties-in-karnal-368823
11-02-2022||---||Kurukshetra University begins recruitment for vacant teaching posts||Kurukshetra, February 10Eyeing to improve its National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grading, which due this year, Kurukshetra University has started the process to fill the vacant posts of teaching faculty.Currently, the university has A-plus grade and recently advertised for 77 posts of Assistant Professors (budgeted) in various subjects and five posts of Assistant Professors (self-financed scheme).Some posts were advertised in 2019 as well, but due to administrative reasons, the process was not completed.An official said shortage of staff had been affecting research work in the university. To improve the NAAC grading, the university has started motivating teachers for research work, for which research awards were also announced recently. The university will soon announce the names of the recipients of research projects carrying seed money up to Rs 2 lakh. “Recruitment process has been started. In the first drive, Assistant Professors are being recruited and the process for Associate Professor and professors will be initiated later,” the official added. #kurukshetra university||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-begins-recruitment-for-vacant-teaching-posts-368824
11-02-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Gym equipment lying defunct in Yamunanagar, Jagadhri||Yamunanagar, February 10Open air gyms are becoming a big hit in the twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri, but the Municipal Corporation authorities have failed to maintain the gym equipment in the parks.In some of the open air gyms, the equipment have been damaged and gym lovers cannot use them as they don’t function properly.Visitors said there was a need to get the damaged equipment repaired on a priority basis.According to information, the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, installed open air gyms in 25 parks of the twin cities in 2019-20. These open air gyms have become a hit among the residents.“These open air gyms are free of cost and any person can use them. The best thing is that there is no time restrictions. I come here during the day when I have time,” said Gulshan Kumar, a resident of Professor Colony, who comes to Nehru Park to exercise at the open air gym.He said some of the equipment were damaged here and they did not working properly, therefore, the authorities of the MCYJ should repair these immediately. Chetan, who uses the open air gym installed near the temple of Irrigation Colony in Jagadhri said it was a good initiative of the MCYJ as these gyms were helping people to lead a healthier lifestyle.“The MCYJ should offer some sort of training to first timers, so that they can exercise properly without causing harm to their health,” added Chetan. A senior citizen, Amar Nath, said for senior citizens, these open air gyms had helped in increasing their physical outdoor activities. Madan Chauhan, Mayor, said they had started open air gym in the parks of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri in 2019-20. “Open air gyms are receiving tremendous response from the public. Now, we are looking open it in other parks too. As many as 10 fitness equipment will come installed in 25 more open air gyms ,” said Madan Chauhan. He said the MCYJ authorities had prepared an estimate of Rs 98,99,550 to open 25 more open air gyms.He further said tenders had been called and work on installation would start soon. “We have received some complaints regarding the damage of some equipment in the open air gyms. These will be repaired soon,” said Madan Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gym-equipment-lying-defunct-368825
11-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC grants bail to 'child in conflict' with law||Chandigarh, February 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted bail to a child in conflict with law — in custody since November 2020 — after asserting that the Kaithal Sessions Judge’s observation on the absence of indication regarding the petitioner’s innocence ran contrary to the principle enshrined in the statute.Presumption of innocenceThere is no material to show the release of the child in conflict with law is likely to bring him into association with criminals or expose him to moral, physical and psychological danger. — Justice Vinod S BhardwajReferring to the general principles required to be followed in such matters, Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj asserted it showed there was a presumption of innocence under the statute. “The observation recorded by the Sessions Judge, Kaithal, in his order that prima facie there is no indication of any innocence on the part of the petitioner, thus, runs contrary to the principle enshrined in the statute.” The matter was placed before Justice Bhardwaj after the child filed a petition against order dated December 21, 2020, passed by the Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Kaithal, declining his plea. Another order dated January 13 passed by the Kaithal Sessions Judge in appeal was also challenged.Justice Bhardwaj asserted the FIR’s perusal showed it was alleged that a person brandishing a pistol took away a mobile. The prosecution did not dispute that the pistol was recovered from a co-accused. As such, the allegations, prima facie, suggested that the mobile handset in question was snatched by the co-accused. Besides this, the state counsel on the basis of investigation had not been able to reflect upon evidence to establish that a mobile handset allegedly recovered from the petitioner happened to be the one snatched from the complainant.Justice Bhardwaj added the reasons cited for the rejection of the bail did not find support from the statute and the precedent judgments. The bail had been held to be a matter of rule and rejection had to be for reasons in conformity with the statute.Justice Bhardwaj added: “Per contra, Assistant Public Prosecutor, rather, acknowledged that there is no material to show that the release of the child in conflict with law is likely to bring him into association with any known criminals or expose him to moral, physical and psychological danger.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-grants-bail-to-child-in-conflict-with-law-368827
11-02-2022||---||Six IAS, two HCS officers transferred in Haryana||Chandigarh, February 10The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of six IAS and two HCS officers with immediate effect.Amneet P Kumar, Managing Director, Haryana Scheduled Castes, Finance and Development Corporation, and Director General, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, has been given the additional charge of Chief Executive, Haryana Khadi and Village Industries Board.Wazeer Singh Goyat, Director General, Higher Education, and Secretary, Haryana Human Rights Commission, has been posted as Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, Haryana; Managing Director, Haryana Land Reclamation and Development Corporation Limited; and Secretary, Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC).Rajiv Rattan, Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, and Managing Director, Haryana Land Reclamation and Development Corporation Limited, has been posted as Director, Higher Education, Haryana.Manoj Kumar-I, Director, Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Haryana, is back as Rohtak Deputy Commissioner. Shakti Singh, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner (DC), has been posted as Jhajjar DC.Virender Kumar Dahiya, Jhajjar DC, has been posted as Director, Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare.Vivek Kalia, Additional Director (Administration), Secondary Education, has been posted as Additional Director (Administration), Secondary Education and Secretary, Commission of Enquiry, headed by Justice (Retd) SN Jha at Gurugram.Vinesh Kumar, Joint Commissioner, Panchkula Municipal Corporation has been posted as Joint Director (Administration), AYUSH.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-ias-two-hcs-officers-transferred-368828
11-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Job seekers being driven to unnecessary litigation: Punjab and Haryana HC||Chandigarh, February 10Young and unemployed job aspirants are being driven to unnecessary litigation even before earning their first salary, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today asserted while seeking personal presence of Haryana Chief Secretary and Haryana Staff Selection Commission Chairman.Three cases in court’s knowledgeJustice Monga asserted three cases of different departments had come to the court’s knowledge where the candidates applied for jobs in the reserved category, but secured more marks than the last selected candidate in the general/open category. Yet, they were neither given the benefit of selection in the general, nor the reserved category.The direction came after the High Court took note of the fact that candidates higher on merit were not being considered in the general category, though they had initially applied for jobs in the reserved category.The High Court asserted the young and unemployed job aspirants could ill-afford to bear the cost of such needless litigation. Justice Arun Monga also asked the Chief Secretary, the Commission Chairman and Secretary to the Government, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department, to explain why officials concerned were not being sensitised and made aware that any candidate obtaining more marks than the last candidate in the general/open category was to be mandatorily considered in the general category, regardless of opting for the reserved category in the application. They were further asked to explain why costs should not be imposed on the officers responsible, to be paid/ recovered from their salaries.Taking up petitions filed against the state of Haryana and other respondents by Ronak Dahiya and other petitioners, Justice Monga asked them to “personally join” the court proceedings through videoconferencing on the next date of hearing, after adding that the court was constrained to seek their personal presence.Justice Monga asserted three cases of different departments had come to the court’s knowledge since morning where the candidates applied for jobs in the reserved category, but secured more marks than the last selected candidate in the general/open category. Yet, they were neither given the benefit of selection in the general, nor the reserved category.Justice Monga observed the ostensible defence was that they were not eligible for the reserved category. But their candidatures were not even considered in the general/ open category even though they had concededly obtained more marks than the last selected candidate in the general/open category.Before parting with the case, Justice Monga added the possibility of such cases could not be ruled out in the matter of selection in the other departments of the state as well. #HSSC #Unemployment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/job-seekers-being-driven-to-unnecessary-litigation-hc-368830
11-02-2022||---||Explore quality education at low cost, says Haryana CM Khattar||Chandigarh, February 10Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates (CMGGA) should explore options of providing quality education to children at low cost. This would help take education to the grassroots level, he said.The CM invited suggestions for providing better infrastructure in schools. Khattar was reviewing the welfare schemes being run in the state, along with senior officers of various departments and the CMGGA, here today.He directed the officers of the Education Department to issue a notification regarding fixing of seats and fee for the students, apart from arranging adequate teachers for the primary and senior secondary Model Sanskriti Schools.The Chief Minister said special attention had been given to essential facilities in 4,000 playschools to be opened in the state. Anganwadi workers had been trained to run playschools.Under the Meri Fasal Mera Byora scheme, registration facility should be made available free of cost at 114 offices of the Marketing Board as well as 142 offices at the block level, he said. — TNS #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/explore-quality-edu-at-low-cost-says-cm-368831
11-02-2022||Parveen Arora||RPO writes to DGPs of Haryana, Punjab over fake passport cases||Karnal, February 10After surfacing of flaws in the police verification that led to making of passports on fake documents across the region, the Regional Passport Officer (RPO), Chandigarh, has written to the DGPs in Haryana, Punjab and UT for the implementation of complete police verification process of the applicant.Visit residence of applicantsThe police official has to verify the address and documents by visiting the house of the applicant and inquire from the neighbours. I have written to DGPs for the implementation of the complete verification to check malpractice. Sibash Kabiraj, Regional passport officer, chandigarhThe RPO said ensuring proper procedure would help in tightening the noose around fraudsters.As many as 200 passports, which were made with the help of fake documents such as address proof, qualification certificate and others, have been detected in the region. Of them, 160 were from Punjab and 40 from Haryana.In the past week, 21 cases of passports made on fake documents have been detected in Karnal. Earlier, some cases also surfaced in Fatehabad and Ambala, the police said.The RPO has suggested that during the police verification, the official must visit the residence of the applicant and inquire from neighbours as well whether the applicant was a resident of the area or not.As per the sources in the Police Department, at present, in majority of cases, instead of going to the residence of the applicant, the police called the applicant along with two witnesses to the police station for completing the verification process.“The police official has to verify the address and documents by visiting the house of the applicant and inquire from the neighbours. I have written to Haryana, Punjab and UT DGPs for the implementation of the complete police verification to check malpractice,” said Sibash Kabiraj, 1999 batch Haryana cadre IPS officer posted as RPO at Chandigarh.He also suggested the use of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) to check the crime record of applicant instead of checking it manually only at one police station.“The crime record of the applicant has to be checked with the help of CCTNS. Presently, the police are verifying the record only at the local police station. The CCTNS verification will verify whether the applicant has any criminal record across country. It will help us to determine the complete criminal history of the applicant,” Kabiraj added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rpo-writes-to-dgps-of-haryana-punjab-over-fake-passport-cases-368833
11-02-2022||---||Bhupinder Hooda calls Bill on conversion 'jumla'||Chandigarh, February 10Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today described the Haryana Government’s Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion Bill as a political ‘jumla’.‘Convict has right of furlough’Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on the release of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on furlough, said, “He is a convict. He has a right of furlough.”He said there was no case in the state that necessitated bringing the Bill.The Bill will be introduced in the upcoming Budget session, starting from March 2.“The Congress will expose the BJP-JJP government in the coming Assembly session as party MLAs will highlight the problems of the people in the state,” said Hooda.He said the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) had discussed issues such as unemployment, crop damage compensation, water logging, pension deduction of the elderly, increasing crime, illegal mining, scams, inflation, education and health.He said the BJP-JJP government had buried the state under a debt of Rs 2.5 lakh crore. “The government treasury is getting emptied. The scams related to mining, liquor, registry, paddy and electricity meters have put the government revenue into the pockets of scamsters,” he said.The Leader of Opposition claimed the government was cutting the pension of the elderly. “They promised a monthly pension of Rs 5,100, but the ruling coalition is deducting the pension of the elderly on the basis of the family identity card,” he said.On unemployment, Hooda said the government was trying to hide its failures by harping on the 75 per cent reservation law. “The provision of reservation for state’s youth was added under the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation’s plot allotments during the Congress government in 2011 itself. #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-calls-bill-on-conversion-jumla-368834
11-02-2022||Chandigarh||Double whammy for Haryana farmers, says Randeep Surjewala; seeks relief||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala today demanded an immediate special girdawari of crops damaged due to unseasonal rain and hailstorm in Haryana. He also sought compensation at the rate of Rs 30,000 per acre to the affected farmers.In a press statement, Surjewala said wheat, potato, mustard, vegetables and other crops had been severely damaged due to rain and hailstorm in Ambala and Yamunanagar districts, and the adjoining areas. Many months of hard work of farmers had been washed away, he said.Surjewala said farmers, who were facing the double whammy of inflation and wrong policies, had reached the verge of ruin. — #randeep surjewala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/double-whammy-for-farmers-says-surjewala-seeks-relief-368835
11-02-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Middlemen, impersonators played key role in HSSC recruitment exams||Chandigarh, February 8With eight FIRs, 150 accused and 38 arrests so far, investigations into the recruitment of constables and assistant linemen in the state have revealed how local-level middlemen arranged “bright” people for taking the written exam.Money in lakhs changed handsUnemployed Manik with BTech degree, a resident of Meham, allegedly admitted to having sat for the written exam for constables for three candidates. He was nabbed from Panchkula with Aadhaar cards of two candidates. He had charged Rs8-10 lakh each for a candidate. — Vijay Kumar, ACPThe latter had taken some exam or have had coaching or had cracked government recruitment exams for clerks, junior engineers etc recently.On December 20, 2021, the physical test for the recruitment of constables in the Haryana Police was held in Sector 3, Panchkula. The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) employees detected that Hisar resident Sandeep Kumar had come to appear for Vinod Kumar, a resident of Jind, and reported it to the police personnel deputed at the spot. He was caught as his fingerprints didn’t match with those taken at the time of the written exam.An FIR was registered on December 26, 2021, and Aadhaar card, roll number slip, chest number and two watch chips of Vinod Kumar were recovered from Sandeep Kumar after his arrest.During investigation, the HSSC provided a list of 36 persons who allegedly used impersonators.As similar fraud of impersonation was detected in assistant linemen recruitment, it was also handed over to the same special investigation team (SIT) probing the constables’ recruitment. Six FIRs were of constables’ recruitment and two were related to assistant linemen jobs. The accused included six women candidates as well.“The candidates and impersonators in the case of constables were caught as fingerprints collected at the time of the written exam and physical tests, including physical screening test and physical measurement test, varied,” said HSSC Chairman Bhopal Singh.“Some government servants could be involved in taking the written exams as per disclosures of accused but it yet to be verified,” said ACP Vijay Kumar, who heads SIT.The money charged ranged from Rs 8-10 lakh and even Rs 15 lakh, depending on the paying capacity of the candidates. Pictures on admit cards and Aadhaar cards were changed and photographers are under scanner too.More than 6,000 constables were to be recruited. #HSSC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/middlemen-impersonators-played-key-role-in-hssc-recruitment-exams-368836
11-02-2022||Gurugram||House help, accomplices rob family in Gurugram||A house help sedated a woman and her daughters and got their house robbed by letting in four men and holding them hostage in the Sector 10 A area. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 10 A police station. The police have begun the investigation but have no clue so far.According to the complaint filed by Sumita, a resident of Sector 10 A, their maid, Aarti, was working at their house since past some months. She usually came to work in the morning but on Tuesday she came in at around 5 pm.“I asked her for juice and she served me and my daughters juice laced with sedatives and soon after consuming, we fainted. In the meantime, Aarti called four men inside the house who held us hostage as we were in a semi-conscious state and threatened to kill us. One of them tried to strangle me and asked me to handover all valuables to them. They robbed our jewellery, watches, Rs 50,000 cash and two mobile phones. It was when I became conscious the next morning that I raised the alarm. My tenant, Vishal, rushed us to the hospital”, Sumita told the police. Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the maid and others under Sections 328 (causing hurt by mean of poison), 381 (theft by servant), 341 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC at the Sector 10 A police station. Inspector Naveen Kumar, SHO of the Sector 10 A police station, said the police were conducting raids to nab the accused. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/house-help-accomplices-rob-family-in-gurugram-368838
11-02-2022||Panipat||Panipat: Cop booked for rape, had promised to marry woman||The police have booked a head constable for allegedly raping a woman on the pretext of marriage.The woman, in her complaint, alleged she was living with her 10-year-old son, and got in touch with head constable Sandeep nine months ago. Sandeep started calling her and promised to marry her. She alleged she got pregnant, but later, Sandeep refused to marry her. He even forced her for abortion, and along with his brother, assaulted her, and threatened to kill her and her son, she alleged. Following her complaint, the police have registered a case against the head constable.Meanwhile, in Hisar,the police have registered a zero FIR against a man on the charge of raping a woman for nearly two years on the pretext of marriage. The complaint belongs to Chandigarh. The victim lodged the complaint against Sunil, a resident of Daulatpur village of Hisar.She alleged she used to work at a bank in Chandigarh. A man, identified as Deepak, came to the bank for an interview, and later, she became friends with his friend Sunil.On February 9, Sunil refused to marry her and switched off his phone, she alleged. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-booked-for-rape-had-promised-to-marry-woman-368839
11-02-2022||Rohtak||Haryana: Agriculture officer booked for blackmail||An officer of the Agriculture Department, who had lodged a complaint with Home Minister Anil Vij alleging that his acquaintance was kept in illegal custody by the police at Rohtak, has been booked on the charge of blackmailing a police official.The police have arrested one Vinay, allegedly while accepting an amount of Rs 10 lakh from ASI Pawanveer, in charge of Gaukaran police post, who has accused Agriculture Development Officer (ADO) Sukhbir of blackmail.While the police claim that Vinay is an accomplice of Sukhbir, the ADO has lodged a fresh complaint with Vij, maintaining that he was being framed for lodging a complaint against the police.“Sukhbir had sought Rs 25 lakh from ASI Pawanveer. The ASI told district authorities of the matter and agreed to give Rs 15 lakh to trap the blackmailers. Vinay was arrested red-handed while accepting Rs 10 lakh on behalf of Sukhbir,” said DSP (City) Dr Ravinder Kumar. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agri-officer-booked-for-blackmail-368840
11-02-2022||---||Car falls into canal in Panipat, 3 killed||Panipat, February 10Three persons were killed after a car fell into a canal, near Burshyam village in the district, on Wednesday night. Four persons were travelling in the car. They were taken to a private hospital in Sewah village, where the doctors declared three of them dead.The deceased have been identified as Vineet (21) of Safidon in Jind district, Pawan (24) of Dhanda Khurd village in Hansi of Hisar, Dushal of Panchkula. The injured person has been identified as Amit of Namunda village in Samalkha.All four worked at a private company on contract. They were returning after attending a wedding in Vazirpur Titana village of Samalkha on Wednesday night. Amit was driving the car. When they reached near Burshyam village, the driver lost control over the vehicle after the light from another flashed on his face. The car fell into a canal.Amit managed to escape, and informed the passers-by. The SHO said the bodies of the deceased had been handed over to their kin after the post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/car-falls-into-canal-3-killed-368841
11-02-2022||Karnal||Special NSS camp concludes||Annual prize distribution functionAmbala: The annual prize distribution function was organised by Dev Samaj College for Girls, Ambala city (Lahore). Former principal of SA Jain College, Ambala, Dr Pradeep Sharma 'Snehi' was the chief guest of the function. College principal Anita Sharma elaborated on the glorious history of the college and achievements of students. Dr Snehi urged the students to remain good human beings and achieve higher goals with consistent efforts.NSS role in personality developmentBhiwani: The National Service Scheme plays an important role in the personality development of volunteers. The NSS volunteers are the true watchdogs of social development of a nation. This was stated by Vaish Mahavidyalaya principal Dr Sanjay Goyal while addressing the volunteers on the second day of the seven-day camp of NSS volunteers running at Vaish College, Bhiwani. He said all students who joined the NSS during their student days understand the social meaning of life.‘Udaan 2022’ programmeYamunanagar: 'Udaan 2022' programme was organised by the self-finance department of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar. Various clubs arranged a chain of events. Cooking competition by the think tank club, kite-making competition by crazy artsy, kite flying and rangoli competition by fit and fine club were organised. Dr Neeti Daryal, head of the department, self-finance department, said the purpose of these competitions was to provide a platform for creative skill of students. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college,congratulated the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-nss-camp-concludes-368842
11-02-2022||The accompanying photograph captured on the main road connecting Sector 4 with Sector 21 and the Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex (adjacent to Baltana-K-area- Shimla flyover) in Panchkula||Potholed road a bane of commuters in Panchkula||Illegal constructions galore in Karnal colonyThe Old Housing Board Colony in Sector13, UE, Karnal, was a well-planned residential complex and built up houses were provided to allottees during 1973-74. The allottees were required to ensure that no alterations are made without a prior approval. With the passage of time, this colony is now getting converted into a slum area due to illegal construction, conversion and large-scale encroachments for commercial use. Many small eateries and dhabas have come up. The local administration should step in and check the illegal constructions. KL Chawla, KarnalUnfair calculation of property taxInstead of computing the property tax separately for the vacant portion of the houses and the covered area of each floor of the houses, the municipal corporations are computing the property tax according to the total size of the plots of houses and the same size on each floor. This is completely unfair. The computation of property tax in this manner is neither valid nor justified. The Haryana Government should stop the calculation of property tax in this way with immediate effect for the welfare of the people of the state.Shakti Singh, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholed-road-a-bane-of-commuters-in-panchkula-368843
11-02-2022||Gurugram||2 kiled as roof of Gurugram high-rise caves in||Two people were killed as a portion of the roof starting from the sixth floor to first floor collapsed in Chintal Paradiso High Rise Society, Sector 109, Gurugram, on Thursday.Gurugram administration confirmed the death of two women. The body of one woman was recovered on Thursday night. The second was spotted on Friday and efforts are on to pull the body out. The body of one Ekta Bhardwaj was recovered while one Arun Shrivastav was rescued from the second floor on Thursday.DC Nishant Yadav has ordered an inquiry.The accident happened when renovation work was going on in a sixth floor flat in D block of the society. A room on that floor was being renovated.Though the majority of flats were empty, there were some people on the premises. They are feared buried in the debris. One of the trapped residents is believed to be an employee of PMO who had reached home with his family from the airport minutes before the accident.Residents have accused the builders of negligence but the builders — in their official statement — have held the renovation contractor responsible.Teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) carried out rescue work as people from neighbouring apartment blocks gathered outside the complex. Earth-moving machines and a fire brigade vehicle with an elevated platform were deployed.Yadav said a detailed inquiry would be ordered into the incident by the administration on Friday morning and action would be taken against those responsible if any lapses are found.Earlier, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar tweeted about the incident, saying rescue operations were on. “I am personally monitoring the situation and I pray for everyone's safety," he said. With inputs from PTI #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/roof-of-gurugram-high-rise-caves-in-2-feared-dead-368772
