12-02-2022||Gurugram||Debris tumbles down amid rescue efforts in partially collapsed Gurugram building; residents panic||Panic gripped residents of the partially collapsed apartment building in Gurugram on Saturday as debris came tumbling down amid efforts to retrieve the body of a woman stuck under it for over 40 hours now.It soon gave way to anger as the residents locked the gates of the society and staged protests, demanding a CBI inquiry into the incident.Rescuers are carefully navigating their way through the rubble to avoid damaging key supporting pillars of the 18-floor apartment block, officials said, as anxious family members and residents of Chintels Paradiso in Gurugram’s sector 109 counted the hours since Thursday evening when the dining room floor of a sixth-floor apartment came down, killing two women.While Ekta Bhardwaj died on Thursday, Sunita Shrivastava’s body has been stuck under the debris for over 40 hours – and counting.“Damage to any of the pillars could lead to the tower collapsing. Therefore, work of cutting and removing debris is being done carefully,” a senior official said.Teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are carrying out the rescue work.Sunita Srivastava’s husband A K Shrivastava, an IRS officer and managing director with the Central Warehousing Corporation, suffered critical injuries and could be rescued from the debris only after 16 hours of efforts by the NDRF team on Friday.The police have lodged an FIR at Bajghera police station against the managing director of realty firm Chintels India on charges of causing death due to negligence, Gurugram Deputy Commissioner of Police Deepak Saharan said.The Gurugram district administration also instituted a probe into the collapse of roofs of the drawing rooms of flats one below another.With tempers running high, Gurugram MP and Union Minister Rao Inderjeet Singh, who was scheduled to visit Chintel Paradiso on Saturday, cancelled his visit. A spokesperson of the minister said they were advised by administration officials against the visit.“We were about to reach when we got calls from officials that the matter was being politicised and my visit to the society was not safe, and so, I aborted the visit,” Singh said in a statement.The protesting residents said when they heard the crash of the debris tumbling down, they thought another floor had collapsed.“We, the residents, want strict action and justice which is possible only when an independent agency like the CBI investigates the case. It is shocking that the police, in its FIR, is dealing with it as just an accident while it was a murder in waiting,” said Rakesh Kumar, one of the residents.District Town Planner R S Bhatt visited the spot and promised action against any erring officials. He said a plan is under way to ensure that no such incident occurs in the future.Congress leader Ajay Yadav met with the residents and promised his support to their cause.Chintels India Managing Director Prashant Solomon had said in a tweet, “This is an extremely unfortunate incident and we have taken it very seriously as the safety of our residents is our utmost concern. Upon preliminary investigations, we have come to know that the mishap occurred during renovation work by a contractor being carried out by a resident in his apartment.”      According to him, the company had conducted a structural audit last year in the wake of complaints regarding the project.“We will be initiating a second structural audit at the earliest. In case any defects are found in the structure, we will duly compensate affected buyers or accommodate affected residents in alternate arrangements while necessary repair work is completed,” Solomon said.He also said the company is fully cooperating with the authorities and ensuring all support.Meanwhile, 34 families of the affected tower are lodging with society mates, friends and relatives as the flats become non-liveable. #gurugram building||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/efforts-on-to-retrieve-womans-body-from-under-debris-of-partially-collapsed-gurugram-building-369260
12-02-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Faridabad road in pathetic condition||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Faridabad road in pathetic conditionA road in the residential area of Sainik Colony, Sector 49, Ward 16 under the MSF, Faridabad, is in a pathetic condition. The completion target date for the RMC road construction project was September 16, 2020, but it still remains incomplete with poor execution of work by the department concerned, leading to inconvenience of residents. Tarun Chopra, Faridabad2 yrs on, No headway in railway lines projectThe new railway lines from Karnal to Yamunanagar was announced by the Haryana Government in 2020 and it was also declared that The Railways had sanctioned this project and was likely to be completed within 4 years. Almost 2 years have gone by and there is no likelihood of any further progress as The Railways has not yet given its formal approval in the Budget 2022-23. Now it is ample clear that this railway project has now been put in the cold storage. Suresh Dhiman, Jagadhri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-road-in-pathetic-condition-369181
12-02-2022||Karnal||International Day of Women in science||Campaign on drug de-addictionYamunanagar: The Red Ribbon Club of MLN College, Radaur, organised a public awareness campaign on 'drug de-addiction'. In the programme, Sheetal Sharma, lecturer-in-Hindi of Government School, Radaur, who is also a well-known social reformer as well as the brand ambassador of drug de-addiction campaign, Radaur, was the keynote speaker.Hand gesture-controlled wheelchairFaridabad: A team of students of the mechanical engineering department of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, claimed to have developed a hand gesture-controlled wheelchair for the physically challenged people who face difficulty in moving from one place to another in daily life. With this type of wheelchair, the physically challenged people can move easily by guiding the wheelchair with their hands, it is stated. Sandhya Yadav, a final year student of the department, said while a joystick-controlled wheelchair in the market costs between Rs 80,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh, this wheelchair will cost under Rs 50,000. The prototype of the wheelchair was demonstrated by the team before the senior faculty members of mechanical engineering.National conference on biz & mgmtHisar: A two-day annual national conference on the topic of "Business and management" was inaugurated by Haryana School of Business (HSB) of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology in Hisar. Prof RA Yadav, former chairman, AICTE, New Delhi, was the chief guest of the inaugural function. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor of the university presided over the inaugural ceremony of the conference. Prof Avnesh Verma, Registrar of the university said the management education was the key to realise the startup and Digital India dream. #dyal singh college karnal #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/international-day-of-women-in-science-369178
12-02-2022||---||FIR against Haryana IPS officer's wife||Panchkula, February 11The police have filed an FIR against the wife of IPS officer Rajesh Kalia, posted at the Haryana Police Headquarters, on a complaint of a 22-year-old domestic help who alleged that she was tortured and forced to stay in confinement by the suspect at the couple’s residence here.The FIR has been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 374 (unlawful compulsory labour), 379 (theft) and section 16 of the Bonded Labour System Act at the Sector 7 police station against the IPS officer’s wife Manisha.The Delhi Police, which registered the zero FIR in this regard on February 8, had transferred the case to the Panchkula police for investigation.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa had yesterday denied they had received a formal complaint from the Delhi Police.According to the FIR, the complainant was hired by the suspect in March 2021 through a woman known to her mother for Rs20,000 per month.“In the initial month, they treated me well but started beating me thereafter. I was not allowed to talk to my parents. Around a week ago, they assaulted me mercilessly and took away my mobile phone. I was then locked in a room. On February 5 (Saturday), my employer, along with her servant, threw me out of the house. My phone is in their possession. Some uncle called my father, who then took me to Delhi,” the FIR reads, quoting the complainant.The complainant’s family, hailing from Assam, lives in rented accommodation in Fatehpur Beri of Delhi.Inspector Mahabir Singh, Sector 7 SHO, said the police had begun investigation into the matter after registering the case. #haryana ips||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fir-against-ips-officers-wife-369123
12-02-2022||---||Kurukshetra University signs sports pact with Aligarh Muslim University||Kurukshetra, February 11An Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the department of physical education of Kurukshetra University and the department of physical education of Aligarh Muslim University was signed on Friday. Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Professor Som Nath Sachdeva said this MoU would prove to be a milestone in the field of education and sports for both universities.He further said the MoUs with educational institutions in the fields of education, sports and science was the need of the hour. Through this MoU, exchange of faculty, guest lecture programme, presentation and execution of collaborative research and research projects, intellectual ideas, and technical assistance in various areas of development of physical education and sports science, high-performance training will be shared.On behalf of the KU, Registrar Dr Sanjeev Sharma and head of physical education department Prof Arvind Malik signed this MoU. On behalf of Aligarh Muslim University, Registrar Abdul Hamid and head of department of physical education, Prof Zameer Ullah Khan signed the MoU. #aligarh muslim university #kurukshetra university||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-signs-sports-pact-with-aligarh-muslim-university-369173
12-02-2022||Faridabad||Sex  racket  busted, 34  arrested in Faridabad||Busting a sex racket, the police have arrested 34 persons from a hotel near Badkhal Chowk here. A case under Immoral Trafficking Act has been registered.ACP Sandeep Mor said, a raid — after a tip-off — was carried out at the hotel located near Badkhal Chowk on the national highway last night by a police team which managed to arrest the owner of the hotel, 17 male customers and 14 girls from the spot. All of them have been found involved in prostitution, it is claimed. The accused include one Narender, a resident of Dabua colony and owner of the hotel, and one Sandeep alias Monu, who is working as an agent for the hotel. Monu, who had been a taxi driver, used to bring 10 to 15 girls daily, mostly hailing from Bihar. The accused were remanded to judicial custody by the court today, the police said.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sex-racket-busted-34-arrested-in-faridabad-369172
12-02-2022||---||Two vehicle thieves nabbed in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, February 11A team of the anti-vehicle theft cell of the Yamunanagar police has arrested two persons and recovered four stolen vehicles from their possession.The accused have been identified as Rafakat, alias Kazi, of Old Hamida Colony and Tahir of Joginder Nagar of Yamunanagar.On Wednesday, the accused were produced before a court in Jagadhri and sent to judicial custody.Chamkaur Singh, police spokesman, Yamunanagar district, said on a tip-off, a team of the anti-vehicle theft cell arrested Rafakat and Tahir from near Kalanaur village on the Haryana-UP border.He said the accused were going to UP on a stolen bike to sell it there.Ramesh Rana, incharge, anti-vehicle theft cell, said during interrogation, the accused confessed to stealing four vehicles, including three bikes and an Activa, in the district in January and February this year.“All four vehicles have been recovered,” Rana further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-vehicle-thieves-nabbed-in-yamunanagar-369170
12-02-2022||---||Yamunanagar cops arrest 81 persons for gambling||Yamunanagar, February 11Cracking the whip on violators of law, the district police have arrested 112 persons in different cases under the Gambling Act, Arms Act and NDPS Act in January 2022.“The different teams of Yamunanagar district police have arrested 81 persons under the Gambling Act, 14 under the Arms Act and 17 under the NDPS Act in January 2022,” said Kamaldeep Goyal, Superintendent of Police, Yamunanagar.According to information, the police teams had arrested 17 persons registering 15 cases under the NDPS Act and recovered 148 grams opium, 240 grams smack and 520 tablets and 1,456 capsules of intoxicants from their possession.The police teams also recovered 14 country made illegal pistols (desi katta) and 15 live cartridges from the possession of 14 persons arrested under the Arms Act.The police registered 73 cases under the Gambling Act and arrested 81 persons in this connection. The police also recovered Rs 1.26 lakh cash from the possession of the gamblers.“Our drive against gamblers, occupants of illegal weapons and violators of NDPS Act will continue further too,” said SP Kamaldeep Goyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-cops-arrest-81-persons-for-gambling-369168
12-02-2022||Hisar||Sacked, college extension lecturers hold dharna in Hisar||About 112 extension lecturers of Chhaju Ram Memorial Jat College have been on the agitational path after their services were terminated by the college authorities.The lecturers were working on contract basis for a long time. The lecturers said they used to get extensions every year without any hassle. “But the college authorities did not let them take classes and were not allowed to mark their attendance in the attendance register last week”, they said, adding that they had started dharna in the college. After the college authorities removed them from inside the college campus. College principal Neelam Lamba said the atmosphere of the college was getting spoiled due to the dharna and they did not have requisite permission for staging dharna inside the college. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sacked-college-extension-lecturers-hold-dharna-in-hisar-369167
12-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Man booked for rape in Yamunanagar||A case was registered against a man, identified as Pawan Sharma, for allegedly raping a woman on the pretext of marriage. The woman became acquainted to Pawan through a marriage bureau.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-rape-in-yamunanagar-369164
12-02-2022||---||Ex-IAS officer GL Bailur passes away in London||Chandigarh, February 11Haryana cadre 1958-batch IAS officer, GL Bailur, passed away in London at the age of 86 years on February 9. He is survived by his wife and three children. He worked with the Commonwealth Secretariat in London.Recalling his association with Bailur, former J&K Governor, NN Vohra, said: “I am deeply saddened to hear about Bailur’s sudden passing away. Our relations go back to over 60 years ago when he and I joined as Sub-Divisional Magistrates in the erstwhile district Kangra of pre-bifurcated Panjab on the same day in May 1961. He was an extremely competent, devoted, humble, caring and a thorough-bred gentleman whose going away shall be missed by one and all. May the departed soul rest in eternal peace and the Lord give Jayanti the strength to bear this irreparable loss.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-ias-officer-passes-away-369162
12-02-2022||Hisar||Man charred to death in road mishap||A man was burnt to death when his car caught fire after a road mishap near Naya Gaon village in Hisar on Thursday night.The victim is Bhim Singh. His wife and kids were also inside the car. At around midnight, Bhim lost balance and the car rammed into a tree.The car caught fire. His wife and kids managed to escape mishap, but Bhim got stuck. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-charred-to-death-in-road-mishap-369161
12-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Man duped of Rs 7 lakh, bizmen booked||The police have registered a case of cheating against two persons after a man alleged he was duped of Rs 7.71 lakh by sending a defective machine for his factory.On the complaint of Pankaj Malhotra of Yamunanagar, a case was registered against Sarika Pandey and Vivek Pandey, proprietor and partner of a Noida-based firm.The complainant said he gave an order to the firm for supplying a roasting machine on August 18, 2021. The machine was to be supplied to them for Rs 6,75,000, excluding GST, which was also to be paid by the complainant. He said the machine was delivered on October 22, 2021 after a delay of more than one month. “We paid the entire amount including GST. Only Rs 20,000 were due, which were to be paid after the installation,” he said.The suspects did not send their engineer to instal the machine. Pankaj hired another engineer, but the machine did not run. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-duped-of-rs-7-lakh-bizmen-booked-369159
12-02-2022||---||Interstate gang member held||Chandigarh February 11The Haryana Police have arrested a member of an interstate gang involved in 30 mobile showroom burglaries in Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. He was arrested from Nuh district. The accused has been identified as Tareef, a resident of Bawla, Nuh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interstate-gang-member-held-369154
12-02-2022||Faridabad||No medical officer at Faridabad blood bank||The office of the State Drug Controller, Haryana, has issued a show-cause notice to a private hospital here for alleged violations in the operation of its blood bank. The move came after an inquiry was conducted by the District Drug Control Department in December last year.“A show cause notice has been issued under Section 122 (O) of the 1945 rules of the Drug and Cosmetics Act – 1940. It may lead to suspension or termination of the licence if no response is given within 21 days,” read the notice in the letter issued by the department to the Metro Hospital on January 28.A complaint was lodged by Tarun Chopra, and the team submitted its report in January after inquiry.It was found the blood centre was running without the supervision of a medical officer, lacked quality control test of the blood platelet concentrate stocks. Ashwani Baweja, spokesperson of the hospital, said he had no information about the matter. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-medical-officer-at-faridabad-blood-bank-369152
12-02-2022||---||Service Tax Scam: Firm’s role under scanner in Panipat||Panipat, February 11After highlighting the ‘Service tax scam’ by private contract company Pooja Consulations in the Sonepat MC, the company has now become a target of the ruling party councillors here.The councillors have alleged the company and its employees for corruption, and demanded an inquiry against the company and MC officials involved in the scam.The complainant, a resident of Panipat, in his complaint to the CM had already mentioned the role of the company in Sonepat as well as Panipat, after which, the cyber crime branch of the Haryana Police conducted an inquiry. A case has been lodged by the Sonepat police under the IPC against Rajkumar, owner of the company; the employees in the sanitation wing of the MC, and Executive Officer of the MC for their alleged involvement in the scam. The complainant said the company had also sub-let the contract of lifting of garbage from JBM Company for Panipat, Sonepat, Gannaur and Samalkha.The firm is also causing fraud in the weight of the lifted garbage to get heavy bills passed from the local bodies, the complainant alleged.He alleged former Chief Sanitation Inspector (CSI) Sudhir Kumar, who was involved in supporting the company at Panipat, was a silent partner of the company. He has been caught red-handed by the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) for taking a bribe of Rs 13.7 lakh.“If any investigation agency will conduct a fair enquiry against the company and former CSI, many scams of Panipat will come to fore,” the complainant said.The complainant also alleged that the company was receiving salaries of around 240 employees from the Panipat MC, not more than 40 to 50 people worked there.Ravinder Bhatia, ward-10 BJP councillor, said such big companies were looting the municipal corporations.“It was was not possible without the connivance of the officials,” he said.Dushyant Bhatt, Senior Deputy Mayor, Panipat said that the company’s role was under the scanner in Panipat also. The matter is being probed, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/service-tax-scam-firms-role-under-scanner-in-panipat-369151
12-02-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Changes proposed in property rules in Haryana||Chandigarh, February 11The BJP-JJP government has proposed major changes in the Haryana Building Code-2017 to give relief to commercial property owners.Under the proposal, commercial colonies, including shopping mall, multiplex, departmental store, integrated commercial complex, service apartment, unstarred hotel and offices can have a ground coverage of 60 per cent. Floor area ratio (FAR) of 175 per cent has been allowed to these categories, officials said.Similarly, dhabas will have a maximum ground coverage and FAR of 40 per cent each. For banquet halls, the maximum ground coverage and FAR have been pegged at 50 per cent each. Starred hotels will have ground coverage of 40 per cent and FAR of 175 per cent.For restaurants, the ground coverage has been fixed as 60 per cent while FAR is 175 per cent. Amusement park can have ground coverage of 30 per cent and FAR of 50 per cent. However, amusement parks have been allowed 15 per cent commercial component besides FAR.While the data centre industry can have ground coverage of up to 60 per cent, it would have maximum FAR of 500 per cent. The officials said all stakeholders had been asked to submit their suggestions and objections till March 6. After receiving suggestions and objections, the state government will issue notification amending the Haryana Building Code, the officials added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/changes-proposed-in-property-rules-in-haryana-369149
12-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||Covid-19: Hisar reports nine deaths in five days||Hisar, February 11Hisar, which recorded the maximum number of deaths during the second wave in Haryana, has again been in the thick of the Covid crisis with 29 deaths reported in the third wave so far.Officials at the Health Department said nine persons have died due to Covid in past five days.The pandemic claimed 327 lives in the first wave and 814 in the second wave, taking the total toll to 1,170, which is the highest among the districts of Haryana.Gurugram has reported the second highest number of deaths at 982.So far, 10,427 deaths have been reported in the state, the Health Department data on Tuesday revealed.The lowest number of deaths has been reported in Nuh district (132).District Surveillance Officer Dr Subhash Khatraja said 79 new cases were reported in the district on Friday. The number of active cases in the district has come down to 322 and the recovery rate has also increased to 97.57 per cent.Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Tarun said 12,96,877 persons had been administered the first dose of vaccine while 8,95,045 persons were jabbed for the second dose. In all, 14,545 healthcare workers have been given the first dose and 14,509 the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-hisar-reports-nine-deaths-in-five-days-369147
12-02-2022||---||Connection not released, discom MD issued notice||Chandigarh, February 11Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has issued show-cause notice to MD Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) for not complying with the directions issued by Consumer Grievances Redressal Forum (CGRF) regarding the release of connection to M/s Aakarshan Estates Pvt Ltd, Gurugram.The show-cause notice has been issued under Section 142 read with Section 146 of Electricity Act, 2003. Section 142 prescribes a penalty of Rs 1 lakh, and in case of continuing failure with additional penalty, it may extend to Rs 6,000 everyday.Section 146 prescribes imprisonment for three months or with fine, which may extend to Rs 1 lakh, or with both. In case of a continuing failure, the punishment is additional fine which may extend to Rs 5,000 for every day during which the failure continues after conviction of the first offence. M/s Aakarshan Estates Pvt Ltd submitted before the HERC that DHBVN didn’t release the connection to them, which was applied on June 7, 2019, for a load of 636.38 kVA to cater to the residential plotted colony under Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojna, 2016.The CGRF in its order dated January 14, 2021, directed the DHBVN to approve the electrification plan and release the new connection on multi-point supply for an ultimate load of 636.378 kVA from the nearest 11 kV feeder rather than insisting for releasing the connection on 33 kV level as per a sale circular.HERC Bench comprising Chairman RK Pachnanda and member Naresh Sardana observed that despite CGRF’s order, “the connection has not been released by DHBVN till date”.The Bench added that per regulation 2.41 of the HERC (Forum and Ombudsman) Regulations 2020, the licensee is required to comply with the order of the forum within 21 days from the date of receipt of the order.“Since the licensee has not challenged the said order, it has attained finality,” said the HERC.The HERC’s order, dated February 9, said, “It shows that the licensee has not deliberately complied with the CGRF’s order dated January 14, 2021.”Firm applied in 2019||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/connection-not-released-discom-md-issued-notice-369144
12-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Haryana farmers upbeat, private firms offer high oilseed prices||Ambala, February 11The prices for oilseeds crop being offered by private players have brought some relief for farmers after untimely rains affected the yield.Farmers are now getting Rs 6,100 to Rs 6,600 per quintal for toria oilseeds.Get Rs 6,300 per quintalAgainst the production of eight to nine quintal per acre, this year, the yield is around seven quintal per acre. Last year, I had sold my crop for Rs5,400 a quintal, but traders are offering Rs6,300 a quintal this year. Ramesh Kumar, farmerRamesh Kumar, a farmer from Khanpur Brahmana, said: “Against the production of around eight to nine quintal per acre, this year, the yield is around seven quintal per acre. Last year, I had sold my crop for Rs 5,400 a quintal, but traders are offering Rs 6,300 a quintal this year.”Bishpal Singh Rana, who reached the Ambala city grain market from Rajpura, said: “Mustard and toria are sensitive crops. Untimely rains affected the seeds, but still the quality of the produce turned out to be good, for which private players are offering Rs 6,200-Rs 6,500 a quintal. The increase in labour has led to rise in the input cost, but we are hopeful that farmers will be able to have some good margins this year.”Farmers from Patiala also reached the city grain market with their produce.Dalel Singh, secretary, Ambala city grain market, said: “Over 150 quintal of seeds have arrived in the grain market till Wednesday and the stocks are being purchased by the private players for Rs 6,100 to Rs 6,600 a quintal, as per the quality.”Deputy Director Agriculture Girish Nagpal said: “Higher oil prices and the efforts made in the field for crop diversification have started showing good results. Farmers have started shifting from wheat crop to oilseed crops.”Meanwhile, in the Shahabad grain market of Kurukshetra, over 2,225 quintal of ‘toria’ oilseeds arrived till Wednesday.Krishan Kumar Malik, secretary, Shahabad grain market, said: “The oilseed is fetching from Rs 5,800 to Rs 6,900 a quintal as per the quality in the Shahabad grain market.” #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-upbeat-private-firms-offer-high-oilseed-prices-369142
12-02-2022||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court puts on hold selection of 546 veterinary assistants||Chandigarh, February 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put on hold the entire process of selecting 546 veterinary livestock development assistants. Justice Arun Monga also made it clear that the appointment letter would not be issued to any candidate. The order would remain in operation at least till February 14 — the next date of hearing in the matter.Petitioner scored more than othersThe petitioner was not selected even though she was admittedly more meritorious than the last selected candidate not only under the EWS category, but also the general category. Justice Arun Monga, Punjab and Haryana High CourtThe direction came after Justice Monga’s Bench took note of cases where the candidates applied for jobs in the reserved category, but secured more marks than the last selected candidate in the general/open category. Yet, they were neither given the benefit of selection in the general, nor the reserved category.The matter was placed before Justice Monga’s Bench after a petition was filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by candidate Anju Pahal through counsel Rajat Mor. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Mor submitted that the respondent commission published the impugned result this month for filling up the posts of veterinary livestock development assistants. But the petitioner was shocked to see that her roll number was not there among the successful candidates under the EWS category.Mor also told Justice Monga’s Bench that that the petitioner had secured 67 marks in the written examination. Besides this, she was also eligible for five additional marks under the socio-economic criteria for “no job in the family”. As such, her total score came out to be 72, which was way more than the last candidate selected under the EWS category.The Bench was told that the last selected candidate under the general category had secured 70 marks. Another candidate in the general category waiting list had secured 68 marks. As per the settled principles of law, the petitioner was duly eligible to be considered and appointed even in the open category as she had secured “marks much more than those obtained by the last candidate selected under the general/open/ unreserved category.”He said the respondents had not taken any action despite several representations, which amounted to depriving the petitioner of selection to the post even though she was admittedly more meritorious than the last selected candidate not only under the EWS category, but also the general category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-puts-on-hold-selection-of-546-veterinary-assistants-369141
12-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad budget shrinks 15% despite increase in Municipal Corporation area||Faridabad, February 11The annual budget of the city having the largest population in the state has decreased by about 15 per cent, despite substantial increase in its coverage areas for civic upkeep and maintenance.Need for funds has grown sharplyAs the operational area of the MCF has expanded largely with the inclusion of new residential areas, the need for funds for the development and maintenance of the civic infrastructure within the civic limits has also grown sharply. An official on condition of anonymityA cause of concernThe reduction in the budget is a cause of concern as the city is already faced with poor civic conditions despite having the tag of Smart City. Yogesh Dhingra, a former municipal corporatorTo tap resourcesEfforts are on to enhance the recovery of dues and tap resources for increasing the income of the MCF. Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF“The annual budget for the financial period of 2022-23 has been pegged at Rs 2,196 crore, which is 380.94 crore less than the budget of Rs 2576.94 crore presented last year,’ said sources in the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF). They said this was perhaps the first time that a downside was seen in the annual budget, despite the fact that the coverage area of the civic body has been on constant rise. It is revealed that with the addition of 27 new residential sectors and 24 villages in the functional area of the MCF, the coverage has grown by 59 per cent in the past two years.The MCF may be in deep waters in the matter of sanctioning funds for the development works if the Budget allocation is not increased proportionally, it is claimed. With a total of 75 residential sectors and 62 villages in its fold till date, the MCF is the largest civic body in the state.“The reduction in the Budget is a cause of concern as the city is already faced with poor civic conditions despite having the tag of the Smart City,” says Yogesh Dhingra, a former Municipal Corporator. Blaming rampant corruption and irregularities in the civic body’s functioning, Neeraj Sharma, MLA from NIT here, claims that the civic infrastructure has been in a state of collapse with several projects lying suspended or incomplete due to lack of funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-budget-shrinks-15-despite-increase-in-municipal-corporation-area-369135
12-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Public parks in Karnal cry for attention||Karnal, February 11Public parks in most of the areas in the city are in pathetic condition. Fountains, jogging tracks, swings, benches and equipment of open air gyms are lying defunct in several parks.Grass has dried and the plants are also on the verge of dying in a majority of the parks, particularly on the Mughal Canal, Sector 5 and other areas. Garbage and stagnant water add to the woes of visitors, due to which they avoid going there.Maintenance must be monitoredThe maintenance of parks should be monitored by the authorities, so that they can be maintained in an efficient manner and serve their purpose of greenery and other recreational activities. Simranjeet Singh Chawla, residentTenders floated for upkeepWe have floated tenders for the maintenance of parks. Works of some parks have been allotted and works of the remaining are underway. As the temperature rises, the greenery will also increase. Dheeraj Kumar, Deputy Municipal CommissionerThere are around 125 parks, which are maintained by the KMC, while parks in the green belts are maintained by the HSVP, said an official.Residents rue that the parks in the Mughal Canal market are crying for urgent attention. The KMC had installed sculptures of 12 positions of Surya Namaskar in a park on the Mughal Canal, but in the absence of care they are damaged and people use these to dry their clothes. Similarly, a fountain of another park on the Mughal Canal are also non-functional.“We have raised the issue of maintaining the parks on the Mughal Canal with the KMC authorities, but to no avail. These parks seem to be a blot on the Smart City. The authorities concerned should take steps to ensure greenery in the parks, so that people can go there for walk,” said Shiv Kumar Sharma, a social activist.Simranjeet Singh Chawla, another resident of the city, said not only the Mughal Canal, but the park in Sector 12 and in other parts of the city are lying neglected for the past some months. “The maintenance of the parks should be monitored by the authorities, so that they can be maintained in an efficient manner and serve their purpose of greenery and other recreational activities,” said Chawla.The resident welfare associations should also take interest in the maintenance of the parks.Advocate Sukhbir Tyagi, former president of the Sector 5 resident welfare association, said there were five parks in their vicinity and they had been raising the issue of beautification for the past four-years, but the greenery is not maintained properly. One park is still lacking open air gym even after the assurance by the authorities.The Horticulture Department of the HSVP and the KMC should focus on plantation of trees in these parks with the help of locals, he added.A rose garden was developed along the National Highway-44 at Nirmal Kutiya Chowk by the HSVP, but for the past some months it is also not maintained properly, he added.Dheeraj Kumar, Deputy Municipal Commissioner (DMC), said the KMC had been maintaining around 125 parks of the city, including those transferred from the HSVP to KMC. “We have floated tenders for the maintenance of these parks. Works of some parks have been allotted and works of the remaining are underway. As the temperature rises, the greenery will also increase,” said Kumar, adding that all parks will be beautified in coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/public-parks-in-karnal-cry-for-attention-369134
12-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram: Trapped under debris, man saved after 16 hours||Gurugram, February 11After struggling for almost 16 hours, rescue teams managed to save bureaucrat Arun Srivastava who was buried under the debris while his wife Sunita lay dead under it.The couple had returned to their flat in D block from the airport 10 minutes before the roof collapsed on them. They were in their drawing room.Srivastava was conscious and his leg (below the knee) was trapped under the rubble for 16 hours.When amputation seemed to be the only solution, he was pulled out with his leg intact on the intervention of health authorities headed by CMO Virender Yadav. The Health officials used coconut oil to free his leg from his shoe and pulled him out. The rescue team first stabilised the debris. They then used specialised airbags to raise the debris enough to release 60-70 per cent of the leg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-trapped-under-debris-man-saved-after-16-hours-369116
12-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Day after, 16 Gurugram housing societies allege poor construction||Gurugram, February 11A day after the partial collapse of Chintel Paradisio tower in Sector 109 here, residents of new Gurugram are up in arms against the alleged lapses in societies in the area and the authorities turning a blind eye to same.Also read: Gurugram: Trapped under debris, man saved after 16 hoursThe residents of 16 societies, who claim to be living high-risk lives in allegedly poorly constructed societies have moved the district administration seeking immediate random survey to ensure that an incident like Chintel is not repeated in the near future.Under the aegis of United Association of New Gurugram, the societies have highlighted how despite repeated complaints to District Town and Country Planning (DTCP) Department, no survey or audit was ever done nor were the builders held accountable.“Not just Chintel, but almost every society in New Gurugram is a high-risk zone. People have pumped their life's earnings into these flats, but they live fearing their collapse. We have time and again demanded that a random survey be done in societies to check lapses and violations. But as the authorities are hand in glove with builders, nothing was ever done. Two lives have been taken due to the negligence of the builder,” said Praveen Malik of the association.Societies namely Raheja Atharv, Raheja Vedanta, Raheja Navodya, NBCC Green, ATS Cocoon, LumbiniBrisk, Collegium, Mapsko Casabella, Auris and Sare Homes have sought intervention in issues like peeling off of plasters, waterlogged basements etc.The society representatives claim that they have -- over the past two years -- filed many complaints, but no action has been taken.In fact, the residents of Chintel too had moved the DTCP in December 2021 highlighting the lapses but no action was taken. The society representatives have decided to meet on Sunday and launch aggressive protests.Meanwhile, DC Nishant Yadav, who has constituted a committee to investigate lapses in Chintel, has promised to look into all complaints. "The residents are encouraged to voice their concerns. We will ensure right to live safely to all residents. We will soon find a focussed solution to the issue and look into the pendency of complaints,” he said.No survey despite repeated complaintsUnder the aegis of the United Association of New Gurugram, the societies have highlighted how despite repeated complaints to District Town and Country Planning Department, no survey or audit was ever done nor were the builders held accountable||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-after-16-gurugram-housing-societies-allege-poor-construction-369112
12-02-2022||---||Haryana gets Centre’s nod to drop 82 more cases against farmers||Ambala, February 11Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today said that the state government has withdrawn 82 cases registered against farmers during the farm agitation in Haryana. It has got approval to withdraw another 82 cases, related to railways and national highways, from the Centre.Anil Vij, Home MinisterTotal 272 cases registeredIn Haryana, 272 cases were registered against farmers during the agitation. While 82 cases were withdrawn, we had sought permission from the Centre to withdraw another 82 cases related to railways and highways.The Home Minister said that Haryana is the first state to get such approval from the Centre. Recently former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had reportedly accused the state government of cheating farmers and not withdrawing the cases.Anil Vij alleged, “Bhupinder Singh Hooda alw ays spreads confusion. In Haryana, 272 cases were registered against farmers during the farm agitation. While 82 cases were withdrawn by the government, we had sought permission from the Centre to withdraw 82 cases related to railways and highways. The Centre has given its permission. Haryana is the first state to get such approval and the cases will be withdrawn soon.“In some cases, there is a stay in Punjab and Haryana High Court and challans have been already put up in several cases. It is a matter of process. It has a different procedure but we are working on it. If we have said that the cases will be withdrawn, then we will definitely do so,” he added.Hundreds of farmers across Haryana were booked by the Haryana Police during the protest against the three farm laws. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had announced to end the farmers’ agitation after the Centre promised to take back all the cases registered against them during the course of the agitation.Last month, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh had asked the farmers not to receive the summons from court. In case, they have received the summons, then they should not appear in court. “The procedure of withdrawing the cases is ongoing. Those cases which have reached the court may take a little longer for withdrawal. Those with the police take less time. The farmers will have to wait for the procedure to get completed,” Charuni had said. #anil vij #farmers #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-gets-centres-nod-to-drop-82-more-cases-against-farmers-369110
12-02-2022||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court adopts odd-even formula for hearing cases physically||Chandigarh, February 11Adopting an odd-even formula, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that all its Benches would hear civil and criminal cases on a physical platform following decline in Covid cases. While 21 Benches would hear cases in physical mode on odd days, the remaining 20 would function offline on even days.An order issued this evening on behalf of the Chief Justice by Registrar (Vigilance) Vikram Aggarwal made it clear three Division Benches would function daily.From Feb 14The Benches headed by Justice Augustine George Masih, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice MS Ramachandra Rao would function on odd dates such as first, third and fifth.The Benches headed by Justice Ajay Tewari, Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice GS Sandhawalia would function on even dates such as second, fourth and sixth.The first Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, would hold court every Monday, Wednesday and Thursday.Six single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 12 single Benches would take up criminal matters during the odd dates.On even dates, five single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, while 12 single Benches would take up criminal matters. The arrangement would come in force from February 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-adopts-odd-even-formula-for-hearing-cases-physically-369103
12-02-2022||New Delhi||Haryana quota law: Supreme Court seeks to enlarge scope of hearing||Seeking to enlarge the scope of hearing on a Haryana law providing for 75 per cent quota to local people in private sector jobs, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Solicitor General if it should hear all such matters pending in various high courts together.The question was posed by a Bench led by Justice LN Rao during hearing on the Haryana Government’s petition against the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order staying the state’s domicile quota law. Pointing out that similar laws have been passed in Andhra and Jharkhand and they have been challenged in the high courts, the Bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to verify it and gather the details. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/haryana-quota-law-supreme-court-seeks-to-enlarge-scope-of-hearing-369077
12-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Rs 100-cr surety, explain 'onerous' condition: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 11It’s back to learning for Faridabad Additional District and Sessions Judge. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed him to go through at least five judgments of the High Court or the Supreme Court on the issue of imposing conditions while granting bail.He has further been asked to furnish a paper, which would be circulated among judicial officers in Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh, within a two-month deadline. These directions by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came in a case where an accused remained in judicial custody for almost three years as he was unable to meet the “onerous condition” of furnishing Rs 100 crore surety imposed by the Faridabad Additional Sessions Judge in his impugned order dated January 28, 2019.Justice Sangwan directed Chandigarh Judicial Academy Director to ask the Additional Sessions Judge to explain “under what interpretation of law or relying upon which judgment of this court or Supreme Court he has put such onerous condition”. The accused had sought the setting aside of the condition imposed by the Faridabad Additional Sessions Judge while granting bail. His counsel contended that the petitioner was incapable of meeting the condition.Taking note that the FIR in the matter was registered under Sections 420, 406, 120-B, and 204 of the IPC and the Haryana Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment Act, Justice Sangwan said even after the impugned order was passed granting regular bail, the petitioner continued in judicial custody. It was apparent that the very purpose of granting bail to the petitioner had been defeated due to the “onerous condition”. As such the plea was allowed to the extent of dispensing with the condition of furnishing the details/documents of immovable properties valued at Rs100 crore in lieu of personal bonds. “The petitioner is directed to be released on bail subject to furnishing two sureties/bonds to the satisfaction of the trial court,” Justice Sangwan concluded. #high court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-100-cr-surety-explain-onerous-condition-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-369059
12-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Day after building collapse kills two, Gurugram realtor, contractor booked||Gurugram, February 11A day after two women died due to partial collapse of a residential building, realty firm Chintels India and its contractor were on Friday booked for negligence.Also read: Gurugram: Trapped under debris, man saved after 16 hoursAn FIR was lodged under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The deceased have been identified as Ekta Bhardwaj and Sunita Shrivastav. Rescue operations were still going on as the authorities feared more persons could be trapped under the debris.Rajesh Bhardwaj, deceased Ekta’s husband, said he had filed a complaint against Ashok Solomon, MD ofChintels India, and his contractor since the ceiling collapsed due to substandard construction work. Deepak Saharan, DCP, said, “The probe is underway and action will be taken as per law.”Residents held a protest demanding strict action against the builder. They marched to a police station.Chintels India said it would conduct a structural audit of the entire project.Residents protest #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-after-building-collapse-kills-two-gurugram-realtor-contractor-booked-369057
