13-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Second FIR in Gurugram building roof collapse||Gurugram, February 13Following the recommendations of District Town and Country planner RS Bhath, Gurugram police on Sunday booked seven persons, including MD, architects, contractors and structure engineers of Chintel Pardesio, involved in the project.The FIR has been registered at Bajhghera police station under section 10 of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975. 120 B (conspiracy), 417, 420 (cheating), 465 (Punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery), 468 (forging document) and 471 (using forged document) of Indian Penal Code.S Bhath, district town planner, submitted his report on Sunday in which he stated that after examination of the facts of the case, the mishap has proved that the certificate of structure engineer and proof consultant and work of contractor is not creditworthy and rather fraudulent. “As per provisions of Haryana Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas, restriction of unregulated development Act no 41 of 1963 and Haryana development and regulation of urban area Act 8 of 1975 and rules framed thereunder, the licence, the structure engineer and the contractors are solely responsible for the unfortunate incident.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/second-fir-in-gurugram-building-roof-collapse-369614
13-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram girl’s app to fight bullying in schools lands Rs 50-lakh funding offer||The sight of a fellow student being mocked during a school function five years ago is etched deep in Anoushka Jolly’s memories.But for this 13-year-old, that incident became the push to start a social initiative to stop bullying and provide a platform for students as wells as parents to report anonymously.The ‘Anti Bullying Squad (ABS)’, with help from educational institutions, social organisations and experts, has positively impacted over 2,000 students from over 100 schools and universities, said Jolly as she spoke about the digital platform, she formed three years ago.The Class 8 student has also come up with a mobile application called ‘Kavach’ and it allows students and parents to report incidents of bullying anonymously, giving opportunity to schools and counsellors to tactfully intervene and take action.The incident of the girl being bullied “got registered in my memory and I still cannot forget her face”, she was terrified and felt helpless, said Jolly, who was nine years old then.“I was attending the school annual day when my friends decided to bully the six-year-old girl who they found annoying. They walked up to her and started calling her names and laughed at her,” she said.“Soon, I realised how common the problem is and saw many other children of my age being victims of bullying and losing confidence,” said Jolly whose social initiative not only made her the youngest contestant to pitch her entrepreneurial idea on TV reality show Shark Tank India but also landed her a funding offer of Rs 50 lakh.The Pathways School, Gurugram, student wants to build a strong network of anti-bullying ambassadors, who will track the progress of those impacted directly or indirectly through the platform and application.“I have been running the ABS digital platform for over three years with an aim of spreading awareness about bullying which leaves many scarred and desolated. The platform acts as a community where specialists come together to organise one-on-one sessions in schools against bullying,” Jolly told PTI.The platform also allows people to better understand bullying and its consequences, along with taking a pledge to prevent the menace, she said, adding that it also sells anti-bullying merchandise.“However, during the process, I realised that most of these incidents do not get reported and hence, do not get resolved. So, I came up with an idea of creating a bullying reporting mobile app ‘Kavach’ to anonymously report incidents,” Jolly said.“The idea was well received by judges of (Shark Tank), two of whom even stepped forward to invest in my app at Rs 50 lakh in valuation to help me widen its scale and reach,” she said.Shark Tank India is the indigenous version of Shark Tank, a global entrepreneurial reality show. In India, the show is currently running its first season and has selected 198 candidates out of 50,000 applications.The investors in Jolly’s idea are Anupam Mittal, founder and CEO of People Group (Shaadi.com) and Aman Gupta, co-founder of boAt.Daughter of a chartered accountant and an entrepreneur, Jolly has plans to take her entrepreneurial journey forward.However, she is yet to decide the subjects she would like to study once she finishes school.“… but I wish to become an entrepreneur only, I will take this initiative forward. For now, I am looking forward to launching ‘Kavach’, to reach more children and hold webinars and talks all across the country as well as the world to propagate the anti-bullying message,” Jolly said.Congratulating her, Capt Rohit Sen Bajaj, Director, Pathways School, Gurugram, said, “We take immense pride in spirit and passion of Anoushka Jolly whose work towards eliminating bullying in schools and campuses is not only educating many about the issue but also empowering young and old to stand up for themselves and for others”. #bullying||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-girls-app-to-fight-bullying-in-schools-lands-rs-50-lakh-funding-offer-369577
13-02-2022||Sumedha SharmaGurugram||Ableism: Woman accuses popular Gurugram pub of denying her entry because of wheelchair||A woman accused a popular pub in Gurugram of ableism after she was denied entry because of her wheelchair.The case highlights how disability-friendly zones remain elusive in India.   The victim, Srishty Pandey, who took to Twitter to narrate her ordeal, said she was told at 'Raasta', a popular pub in Gurugram, that her wheelchair could “disturb” others.  "I went to my @raastagurgaon with my best friend and her fam last night,” Pandey said in a series of tweets. “This was one of my first outings in so long and I wanted to have fun. Bhaiya (my friend's elder brother) asked for a table for four. The staff at the desk ignored him twice.”When he asked for the third time, he was told that the wheelchair could not be taken inside.“We thought it was an accessibility issue, but it wasn't. We told him that we'd manage, just book us a table. What he said next left all of us shocked for a while.  He told us pointing towards me that ‘andar customers disturb hojaynge’ (The customers will get disturbed) and denied us entry, with so much of ease. This came from the staff of a freaking fancy place,” Pandey said.  She said after a lot of arguing, the party was told they could get a table outside."The outside seating was ridiculous. It was getting cold. And I can't sit out in cold for long because my body gets spastic. It's literally unsafe for me. Why should I be made to sit outside anyway? Segregated from everyone else? If we wanted an outside seating we would have asked for it?”The party was eventually asked to leave, Pandey said. She also shared a video clip of the arguments with the pub.'Raasta' denied the allegations saying Pandey was stopped from going to the dance floor."We did not deny her entry at all. She was insistent on going to the dance floor in her wheelchair. The floor has steps and was very crowded and we advised (against it) for her safety,” B Madhav, the manager of 'Raasta', told the Tribune.The incident caused an uproar on Twitter. Actor-filmmaker Pooja Bhatt reacted to the Twitter thread saying: "Am terribly saddened that this happened to you. We suffer from an absolute lack of grace as a society. Wheelchair accessibility is one thing but refusing to see a human being who is confined to one as an equal and deserving of dignity is quite another". Gurugram Police said they had not received any complaints from Pandey but asked her for her contact details. pic.twitter.com/jp7zIuXgEd  I went to my @raastagurgaon with my best friend and her fam last night. This was one of my first outings in so long and I wanted to have fun. Bhaiya (my friend's elder brother) asked for a table for four. The staff at the desk ignored him twice. 1/n  Raasta Lounge in Cyber Hub, Gurgaon is DISGUSTING!A close friend with a disability went to Raasta with a friend & her family last night. She was not allowed to enter the lounge. Their staff pointed at her & told her to stay outside as her wheelchair was "disturbing".1/4  #NDTV reports, restaurant management #Raasta in Gurugram's DLF Cyberhub, apologised for the incident and they're looking into it.Look into? To redeem @raastagurgaon should:1.Publish apology letter addressed to @Srishhhh_tea in SM.2.Invite @Srishhhh_tea to special dinner.   #ableism #raasta||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ableism-woman-accuses-popular-gurugram-pub-of-denying-her-entry-because-of-her-wheelchair-369529
13-02-2022||Gurugram||Second woman's body retrieved from under debris of partially collapsed Gurugram building||Rescuers retrieved the body of a second woman from under the debris of a partially collapsed 18-floor apartment block late on Saturday night, more than 60 hours after the incident.The body of Sunita Shrivastava, which was spotted under the debris on Friday, was pulled out at 11:30 pm by the rescue team, a senior police officer said, adding that it has been sent for postmortem.The dining room floor of a sixth-floor apartment of Chintels Paradiso in Gurugram’s Sector 109 collapsed Thursday evening, killing two women— Ekta Bhardwaj and Sunita Shrivastava.Sunita Shrivastava’s husband A K Shrivastava, an IRS officer and managing director of Central Warehousing Corporation, suffered critical injuries and could be rescued from under the debris on Friday following 16 hours of efforts.The police have lodged an FIR at Bajghera police station against the managing director of realty firm Chintels India on charges of causing death due to negligence, Gurugram Deputy Commissioner of Police Deepak Saharan said.The Gurugram district administration also instituted a probe into the collapse. —Meanwhile, the family members of Ekta Bhardwaj (35), hope that they would get justice. They had shifted to Gurugram almost six months ago with dreams of progress, but the victim’s husband now says that he has lost everything here. “We are from Delhi. We came here for a better life, but now, everything is shattered. We shifted to the society as tenants in September last year when I started my business in Bahadurgarh. It was negligence that destroyed our family. I don’t know what to say to my son and daughter,” says Rajesh Bhardwaj. —with PTI #gurugram building||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/second-womans-body-retrieved-from-under-debris-of-partially-collapsed-gurugram-building-369527
13-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Residents seek CBI probe into Gurugram high-rise roof collapse, MP skips visit||Gurugram, February 12Panic gripped Chintels Paradiso towers again today as debris came tumbling down with a crash, leading residents to believe that another floor has collapsed. The panic soon gave way to anger wherein residents locked society gates and staged a protest demanding CBI inquiry into the collapse.Another society moves policeScared of the same fate, Brisk Lumbini society in Sector 109 has moved the police. A year ago, the residents had highlighted an incident of a balcony falling. As no action has been taken, they have now moved the police. “We, the residents of Brisk Lumbini, are scared. Complaints have been made to the builder and RWA, but to no avail,” said Monalisa, Nisha and other residents of Brisk Lumbini.The mood reportedly made Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh abort his visit to the society. The official spokesperson, on behalf of Rao Inderjit, however said that they were advised not to visit the society by administrative officials on duty. “We were about to reach the site when we got calls from officials that the matter was being politicised and my visit to the society was not safe. So I aborted the visit,” read Rao’s official statement.Residents of the society also stated through tweets that they are not against anyone. The residents of the society who are protesting for justice said that they thought it was a repeat telecast for them today when they heard the crash. But thank God, it was some debris that fell.“We residents want strict action and justice which is possible only when an independent agency like the CBI investigates the case. It is shocking that the police in their FIR are dealing with it as just an accident while it was a murder in waiting,” said Rakesh Kumar, a resident.Meanwhile, District Town Planner RS Bath visited the spot and promised action against any erring officials. He also said that a plan is under way to ensure that no such incident occurs in the future. Congress leader Ajay Yadav met the residents and promised support. Police Commissioner KK Rao has formed an SIT to probe the incident. Meanwhile, the rescue work continues. Body of Sunita Srivastava, wife of bureaucrat Arun Srivastava who was rescued on Friday, is still stuck under the debris even after 50 hours. #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-rise-residents-seek-cbi-probe-into-roof-collapse-mp-skips-visit-369425
13-02-2022||Karnal||Stir to resume, youths will lead it, says Rakesh Tikait||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday accused the Centre of not fulfilling its promises made to SKM leaders to end the year-long agitation at Delhi borders.‘Prepare for Ph-2 of agitation’He said they would resume the agitation soon and youths would lead it against unemployment and the pending issues of the farmers. He said it was a conflict of ideology that would bring a change across the country.Tikait said they were not in favour of forming a political party and there was a need of a law for MSP and jobs for unemployed youths. He said they had not asked people to vote for any particular party but also not vote for NOTA.“We will resume protest soon, for which the SKM will go across the county to connect with unemployed youths. Apart from demanding MSP-guarantee law, implementation of recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission and permission for plying of tractors that are over 10-year-old, farmers will raise the issue of increasing unemployment among youths. Farmers will support the youths in the new movement. We will also apprise the citizens about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” said Tikait, while addressing farmers and labourers at a Kisan Mazdoor Mahapanchayat in Kalayat in Kaithal.Tikait also said they would challenge the bail of Ashish Mishra in Lakhimpur Kheri incident. He inaugurated a Kisan Mazdoor Canteen in Kaithal and said such canteens would also be opened for farmers and labourers. He accused the government of stopping old age pension of eligible beneficiaries. He said the government had been forcing elderly people to beg from their children. Pension for these persons should be reinstated, he demanded. — #rakesh tikait||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stir-to-resume-youths-will-lead-it-says-tikait-369426
13-02-2022||---||Gurugram high-rise roof collapse: Negligence destroyed us, says victim's spouse||Gurugram, February 12The family members of Ekta Bhardwaj (35), who died when a portion of the roof of Chintels Paradiso towers, Sector 109, Gurugram, collapsed on Thursday, hope that they would get justice.They had shifted to Gurugram almost six months ago with dreams of progress, but the victim’s husband now says that he has lost everything here. Rajesh Bhardwaj says, “We are from Delhi. We came here for a better life, but now, everything is shattered. We shifted to the society as tenants in September last year when I started my business in Bahadurgarh. It was negligence that destroyed our family. I don’t know what to say to my son and daughter.”Bhardwaj said he had gone to office after meeting his wife in the morning. He had no idea it would be his last meeting with her. He was returning from work when the incident took place.“I started my own business and my wife was an associate. The police have registered a case and started inquiry. I hope we get justice,” said Bhardwaj.“Ekta was a calm person and used do to meditation. She was happy and friendly. It is unfortunate that she left us,” said Sangeeta, a friend of the victim. #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/negligence-destroyed-us-says-victims-spouse-369427
13-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||'Callous' approach in crime against women, High Court pulls up Rohtak police||Chandigarh, February 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for an affidavit by Rohtak Superintendent of Police after taking note of extremely callous approach adopted by the investigating agency in cases of heinous crime against women.Apprise court of action takenThre is no illegality or perversity in the order passed by the trial court. Taking notice of the fact that in cases of heinous crime against women, a very callous approach is adopted by the investigating agency, the affidavit of the Superintendent of Police, Rohtak, is called for to apprise this court of the action taken in pursuance of the order passed by the trial court on October 12, 2021. — Justice Suvir Sehgal, Punjab & Haryana HCSample not preservedThe direction by the High Court for an affidavit by Rohtak SP came in a rape case where the blood sample of an accused taken during the course of investigation for DNA profiling could not be sent for testing as it was not preserved and got damagedThe direction by Justice Suvir Sehgal of the High Court came in a rape case where the blood sample of an accused taken during the course of investigation for DNA profiling could not be sent for testing as it was not preserved and got damaged.The matter was brought to Justice Sehgal’s notice after an accused filed a petition challenging an order dated October 12, 2021, passed by Rohtak Special Judge-cum-Additional District and Sessions Judge vide which the state’s application for taking blood sample of the petitioner-accused for DNA analysis was allowed.His counsel submitted that the blood sample of the accused-petitioner was taken for the DNA test during the course of investigation. But a fresh application was submitted, without getting any report, by the SHO concerned during the course of the trial when the prosecutrix was being examined. The counsel submitted that the blood sample could not be taken twice for testing.Justice Sehgal asserted human semen was detected on the bed sheet in the present case, as per the report by the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Sunaria, Rohtak. It was, as such, imperative to get the blood sample of the accused for DNA profiling.It was not the case of the accused that the prosecution was conducting the DNA profiling for the second time. In such a situation, the application’s filing by the state for collecting the blood sample could not be faulted with.Justice Sehgal added the trial court had taken a serious view of the casual manner in which the investigation had been conducted before directing the Superintendent of Police and the Inspector-General of Police, Rohtak, to inquire into the matter and fix responsibility.Dismissing the petition, Justice Sehgal added there was no illegality or perversity in the order passed by the trial court. “Taking notice of the fact that in cases of heinous crime against women, a very callous approach is adopted by the investigating agency, the affidavit of the Superintendent of Police, Rohtak, is called for to apprise this court of the action taken in pursuance of the order passed by the trial court on October 12, 2021,” Justice Sehgal concluded. The case will now come up for further hearing in April third week. #high court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/callous-approach-in-crime-against-women-high-court-pulls-up-police-369428
13-02-2022||---||Labourers will be given better health services, says minister||Gurugram, February 12Citing recent survey reports of the Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) and Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) payroll data, Union Labour and Employment Minister Bhupender Yadav today said employment opportunities were increasing in the country.Inaugurates 2 ESIC management dashboardsHailing the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Yadav said they had re-strengthened commitment to the welfare of the workers and labourers in both organised and unorganised sectors.Speaking at the 187th meeting of the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) in Gurugram this afternoon, he said health check-ups of labourers would be conducted by the ESIC hospitals. He said factories/MSME clusters would be considered as a unit and the ESIC would coordinate with them for preventive health check-ups of workers. Health check-ups will be conducted in 15 cities as part of the ongoing pilot project, said Yadav.“Pending projects of the ESIC will be expedited and construction work of ESIC hospitals will completed soon. Availability of doctors and staff will also be ensured,” he said. The minister called on doctors to join ESIC hospitals, serving the poor, and assured that remuneration of doctors and staff would be revised by the ESIC.The minister inaugurated two ESIC management dashboards — construction project dashboard and hospital dashboard. The health dashboard will give key information related to performance of ESIC hospitals. It will also provide the viewers with the current occupancy and OPD footfall at the hospital dashboard. The construction dashboard will give key information about various construction projects of the ESIC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labourers-will-be-given-better-health-services-says-minister-369429
13-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Drone survey of 553 unauthorised colonies in Faridabad district||Faridabad, February 12A drone survey of 553 unauthorised residential colonies in the district has been launched by the Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department to assess the status of civic facilities.New construction in these colonies has been banned. The survey is likely to be over within a week.“These colonies were detected in a field survey carried out by the office of the District Town Planner (DTP-Enforcement) last year. The officials concerned have been asked to submit a detailed report regarding the status of basic civic amenities at present,” said sources in the district administration.The sources added that the survey would focus on facilities such as water and power supply, sewage system, roads, streets and population in the area. It is reported that these colonies have come up both within and outside the municipal area in the past 12 years.The colonies have been carved out by the land and property mafia and have a population of over one lakh at present, the sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drone-survey-of-553-unauthorised-colonies-in-faridabad-district-369430
13-02-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Vigil up to curb liquor flow into UP via Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, February 12Security on Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border in Yamunanagar has been beefed up as the Assembly elections in constituency of Saharanpur of UP are to be held in the second phase on February 14.2 units of mounted police deputedSaharanpur district of UP shares its border with Yamunanagar, therefore the Yamunanagar police have intensified vigil to prevent liquor smuggling, supply of illegal weapons and entry of anti-social elements into poll-bound UP.Saharanpur district lies on the eastern side of the Yamuna and Yamunanagar falls on the western side of the river. According to information, there is very little water in the Yamuna these days and anti-social elements, liquor smugglers and illegal weapon suppliers can easily enter into UP from Haryana side through the Yamuna.According to information, there are two permanent nakas of Yamunanagar police — at Hathnikund barrage and Kalanaur village onthe Panchkula-Saharanpur national highway — on Haryana-UP border.However, the police have now set up 14 new nakas at Araiyanwala village, Bhudkalan village, Mandewala village, Devdhar village, Lakarmay Pratap Pur village, Mandauli Gagad village, Bibipur village, Audhari Ghat, Lapra village, Kalanaur village, Kamaalpur Tapu village, Pobari village, Lal Chhappar village, Sandhala village and Gumthala Rao village of the district.Deputy Commissioner Parth Gupta and Superintendent of Police Kamaldeep Goyal visit the nakas to check security arrangements. On their visit to Kalanaur naka on Friday, SP Kamaldeep Goyal said besides setting up nakas, mobile checking teams had also been formed. He said two units of mounted police had also been deputed in the area. The teams deputed at the area had recovered ganja worth Rs 25 lakh, so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vigil-up-to-curb-liquor-flow-into-up-via-ynagar-369431
13-02-2022||Ambala||Haryana CM's chopper makes sudden landing||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s helicopter had to make a sudden landing at Ambala City Police Lines ground for nearly half an hour on Saturday evening.After getting intimation at 4.30 pm, the district administration and the police came into action and security was beefed up. Emergency services were also deployed.The CM remained onboard and his helicopter flew at 5.08 pm for Gurugram. The administration and the police remained tightlipped about the reason behind the sudden landing. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cms-chopper-makes-sudden-landing-369432
13-02-2022||Palwal||Doc 'murdered', four booked||The police booked four persons for the ‘murder’ of a registered medical practitioner (RMP). The incident took place in Phulwari village last night. The victim, Rajkumar (30), was shot after a quarrel over some issue. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doc-murdered-four-booked-369433
13-02-2022||---||Man concocts kidnapping story, held||Karnal, February 12The police arrested a person belonging to UP, identified as Chandershekhar, from Panipat, for concocting his kidnapping story.He will be produced in court on Sunday. During investigation, he revealed he concocted the story of his kidnapping as he was involved in betting and was under a debt of Rs 10.5 lakh.Manvender Singh, brother of the accused, lodged a complaint on February 9 that his elder brother Chandershekhar came to Karnal on February 4 from Gorakhpur. His brother made a call to his uncle on February 5 and told him that he had some work in Karnal and would return after finishing it.On the same evening, an MMS was sent to Chandershekhar’s wife from his brother’s mobile, in which he could be seen with his legs and hands tied. The caller demanded Rs 1 crore from the family. On February 7, Chandershekhar called his family and said he would earn a profit of Rs 2 crore in share market.The police registered a case under Section 364 of the IPC. The investigation was handed over to the bus stand police post in charge, Bansi Lal, who with the help of cyber experts, nabbed Chandershekhar from Panipat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-concocts-kidnapping-story-held-369434
13-02-2022||---||35 metal unit staffers faint after gas leak||Sonepat, February 12As many as 35 women employees on Saturday fainted reportedly due to leakage of some poisonous gas arising out of melting scrap in a metal company in Gannaur area of the district.All unconscious women were immediately rushed to private and government hospitals in Gannaur from where two women have been referred to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College at Khanpur Kalan.The incident occurred at Hyundai Metal Private Ltd factory near Panchi Gujran village in Gannaur area.As per the details available, the factory is owned by a Delhi resident and 125-130 women are working there. The factory owner imports scrap of copper, steel, brass and other metals from abroad. For melting the scrap, the company has established furnaces here.Today, during the melting of scrap, some women employees fainted as some poisonous gas started leaking from the furnace, sources said.Jogender Rathi, DSP Gannaur, along with Inspector Dheeraj Kumar, SHO Gannaur, reached the factory to inquire into the matter.A team of officials of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) will also visit the metal industry. Sources said that the factory owners had taken permission to establish a furnace but not to operate it from the pollution board.Inspector Dheeraj said that no case has been registered as no complaint from any woman employee has been received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/35-metal-unit-staffers-faint-after-gas-leak-369435
13-02-2022||---||Rainwater: Affected farmers to get Rs7K per acre||Hisar, February 12Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said farmers who were unable to sow crops this season due to rainwater in fields, will be given a financial assistance of Rs 7,000 per acre by the state.While addressing a public meeting in Matlodha village of Uklana Assembly constituency in the district today, he said the decision was taken so that the farmers could get some relief on account of non-sowing due to inundation. Earlier, these farmers were given Rs 4,000 as financial assistance.Dushyant said farmers would not have to spend the night in mandis to sell their produce during the procurement season. “Every crop registered on the portal will be bought after instant payment to the farmers. The procurement process will be expedited through online system. New procurement centres are also being set up for purchase of wheat and mustard,” he said.The Deputy Chief Minister said the work of remodelling of canals and minors was being carried out. The government had released Rs 600 crore to renovate the ponds in the state.Earlier, he allayed the fear of the beneficiaries of old age pension scheme while stating he would try to amend the condition of income cap of Rs 2 lakh per annum. He stated 86 cases registered against farmers during the agitation had been withdrawn. The process to withdraw the remaining cases was underway, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rainwater-affected-farmers-to-get-7k-per-acre-369436
13-02-2022||---||Kurukshetra University seeks Rs300 cr for next FY||Kurukshetra, February 12Facing a shortage of funds, Kurukshetra University has sought a budget of Rs 300 crore for the next financial year from the state.Drop in number of Affiliated collegesEarlier, 428 colleges were affiliated with the university, but over the years, the number of colleges has dropped. That number now stands at 280, which has resulted in decrease in income. The pandemic also hit the receipts of the university. Senior official kurukshetra universityThe expected annual expenditure of the university for the next financial year is Rs 400 crore. Last year, the government had allocated Rs 220 crore to the university, which included Rs 180 crore for recurring expenses and Rs 40 crore for non-recurring expenses.A senior official in the university said: “The university has around 600 teaching staff, including part-time and contractual teachers; 1,400 non-teaching staff and nearly 1,850 pensioners. Besides, the number of pensioners is increasing every year and the government must own the pension and salaries of the university staff for improving the quality of higher education. This will help the university to focus on research work.”Dr Brajesh Sawhney, director, Public Relations, Kurukshetra University, said: “Due to Covid, the receipts of the university have dropped by around Rs 70 crore annually. The university has sought a budget of Rs 300 crore as there are old and present liabilities that it needs to pay out. The remaining funds will be generated by the university from its own resources. The university has adopted the NEP and courses are being increased, for which more resources are required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kshetra-varsity-seeks-300-cr-for-next-fy-369437
13-02-2022||---||PGIMS, police launch drive against drugs||Rohtak, February 12Rohtak Superintendent of Police (SP) Udai Singh Meena has appealed to local residents to support the police in a campaign against narcotic drugs and illicit liquor to eradicate this menace from society.Meena was interacting with villagers during a community awareness programme — in collaboration with the authorities of Rohtak PGIMS and District Red Cross Society — titled ‘Nasha-Mukt Rohtak’ organised to create awareness about drug abuse at Kharawar village in the district today.“Earlier, drug menace was prevalent in Punjab. But now, this evil has entered Haryana and eradicating it is our collective social responsibility,” said the SP.He exhorted the residents to inform about drug trade or sale of illicit liquor in their area without any fear or hesitation on helpline number 112, Rohtak police number 01262-228113 and WhatsApp number 8307202071.ASP (Sampla) Medha Bhushan said the name of the informers would be kept confidential and they would be suitably rewarded if the information is found true. A team of doctors from Rohtak PGIMS, Dr Nahar Singh from District Red Cross Society, Kharawar sarpanch Brijender Singh and Chuliana sarpanch Harender Singh also addressed the gathering and spoke about the hazards of intoxicants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-police-launch-drive-against-drugs-369438
13-02-2022||---||15K properties fraudulently registered in Gurugram||Gurugram, February 12Over 15,000 properties were fraudulently registered in Gurugram in the past four years. This came to the fore in the report of the enquiry committee constituted last year.As per the report, the highest number of these registrations were reported from the Sohna revenue block (6,843), followed by Harsaru (2,332), Kadipur (2,193), Badshapur (1870), Gurugram (748), Wazirabad (601) and Manesar (285).The enquiry was marked when it was highlighted that the necessary paper work to register properties had been ignored during the lockdown. It is mandatory to put a picture of the tehsildar for registration, and the NOC is required from the DTP for registration of plots covering less than 1,200 square yards.In 2020, the government had banned all transfer deeds, but registrations continued. Nishant Yadav, DC, said he had received the report. “We are going through the report. We will take action soon. Steps are in place to ensure it is not repeated in future,” he said. #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15k-properties-fraudulently-registered-in-gurugram-369439
13-02-2022||---||One IAS, two HCS officers transferred||Chandigarh, February 12The Haryana Government has issued transfer orders of one IAS and two HCS officers.Saket Kumar, Managing Director, Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has been given additional charge of Director General, AYUSH.Among the transferred HCS officers, Vinesh Kumar, Joint Director (Administration), AYUSH, has been posted as SDM, Ladwa. Aanchal Bhaskar, Additional Chief Executive Officer, Zilla Parishad, Hisar and Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Hisar-1, has been posted as Additional Chief Executive Officer, Zilla Parishad, Hisar and Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Agroha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-ias-two-hcs-officers-transferred-369440
13-02-2022||Panipat||Minor dies of 'gas leakage'||A 17-year-old teenager died at his house in Ram Nagar of Tehsil Camp area on Saturday morning. The deceased has been identified as Paras.Vijay, father of the deceased, said: “Paras had gone to take a bath, but didn’t come out even after half an hour. Suspecting, we broke the door and found him lying on the floor unconscious. We rushed him to the hospital, where the doctors declared him dead.”The police suspected that gas leakage from the geyser might have been the cause of unconsciousness and death of the youth. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-dies-of-gas-leakage-369441
13-02-2022||---||25-year-old slips into canal, missing||Panipat, February 12A 25-year-old labourer, slipped into the Delhi Parallel canal on Saturday and died. The victim has been identified as Kumod of Begusarai in Bihar.Sumod, brother of the deceased, said Kumod was living in a rented accommodation in Mehrana village here.“We had gone to the canal with our brother-in-law. Kumod saw two coconuts in the canal and tried to get them out. He slipped into the canal while trying to bring the second coconut out,” the brother said.The locals informed the police, after which they carried out a search operation to locate the victim with the help of the divers, but Kumod is still missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-year-old-slips-into-canal-missing-369442
13-02-2022||---||21-yr-old run over by train||Panipat, February 12A 21-year-old girl was killed after being hit by a train near the Assandh road flyover today. The deceased has been identified as Monika.She was an employee at the Aadhaar Sewa Kendra in Bishan Swaroop Colony.According to sources, the woman was on her way to the office and was listening to songs on her earphones. As she reached under the Assandh road flyover to cross the railway lines, a train hit her and she died on the spot. The police handed over the body to the victim’s family after postmorterm examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/21-yr-old-run-over-by-train-369443
13-02-2022||Chandigarh||Grant for CID personnel||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/grant-for-cid-personnel-369444
13-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||No High Court stay on Haryana board exams, private schools jittery||Rohtak, February 12Private schools affiliated to the CBSE have suffered a setback in their fight against the Haryana education board’s decision to conduct Class VIII exams for all schools as the Punjab and Haryana High Court refused to grant a stay.Papers in March | next hearing on April 4It has fixed April 4 as the next date of hearing even as the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) is gearing up to hold the exams in March-end. The court has, however, issued notices to the Department of School Education, State Council of Educational Research and Training and the BSEH.The state has over 2,000 private schools affiliated to the CBSE where nearly 1.5 lakh students are enrolled in Class VIII. The authorities have asked the schools to get registered with the BSEH by depositing Rs 5,000 fee and Rs 100 per student as enrollment fee for 2021-22.Ved Prakash Yadav, Vice Chairman, BSEH, said they were in the process of registering schools affiliated to other boards and enrolling Class VIII students. “We are also gearing up to hold the exams by the end of March,” he said.Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private School Association, said, “We are left in the lurch since the board exams are likely to begin before the next date of hearing in the High Court.” #cbse #Haryana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-hc-stay-on-hry-board-exams-pvt-schools-jittery-369351
