14-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram building collapse: DTP gets approval from IIT for structural audit, residents start hunger strike||Gurugram, February 14A day after getting an FIR registered against seven, including Chintel builder, the district town and country planning department held a marathon meeting with society residents. Accused of being indifferent all this while the department has not only got approval for structural audit from IIT Delhi and has decided to finalise rehabilitation plan by tomorrow.Gurugram DTP RS Bhath visited the society today. Speaking to The Tribune, he said, “We will be ready with rehabilitation plan latest by tomorrow and get it done by builder. We have already got the approval from IIT Delhi for the audit, the cost of which will be borne by the builder. We did get complaints for E F G and H tower who had issues with their balconies. We got audits done and structural changes were made. We have been here since day one and will resolve the matter,” said Bhath.It may be noted following Bhath’s complaint late yesterday when an FIR was registered against all managing directors of Chintels India ltd, M/s Bhayana builders and five others. An FIR has been registered under Sections 417, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 120-B of IPC and Section 10 of Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act 1975.According to the complaint, “The mishap proved that the work of structure engineer, proof consultant and contractor is not creditworthy and rather fraudulent. As per various rules and building bylaws the licensee structure engineer and contractor are solely responsible for this unfortunate incident. There has been violation of provisions and this an FIR be registered,”Meanwhile, residents have started a relay hunger strike demanding a CBI enquiry and arrest of the accused.“Police is being soft with sections in FIR. Book them for murder get independent inquiry,” said Rakesh Hooda, president of RWA of Chintel Paradiso.Another hand sources said that police also start discussion to adding more sections of IPC in first FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-building-collapse-dtp-gets-approval-from-iit-for-structural-audit-residents-start-hunger-strike-369876
14-02-2022||New Delhi||SC defers hearing on Haryana domicile quota law||The Supreme Court on Monday deferred its hearing on Haryana Government’s petition against a Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order staying a law providing for 75 per cent quota to local people in private sector jobs.A Bench led by Justice LN Rao agreed to take it up on Tuesday after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta insisted that he needed to argue the case on interim relief.Earlier, the top court had on Friday asked the Solicitor General if it should hear all such matters pending in various high courts together.Seeking to enlarge the scope of hearing on a Haryana law providing for 75 per cent quota to local people in private sector jobs, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Solicitor General if it should hear all such matters pending in various high courts together.Pointing out that similar laws have been passed in Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand and they have been challenged in the high courts, the Bench had asked Mehta to verify it and gather the details.“If the matters are pending before other high courts, we can hear the larger issue after calling for the papers from high courts, you can inform us,” the Bench had said.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on February 3 stayed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, and admitted a petition challenging its validity. The high court’s order had come on a petition filed by various industries associations from Faridabad, Gurugram and other places.Notified in November last year, the law provides for 75 per cent reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offer a monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022.The petitioners before the HC contended that the Act under challenge was against the provisions of the Constitution and went against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive.The Haryana government wanted to create reservation in the private sector by introducing the policy of ‘Sons of Soil’, which was an infringement of constitutional rights of the employers, they submitted.The petitioners contended that private-sector jobs were purely based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who were citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to work in any part of India. #haryana job quota #supreme court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-defers-hearing-on-haryana-domicile-quota-law-369872
14-02-2022||Gurugram||Street crime, traffic management top on list of first woman Commissioner of Police of Gurugram||Senior IPS officer Kala Ramachandran is set to become the first woman Commissioner of Police (CP) of Gurugram. She will take up her new role on Tuesday.The 1994-batch IPS Ramchandran, who is currently posted as ADGP, State Vigilance Bureau (SVB), wishes to strengthen basic policing — 'bread butter' policing as she calls it — and prioritize safe roads and traffic management.“Gurugram is a mix of rural, Industrial and cosmo culture. This makes the law and order situation a little more complex, so back to basics will be my mantra. We would strengthen core policing, starting from the beat system to public interaction,” said Ramachandran.Citing traffic as one of the biggest problems of the city, she said the key focus would be on traffic management and making roads safe."Traffic is one of the major problems cited by city residents. The management of the same would be our top priority. We would also work on making roads and streets safe. So, curtailing number of accidents and street crime would be our top priority, ” said Ramachandran.Meanwhile, women cops in the Gurugram police force are eagerly awaiting the new woman commissioner of police as they feel she will be able to address their day-to-day professional issues in a better way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/street-crime-traffic-management-top-on-list-of-first-woman-commissioner-of-police-of-gurugram-369828
14-02-2022||Sumedha SharmaGurugram||Gurugram building collapse: Chief Minister Manohar Khattar orders structural audit||Giving in to the demand of New Gurugram residents CM Manohar Lal Khattar has ordered a structural audit of the Chintel Pardiso society by IIT Or an agency of similar repute. Taking cognizance of many other societies highlighting danger or structural issues Manohar Lal Khattar has asked the local administration to identify such buildings through DTCP Or RWA and get their audits also done with Builder bearing the cost." What happened in Chintels Pardesio is tragic and unfortunate. The right to safe living is what we aim to guarantee to each citizen. We will get safety audits done for all and ensure that there is no scope of a repeat of such an accident, " said Khattar.The residents have been vocal in their disappointment that CM did not care to pay a visitdespite being in the district.The Tribune had highlighted How the residents of Tower D had been living like refugees with the builder just providing unfurnished spaces as stop-gap arrangements CM has directed the local administration to make interim comfortable stay arrangements for the residents of this tower.The local residents meanwhile continued their protest demanding action against the builder." There is still no decision on issues like getting an independent CBI inquiry or booking builder and concerned officials for murder. We want concrete action," said protesting RWA.They argued that an FIR under sections 304, 34, and 120-B of the IPC must be filed against the developer. The residents also demanded a safety certificate and assurance from the concerned government authorities that the apartment complex is safe and that there is no risk in the rest of the buildings at Chintels Paradiso. The residents are preparing to move to the high court seeking action. #gurugram building collapse #manohar lal khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-building-collapse-chief-minister-manohar-khattar-orders-structural-audit-369827
14-02-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Faridabad Court road in poor condition||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Faridabad Court road in poor condition The Sector 11/12 dividing road in Faridabad is in a dilapidated condition for the past five years. The work is pending for the past few months. Commuters face difficulty and discomfort while pass through this road. This road leads to the Mini Secretariat, district court complex, HSVP, SDM, Tehsil, Stadium and many other offices. A large number of residents are inconvenienced and accidents are a routine. The civic authority should pay heed and complete the work within stipulated period. Devinder Singh Surjewala, FaridabadIllegal hoardings mushroom along roadsAlmost all roads in the city have become victims of uncontrolled hoardings and advertisements due to inaction on the part of the authorities concerned. While hordes of posters, banners, kiosks and display advertisements are put on the medians of the roads in violation of rules, the authorities especially the Municipal Corporation seems to be sleeping as hardly any action is taken against the offenders, despite the fact that more than 95 per cent of such hoardings or advertisements at the public places are illegal. Despite a battery of officials and agencies, accountability is missing, which is a cause of concern. AK Gaur, FaridabadOpen manhole poses risk to pedestriansOpen manhole on the Sector 8/9 dividing road of Panchkula poses danger to pedestrians. The MC contractor removed the cover for cleaning but has not closed it. Pedestrians are always at risk of falling into the pit. VK Garg, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-court-road-in-poor-condition-369713
14-02-2022||Karnal||NCC cadets perform yoga in Karnal||Video blogging contest at DAVIMFaridabad: A web talk and video blogging competition was organised by the holistic growth department and patriots club of the DAV Institute of Management (DAVIM) in collaboration with NHPC Ltd, on the topic "Driving life with respect, dignity and integrity" recently. The event was organised to promote moral values, ethics, honesty and good governance practices through participation of students, said DAVIM principal director Dr Satish Ahuja. Vice-principal Dr Ritu Gandhi Arora, Dr Rashmi Bhargava (dean, holistic growth department) Dr Anjali Ahuja (convenor, patriot club) along with officials from the NHPC, including BB Sethi (general manager) boosted the morale of the students by distributing cash prizes and certificates to them. The first, second and third position in the video blogging competition were bagged by Vanshul Sethi, Srishti and Kritika Shukla whereas the consolation prizes were awarded to Gautam Madaan, Prasun, Singh, Vikas Yadav, Neha Gera, Sorupa Banerjee and Gaurav Tyagi.Seminar on career guidanceKarnal: The career guidance and placement cell of the KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised a seminar in collaboration with ICICI Bank under the guidance of principal Renu Mehta. Aman Sanhney and Rajat Gupta, programme managers from NIIT, Gurugram, visited the college with his team members. Santosh Bisla, vice-principal and Sanjana Raheja, convener of the placement cell welcomed the guests. Around 150 students of BCom and BBA final year attended the seminar and they were provided information regarding qualification, working environment and job profile related to branch banking job in ICICI Bank. They also discussed the selection procedure related to banking job. This drive provides a platform to students to explore greater heights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncc-cadets-perform-yoga-369710
14-02-2022||---||15-year-old sexually abuses classmate in Yamunanagar, case registered||Yamunanagar, February 13A teenage girl of a colony in Yamunanagar was allegedly sexually abused by her classmate.Both the victim (15) and the child in conflict with law are Class IX students and studying in a private school in the city. On the complaint of victim’s father, a case was registered against the child in conflict with law under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, Section 506 of the IPC and Section 67-A of the IT Act at the women police station on Saturday. The complainant stated that his daughter and the boy were studying in Class IX of a local school. So, they knew each another, he added. He alleged that the boy started talking with his daughter on mobile phone and sexually abused and blackmailed her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-year-old-sexually-abuses-classmate-in-yamunanagar-case-registered-369709
14-02-2022||Hisar||World Radio Day: Radio relevant in Internet age, says Vice-Chancellor||The Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Prof Ajmer Singh Malik, has said, “Even in the age of mobile and internet, radio is still alive and continuously contributing to society.”While speaking as the chief guest at the Radio Utsav 2022, organised by the Community Radio Station of the university, Prof Malik said, “Radio is becoming popular in podcasts and other digital formats in sync with the information technology these days.” “Radio is an important tool of mass communication and has a special contribution in the development of the nation. India is a country with a rural population. Radio is a popular mass medium for the people living in remote villages,” Prof Malik added.The development journey of radio and its role in growth of the nation were discussed on the programme, organised on the eve of the World Radio Day. Convener of Radio Utsav 2022 and Director, Community Radio Station, Dr Amit Sangwan, said, “Information is the basis of social change and radio has been playing a crucial role in the process.”The programme of the radio station was also registered on the official UNESCO website. — #chaudhary devi lal university||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-radio-day-radio-relevant-in-internet-age-says-vice-chancellor-369708
14-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Denied entry to club in Gurugram, complains disabled woman||Gurugram, February 13In what has caused a major uproar, a disabled woman was allegedly denied entry to a known pub and bar in a posh cyber hub here after being called a “disturbance”.The woman alleged that what left her shocked was that it was not wheelchair accessibility which made the club deny her inside, seating, “but the fact that she could be a disturbance to other customers”.Manager differsWe did not deny her entry at all. She was insistent on going to dance floor with the wheelchair. The floor has steps and was very crowded and we advised for her safety. B Madhav, manager of raastaLack of graceAm terribly saddened that this happened to you. We suffer from an absolute lack of grace as a society. Pooja Bhatt, actor“I went to my @raastagurgaon with my best friend and her family last night. My friend’s elder brother asked for a table for four. The staff at the desk ignored him twice. The third time he asked, the staff replied with “wheelchair andar nahi jaygi” (the wheelchair can’t go inside).We thought it was an accessibility issue, but it wasn’t. We told him that we’d manage, just book us a table. What he said next left all of us shocked for a while. He told us pointing towards me that “andar customers disturb hojaynge” (the customers will get disturbed) and denied us entry,” she alleged. She added that after a lot of arguing, he told them to get a table outside.“The outside seating was ridiculous. It was getting cold. And I can’t sit out in cold for long because my body gets spastic. Why should I be made to sit outside anyway? segregated from everyone else? If we wanted an outside seating, we would have asked for it?”Eventually we were asked to leave. Obviously, she further added in tweet which has left entire city in uproar. According to the police, they have not received any complaint so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/denied-entry-to-club-complains-disabled-woman-369706
14-02-2022||Chandigarh||Randeep Surjewala targets Centre over ABG Shipyard case||Targeting Modi government over the alleged ABG Shipyard bank fraud scam worth Rs 22,842 crore, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala today said, “The Modi government is running a ‘loot and escape’ flagship scheme for bank fraudsters.”Fraudsters list, included Nirav Modi, alias Chhota Modi, Mehul Choksi, Ami Modi, Neeshal Modi, Lalit Modi, Vijay Mallya, Jatin Mehta, Chetan Sandesara, Nitin Sandesara and many others, with close connection and affection to the ruling establishment while the then Chairman and MD of ABG Shipyard Rishi Agarwal and others, accused in the recent scam, were the new ‘gems’ of ‘Shehenshah’ (King), Surjewala added.Addressing a press conference today, Surjewala said the liquidation process of ABG Shipyard was initiated on August 1, 2017, but still the FIR was registered after a delay of five years.The Congress conducted a press conference way back on February 15, 2018, warning about the scam, but still no action was taken, said Surjewala. Surjewala pointed out that on November 8, 2019, the SBI intimated the CBI for registering the case, but nothing happened. Then again it wrote on August 25, 2020. Finally, the FIR was registered on February 7 this year, Surjewala added. Surjewala told that ABG Shipyard was allotted 1.21 lakh square metres of land in 2007 by the Gujarat Government, then headed by Narendra Modi as the CM.“The CAG has indicted the Gujarat Government for undue favouring ABG Shipyard and Rishi Agarwal for allotting land at Rs700 per square metre. The price of land is Rs1,400 per square metre, which is 100 per cent higher,” said Surjewala.He further alleged that Rishi Agarwal shared the stage with Modi during Vibrant Gujarat summits. #abg shipyard #randeep surjewala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-targeted-over-abg-shipyard-case-369701
14-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Diary: Searching for greener pastures||3 IAS/HCS transfer lists in 3 daysJhajjar: Three transfer lists of IAS/HCS officers in three days remained a hot topic of discussion not only in bureaucratic, but also in political circles as some officers got either transfer cancelled or their portfolio changed after shifting to the new place of posting. Interestingly, Rohtak's new Deputy Commissioner was shifted within some hours of his assuming charge while Jhajjar witnessed deployment of the two new DCs within two days. “The transfer lists have now become means of showing strength and political influence for bureaucrats. After major transfers, every time another list is also out shortly to accommodate influential officers on their favourite position by cancelling their previous orders,” reacted a political leader.DIG faces mediapersons’ ireHisar: The Hisar DIG-cum-SP, Balwan Singh Rana, faced the ire of mediapersons when they boycotted a police press conference in the city last week. The situation deteriorated when DIG Rana called a press conference at his office on Wednesday. As mediapersons reached his office at stipulated time, he kept them waiting for about half an hour. Later, waiting mediapersons were informed that DSP Ashok Kumar would address the press conference. In fact, the press conference was crucial in the wake of allegations of bribe levelled against a senior police official by an industrialist Pradeep Nehra. However, mediapersons refused to interact with the DSP as they wanted to hear from the DIG about the issue of bribe allegations against a senior cop.Haryana leaders canvassing in UPYamunanagar: Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh (UP) are turning into a boon for political leaders of the adjoining Yamunanagar district, who have so far failed to get political mileage at the local level. They are now visiting nearby Saharanpur and other districts of the UP to canvass for candidates of their own parties. Interestingly, they are also uploading their pictures of canvassing in the neighbouring state not only on Facebook, but also on WhatsApp groups of Yamunanagar. The motive behind the move is to make their presence felt and to raise their political stature in Haryana.When Gurnam Singh Charuni lost his coolKurukshetra: After drawing continuous criticism for his decision of the Mission Punjab, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief, Gurnam Singh, lost his cool and accused a political family from Punjab, farm leader Rakesh Tikait and Chautalas in Haryana for spreading rumors against him. He blamed them for running a campaign against him. The farmer leader said he sacrificed a lot for the farming community, but still had to face criticism. On the other hand INLD leader Om Prakash Chautala slammed Gurnam Singh Charuni and termed him as an opportunist, who was taking advantage of the situation. Contributed by: Pradeep Sharma, Ravinder Saini, Deepender Deswal, Shiv Kumar Sharma and Nitish Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/searching-for-greener-pastures-369699
14-02-2022||Gurugram||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar launches dam project in Nuh village||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar launched the Jal Suraksha Sunishchitikaran Bandh Pariyojana in Pathkhori village of Firozpur Jhirka in Nuh district today.Calling dams the sole way of water conservation, Khattar said that the dam would help in utilisation of spring water of the Aravallis that goes waste.The project is part of Aspirational District Transformation Programme and the CM sought public participation to make it a success.With this project, the drinking water and irrigation needs of nine villages of the district will be met. With the construction of this dam, 224 hectare metres of water will be stored. It will become a big reservoir and its direct benefit will be given to the common man.The Chief Minister said that the water table in this area is very low and the water has become saline. So, Ranney Well Scheme of Rs 263 crore has been started here to overcome water shortage in this area.Mewat Canal is being constructed with a capacity of 200 cusecs wherein water will be taken from Yamuna river.Meanwhile, Khattar on Sunday said that his government would set up hospitals with a capacity of 200 beds each in every district of the state to provide better and affordable health care to its residents.He was speaking on the occasion of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the proposed 500-bed hospital for Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) beneficiaries at Manesar here.The labour force constitutes a large section of society and plays a significant role in development, especially in construction works. A healthy labour force is a sign of development of industries, Khattar said. — & PTI #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-launches-dam-project-in-nuh-village-369698
14-02-2022||Kaithal||Villagers force Pundri MLA Randhir Gollen to cancel visit||A protest by a group of persons of Karora village in the district forced Pundri MLA Randhir Gollen to cancel his visit to the village on Sunday.Meanwhile, heavy police force was deployed to stop any untoward incident in the village. The protesters were opposing the visit of the MLA where he was scheduled to participate in a programme. The villagers said they would not allow the MLA to visit their villages as he had made “anti-farmer statement” during the farmers’ agitation.Mandeep Karora, a farm leader, said during farmers’ agitation, the MLA had made a statement against farmers. His son is also posting message on social media account in which he reportedly said that anti-social elements were opposing the visit of the MLA. “We will continue to protest against the MLA and not allow him to enter our village,” he added.Police officials also tried to pacify them, but they were adamant not to allow the MLA in their village. The MLA could not be contacted for his view, but people said the MLA visited nearby Serdha village and opened a road. DC Pradeep Dahiya said, “I will talk to villagers for trust building and clear the misunderstandings, if any, so that no such a situation does not arise in future.” — #farmers #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-force-pundri-mla-randhir-gollen-to-cancel-visit-369697
14-02-2022||---||Small forests to be developed in Rohtak through Japanese Miyawaki technique||Rohtak, February 13The district administration has come up with a plan to develop small forests by adopting the Miyawaki technique, pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, on the vacant land lying idle at various government departments. The plan aims at enhancing the green cover in the district.Under the first phase, Miyawaki afforestation would be carried out on the Sugar mill premises in Meham and Rohtak. Thereafter, the vacant land of various departments would be identified to develop small forests there.Deputy Commissioner, Manoj Kumar, inspected the small forest in the jail complex yesterday and applauded the jail administration for taking this initiative.“The technique ensures 20 per cent faster growth of plants and also helps in establishing small forests. Moreover, saplings are planted at short distances to ensure no space in the middle so that they could get maximum oxygen,” he said.The DC maintained that the decrease in greenery due to deforestation had resulted in imbalance in environment. It had led to climate change and a fall in the water-table. The technique will prove very effective not only to keep the environment healthy, but also raise the water-table through good rains, he added. #Environment #miyawaki technique||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/small-forests-to-be-developed-through-japanese-technique-369696
14-02-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Mining lease holders charging royalty illegally: Plant owners||Yamunanagar, February 13Mining lease holders are allegedly charging royalty amount on stone crushers’ processed material instead of charging this amount on natural raw mining material (a mixture of sand, ‘bajri’ and boulder) from their own mining quarries.A group of stone crusher and screening plant owners have alleged that this act of the mining lease holders is working to promote illegal mining in the district. Members of the group met Superintendent of Police Kamaldeep Goyal on Saturday and demanded that he should take action against mining lease holders/contractors who are charging royalty amount from the drivers of the vehicles loaded with stone crushers’ processed material (pieces of different sizes of broken boulders, broken ‘bajri’ and dust) in illegal manner.Sanjeev Chaudhary, a member of the group of stone crusher and screening plant owners, alleged that as per the rules laid by Mines and Geology Department of Haryana, mining lease holders could charge royalty amount on natural raw mining material when it was loaded in vehicles from their (mining contractors’) mining quarries.He alleged that the mining lease holders were charging royalty amount on stone crushers’ processed material instead of charging on natural raw mining material being extracted from their own quarries.He demanded that the mining lease holders should stop this practice and charge the royalty amount as per the rules laid by the Mines and Geology Department.“If the royalty slip is issued on the spot at the mining quarry, no one will be able to extract raw mining material from outside the legal mining quarry,” said Sanjeev Chaudhary. Sources said that several stone crusher and screening plant owners processed mining material stolen from unauthorised areas also (and not just from legal mining quarries).“Mining lease holders can’t charge royalty on illegal natural raw mining material. Therefore, they prefer to charge royalty amount on stone crushers’ processed material to earn extra money as the stone crushers’ processed material is prepared using both legal and illegal/stolen natural raw mining material,” said sources.Sources further said that the owners of stone crushers, who used legal natural raw mining material along with illegal material, sold their processed material at cheaper rates. But the owners of the stone crushers, who were only using legal natural raw mining material, faced difficulty in selling their processed material as it was more expensive.Mixing illegal material cuts rate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-lease-holders-charging-royalty-illegally-plant-owners-369694
14-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad residents protest poor civic facilities||Faridabad, February 13Residents of some of the residential colonies located in the Neharpar (Greater Faridabad) area staged a demonstration today to highlight the civic problems.“The civic amenities in a majority of the colonies in the area is pathetic, making thousands of residents suffer,’’ said Payal Raghav a resident of Gaddha Colony, located in Ward 28 of the Municipal Corporation. Claiming that while the colony was more than 20 years old, all assurances made so far had proved to be hollow as the residents are yet to get the facilities of water, sewerage and roads. “I feel ashamed to call my relatives here due to poor civic conditions,’’ says Raghav, who adds that shifting out from here is also not easy due to the problems.” “We built a house in the area trusting the word of a local councillor but the situation has failed to improve in the past 10 years,” says Rajesh Dahiya, another resident.Poor amenities making us sufferThe civic amenities in a majority of the colonies in the area are pathetic, making thousands of residents suffer. Payal Raghav, a resident of gaddha colonyWaterlogging not addressedWaterlogging in the area is common after a downpour. Residents are at risk of falling into pits as they are left with no option but to wade through slush and dirty water. Vijay, a senior citizenTackling problems on a priority basisAny grievance regarding basic amenities is being dealt on a priority basis. A senior official, MC, Faridabad“The waterlogging in the area is common after a downpour, the residents are at risk of falling into pits as they are left with no option but to wade through slush and dirty water that remains stagnant for days,” says Vijay, a senior citizen. Dharam Raj from Karuna Colony said though sewer and water pipelines had been laid some time ago, they are yet to be connected to the mainline. “The funds allocated for the project may have been siphoned off,” he said.Paras Bhardwaj from ‘Save Faridabad’, an NGO , which coordinated the protest ,said the lingering issue of poor civic amenities had forced the residents to come out on the road, which he said was a cause of concern. Alleging that the authorities have failed miserably in providing the basic facilities of water supply, sanitation, roads, drains, streetlights, garbage and solid waste disposal, he said this was a blot on the face of the Smart City project, on which Rs 3000 crore had been spent in the past few years.Any grievance regarding the basic amenities was being dealt on a priority basis, said a senior official of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-residents-protest-poor-civic-facilities-369693
14-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Approval to smart water supply project for Karnal||Karnal, February 13Board of Directors of Karnal Smart City Ltd (KSCL) has given nod to the smart water supply solution for the city as well as for 15 villages within the boundary of the Karnal Municipal Corporation. Earlier, it was planned for the city area only, but now the rural area of the KMC limits have been included in the start supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) based smart water supply solution.Will ensure clean, pure waterAfter getting permission from the board of directors, we have floated a tender of this project, which will ensure clean and pure water to residents. Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCLThe KSCL has floated a tender of this project which, as per the officials, will make the legacy system hi-tech. The authorities are hopeful that the execution of work is expected to start in April. The deadline of this project will be June 2023. Under this project, the agency will install sensors, pressure and flow meters to measure and control the volume, pressure, leakages detection to ensure quality of water and real-time pipe bursts detection in the water supply network.It will also help the authorities in determining the water supply and consumption in the city in real time . Besides, it will also help in assessing the non-revenue water.“After getting the permission from the board of directors, we have floated a tender of this project which will ensure clean and pure water to the residents,” said Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCL.About the working of the project, Anish Yadav informed that this new system would be integrated with the command and control centre of the KSCL in Sector 12 KMC office, where a team of experts will monitor, manage and collect data from the electrical and instrumentation sensors to be installed at all 190 tubewells and identified key points across the city for strengthening the water supply system. The complete pipe network will be mapped on GIS, which will also help in determining the leakage and future requirement to lay the pipeline. After finding any problems such as leakage, contamination in water, mechanical failure at pumping and booster station, the experts will convey it to the field team, which will fix it in a stipulated time, said Yadav.This system will help in maintaining pressure of water, efficient complaint redressal and monitoring of the supply network of water. Besides, replacement of damaged pipes will also be covered under this project.There will be a liquid chlorine dosing system automation and residual chlorine transmitter for making water safe for drinking by disinfecting the water through chlorination under safe limits, which will reduce the probability of waterborne diseases. Besides, TDS and turbidity sensors will also be installed on the pipe network to check the quality of water. The CEO said to keep a vigil at water supply tubewells for safety purpose, CCTV cameras will also be installed at all tubewells.Rs 67 crore to be spent on project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/approval-to-smart-water-supply-project-for-karnal-369692
14-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram: Let down by Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, say high-rise residents||Gurugram, February 13With Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar not visiting the Chintels Paradiso Society, the residents of the society are up in arms against the government’s alleged apathy.Editorial: Paradise lost: Gurugram roof collapse reeks of criminal neglect“We are highly disappointed by both CM and Deputy CM who were in district today only had lip and social media sympathy to offer, but did not care to come and see our plight. We were told that we never invited him. Is it a party going here? Is it not the responsibility of our public representatives to be with us in such times. Yesterday, our MP ditched us and today our CM. Whom do we look for help and justice now?” said Rakesh Hooda, president, Chintels Paradiso Society.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, when questioned about the matter, said the role of the officials concerned would be investigated and nobody would be spared. On being asked about the rehabilitation of residents, he said it was too early to say.Meanwhile, the residents continued their protest for the third consecutive day today, demanding an FIR of murder not just against all officials and authorities involved in the approval of the building plans and granting of occupation certificates. They have demanded an immediate buyback of their flats by the builder at the current market rate.“How can we live here anymore? Today it’s one tower, tomorrow it will be another. The builder should pay us back all our money with interest or give us current market rates of our flats. He and all officials should be booked for murder,” said one of the protesters.The residents claim that they have been living like refugees, with builder opening a handful of non-furnished empty flats and many are sleeping in park with children.A meeting of representatives of 50 societies was also held today where a demand for structural audit of all societies from sectors 37 to 115 from IIT Delhi has been demanded.“We want IIT Delhi to do audit so that steps can be taken in time to save lives,” said Praveen Malik of the United Association of New Gurugram.Demand for low-risesThe collapse has triggered a drain of residents and there has been a spurt in demand for low-rises and builder floors. While tenants have served notices to landlords for vacating flats and waiving the notice period, many people have put up their flats for sale.Case against Chintels MD, othersAnother case was registered on Sunday against MD of Chintels, architects, contractors and structure engineers involved in the project. Action was taken on the detailed report filed by RS Bhath, District Town Planner, directing action against seven persons #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/let-down-by-haryana-cm-say-high-rise-residents-369624
