15-02-2022||Deepender DeswalHisar||Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi gets phone threats; caller demands Rs 2 crore||Senior Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi got ransom calls demanding Rs 2 crore, police said on Tuesday.Bishnoi, an MLA from Adampur assembly constituency and the son of former chief minister late Bhajan Lal, emailed his complaint to Hisar Police, police said. The complaint said Bishnoi got the calls through Whatsapp's audio call feature while he was in Delhi and that the caller threatened to kill Bishnoi and his family, police said. The caller made multiple calls, the first one at 7.30 am, and also sent texts from three foreign numbers., police said quoting the complaint.Bishnoi's spokesperson Sanjay Gautam said the leader will also lodge his complaint with the Delhi Police. #kuldeep bishnoi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adampur-mla-kuldeep-bishnoi-gets-phone-threats-caller-demands-rs-2-crore-370164
15-02-2022||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram heist: Court rejects IPS officer Dheeraj Setia’s bail application; casts doubts on former Police Commissioner’s role||A Gurugram court rejected former Indian Police Service officer Dheeraj Setia’s bail application on Tuesday in connection with the sensational multicrore heist saying there was more to the story than meets the eye.The court of Additional Sessions Judge Amit Sahrawat said that based on the admission made Sachinder Jain Naval, a doctor who is the chief suspect in the case, it seemed suspicious that Setia, Gurugram’s former deputy commissioner of police who was accused of accepting a bribe to derail investigations, could do so right under Gurugram’s former police commissioner KK Rao, especially given that gangsters would visit him at the Gurugram Commissionerate.Setia was suspended from police service on December 21, 2021, after his role in the case came to light and is currently absconding.The court said investigators could not determine if the entire exercise was done with the former police commissioner’s consent without the suspect’s custody.In addition, Setia was given the charge of DCP (crime) through an official order from the police commissioner, the court said. What kind of vetting was done with regard to the petitioner’s competence and integrity before handing him the charge remains to be investigated, the court said.“Whether the Commissioner of Police had passed that order dated 18.8.2021 as a matter of routine or purposely remains to be investigated and that is possible only upon the interrogation of the petitioner,” the court said."If the gangsters and the dacoits can visit the office and residence of a DCP with bags of money, a poor man in this country must certainly go to some deity to pray,” the court said.The incident dates back to August 4, 2021, when gangster Lagarpuriya's men broke into a flat a private company used as office space and decamped with crores of rupees in cash. A Special Task Force investigating the case put this money at Rs 30-40 crore.The key accused in the theft case, Naval, acclaimed he’d bribed Setia with gold, cash, and currency in US dollars, worth Rs 2.5 crore, to hush up the case.However, Naval claimed Setia returned a large part of the money and gold but kept a few dollars saying the case was not in his hands.  #gurugram heist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-heist-court-rejects-ips-officer-dheeraj-setias-bail-application-casts-doubts-on-former-police-commissioners-role-370152
15-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Chintel builders booked under section 304(2) of IPC||Gurugram, February 15Gurugram police has booked the Chintel builders under section 304(2) of IPC for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The builder and contractors were earlier booked for negligence after two women died in partial collapse of D tower of Chintel Paradiso.It was Rajesh Bhardwaj, husband of deceased who had moved to police and an FIR was registered at Bajghera police station.The residents were however angry and started protest, accusing local police of shielding builder by adding bailable sections to FIR and not booking him for murder. It was after a relay hunger strike was started yesterday that builder was booked under this section.“When they use substandard material don’t they know what repercussions could be? It was not negligence but murder in waiting,” said the complainant Rajesh Bhardwaj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chintel-builders-booked-under-section-3042-of-ipc-370135
15-02-2022||Residents of Matanhel village in Jhajjar district are a harassed lot due to accumulation of water in the main street of the village for the past several days. They have to wade through the water while going to the other side while the authorities concerned are not paying any heed to it despite being informed about the issue. Those residing in the street are forced to be confined to their houses. The authorities should drain out the water at the earliest.||Waterlogged Street in Jhajjar village bane of residents||Naresh Kumar, JhajjarProvide solution to the problem of stray animals Stray animals have wreaked havoc on agricultural land located between the New Grain Market and the railway line in Karnal. These animals come from the grain market and enter the fields and destroy the standing crops of farmers and sometimes injure the farmers. Due to the destruction of crops, farmers are suffering financial loss and find it difficult to save their lives from these animals. The Haryana Government should provide a permanent solution to the problem of these stray animals at the earliest. Shakti Singh, KarnalInstal CCTV cameras at strategic locations Shopkeepers in Bhiwani town have raised the demand for the installation of CCTV cameras at roundabouts and certain strategic locations in the town. There have been frequent thefts at the Hansi Gate Ghantaghar, the posh area of Bhiwani. The CCTV cameras can be a deterrent for thieves and also help the police in detection of crime.Kamal Singh, BhiwaniIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogged-street-in-jhajjar-village-bane-of-residents-370069
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar pays tributes to Pulwama martyrs||Fatehabad police arrest two with banned tabletsFatehabad: The Fatehabad police arrested two persons with 9,990 prohibited drug tablets on Monday. The arrested is Major Singh and Sandeep Kumar, residents of Sidhani village of the district. The CIA branch of the Fatehabad police spotted a motorcycle without number plate and stopped it during checking on the Chandpura-Sidhani road. tnsPlea for no feasts on demise of elderly in villagesHisar: The Samajik Kupratha Nished Abhiyan Committee on Monday urged people to do away with the ritual of organising community feasts on the demise of elderly persons and a ban on DJ during celebrations. A patron of the committee said rituals such as throwing community feasts on death of elderly persons is a burdensome practice for the affected family. TNSApplications invited for state awardsChandigarh: The state on Monday invited online applications for the grant of state awards to those who have done commendable work in the field of disability, old age and drug de-addiction. The date for online applications through portal https://award.socialjusticehry.gov.in. will be open from February 14 to March 5. #Khattar #pulwama attack||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-minister-pays-tributes-to-pulwama-martyrs-370066
15-02-2022||Karnal||Athletics meet at Dyal Singh College in Karnal||Sweaters distributed to studentsYamunagar: Vijay Kapur, chairman of DAV Schools, Yamunanagar, distributed sweaters and inners to students of DAV High School, Kansapur in Yamunanagar. He said students should learn discipline and come to school in proper uniform. He said the school was set up by JN Kapur, founder of DAV Institutions, Yamunanagar, to impart education to the needy when India's literacy rate was around 30 per cent. Kapur thanked Subhash Garg and Naresh Garg of the Ruchera Trust for extending help to the students.Biz & management conferenceHisar: An annual national conference on "Business and management" organised by the Haryana School of Business (HSB), Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, concluded. Twentyone technical sessions were organised at the conference in which more than 120 delegates from all over the country presented research papers. More than 30 resource persons from industry and institutions of academic and professional repute acted as experts in different technical sessions held during the conference. Prof Shabnam Saxena, dean, Haryana School of Business and Prof Karam Pal Narwal, director, HSB, said at the two-day conference, the participants came to know about the latest technologies on the subject of business and management.Sports meet at Nehru collegeJhajjar: Pt JL Nehru Government PG College organised an annual sports meet to promote sports culture in the institute. Principal Dr Dhanpat Grewal said Rahul of BA (second year) and Manish of BA (first year) were declared best athletes in boy and girl categories, respectively. Col Yogendra Singh, who was the chief guest at the closing ceremony, gave away the prizes to winning students and also called upon every participant to make sports a way of life to keep physically and mentally fit.e-campus placement driveHisar: Six students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Kcloud Pvt Ltd, Noida, organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor and ProfAvnesh Verma, Registrar of the university, congratulated the selected students.  #dyal singh college karnal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/athletics-meet-at-dyal-singh-college-in-karnal-370065
15-02-2022||---||Man held with drugs  in Sirsa||Sirsa, February 14A team of the Anti- Anti-Narcotics Cell and Food and Drug Administration Department in a joint operation seized five types of intoxicating medicines along with MTP kits and other such materials in large quantities which are used for making drugs.A spokesperson of the Food and Drug Administration Department said that the accused, Anurag Manav, was arrested by the police after the registration of a case under the NDPS Act and Drug and Cosmetic Act. He did not have any kind of drug license or any other valid supporting document to prove that the accused could keep these drugs with him, he added. Officials informed that Anurag Manav, a resident of Sirsa, was carrying five types of intoxicant medicines, including 19,000 tablets of tramadol prolonged release 100 mg, 1,200 capsules of proxywel spas, 480 tablets of lorazepam 2 mg, injection tramwel 15, 50 strips of mesopril kit in which a total of 250 tablets have been recovered.MTP kits which is used in the medical termination of pregnancy were also found.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-with-drugs-in-sirsa-370060
15-02-2022||---||Sonepat: 3 murders solved, four arrested||Sonepat, February 14The police have claimed to solve two separate blind murder cases and arrested the accused in the crime involved. Besides, two more persons were arrested in another murder case.A man was stabbed to death on Purkhas road in the city on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Krishankant of Badayun in Uttar Pradesh. He was living in rented accommodation in Ram Nagar here and drove an e-rickshaw for livelihood. The Civil Lines police registered a case on the complaint of Suman, wife of the deceased. The CIA-II unit of the district police, after looking at the CCTV footage of the area, arrested Krishan. The accused confessed to the crime and said he got into an argument with the driver over fare. Krishan attacked the driver with a brick and knife.In another case, the joint team of Kharkhoda CIA and Kharkhoda police solved a murder and arrested Pratap Dabas of Sultanpur Dabas of Delhi. A case was registered on February 12.The deceased was identified as Sanjay. Ravi Kumar, brother of the deceased, in his complaint alleged that an unknown person had beaten his brother, who succumbed to his injuries during treatment. Dabas was arrested on Monday. The accused admitted to his involvement in the crime. In a third case, Jagwanti of Tihar Malik village, in her complaint to Mohana police on February 5, said six persons – Ajay, Kulbeer, Vazir, Pradeep, Praveen and Manjeet murdered her son Praveen in the fields. Following her complaint, a case was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-3-murders-solved-four-arrested-370059
15-02-2022||---||Social activist Abhay Ram dies at 68||Hisar, February 14Noted social reformer of the region Master Abhay Ram, a strong advocate of gender equality, died at Dandoor village in the district. He was 68. His last rites were performed in his native Gorakhpur village of Fatehabad district, where his daughter Seema Devi lit the pyre.A physical education teacher, Abhay Ram had promoted participation of girls in sports and extra-curricular activities during his service. After retirement, he carried on the mission to encourage villagers not to discriminate between girls and boys in the family. He led by example, as he not only ensured education to his three daughters but also put conditions on not to give any dowry in their marriages.His son Sandeep Siwach, who is a farm activist, said his father was impressed by the ideas and ideals of Comrade Krishan Swaroop Gorakhpuria, a renowned social activist. He said his father had wished that there should be no community feast on the demise of elderly persons. “We have donated the money meant for organising a community feast to the government school in the village,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/social-activist-abhay-ram-dies-at-68-370057
15-02-2022||---||Report sought on 'violations' of labour laws by company in Haryana||Panipat, February 14The Haryana Labour Commissioner has directed eight deputy labour commissioners (DLCs) and six Assistant Labour Commissioners (ALCs) across the state to inquire into the reported violation of labour laws by Pooja Consulations, a private company, which has been allotted cleanliness/sanitation tenders for various local bodies in the state for the past 13 years. He also directed officials to submit inquiry report within seven days. Notably, the police have registered a case against the company owner for his alleged involvement in the service tax scam of the Sonepat MC.The complainant alleged that the company, Pooja Consulations, had been taking sanitation tenders of the municipal corporations, municipal councils and municipal committees since 2000. These include sanitation tenders of Panipat, Sonepat, Karnal, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula Municipal Corporations, and 40 local bodies, including Samalkha, Gannaur, Bahadurgarh, Sohna, Jind, Kaithal and others in the state, the complainant said.The company had also allotted the garbage-lifting work in Panipat, Sonepat, Samalkha and Ganaur, which was sublet to JBM, another private company, the complainant added.Kapoor further stated that the company was looting the statutory rights of sanitation workers in cleaning contracts for the past 13 years. The company was allegedly involved in the ESI and EPF scams running into crores, Kapoor added. This amount was grabbed by the company every month by preparing fraudulent bills and non-payment of minimum wages to sanitation workers, Kapoor said. Following Kapoor’s complaint, the government had ordered an inquiry into the matter.Misappropriation chargePP Kapoor, an RTI activist of Samalkha, had filed a complaint against Raj Kumar Hooda, owner of Pooja Consulations on September 10 last year, in which he alleged that the company was violating labour laws and misappropriating the ESI and EPF of sanitation workers for the past 13 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/report-sought-on-violations-of-labour-laws-by-company-in-haryana-370055
15-02-2022||---||14K ponds in rural areas of Haryana to be renovated||Chandigarh, February 14Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said that about 14,000 ponds in the rural areas of the state will be renovated with modern technology by the state government, for which an amount of Rs 600 crore has been released.He said under the first phase, directions had been given to the Haryana Water Resources (Conservation, Regulation and Management) Authority for cleaning the water of about 4,500 ponds.He said such a system would be made with the help of new technology so that the old water of the ponds continues to be used in the agriculture sector and new water from the canals would continue to flow into the ponds. He added that the streets of many villages were filled with water and there was no permanent arrangement for the disposal of the waste water due to which there were sometimes quarrels among people.Roads had been built along the villages’’ phirni, but these get damaged with time due to dirty water coming out of houses. He directed officials to make adequate arrangements for the drainage of water.The Deputy CM also said a concrete plan would be made to prevent the overflow of village ponds during the rainy season and to ensure the cleaning of ponds every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14k-ponds-in-rural-areas-of-haryana-to-be-renovated-370048
15-02-2022||---||Few takers for course in elementary education in Haryana||Rohtak, February 14Over 49 per cent seats of Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) remained vacant in self-financing colleges across the state after the conclusion of third counselling recently.As per information, there were a total 18,250 seats in 342 self-financing colleges in the state but only 9,300 seats were filled. Fourth counselling is underway to fill the remaining 8,950 seats.Lack of interest by the candidates and the delay in initiating the admission process are stated to be the reasons behind this lukewarm response.The counselling is being conducted by an agency authorised by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT).“Majority of the candidates who got admission in the course this session hail from other states. Local youth are not interested in pursuing the course as they are not finding much opportunity in getting government jobs after it. The recruitment of primary teachers in government schools has not been done for the past eight years,” said Satish Khola, president, Haryana Self-Finance Private College Association.He maintained that the discontinuation of the course in all District Institutes for Teachers Training (DIET) two years ago also made the candidates think upon employment opportunities after completing the course. Moreover, the admission process was also delayed this year as the government was contemplating discontinuing the course, he added.“A large number of seats will also remain unoccupied after the fourth counselling. Hence, the authorities should make preparations for holding fifth counselling,” said Khola. Sunil Bajaj, Deputy Director, SCERT, said since a considerable number of diploma holders were not getting government jobs despite clearing the Haryana Teachers Eligibility Test, youth were not taking much interest in the course.“Fourth counselling is still underway. But it is yet to be seen how many candidates deposit the fee to take admission,” said an SCERT employee on condition of anonymity.1,600 seats allottedFourth counselling is still underway and 1,600 seats across the state have been allotted to candidates. But it is yet to be seen how many candidates deposit the fee to take admission. SCERT employee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/few-takers-for-course-in-elementary-education-in-haryana-370043
15-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Portraits of prominent people to adorn Ambala City walls||Ambala, February 14Focusing on the beautification of city walls and making people aware of the prominent people who have some connection with Ambala, the Municipal Corporation has come out with an initiative of beautifying the outer walls of government buildings and public places with the portraits of such personalities.The portraits of freedom fighter and former Chief Minister Uttar Pradesh Sucheta Kripalani, Om Prakash Puri, Juhi Chawla, Parineeti Chopra, and Zohrabai can be seen on the outer wall of the under-construction section of Civil Hospital, Ambala City, while portraits of some more famous personalities, including music composer Prem Dhawan are in progress. A brief description of the personality is also being mentioned along with their portraits.Artist Abhaas Khera, who has been preparing the portraits, said, “Over 20 portraits of famous personalities will be prepared on this stretch. The work is likely to be completed in a couple of months.”Ambala Mayor Shakti Rani Sharma, said, “There are many prominent people who have brought laurels and recognition to Ambala. While many are known, some prominent people are now forgotten and some are unknown. Usually, slogans are written on the walls and we also didn’t want any random pictures, so we decided to get the walls beautified with the portraits of prominent people to motivate the coming generation. We have come to know about many other forgotten personalities and we are verifying the facts.” “We are also collecting the data of martyrs who belonged to Ambala, and in the coming days, people will be able to know about them and see the portraits of the martyrs as well. The objective behind the initiative was to pay our respect and tributes to all such personalities. There are many places and walls which are in poor shape, so we will be covering all such locations. There are many artists from Ambala and I appeal to them to come forward and make some contribution to the city. Money shouldn’t be the criteria for everything”, she added. Aman Dhanda, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, said, “The Ambala Municipal Corporation is getting the walls of government buildings beautified artistically. ”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/portraits-of-prominent-people-to-adorn-ambala-city-walls-370041
15-02-2022||---||Protesting anganwari workers ready for long haul in Karnal||Karnal, February 14Hundreds of anganwari workers and helpers on Monday organised a state-level protest rally in Karnal and announced to stay put in the city till the fulfilment of their demands, including increase in wages and others.They staged a dharna at the Committee Chowk, leading to traffic chaos in the city. The police had to make extra efforts to regulate the traffic. The police and district administration tried to pacify them, but till the filing of the report they were on dharna. Apart from staging dharna at the Committee Chowk, they put up tents in Sector 12 for a long haul in the city.Earlier in the morning, they assembled in the Sector 12 fountain park and raised slogans against the government for not fulfilling the promises made in 2018.The protesting workers and helpers blamed the government for not listening to their issues even after 70 days of the protest. Around 52,000 workers and helpers have been staging dharna across the state for the past 70 days to press their demands for the implementation of the promises made on September 10, 2018 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of increasing the wages of workers and helpers by Rs 1,500 and Rs 750, respectively.Similarly, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had also promised in March 2018 to fix their wages as per skilled and semi-skilled workers, but all in vain, said Usha Rani, national president of the Anganwari Fedration. She said the government had also accepted the demand of Rs 3 lakh ex-gratia, but still it was not implemented. AAP leader Naveen Jaihind also extended support to the protesting workers. He said the anganwari workers and helpers would uproot the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-anganwari-workers-ready-for-long-haul-in-karnal-370040
15-02-2022||---||Aid announced, farmers end dharna in Sirsa||Hisar, February 14Haryana Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Minister JP Dalal has said that the compensation amount for the crops of mustard, bajra and cotton, which were affected by pink bollworm last year, would be disbursed to farmers soon.Interacting with a delegation of the Haryana Kisan Manch from Sirsa district, Dalal assured that farmers would be given adequate compensation for the damaged crop. The farmers led by Haryana Kisan Manch announced to end their dharna in Sirsa town after the meeting.The minister informed that Rs 545 crore will be disbursed to farmers in the state soon for damage to their crops and another Rs 800 crore compensation would be given for the crops affected by pink bollworm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aid-announced-farmers-end-dharna-in-sirsa-370039
15-02-2022||---||Jhajjar: 9 kids among 11 hurt in mishap||Jhajjar, February 1411 persons, including nine children of a private school, were injured when their school van rammed into a canter near Girawar village here on Monday.The mishap took place in the morning when the van carrying nine students was on its way to the school.The injured were rushed to World College of Medical Sciences. Two children, the driver and conductor of the van were referred to PGIMS, Rohtak, following their critical condition.BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar also reached the hospital to know about the injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-9-kids-among-11-hurt-in-mishap-370038
15-02-2022||---||Police 'thrash' Kurukshetra man for buying stolen phone||Kurukshetra, February 14A Kurukshetra resident, who was arrested in connection with mobile theft case, has accused the CIA-II unit of the Kurukshetra police of thrashing him.The man said he was admitted to LNJP Hospital in Kurukshetra with thigh fracture. The injured is Rohtash, a resident of Thanesar. He was arrested on February 12.Rohtash alleged: “I received a call from the CIA-II unit. The police told me that I was using a stolen phone and took it from me. I told them that the phone belonged to me, but they started to beat me. There were five policemen and all were in inebriated condition. They used a heavy stick to put pressure on my legs. They also sought money to settle the mobile case.”Rohtash’s kin said even if a stolen mobile was recovered from Rohtash’s possesssion, the police had no right to brutally thrash him. “We will seek legal action against the policemen,” the kin said.As per the Kurukshetra police, 36 new and 13 old mobiles were stolen from a mobile shop on Railway Road on December 22 last year. During investigation, Rohtash was arrested for purchasing a stolen mobile phone.Meanwhile, after receiving information, BJP MLA from Indri Ram Kumar Kashyap reached the hospital and inquired about the incident.Kashyap said: “Rohtash told me that he was badly thrashed by five policemen. Action will be taken against the guilty. I will take up the matter with the SP.”Later in the evening, SP Anshu Singla suspended CIA-II unit’s SI Daljeet Singh and sent SI Balwant Singh, constable Baldev Singh, and two other policemen — Sanjiv Kumar and Dinesh — to Police Lines for negligence in the arrest of Rohtash. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-thrash-kurukshetra-man-for-buying-stolen-phone-370037
15-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Waterlogging makes lives of Rohtak villagers miserable||Rohtak, February 14The accumulation of water in the main streets of Chamariyan village here has made the life of villagers difficult. They have to wade through the water daily to get out of their houses. Children and some residents have even suffered injuries after they slipped on the muddy streets.“Residents find it very difficult to walk on streets due to the waterlogged conditions. Everyone has to either use two- wheelers or four-wheelers to tackle this problem. Women have to face a lot of difficulties in fetching water, while elderly people have confined themselves in their houses as they cannot go anywhere on their own and need help,” said Rajesh Hooda, a distressed villager.He said there was no drainage system in the village to remove dirty water. The situation gets worse in the monsoon season. Recently, two youths were injured after their motorbike skidded as they could not spot a deep pothole in the waterlogged street. Several complaints in this respect had been filed at the CM window, but the problem was still lying unaddressed, he added.Pradeep, another villager, said many people had also been suffering from skin allergy in legs after crossing the dirty water which was also becoming a cause of various diseases.Meanwhile, villagers, including women, today blocked the Rohtak-Panipat highway near the Makrauli toll plaza here for over two hours. The police, on getting information, rushed to the spot but the protesters remained adamant on their demand for a permanent solution to the problem.Cops persuaded the protesters to clear the road following an assorance by the Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) for solving the problem.“The BDPO has assured us of setting up a drainage system to remove dirty water in the panchayat land, but we have served a seven-day ultimatum to the authorities to keep their promise, otherwise be ready to face agitation,” said Rajesh, a protester.BDPO Rajpal Chahal said the accumulated water in the main street of the village was being drained out, while a team would visit the village tomorrow to ensure a permanent solution to the issue.Set up drainageI have several times raised the issue before the authorities, but to no avail. Villagers are compelled to live a hellish life due to this long-standing problem. The authorities must take cognisance of this serious issue and set up a drainage system. Roshan, outgoing sarpanch||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-makes-lives-of-rohtak-villagers-miserable-370036
15-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Spell reasons for extending time for filing challan: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the trial court was required to spell specific reasons for extending the time for filing the final investigation report or challan against an accused in a drugs case. It was also required to specify the investigation’s progress and the compelling reasons for his detention beyond 180 days.The Bench also ordered the setting aside of an order rejecting default bail to the petitioner-accused, relying on extension in time granted to the prosecution to complete the investigation. Justice Sant Parkash also ruled that a public prosecutor was not merely “a post office or a forwarding agency”. He was required to make a report to the court indicating the probe’s progress and disclosing justification for keeping the accused in further custody to enable the investigating agency to complete the investigation. He was required to do so after independent application of mind on the investigating agency’s request.The ruling came on a petition against the State of Haryana by an accused through counsel Aditya Sanghi for setting aside an order dated October 25, 2021, whereby the trial court dismissed his application for default bail.Sanghi told the Bench that the prosecution’s application for the extension of time for filing challan was allowed on the grounds that a co-accused was yet to be arrested and the FSL report had not been received. In a criminal case, the challan has to be presented within a specified timeframe, or extension in time is required to be sought. Failure to present the challan within the stipulated period gives the accused an “indefeasible right” to get “default” bail, in the absence of extension in time granted by the Court.Justice Sant Parkash asserted that the record clearly depicted that an application for the extension of time was allowed without notice to the petitioner. The liberty of the accused was at stake and could not be taken away in a casual manner without affording an opportunity of hearing.“The other ingredients inasmuch as specific reasons for extension of time, the progress of the investigation and compelling reasons for the detention of the petitioner beyond the period of 180 days have not been spelt out in the order extending time for completion of investigation or in the order declining default bail to the petitioner relying on the extension of time to complete investigation,” Justice Sant Parkash added.Before parting, Justice Sant Parkash observed that a public prosecutor was an important officer of the state government and appointed under the Code of Criminal Procedure. He was an independent statutory authority, expected to independently apply his mind to the investigating agency’s request before submitting a report to the court for probe.Public prosecutor not post officeA public prosecutor was not merely a post office or a forwarding agency. He was required to make a report indicating the probe’s progress and disclosing justification for keeping the accused in further custody. — Justice Sant Parkash, Punjab & Haryana HC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spell-reasons-for-extending-time-for-filing-challan-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-370034
15-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: Children attend classes in 'unsafe' government school building||Faridabad, February 14The Government Senior Secondary School in Indira Nagar here has been operational in unhealthy and unsafe conditions. The building is in poor state and is congested. This school is among eight government schools in the district which have been included in the list of buildings which needs to be rebuilt or shifted.“The school building which is in a dilapidated condition has a sewage drain running beneath it and a high-voltage power lines running overhead “, it has been revealed in a reply to an RTI query lodged by Kailash Sharma, an office-bearer of the Abhibhawak Ekta Manch (AEM), a parents body. Though the RTI reply was provided last year, it is revealed that the school premises is still functional on a plot having a size of 1226.6 sq yards (23x 480 sq feet) which is very small in comparison to the norms set by the government for a senior secondary school.Claiming that the school has only 12 rooms for a total of 565 students. The rooms are in a poor condition, making it unsafe for students.The plaster of the walls has also peeled off. Adding that it was perhaps the only school in the district which was situated on a land which had a drain passing underneath, sources in the department concerned said this was among two schools in the district, which had been ordered to be shifted elsewhere, but not done so far.During the hearing of a petition lodged by the AEM, eight schools of the district had been included in the dilapidated building list out of the total of 55 across the state. These include the government schools of Indira Nagar, Press Colony, NIT- 1, Tikona Park, Sector 9, Badoli village and two schools in Old Faridabad. “While the construction of new buildings of six government schools in Anangpur, Mohna, Chhainsa, Faridpur, Dayalpur and Tigaon have either been completed or nearing completion. The work on the construction or replacement of buildings of other schools is in process”, an official of the Education Department said.Only 12 rooms for 565 studentsConstruction of 6 schools complete or near completionThe construction of new buildings of six government schools in Anangpur, Mohna, Chhainsa, Faridpur, Dayalpur and Tigaon have either been completed or nearing completion. The work on the construction or replacement of buildings of other schools is in process. An official of the Education Department||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-children-attend-classes-in-unsafe-government-school-building-370033
15-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Traffic management, safe roads new commissioner's priorities||Kala Ramachandran, a 1994-batch IPS officer, is all set to take over as the first woman Police Commissioner of Gurugram.Slated to join tomorrow, strengthening basic policing, ensuring safe roads and better traffic management are among her priorities.“Gurgaon being a city with diverse milieu from rural to corporate to industrial to urban, focus will be on facilitation of living and ease of doing business. We will focus on traffic management and road safety, security of citizens from street crime like hooliganism, eve teasing, drunken driving etc; security of women; protection of children from offences and on economic offences and cyber crimes,” Ramachandran said. She replaces KK Rao who has been posted as IGP CPT&R Bhondsi.Having served as Superintendent of Police in the districts of Rewari, Fatehabad and Panchkula, Ramachandran was on central deputation to the Intelligence Bureau from 2001 onwards and had returned to Haryana, her parent cadre, last year.Citing traffic as one of the biggest problems of the city, she said that focus would be on traffic management and making roads safe. “Traffic affects one and all and is one of the top problems cited by residents. Its management will be priority. We will also work on making roads and streets safe. Curtailing the number of accidents and street crime will also be on the agenda,” said Ramachandran.Women in the Gurugram police force are eagerly waiting for the new commissioner to join as they feel that she would be able to better address their day-to-day professional issues. Diverse milieuGurgaon being a city with diverse milieu from rural to corporate to industrial to urban, focus will be on facilitation of living and ease of doing business. Kala Ramachandran, IPS officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-traffic-management-safe-roads-new-commissioners-priorities-370026
15-02-2022||---||Gurugram gets first woman police chief||Chandigarh, February 14Senior IPS officer Kala Ramachandran, currently posted as ADGP, State Vigilance Bureau (SVB), has been appointed the first woman Commissioner of Police (CP) of Gurugram.According to police transfers ordered by Haryana Government, the incumbent CP of Gurugram KK Rao has been posted as IGP, CPT&R, Bhondsi.Mamta Singh, IGP of Karnal Range, has been posted as IGP, Rohtak Range. Satender Kumar Gupta will be new IGP, Karnal Range.While B Satheesh Balan will be new IGP Special Task Force (STF), Arun Kumar, DIG, Haryana Police Academy (HPA), Madhuban, will be DIG (STF).Nazneen Bhasin, DIG, Regional Training Centre (RTC), Bhondsi, has been given additional charge of DIG, Women Safety, Panchkula.Balwan Singh, DIG-cum-SP, Hisar, who was recently accused by a businessman of demanding bribe after being booked in a case, has been shifted as DIG (SVB), Gurugram. Abhishek Jorwal, SP (SVB), has been given additional charge of ADC to Governor.Lokendra Singh, SP of Kaithal, will be the new Hisar SP. Maqsood Ahmed, DCP (East), will be SP, Kaithal.DIG CID Shashank Anand has got additional charge of DIG R&C. Virender Kumar has got the charge of DCP East Gurugram with additional charge of in charge, Mirror Emergency Response Centre (MERC), Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-gets-first-woman-police-chief-370016
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana: IAS, 2 HCS officers get new postings||The Haryana Government on Monday transferred an IAS officer and two HCS officers with immediate effect.Managing Director (MD), Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, Saket Kumar, has been transferred as Director General Ayush.Joint Director, Admin, Ayush, Vinesh Kumar, is now SDM Ladwa.Additional CEO, Zila Parishad, Hisar, Aanchal Bhaskar was holding the charge of BDPO Hisar-I. She would now hold the charge of BDPO Agroha instead of BDPO Hisar-I as additional charge. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ias-2-hcs-officers-get-new-postings-370015
15-02-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana: Transfer of IPS officers only after CM's approval||Chandigarh, February 14Transfers and postings of all IPS officers will now be issued in keeping with the approval granted by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.An order to this effect was issued by the office of the Chief Secretary, here today, and seems to have to do with the posting and transfer orders of 15 IPS officers issued late last night.The order states that “Rule 28 (1) of Rules of Business of Government of Haryana mandate proposals for appointments and postings of IPS officers shall be submitted to the Chief Minister before the orders are issued”.With the reference to transfer orders issued last night, it mentions that the Home Minister, Anil Vij, had seen the earlier list of transfers given by the Chief Minister. He, on February 3, expressed reservation about two transfers and communicated the same to the Chief Minister.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, after considering Anil Vij’s reservations about the two postings, directed that the transfer orders be issued for all except one.The order, referring to the rule, maintains that with the CM giving his nod, the requirement of placing the postings before the CM had been fulfilled and the Home Department should issue the orders.The order also quotes another rule to state that all cases of transfer and postings of IPS officers be submitted to him through the Chief Secretary.This particular order settles the issue pertaining to the transfer of IPS officers which has been a bone of contention between the CM and the Home Minister.Sources said that bringing out of such an order was necessitated since the Home Minister would choose to sit on the proposals of postings of IPS officers sent to him, thereby delaying implementation.In the past as well, Vij had raised objections to the transfer of IPS officers, but the CM has always had the last say.Transfers of IPS officers have been a bone of contention between Vij and the CM with the former maintaining that these are under his preview. However, since the CS's order was issued yesterday, it is likely that the IPS transfers were issued only after clarifying that the CM has the final word under the rules.Vij, despite repeated attempts to contact him, was not available for comments.Taking chargeThe order states that “Rule 28 (1) of Rules of Business of Government of Haryana mandate proposals for appointments and postings of IPS officers shall be submitted to the Chief Minister before the orders are issued”. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-transfer-of-ips-officers-only-after-cms-approval-370011
15-02-2022||New Delhi||Supreme Court defers hearing on Haryana domicile quota law||The Supreme Court on Monday deferred the hearing on the Haryana Government’s petition against a Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order staying a law providing for 75 per cent quota to local people in private sector jobs.A Bench led by Justice LN Rao agreed to take it up on Tuesday after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta insisted that he needed to argue the matter on interim relief.Earlier, the top court had on Friday asked the Solicitor General if it should hear all such matters pending in various high courts together.Seeking to enlarge the scope of the hearing on a Haryana law providing for 75 per cent quota to local people in private sector jobs, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Solicitor General if it should hear all such matters pending in various high courts together. Pointing out that similar laws have been passed in Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand and they have been challenged in the high courts, the Bench had asked Mehta to verify it and gather the details. — TNSCLUBBING CASESThe top court had on Friday asked the Solicitor General if it should hear all such matters pending in various high courts together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/apex-court-defers-hearing-on-haryana-domicile-quota-law-370007
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar mourns death of housing society victims||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today offered his deep condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the incident at Chintels Paradiso society of Sector 109, Gurugram. The incident was very unfortunate. The government would ensure that such incidents do not happen in future, he added.He said considering the seriousness of the incident, the government was committed to taking strict action against the guilty and any loss of life due to any reason whatsoever would not be tolerated. The CM said he was monitoring the situation and the Additional Chief Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD), also visited the site.He said the TCPD should take action against all directors of Chintal India Limited, Chintal Exports Private Limited and Intal India Private Limited, structural engineers, architects and contractors who constructed the residential tower and the resident who did the additional construction work on the sixth floor. — #gurugram #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-mourns-death-of-housing-society-victims-370004
15-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Town planner: Rehabilitation of affected Gurugram society residents to be finalised today||Gurugram, February 14A day after getting an FIR registered against seven accused, including Chintel Builder, the District Town and Country Planning Department held a marathon meeting with the Society residents here today.Accused of being indifferent all this while, the department got into action mode and not only got approval for structural audit from IIT Delhi, but will also finalise the rehabilitation plan by tomorrow.DTP Gurugram RS Bhath visited the Society today and told The Tribune, “We will be ready with the rehabilitation plan latest by tomorrow and get it done by the builder. We have already got the approval from IIT Delhi for the audit, whose cost will be paid by the builder. We did get complaints for E, F, G and H tower who had issues with their balconies. We got audits done and structural changes were made. We have been here since day one and will resolve this,” said Bhath.Following Bhath’s complaint late last evening, an FIR was registered against all managing directors of Chintels India Ltd, M/s Bhayana builders and five others. An FIR has been registered under Sections 417, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 120-B of IPC and Section 10 of the Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act 1975.According to the complaint, “The mishap proved that the work of structural engineer, proof consultant and contractor was not creditworthy and rather fraudulent. As per various rules and building bylaws, the licensee structure engineer and contractor are solely responsible for this unfortunate incident. There has been violation of provisions and an FIR be registered.”Meanwhile, local residents started a chain fast, demanding a CBI inquiry into the matter and the arrest of the accused.“The police are being soft with Sections in FIR. Book them for murder get an independent inquiry,” said Rakesh Hooda, president, RWA, Chintels Paradiso. #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/town-planner-rehabilitation-of-affected-gurugram-society-residents-to-be-finalised-today-370001
15-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Haryana CM: Structural audit of all societies in Gurugram||Gurugram, February 14Giving in to the demand of New Gurugram residents, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar has ordered the structural audit of Chintels Pardiso society, where a roof collapse left two dead, by the IIT-Delhi or a similar institute.Also read: Town planner: Rehabilitation of affected Gurugram society residents to be finalised todayHaryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar mourns death of housing society victimsTaking a note of the issues raised by various societies, the CM has asked the local administration to identify such buildings through the Town and Country Planning Department (DTCP) or the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and get their structural audits done. The audit cost would be borne by the builders concerned.“What happened in Chintels Pardiso is tragic and unfortunate. Right to safe living is what we aim to guarantee to every citizen. We will get safety audit done for all societies and ensure there is no scope of repeat of such incidents,” the CM said. The Tribune recently highlighted how residents of Tower D had been living like refugees with the builder providing non-furnished spaces as a stop-gap arrangement. The Chief Minister directed the administration to make interim stay arrangements for residents of Tower D.Residents, meanwhile, continued their protest demanding action against the builder. “There is still no decision on issues like getting an independent CBI inquiry or booking the builder and officials concerned on murder charge. We want concrete action,” said RWA office-bearers.The residents also demanded a safety certificate and assurance from the government authorities that the remaining complex was safe. They are also preparing to move the High Court seeking action against the “errants”.Roof collapse falloutWill get safety audit done for all societies to ward off repeat of Chintels Pardiso-like incidents. — ML Khattar, Haryana CM #gurugram #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-structural-audit-of-all-societies-in-gurugram-369903
15-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Nuh villagers celebrate new jail, read on to know why||Gurugram, February 14Celebrations broke out in many villagers of Nuh as a long-pending demand of residents was fulfilled on Monday.Nearly 30,000 residents of Haryana’s Jamtara Jamalgarh and Nai in Punhana distributed sweets after the inauguration of a new facility in district.It was neither a school nor a hospital, but a jail.Inaugurated by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Nuh today, the jail complex will have capacity of 1,000 prisoners.“It’s a boon almost one boy from every second home is lodged in Faridabad prison or Bhondsi jail in Gurugram. We have to spend money to travel. The new jail will be nearer and we can now easily meet our children,” said Abida Noor of Jamalgarh.Constructed on over 29 acres of land at cost of Rs 68 crore, the new building in Nuh has an administrative block, five male barracks, one female barrack, three special security enclosures of various capacities, a 30-bed hospital, a warden’s hostel, an electric sub-station along with 69 houses of various categories for the officials posted in Nuh prison, among other facilities.Besides, there will be one sewage treatment plant of 1.25 million litre per day capacity.Police officials claim that new facility will reduce the pressure on Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail and the Faridabad jail. Incidentally, around 40 per cent of the inmates in two jails hail from Nuh.Presently, the Bhondsi jail has a capacity of 3,000 inmates and around 600 of them are of Nuh, and families travel over 60 km to meet their kin.Meanwhile, CM Manohar Lal said inclusive attention is being paid to the mental, religious and social development of the prisoners locked in the jails of the state. The jails are functioning as correctional homes and the government is completely focused towards the improvement of the prisoners, he added. #new jail||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-villagers-celebrate-new-jail-read-on-to-know-why-369871
15-02-2022||Chandigarh||Kala Ramachandran appointed first woman Commissioner of Police of Gurugram||Senior IPS officer Kala Ramachandran, currently posted as ADGP, State Vigilance Bureau (SVB), has been appointed the first woman Commissioner of Police (CP) of Gurugram.According to police transfers ordered by the Haryana government, the incumbent CP of Gurugram KK Rao has been posted as IGP, CPT&R, Bhondsi.Mamta Singh, IGP of Karnal Range, has been posted as IGP, Rohtak Range. Satender Kumar Gupta will be new IGP, Karnal Range.While B Satheesh Balan will be the new IGP, Special Task Force (STF), Arun Kumar, DIG, Haryana Police Academy (HPA), Maduban, will be DIG (STF).Nazneen Bhasin, DIG, Regional Training Centre (RTC), Bhondsi, has been given additional charge of DIG, Women Safety, Panchkula.Balwan Singh, DIG-cum-SP, Hisar, has been shifted as DIG (SVB), Gurugram.Abhishek Jorwal, SP (SVB), has been given additional charge of ADC to Governor.Lokendra Singh, SP of Kaithal, will be new Hisar SP.Maqsood Ahmed, DCP (East), will be SP, Kaithal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kala-ramachandra-appointed-first-woman-commissioner-of-police-of-gurugram-369817
