16-02-2022||---||Cases on decline, Haryana lifts all Covid-19 curbs||Chandigarh, February 16With the Covid-19 cases on the decline, the Haryana Government on Wednesday lifted all Covid-19 restrictions across the state.An order issued by Chief Secretary-cum-Chairperson of the State Executive Committee Sanjeev Kaushal said all restrictions imposed as part of the “mahamari alert-surakshit Haryana” had been lifted in the state.However, the order advised the residents to observe Covid-appropriate behavioural norms, including social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-on-decline-haryana-lifts-all-covid-19-curbs-370452
16-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram's 'Green view society' declared unsafe, residents asked to vacate by March 1||Tribune News ServiceGurugram February 16 With the Green View society in sector 37D being declared unsafe by IIT Delhi, the residents have been asked to vacate the area by March 1. Holding the builder’s National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited and its contractors responsible for the plight of homemakers, the administration announced that anybody who wants to quit the society will be given refund along with one month's interest.Following a meeting with 140 flat owners and officials of NBCC which had constructed the society, DC Gurugram Nishant Yadav announced that NBCC will provide alternate accommodation to the residents and those opting out of it and taking flats similar to theirs on rent will get reimbursed by NBCC."Homebuyers are victims and the builder of NBCC will bear every penny of their rehabilitation. The flat owners will continue to have ownership rights and we will not go ahead with demolition till compensation is paid. A second survey of the society will be done and even if it is livable with repairs, people will be free to walk out with refund," said DC Nishant Yadav.The administration said that evacuation was urgent to ensure that there is no Chintel's like mishap and flat owners will have full support.Residents of Green View are in panic after Partial tower Collapse at Chintel and despite being served notice to vacate, they had been staying and plans to vacate only when the developer refunds their money.NBCC CMD PK Gupta said that they truly understood the plight of residents."It is even a shock for us how could a society of 700 -800 flats could deteriorate this fast in 4 to 5 years. The IIT Delhi team said it was high chloride levels in water which lead to corrosion. After first inspection we wanted to repair then the Covid 19 started and then rains led to water logging and when we started we were shocked at amount of damage that had happened by then. Even IIT Delhi team was shocked," Said Gupta #green view society||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugrams-green-view-society-declared-unsafe-residents-asked-to-vacate-by-march-1-370422
16-02-2022||A truck mounted automated road-sweeping machine||Road-sweeping machine a white elephant||Encroachment of public space rampant in F'badGross negligent approach and corruption in the offices of the implementing agencies has resulted in violations of rules and regulations governing the upkeep and maintenance of the public properties. Failure of taking any action against the offenders has led to widespread encroachments of public spaces which include the green belts and the markets of various residential sectors. Though occasional attempts are made to remove the encroachments especially during the festive season, the encroachments can be noticed in almost all markets of the city. Shop owners have encroached upon the verandahs or the walking space meant for customers in the markets of the posh sectors such as 14, 15, 16 and 17, with no action against the offenders. Some of them have even put an iron grill or railing in the verandahs, which is completely illegal. Divay Kashyap, FaridabadHygiene issues plague Smart City of FaridabadThe Smart City Faridabad has hygiene issues that are not being noticed or checked by the civic authorities. Heaps of garbage, filth and dirt welcome visitors and are also an invitation to stray animals. Mega cleanliness drive was started last month on papers. None of the authorities MCF, FMDA, HSVP or the Smart City agency is responsible for the betterment of the city. Even posh sectors are neglected and residents suffer. Cleanliness drive must be carried out on a regular basisDevinder Singh Surjewala, FaridabadIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-sweeping-machine-a-white-elephant-370341
16-02-2022||Faridabad||Pulwama martyrs remembered||Surya Namaskar series organisedGurugram: A special programme of Surya Namaskar series was organised under the Amrit Mahotsav programme of Independence at Gurugram University. To make the general public aware of the importance of Surya Namaskar, the students of Physiotherapy Department collectively practiced yoga asanas of Surya Namaskar. Vice -Chancellor, Prof Dinesh Kumar said a healthy mind resided only in a healthy body. Therefore, it is necessary to give priority to health. "If we want to keep our body healthy, then we should do Surya Namaskar regularly. The practice of Surya Namaskar is the best way of keeping a healthy body, mind and soul," said the VC.Talk to mark 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'Karnal: The department of history, the KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised another online extension lecture of the online lecture series under the ageis of ' Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav' on the topic: Rethinking philosophy, history and education through the lens of Dayanand Anglo-Vedic Movement delivered by Dr Ambuj Sharma, head, department of philosophy, Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Chandigarh. Principal Renu Mehta motivated students to enhance their knowledge by listening to such intellectual personality. Dr Ambuj shed light on the role and significance of Dayanand Anglo-Vedic Movement and emphasised on its relevance in the modern context. He foregrounded the role of DAV educational institutions in promoting women education and eliminating social evils.VC releases four booksKurukshetra: Vice-Chancellor Kurukshetra University, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva released four books written by Dr Ravinder Gasso, associate professor of Hindi, DAV College, Pundri in his office. These books are: Guru Nanak Vani: various dimensions, Guru Nanak Dev Ji: Personality and ideology, Guru Nanak Krit Japuji Sahib: A study and Guru Nanak's Asa Di Vaar: A study. Prof Som Nath said these books would certainly add fresh dimensions to the knowledge pool available on Guru Nanak Dev. The scholars of Guru Nanak Dev, spread all over the world, will benefit from these books. He also congratulated the principal of DAV Pundri, Dr Subhash Tanwar and Management Committee of DAV institutions who encouraged their faculty to do research work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pulwama-martyrs-remembered-370340
16-02-2022||Sirsa||Sirsa police arrest one in murder case||The Sirsa police’s SIT team has claimed to have solved the murder case of Ankur Prajapati, a resident of Ward No 3 of Mandi Kalanwali with the arrest of one of the accused identified as Shankar alias Dholu, a resident of Mehna in Punjab.The accused along with five other persons had committed robbery in a house in Mandi Kalanwali and shot dead house owner Ankur Prajapati on January 18, 2021. Prajapati had succumbed to the bullet injury four days later during treatment at a hospital. The SP, Dr Arpit Jain, said today that a SIT was formed to detect the crime and it succeeded in tracing one of the accused today. During interrogation, the accused had named two other accomplices as Rajkumar of Rajasthan and Vinod of Rewari district. The police have also got information about other accomplices, he said adding that all the accused will be behind bars soon. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-police-arrest-one-in-murder-case-370339
16-02-2022||Hisar||Sack orders of extn lecturers  in Hisar college set aside||The Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Swapnil Ravinder Patil has set aside the decision of the authorities of the CRM Jat College to sack the extension lecturers.About 110 extension lecturers, who are holding dharna demanding reinstatement, said they would call off their agitation when they got the orders of their reinstatement. A district spokesperson said a delegation of the affected extension lecturers met the ADC today to discuss the issue. The ADC, who has been designated the Administrator of the Jat Education Society which runs the college, said a decision to this effect had been taken today following discussion with the extension lecturers and the management of the college. INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala and former minister Sampat Singh also supported the demand of the lecturers while demanding their reinstatement.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sack-orders-of-extn-lecturers-in-hisar-college-set-aside-370338
16-02-2022||---||Ex-student attacks, robs elderly couple in Ambala Cantonment||Ambala, February 15An elderly couple suffered knife injuries after a robber attacked them in their house and fled away with some cash and jewellery in Ambala Cantonment last evening.The victims have been identified as Vinay Kumar Mehta (77), and his wife Anuja, residents of Punjabi Mohalla, Ambala Cantonment.The accused has been identified as Manish. He is a former student of Vinay Mehta. In his complaint to the police, Vinay Mehta stated that he had been running tuition classes for the past 40 years. Around 6:30 pm last evening, Manish, who used to attend tuition classes around nine years ago, reached their house and started a conversation with Vinay Kumar. Manish informed Vinay that he had been living in Meerut. Later, Manish attacked Vinay’s wife Anuja, threw red chili powder in her face, tied her hands and legs, put a blanket on her and started beating her. Manish demanded Rs 1 lakh and threatened to kill her if the money was not given to him.“I told him that I didn’t have that much money at that time and I will give it to him after withdrawing the same from the bank in the morning. But he got angry and started stabbing my wife with a knife. He also took away rings and earrings that my wife was wearing and then also attacked me. He took away cash from my pocket. While leaving he also took away our mobile phones”, he added. Later, Vinay raised an alarm and they were rushed to Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, for treatment by the neighbours. A case has been registered under Sections 307, 392 and 394 of the IPC at the Ambala Cantonment Police Station. SHO Ambala Cantonment Naresh Kumar said teams had been constituted to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-student-attacks-robs-elderly-couple-in-ambala-cantonment-370337
16-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 4 youths killed by train while taking selfies||Four youths were killed here this evening after being hit by a train when they were trying to take selfies on the railway tracks.The mishap took place near the under-construction railway over bridge (ROB) just before the Basai railway station. The GRP reached the spot and took the bodies in its custody. The four hit by the train were identified as Sameer (19), Mohammad Anas (20), Yusuf alias Bhola (21) and Yuvraj Gogia (18), residents of Devilal Colony.The tragedy happened at around 5 pm. The Jan Shatabdi Express, going from Delhi's Sarai Rohilla to Ajmer, Rajasthan, was moving from the Gurgaon railway station towards Basai. The youths started taking selfies when the train hit them. All four died on the spot. “The mobiles of the victims have been seized,” said Pawan Kumar, in charge, GRP police station, Gurugram. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-4-youths-killed-by-train-while-taking-selfies-370336
16-02-2022||Hisar||MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi gets extortion calls||Senior Congress leader and MLA from Adampur in Hisar, Kuldeep Bishnoi, has reportedly got extortion threats on his mobile phone. Bishnoi lodged a complaint via email with the Hisar police station.The complaint mentioned that an unknown person had demanded a ransom of Rs 2 crore from him and threatened the MLA and his family with life by making WhatsApp calls multiple times. — #kuldeep bishnoi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mla-kuldeep-bishnoi-gets-extortion-calls-370335
16-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Cops to campaign against sub-standard helmets||Karnal, February 15Aiming at ensuring the safety of bikers, the Traffic and Highways Police, Haryana, with the help of TRAX S Society, a road safety NGO, will hold a campaign against sub-standard helmets -“Na banega Na bikega” (no manufacturing, no sale).The NGO will help in capacity building along with making the police personnel as well as general public aware of the rules and regulation under the Act as well as the importance of ISI-marked helmets respectively.The Traffic and Highways Police, Haryana, will take action against the manufacturers of the substandard helmets and will issue challan to those wearing a non-ISI marked helmets.As per the authorities, the section 129 of the Motor Vehicle Act, every person above four years of age, driving or riding or being carried on a motorcycle of any class or description have to, while in a public place, wear a protective headgear conforming to ISI standards. In violation of this, a fine of Rs 1,000 and the licence can be cancelled for a period of three months under Section 194 D of the Motor Vehicle Act.To ensure the implementation on the ground level of this campaign, TRAX along with the Haryana Police hosted a webinar today, in which police officials were made aware of the provisions under the Motor Vehicle Act and Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) for quality of helmet.“We are going to start a massive campaign against the sub-standard helmets. We will check the manufacturing of sub-standard helmets and will also issue challans to two-wheelers for wearing non-ISI helmets,” said Dr Rajshree Singh, IGP, Traffic, and the Highways Police Haryana.“Road safety is a shared responsibility and it is the duty of every department and every person that people reach home safely. The use of ISI-marked helmets should be promoted as low-quality helmets are of no use in saving the lives,” she added.SD Banga, former secretary, Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety, mentioned the provisions in the amended laws on helmet such as section 138 (4) (F) of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR 1989), making mandatory for a dealer to provide a headgear to owner at the purchase of two-wheelers.“Road safety is a common responsibility of all concerned stakeholders and not just the Police Department, all departments should be held accountable in case of an accident,” said Anurag Kulshtrestha, president, TRAX S SocietyJeetali Agnani, advocacy director, TRAX, said around 30 per cent people are dying in India due to non-wearing of helmets, hence it becomes more important to work on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-cops-to-campaign-against-sub-standard-helmets-370334
16-02-2022||---||HC notice to Haryana on petition against appointment of Lala Lajpat Rai vet varsity VC||Chandigarh, February 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to the State of Haryana on a petition challenging the appointment of Dr Vinod Verma as the Vice-Chancellor of the Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary & Animal Sciences (LUVAS).The notice by Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal came on a petition filed by Jagveer Rawat against the State of Haryana and other respondents. Appearing before the Bench, his counsel contended that the Vice-Chancellor had to be appointed by the Board from amongst the distinguished veterinarians in terms of Section 20 of the Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences Hisar Act, 2010.As per the proviso, the appointment was to be made by the Chancellor on the government’s advice from amongst the distinguished veterinarians, if the Board members were not unanimous with regard to the decision.He said the appointment of the respondent VC was purportedly made by the Board in terms of order dated January 20. Although the appointment order stated that the respondent was unanimously appointed, one of the Board members, who was an eminent scientist and representing the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, did not give his consent to the selection as “he had raised issues which were not addressed”. A copy of an email stated to be sent by him to the Registrar was also enclosed. Issuing notice to the State and other respondents, Justice Grewal fixed the case for further hearing on July 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-notice-to-haryana-on-petition-against-appointment-of-vet-varsity-vc-370331
16-02-2022||Karnal||Survey identifies 150 unauthorised colonies in Karnal||A month-long drone survey conducted by the Department of Town and Country Planning has identified around 150 unauthorised colonies on around 2,000 acres across the district.The survey was conducted of all the unauthorised colonies to know their construction structure and civic infrastructure available. The state government will take a decision on regularising these colonies on the basis of the survey report.“After the CM’s announcement of regularising around 1,200 colonies across the state, the department conducted a drone survey in Karnal district also. The survey has been completed today. Itshows that around 150 unauthorised colonies are in the district at present,” said Vikram Kumar,District Town Planner (DTP). The survey report would be sent to the headquarters for further steps, he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/survey-identifies-150-unauthorised-colonies-in-karnal-370327
16-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram: Role of ex-police head under scanner in multi-crore heist||Gurugram, February 15The court of Additional Sessions Judge, Amit Sahrawat, while rejecting the bail plea of the absconding IPS officer Dheeraj Setia, has also raised questions on the role of the then Police Commissioner.The court, in its observations, has highlighted many under-investigation facts and unanswered questions on the role of the IPS officer KK Rao, the then Police Commissioner, in the investigation of the multi-crore heist.Setia was accused of allegedly taking Rs 2.5 crore and dollars etc to hush up the matter. The admission of the same was made by key accused Dr Sachinder Jain Naval who claimed that Setia took all this to hush up the matter, but returned a majority of the money, keeping some money, saying things were not in his hands.The court was surprised that the office of the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, lies in the same building where the accused Setia then had his office as the DCP (Crime) and gangsters and kingpin of burglary were going to the office, having bags of Rs 2.50 crore, and the then Commissioner was unaware of that.“For what purpose the Commissioner had been posted there by the government?” The court said that the fact that a top cop took money to hush up matter put hopes of the common man to get justice to dust.“If the gangsters and the dacoits visit the office and residence of the DCP with bags having money to get crimes hushed up, the poor man of this country should certainly go to the some deity to pray for his survival,” said the court while dismissing the anticipatory bail.Sorry state of affairsIf the gangsters and dacoits visit the office and residence of the DCP with bags having money to get crimes hushed up, the poor man of this country should certainly go to the some deity to pray for his survival. — Court of Additional Sessions Judge||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-role-of-ex-police-head-under-scanner-in-multi-crore-heist-370326
16-02-2022||---||79 of Haryana Revenue Department get notice over violations||Karnal, February 15Deputy Commissioners of Karnal and Kaithal districts have issued show-cause notice to 79 officials and employees of the Revenue Department including tehsildars, naib tehsildars, patwaris and registry clerks in connection with alleged violation of Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 between April 3, 2017 and August 13, 2021.After their reply, further action will be taken against them, said officials.This action has been initiated by both DCs following the directions of the Finance Commissioner, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, in which he asked for disciplinary action against these officials and employees.Among 21 tehsildars and sub-tehsildars, 12 are of Karnal district and nineof Kaithal district.Similarly, of 47 patwaris, 23 are from Karnal district and 24 from Kaithal district. Among the 11 registration clerks, six are from Karnal district and five from Kaithal district.“I have sought reply from patwaris, registry clerks, tehsildars and naib tehsildars in this regard and action will be taken accordingly,” said Pradeep Dahiya, Deputy Commissioner, Kaithal.“Power for action against registry clerks and patwaris is with the district administration. For action against tehsildars and naib tehsildars, we will send the report to the state authorities,” said the Kaithal DC.Karnal DC Anish Yadav said, “I have sought reply from them and based on their reply, action will be initiated.”Under Section 7-A, a buyer has to submit an NOC from the District Town and Country Planning Department for the registration of land. As per the sources, the violation of Section 7-A indicates that the registration of properties in illegal colonies was done by the revenue officials.The Finance Commissioner had directed the Deputy Commissioners to seek explanation from them and sent it to the government so that disciplinary action against them under rule 7 of the Haryana Civil Services (P&A) Rules-2016 could be initiated.Properties ‘registered’ in illegal colonies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/79-of-haryana-revenue-department-get-notice-over-violations-370323
16-02-2022||Faridabad||Two Faridabad MC staffers caught taking bribe of Rs 1.4 lakh||The Vigilance Department of the state government caught a Superintending Engineer (SE) and a clerk of the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh.Abhishek Jorwal, SP, Vigilance, said the two accused were SE Ravi Sharma and Ravi Shankar, who was working in the accounts branch of the MCF. He said they were arrested after they were found taking the bribe from a contractor of the civic body this morning. He said Rs 50,000 was recovered from the SE and Rs 90,000 from the clerk. He said both officials had been demanding money from complainant Yash Mohan and had submitted files for the release of payment against the bills raised by him and issuance of the completion certificate for a project done by him. While one of the officials had allegedly taken around Rs 1 lakh a few months ago from the complainant, another was demanding Rs 1.20 lakh.“The matter was reported to the Vigilance Department by the complainant a few days ago. The raid was carried out by two teams this morning after chemical-laced currency was handed over to the accused,’’ said Jorwal, who said further investigation was underway. A case under the Prevention of the Corruption Act has been registered. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-faridabad-mc-staffers-caught-taking-bribe-of-1-4-lakh-370315
16-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||CM flying squad raids Sonepat MC office, takes away 707 files||Sonepat, February 15Following the complaints regarding delay in various applications by the Municipal Corporation (MC), Sonepat officials, the Chief Minister’s Flying Squad on Tuesday raided the MC office here.The officials of the CM Flying Squad collected details of long-pending files of property tax, no objection certificates (NOC) for property registration, approval for building plans and other services under the Citizen Charter set by the state government and also took away the records of around 707 files from various wings of the MC office. Out of the total 707 files, 220 were of NOC; 397 files were of property tax while 90 files have been found pending from the building plan branch of the MC, sources said. Besides, the CM Flying Squad team has also collected the records related to the alleged service tax scam in the sanitation contract which was being run by a private company Pooja Consulations company.As per the sources, the CM Flying Squad was receiving the complaints against the MC officials for harassing the people by delaying their work/applications without reasons and the people didn’t get their work done within the set time frame under the Citizen Charter. Even some officials at the MC office were delaying the files for their interest by making objections to the files knowingly, the sources said.Following regular complaints, a team of Inspector Satpal, Sahdev, Jaibhagwan and Sonepat In-charge Satyanarain on the directions of DSP Sandeep Malik raided the MC office here.The team arrived at the MC office around 11am and spent over five hours at the office and scrutinised records pertaining to the issue of the NOC for property registration, property tax, no dues certificates, approval of building plans and other services.The officials of the flying squad found around 707 files of the various wings of which some files were even found pending for the past two years. The officials also questioned the reasons for the delay in files from the officials concerned, the sources said.Inspector Satpal, CM Flying Squad said 707 files have been taken into custody which were found pending for a long time. A probe into the matter has been initiated and a reply has been sought from the officials for delaying people’s work, he added. Dharmender Singh, Commissioner, MC, said, “The CM Flying Squad team came to MC office today and the team took away some records related to the sanitation contract and others. The team has not given any official details about the pending files, the Commissioner maintained.90-year-old gets NOC on the spotInspector Satpal said 90-year-old retired Navy person Tara Chand Mor applied for the NOC for property registration in the MC office around one-and-a-half months ago and has been moving from one office to another to get the NOC since the day he applied. When the team asked about the delay, the officials removed all objections and issued him the NOC on the spot, the Inspector maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-flying-squad-raids-sonepat-mc-office-takes-away-707-files-370313
16-02-2022||---||Another tender floated for six-laning project in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, February 15The PWD (B&R) has floated another tender to get the delayed six-laning Pipli-Kurukshetra University road project completed. This is the third tender for the same stretch.The project started in December 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by December 2019. But the project missed its deadlines repeatedly and so far just around 45 per cent work has been completed. Agreements of two firms have been terminated over tardy work.The department has floated a tender for the remaining work of widening, divider, and lightening, worth Rs 28.41 crore. The financial bids of qualified applicants will be opened on March 8. The agency will get a period of six months to complete the project. The entire project had come to a standstill after the last agreement was terminated in December end last year.Ajay, a resident, said, “The road poses threat to commuters, especially the two-wheeler riders. Besides, the cost of maintenance of the vehicles has also increased. With the new tender, now the project will get another timeline.” Not only an ordeal for the public, the project has become a political issue as well. Congress and INLD workers had held demonstrations over the delayed project and blamed the BJP-JJP government for the poor work.Meanwhile, the BJP and JJP leaders have started taking credit for raising the issue and getting the tender floated. While the BJP leaders are thanking Chief Minister Manohar Lal, the JJP leaders are giving credit to Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala.Meanwhile, Executive Engineer PWD (B&R) Arun Bhatia said, “About 45 per cent work has been completed, and a new tender has been floated for the pending work worth Rs 28.41 crore. The financial bids will be opened on March 8 and then all efforts will be made to allot the tender at the earliest. The contractor will be given a time of six months to complete the project.”Announced by CM in 2015The six-laning project was announced by the Chief Minister in 2015 and an amount of Rs57.53 crore was to be spent on this project. The civil work was to be done at a cost of Rs44.23 crore, while the remaining amount was to be spent on paver blocks and electrification work.Threat to commutersThe road poses threat to commuters, especially the two-wheeler riders. Besides, the cost of maintenance of the vehicles has also increased. With the new tender, now the project will get another timeline. Ajay, a residentContractor to get 6 months to complete workAbout 45 per cent work has been completed and a new tender has been floated for the pending work worth Rs28.41 crore. The financial bids will be opened on March 8 and then efforts will be made to allot the tender at the earliest. The contractor will be given a time of six months to complete the project. Arun Bhatia, executive engineer,pwd (b&r)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-tender-floated-for-six-laning-project-in-kurukshetra-370311
16-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Inter-state road project announced by Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar takes off||Kaithal, February 15Six years after the announcement of the road project connecting various districts of state with Punjab, Haryana farmers have agreed to sell their land to the government.The administration has started the process to disburse payment to farmers so that a tender can be issued for the road. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the project on November 27, 2015. Under the project, a stretch of 720 m was to be constructed from Shadipur to Majri Patti village. This stretch comes in Haryana. The project could not be completed due to non-availability of land.To construct the stretch, 0.41 acres of land was needed. The 14 farmers who owned the land have now agreed to sell it to the government.“After reviewing the pending CM announcement, I found out the announcement of this project was lying pending for a long time. I apprised the committee headed by Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal to re-negotiate with farmers. We held two rounds of meeting with farmers and got their consent to sell their land at 20 per cent more than the collector rate, which was accepted by the committee,” said Pradeep Dahiya, Kaithal Deputy Commissioner.“We have started the process to disburse payment to farmers, after which we will float a tender to construct the stretch,” the DC added.The 720-m road is an inter-state road between Punjab and Haryana. After the construction of the road, it will connect to the metteled road on Punjab side. Residents of Mehmoodpur, Malikpur, Azimgarh, Garhi Nazir, Badanpur, Shadipur and Majri Patti will benefit from the project.“It was a long-pending demand of the locals as this stretch is a part of an inter-state road. We have been facing a lot of inconvenience as presently, there is a ‘kacha’ road on the Haryana side. After the construction of this stretch, we will get a smooth connectivity to Punjab,” said Bhupinder Singh, a resident.Long-pending demandIt was a long-pending demand of locals as this stretch is a part of an inter-state road. After the construction, we will get a smooth connectivity to Punjab. Bhupinder Singh, resident #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inter-state-road-project-announced-by-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-takes-off-370309
16-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Rs 42-cr road project launched by Faridabad agency||Faridabad, February 15The newly set up Faridabad Metropolitan Development Agency (FMDA) has started repairs and construction work of some of the main roads here.With the launch of a project worth Rs 42 crore, the FMDA has started the work of taking over the roads that have a width of 30 metres or more.With around 195-km-long roads set to be taken over by the FMDA, it is for the first time that it has started work on the ground, say officials of the district administration. Earlier, the work of repair and maintenance was entrusted with the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) and the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). The road projects launched by the FMDA include the dividing road of Sectors 11 and 12, also known as the Mini Secretariat road and the YMCA road (the dividing road of Sectors 6 and 10). The budget of these two roads is Rs 29.5 crore and Rs 12 crore, respectively. Besides these, the FMDA has aso proposed to start the reconstruction of the dividing road of Sectors 12 and 15 and the Vyapar Mandal Road in the NIT area of the city. The total length of the four roads already selected is 4,625 metres (4.6 km). “The FMDA targets to take over many other roads in the city in the near future for repairs and upkeep,’’ says a senior official.With the condition of the majority of roads in dilapidated condition, sources in the district administration claim that the project undertaken by the FMDA has also been a victim of delay as the approval took several months. “Though work of repairs of some of the roads have been launched, commuters are still at the receiving end as the condition of many other roads is poor,” says SK Sharma, Coordinator, Road Safety Organisation (RSO), an NGO involved in traffic safety tasks.Formed in 2019, the FMDA has announced plans to take over some of the prominent assets of departments like the HSVP, HSIIDC and the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF), which include projects related to water supply, sewage treatment plants and properties like cricket stadium and the city bus service.To handle main roads||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/42-cr-road-project-launched-by-faridabad-agency-370305
16-02-2022||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Singh Hooda: Haryana Government indifferent to anganwari workers plight||Former CM ansd Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said that the neglect of 52,000 anganwari workers of the state was a living example of the thinking of the BJP-JJP government towards daughters.Hooda said anganwari workers were on strike for the past 70 days and were camping in Karnal, the home area of the CM, to press their demands. “Daughters are forced to struggle on the streets under the BJP government which gave the slogan ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’. Inflation in Haryana is continuously setting new records and the government continues to be indifferent to the plight of people,” Hooda said, referring to the latest figures of retail inflation. — #anganwari workers #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-singh-hooda-haryana-government-indifferent-to-anganwari-workers-plight-370303
16-02-2022||---||Undeterred, protesting anganwari workers spend night at Karnal park||Karnal, February 15Undeterred by cold weather, hundreds of anganwari workers and helpers across the state spent a night in tents at Fountain Park in Sector-12 to press their demands. They took out a protest march on Tuesday and staged a dharna outside the Mini Secretariat, which led to traffic chaos there.After a meeting with Deputy Commission Anish Yadav, Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia and SDM Gaurav Kumar, the angawari workers and helpers lifted the blockade and went back to the park. The DC assured them a meeting with the Principal Secretary of Women and Child Development Departmnet on Friday in Chandigarh.In the meanwhile, the Anganwari Workers and Helpers Association announced to extend the ongoing strike till March 5. A group of workers and helpers will continue the dharna in Karnal, while the remaining will do so at their district headquarters.They said they had been staging the dharna for the past over 70 days across the state, but their demands were not being considered.Members of the Talmel Committee said on September 10, 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised to increase the wages of workers and helpers by Rs 1,500 and Rs 750, respectively, but to no avail. They further alleged that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had also promised in March 2018 to fix their wages as per skilled and semi-skilled workers, but this promise was also not fulfilled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/undeterred-protesting-anganwari-workers-spend-night-at-karnal-park-370300
16-02-2022||Chandigarh||Ensure ASHA workers in Haryana don't go on strike, civil surgeons told||In view of the warning of possible protests by ASHA workers in Haryana on February 17, the Mission Director, National Health Mission, has asked all civil surgeons to ensure that no ASHA worker should participate in any strike or protest in their respective districts.An official spokesperson said under the Haryana Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1974, the strike by doctors or other categories of employees, including persons employed on contractual daily wages, honorarium etc. in various institutions of Haryana, i.e. the NHM, Food and Drug Administration, AYUSH, etc, was prohibited for six months. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-asha-workers-in-haryana-dont-go-on-strike-civil-surgeons-told-370298
16-02-2022||---||Gurugram: Burqa-clad foreign national stabs cab driver, nabbed||Gurugram, February 15High drama prevailed at Rajiv Chowk here today when a burqa-clad foreign national woman stopped a cab and allegedly stabbed the driver.The woman then tried to flee from the spot, but was chased and captured by the PCR on duty. It was then that she went on to shout in her native language and roughed up a woman cop. She was taken into custody and later to the Civil Lines police station.Following the complaint of the cab driver, Raghu Raj, a resident of Mahipalpur in Delhi, an FIR was registered against the woman and the police arrested her. Later, with the help of a translator, the police questioned the woman. A senior investigator said it was revealed only that in response to “where to go”, the woman stabbed the taxi driver with a knife.A senior police officer said she was an Egyptian national, but not having any visa and passport and the embassy concerned was informed about the incident. She had not even told her right name yet. She would be taken on police remand after produced in a city court by tomorrow. An FIR was registered against the woman under Sections 323 (causing hurt) and 324 (causing grievous hurt) of the IPC.Meanwhile, the video of the incident has gone viral where the woman is seen punching the woman cop.Without visa, passportIn response to the cab driver’s query “where to go?”, the woman stabbed him with a knife.A police officer said she was an Egyptian national, but not having any visa and passport. She has not even told her right name.The embassy concerned has been informed. She will be taken on police remand after producing her in a city court by Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-burqa-clad-foreign-national-stabs-cab-driver-nabbed-370292
16-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Class VIII exam row: Private schools of Haryana to move HC for early hearing||Rohtak, February 15Having got no relief from the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the ongoing row over the exams of Class VIII for all schools in the state by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) probably next month, over 50 private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have written to the CBSE, seeking its intervention and guidance in the matter.These schools have also decided to approach the High Court for early hearing in the case that is to come up for hearing on April 4. The schools are apprehensive that the BSEH may conduct the exams before the date as the court has not issued any stay orders on the previous hearing of the case.There are around 2,000 private schools affiliated to the CBSE where over 1.5 lakh students are enrolled in Class VIII.“We have now no other option but to move an application for early hearing in the High Court to thwart the BSEH from holding the exams before the case is decided. It is also essential in a situation when the BSEH has directed all private schools affiliated to other boards to get them registered with it before February 20 by depositing the fee of Rs 5,000,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private School Association, a group of the CBSE schools.He maintained that over 50 private schools, a majority of these located in Mahendragarh district, had sought guidelines from the CBSE, stating that they were in a dilemma about getting themselves registered with the BSEH, as it would mean dual affiliation, while the CBSE bylaws prohibited the affiliating schools to get the affiliation with other boards at the same time, he added.“Another association of the CBSE schools is also gearing up to file a separate petition in the High Court with the plea that the move of conducting exams is a violation of Section 30 (1) of the Right to Education Act, which says that no child shall be required to pass any board examination till the completion of elementary education,” said Kaushik.Ved Prakash Yadav, vice-chairman, BSEH, could not be contacted for his comments despite repeated attempts.Plan to thwart state board’s moveWe have now no other option but to move an application for early hearing in the High Court to thwart the BSEH from holding the exams before the case is decided. Anil Kaushik, president, progressive private school association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/class-viii-exam-row-private-schools-of-haryana-to-move-hc-for-early-hearing-370289
16-02-2022||Pradeep Sharma||321 top builders owe Rs 15,585 crore to Haryana; list of top 10 defaulters inside||Chandigarh, February 15Major builders in Haryana have defaulted on the payment of a whopping Rs 15,585 crore to the state government by way of the external development charges (EDC) and state infrastructure development charges (SIDC).Sources said realty giants were among the 321 defaulters with 137 of them being classified as major defaulters with over Rs 20 crore pending dues against each as on December 31, 2021.The top 10 defaulters included Ireo SU (Rs 984 crore), Countrywide Promoters Private Limited (Rs 952 crore), Unitech Limited (Rs 823 crore), Supertech (Rs 622 crore), Ambience (Rs 599 crore), TDI (Rs 484 crore), Parsvnath Developers Limited (Rs 477 crore), Vatika Limited (Rs 475 crore), Ansal API (Rs 380 crore) and Raheja Developers Limited (Rs 354 crore).Meanwhile, at a recent high-level meeting under Devender Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, it was decided to get tough with the defaulters.“Any developer whose outstanding EDC/SIDC dues exceed Rs 20 crore will be issued a notice to either clear the outstanding dues in two weeks or opt for ‘Samadhan Se Vikas’ policy for the regularisation of their default. If they fail to do this, no further approvals in their existing projects or no new further licences shall be granted to them,” state the minutes of the meeting. Meanwhile, it was also decided that applications of such developers who have on their boards such directors who were also on the boards of defaulting developers (Rs 20 crore and above) would not be considered for grant of licences.Top 10 defaultersNo new licences for defaulters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/321-top-builders-owe-15-585-crore-to-haryana-370288
16-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram builder booked for culpable homicide||Gurugram, February 15A day after Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar ordered the structural audit of societies having complaints, resident welfare associations (RWAs) of over 70 societies planned to apply for the same. Majority of these are in New Gurugram.321 top builders owe Rs 15,585 cr to HaryanaThe development came as the Gurugram police booked Chintels Paradiso owner for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304(2) of the IPC. The builder and contractors were earlier booked for negligence after two women died in partial collapse of Tower D of Chintels Paradiso.Among the societies looking for audits are Brisk Lumbini, Godrej Summit, DLF New Town Heights 86, Raheja Atharva, Raheja Vedaanta, Raheja Navodaya, ATS Kocoon, Mapsko Casa Bella, Orris Carnation Residency etc. These associations have started identifying common issues and preparing audit demand letters to be submitted to the DTP.“Resident welfare associations of over 70 societies plan to apply for the structural audit of their buildings. Requests in this regard will be submitted to the DTP soon,” said Praveen Malik of the United Association of New Gurugram.Meanwhile, the administration will tomorrow mediate between the builders of NBCC Green View apartments and 40 flat owners for their rehabilitation. The authorities have ordered the residents to vacate the flats as these have been declared unsafe by the IIT, Delhi. #gurugram building collapse #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-builder-booked-for-culpable-homicide-370206
16-02-2022||Panipat||Key suspect in R-Day violence Deep Sidhu killed in road accident||Deep Sidhu, a Punjabi actor who became infamous as the prime suspect in last year’s Republic Day violence, died in a road accident on Tuesday, police said.Sidhu was facing a criminal trial for engineering the violence that ensued at the Red Fort on Republic Day last year.The accident occurred around 8.30 pm near Pipli toll plaza in Kharkhhoda area of Sonepat. The accident spot was nearly 30 km from the Singhu border, the centre of last year's farmer protests. He was gravely wounded and died on the way to the hospital. Sidhu's body been sent to the Sonepat Civil Hospital for autopsy, police sources said.Sidhu was travelling with his friend Reena. The accident occurred on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway near Pipli toll plaza in Kharkhhoda area of Sonepat. Sidhu was on the way to Punjab from Delhi, police sources said. Kharkhoda police team reached the accident spot. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against the Centre's now-repealed farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen.According to Delhi Police, they have electronic evidence to show that Sidhu entered the Red Fort with supporters carrying lathis and flags and provoked the violence. He was in jail for over two months and was released on bail on April 17.Deeply saddened to learn about the unfortunate demise of renowned actor and social activist, #DeepSidhu. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family and fans.  Originally from Muktsar's Udekaran village, Sidhu's family had left the village in the 80s. His father was an advocate who practised at Gidderbaha.The untimely demise of Punjabi actor and activist #DeepSidhu has come as a shock to his admirers and the entire film fraternity. The lawyer turned artiste from Muktsar was an inspiration for many. Sincere condolences to his family and prayers for the departed soul. pic.twitter.com/h11sTGgREz  Expressing shock at Deep Sidhu's death, SAD president Sukhbir Badal in a tweet said, "The lawyer-turned-artiste from Muktsar was an inspiration for many. Sincere condolences to his family and prayers for the departed soul." #deep sidhu #farmer protests||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-suspect-in-r-day-violence-deep-sidhu-killed-in-road-accident-370166
16-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Four youngsters run over in Gurugram as they try to get train in selfie||Gurugram, February 15Four youngsters died on Tuesday after being hit by a train when they were reportedly clicking selfies near Basai railway station in Gurugram.They were taking selfies near an under-construction railway over bridge just before the Basai railway station. The GRP reached the spot and took the bodies in custody. The four hit by train are identified as Sameer (19), Mohammad Anas (20), Yusuf alias Bhola (21) and Yuvraj Gogia (18), residents of Devilal colony. Police said one of them was a class 9 student while another one was working in a mobile shop. One was son of a vegetable seller.According to the GRP, the accident occurred around 5 pm on Tuesday when the Jan Shatabdi Express was going from Delhi's Sarai Rohilla to Ajmer.Four youths, aged 18 to 20, were taking selfies, said the GRP, adding that even as the train approached near they did not move away and tried to get the train in the frame.They were hit by the train. All of them died on the spot. A team of GRP police station reached the spot after being alerted by the train driver. “None of them has been identified yet and we are trying,” said Pawan Kumar, in-charge of GRP police station, Gurugram. #selfie||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-youngsters-run-over-in-gurugram-as-they-try-to-get-train-in-selfie-370149
