17-02-2022||---||STF arrests Rajasthan youth for threat call to Bishnoi||Hisar, February 17The Special Task Force of Haryana police today, has arrested the accused who had made an extortion call to the Congress Adamapur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi. A spokesperson informed that the accused identified as Ashok, a resident of Modamat in Bikaner district of Rajasthan has been arrested following technical analysis of the case registered in the Adampur police station.The police had registered a case under section 387 (Whoever, in order to the committing of extortion, puts or attempts to put any person in fear of death) and 506 (criminal intimidation).Bishnoi received threat calls on his WhatsApp number from some international numbers on Tuesday. Haryana STF chief B Satheesh Balan confirmed about the arrest of the accused stating that the accused is a student in Bikaner.Hisar STF SP Sumit Kumar said that a team comprising inspector Vineder Singh, ASIs’ Anoop Singh and Krishan Kumar and head constables’ Jaibir Singh and Raghubir Singh carried out the operation and interrogated the accused.The spokesperson added that the accused had confessed to have made a threat call to Kuldeep Bishnoi two days ago. The accused had demanded Rs 2 crore from Bishnoi while issuing threats for life to Bishnoi and his family.The Hisar SP Lokender Singh informed that they will share more details about the case with the media persons tomorrow. #kuldeep bishnoi #stf||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stf-arrests-rajasthan-youth-for-threat-call-to-bishnoi-370776
17-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||HC to hear plea against furlough to Ram Rahim on Friday||Chandigarh, February 17A petition challenging Dera Saccha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s release on furlough by the Haryana government will come up for hearing before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday.Among other things, it has been contended before the High Court that Ram Rahim has been released in view of the impending assembly elections in Punjab.“His release at this stage is against the spirit of fair assembly elections,” it has been added.The petition has been listed for hearing before the High Court Bench of Justice B.S. Walia. In his petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents, Patiala district resident Paramjit Singh Saholi has added that that Ram Rahim, who committed “heinous crimes and has been convicted” ought not to have been granted furlough.“There is no justified reason to grant furlough to an individual like Ram Rahim and that too during the election days in the State of Punjab. There is every likelihood that Ram Rahim will foment issues/troubles in the State of Punjab and adversely impact its local populace along with his supporters,” he has added.Describing himself as the “Quami president of Akali Dal Sawtantar”, the petitioner has sought the setting aside/quashing of the order, vide which Ram Rahim, lodged in Sunaria jail in Rohtak, has been ordered to be released on furlough by the Haryana government, “especially when the assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled for February 20”. He has added that the order of furlough “is unwarranted, illegal, untenable in the eyes of the law, hence deserving to be set aside”. #dera head #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-to-hear-plea-against-furlough-to-ram-rahim-on-friday-370771
17-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Ukraine crisis: Parents of Indian students harried and worried for children staying there||Gurugram, February 17With tension between Ukraine and Russia rising with each passing day, families of medical students studying there are left panicked or harried. Several parents across Gurugram and Faridabad have issued appeals to the government to arrange immediate evacuation of their wards.The parents claim they are getting desperate calls from children but are unable to get air tickets. Many institutions are even running out of food stock.“I have been trying to arrange a flight for my daughter but have been unable to do so. She is saying that her institution is running low on food supply and even her professors have asked them to flee the country”, said Narender Pawar of Jyoti Park colony.Pawar’s daughter Yashika is a fourth year medical student in Ivano-Frankivsk National Medical University.Similarly, the parents of Ipsita Khandelwal are terrified.“She seems very scared and so are her other 15 Indian friends in university. We have been trying to book tickets even at double the rate but cannot get a flight. We just want our daughter back,” adds her mother Sunaina Khandelwal.Her daughter is a student of Kharkiv National Medical University. She says that the university has not allowed online classes but students will have to cover up missed classes and that is what is leaving many students in fix.“My both children are studying medicine there. Their university is 2000 km from the border so the situation is still better there but still they are booking tickets,” said Mansoor Khan from Faridabad.Over 20,000 Indians are presently in Ukraine including 18,000 students. According to the website of the ministry of education and science of Ukraine, 24% of overseas students in Ukraine are from India.While states like MP and Rajasthan have prepared a list of their students and are coordinating with the Central government, Haryana is yet to start the process, according to parents.  #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ukraine-crisis-parents-of-indian-students-harried-and-worried-for-children-staying-there-370752
17-02-2022||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court sets aside High Court order on 75 per cent quota in private sector jobs for Haryana residents||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, February 17The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed the Punjab and Haryana High Court order staying a Haryana law providing for 75 per cent reservation to local candidates in private sector jobs in the state.“The impugned order dated 3rd February, 2022 passed by the High Court is set aside as the High Court has not given sufficient reasons for staying the legislation,” said a Bench led by Justice LN Rao.“Courts are reluctant to pass interim orders staying legislations. Stay of legislation can only be when the Court is of the opinion that it is manifestly unjust or glaringly unconstitutional,” it noted.The Bench directed the Haryana Government not to take any coercive steps against the employers and made it clear that the law will be applicable prospectively.Refusing to get into the merits of the case, it requested the High Court to decide the matter expeditiously within four weeks and asked the parties to appear before the high court on February 22 for fixing the schedule of hearing. The parties should not seek adjournments, it added.The order came on Haryana Government’s petition challenging the February 3 Punjab and Haryana High Court order staying the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020.Notified in November last year, the law provides for 75 per cent reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offer a monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022. Various industry associations from Faridabad, Gurugram and other places have challenged it before the high court.On behalf of Haryana Government, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that the high court’s order staying the domicile quota law was contrary to the law laid down by the Supreme Court.Contending that there was a presumption of legality in favour of the law and it’s ordinarily not stayed unless it’s prima facie unconstitutional or manifestly illegal, Mehta pointed out that no reasons was given by the high court while staying the domicile quota law.Senior advocates Dushyant Dave and Shyam Divan, representing industry associations, said that over 48,000 companies registered in Haryana would face immense hardship as they can’t employ anybody from outside the state from the date of commencement of the Act.The petitioners before the high court have contended that the Act under challenge was against the provisions of the Constitution and went against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive.The Haryana government wanted to create reservation in the private sector by introducing the policy of ‘Sons of Soil’, which was an infringement of constitutional rights of the employers, they submitted.They argued that private sector jobs were purely based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who were citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to work in any part of India. #haryana job quota #Reservation #supreme court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/supreme-court-sets-aside-hc-order-on-75-pc-quota-in-pvt-sector-jobs-for-haryana-residents-370689
17-02-2022||Vijay C Roy||Haryana better placed than Punjab, HP in e-waste management||Chandigarh, February 16Haryana is much better placed than many other states when it comes to managing electronic or e-waste. With a recycling capacity of 1.24 lakh tonnes per annum, the state stands at fourth position in terms of installed capacity.The states which are ahead of Haryana in terms of e-waste handling or installed capacity are Uttar Pradesh (4.94 lakh tonne per annum), Uttarakhand (1.47 lakh tonne) and Tamil Nadu (1.32 lakh tonne).Across the country, there are 468 authorised dismantlers and recyclers in 22 states with a processing capacity of 13.86 lakh MT per annum, Minister of State for Environment, Forests and Climate Change Ashwini Kumar Choubey informed the Lok Sabha recently.According to data shared by him, India generated 10,14,961.2 tonnes of e-waste last year, a massive 31.6% increase from the previous year. Further, only 22% of the e-waste generated in India got recycled. In 2017-18, India generated 7,08,445 tonnes of e-waste and 7,71,215 tonnes in 2018-19 — an increase of 8.86%. The e-Waste (Management) Rules were notified in 2016 which got amended from time to time. So far, the Environment Ministry has notified 21 types of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) as e-waste.In 2016, the E-Waste (Management) Rules placed responsibility on electronics goods manufacturing companies and bulk consumers to collect and channel e-waste from consumers to authorised re-processing units.It has provisions for dismantling and recycling of e-waste by authorised dismantler and recycler who has a facility for erasing and removing data.It is estimated India is the world’s third biggest contributor — 32 lakh tonne of e-waste in a year after China and the US.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/haryana-better-placed-than-punjab-hp-in-e-waste-management-370678
17-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||CCTVs in all police stations: Excuse of not being an advanced country no longer available, says High Court||Chandigarh, February 16Just about a month after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made it clear that interrogation rooms too would be covered by the Supreme Court directions on installing CCTV cameras in every nook and corner of police stations, the Bench has reiterated that the excuse of not being as advanced as other countries was no longer available.The assertion by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came as the UT and the states of Punjab and Haryana submitted a timeline for implementing the Supreme Court orders on ensuring the installation of CCTV cameras in each and every police station.We are the fifth or the sixth largest economy in the world and, therefore, the excuse of us not being as advanced as other countries is no longer available to us... — Justice Amol Rattan Singh“We are the fifth or the sixth largest economy in the world and, therefore, the excuse of us not being as advanced as other countries is no longer available to us, unless we choose not to follow a more civilised method of apprehension and investigation,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted.The Bench, during the course of the hearing, was told that all police stations and police posts in the UT already stood equipped with cameras, but upgrade of these in terms of the Supreme Court orders would take about five months. It also sought a month’s ‘buffer’ in this regard.The state of Haryana submitted that it would be bound to install all such CCTV cameras in police posts by April 1. But there may be some delay due to a fresh outbreak of the pandemic. The state of Punjab, on the other hand, submitted that CCTV cameras would be duly installed in all police posts by May 10.Taking up the issue, Justice Amol Rattan Singh had, on a previous date of hearing, asked Punjab, Haryana and the Chandigarh DGP to file affidavits on compliance with the Supreme Court directions. The directions came after an accused filed a plea through senior advocate Bipan Ghai with counsel Paras Talwar. He was seeking directions for conducting videography from the time of leaving the jail premises till reaching the police station concerned for interrogation. Ghai also prayed for direction to record the interrogation.Ghai pointed out to the directions by the Supreme Court on the issue in the case of “Paramvir Singh Saini versus Baljit Singh”. #CCTV #high court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/excuse-of-not-being-an-advanced-country-no-longer-available-hc-370575
17-02-2022||Kaithal||Threat to Pundri MLA Randhir Gollen, FIR registered against 5||The Kaithal police have registered a case against five persons in Kaithal district for allegedly not allowing Pundri MLA Randhir Gollen to enter Karora village and also threatening to kill him if he entered the village.The police took the action on the basis of a video, showing a person threatening the MLA, while three to four persons were supporting him.The accused was identified as Pinder of the village, while three to four persons were yet to be identified, said the police. The MLA was scheduled to attend a programme at the gaushala in the village and was also to inaugurate a road stretch between Karora and Serdha villages. Before his programme, residents started protest and not allowed the MLA to enter the village. The protesting people had alleged that they were infuriated over the remarks made by the MLA during the farmers’ protest.On the complaint of Nayab Singh, head constable working as a security agent at the Pundri police station, the Pundri police registered a case against Pinder and three-four others for threatening to kill the MLA.“Based on the viral video, we have registered a case against Pinder and others,” said Maqsood Ahmed, Kaithal Superintendent of Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/threat-to-pundri-mla-fir-registered-against-5-370544
17-02-2022||---||67-year-old woman, grandson run over by train in Yamunanagar district while crossing closed railway lines with bike||Yamunanagar, February 16A 67-year-old woman and her grandson allegedly came under a moving train near Pansara village of Yamunanagar district. They both died on the spot.The deceased have been identified as Premo Devi and Bhupal Singh (30) of Rampur Khadar village.According to information, the woman and her grandson were going to visit a relative in Unheri village on Tuesday evening. When they reached the Pansara village, the railway crossing was closed.The woman and grandson was trying to cross railway lines with a motorcycle at about 6.15 pm when they came under a moving inspection train headed to Ambala.Narender Prasad, SHO, Government Railway Police, said the bodies were handed over to the after postmortem at Yamunanagar Civil Hospital today, adding that proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC have been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/67-year-old-woman-grandson-run-over-by-train-370543
17-02-2022||---||Haryana lifts all Covid curbs||Chandigarh, February 16With coronavirus cases on the decline, the Haryana Government today lifted all Covid restrictions across the state.An order issued by Chief Secretary-cum-Chairperosn of the State Executive Committee Sanjeev Kaushal said all restrictions imposed as part of the “mahamari alert-surakshit Haryana” had been lifted in the state.However, the order advised the residents to observe the Covid-appropriate behavioural norms, including social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-lifts-all-covid-curbs-370541
17-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||State duty-bound to protect life: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the times were changing fast before calling for a decisive shift in the standpoint from an orthodox society to a social order that valued an individual’s life.Fundamental rightEvery person in the territory of India has an inherent and indefeasible fundamental right to life flowing from Article 21 of the Constitution and the State is duty-bound to protect life. Justice Anoop Chitkara, Punjab and Haryana High CourtThe assertion by Justice Anoop Chitkara came in a runaway couple’s protection plea where the woman-petitioner’s “first husband” alleged remarriage by his wife without divorcing him. His counsel submitted protection could not be given to “such a lady because the apprehended threat is a consequence of her own actions and violations”.Justice Chitkara observed that none appeared before the court for the petitioners. Given the nature of the order proposed to be passed, neither the official respondents’ response, nor the issuance of notices to the private respondents-kin was required.Justice Chitkara added that the court was not adjudicating on the validity of the petitioners’ marriage, but adhering to its fundamental duty of guarding their lives. If the allegations and the apprehension of the threat to their lives turned out to be true, it might lead to an irreversible loss.In his detailed order, Justice Chitkara directed the Superintendent of Police, the SHO, “or any officer to whom such powers have been delegated or has been authorised in this regard”, to provide appropriate protection to the petitioners for a week.Justice Chitkara added that the petitioners might do away with the protection even before the week’s expiry, if they no longer required it. After that, the officials concerned would extend the protection on a day-to-day analysis of the ground realities or upon their oral or written request.“This protection is subject to the condition that from the time such protection is given, the petitioners shall not go outside the boundaries of the residence, except for medical necessities, and bereavements in the families of the persons close to them,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-duty-bound-to-protect-life-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-370539
17-02-2022||Gurugram||Cancel passports of Chintel Pardiso builders, says society||Though the administration and the local authorities claim to be going out of their way to rehabilitate Chintel Pardiso residents, they are continuing their hunger strike. The residents have demanded immediate arrest of all directors of Chintels Group and cancellation of their passports. The residents have accused the police of shielding builders by not naming them in the FIR.Also read: Gurugram: Unsafe 'Green View society' to be vacated by March 1Handing out a nine-point demand letter to local MLA Rakesh Daultabad, who came to meet flat owners, residents demanded a probe under the direct supervision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court into the entire incident, the malpractices adopted by the builder to obtain the occupation certificate (OC) and government officials involved.Residents demanded that the court should supervise the investigation and get a structural audit conducted by the IITD. They also said the HRERA licence of Ms Chintles India should be cancelled. The authorities should ensure immediate settlement and rehabilitation of all flat owners, residents added.The DTP, RS Bhath, who is stationed in society, said the repair work started yesterday was completed in 90 per cent flats. “Shifting of families has started. We will accommodate all 34 flat owners by end of this week. Things are working out,” the DTP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cancel-passports-of-builders-says-society-370538
17-02-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Why double standards by Panchkula administration?||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Why double standards by Panchkula admn?The accompanying photograph captured near house numbers 2281-2285 (close to the water boosting station) in Sector 21 (phase-III) in Panchkula, reveals multiple heaps of the dug out earth/stones etc even after laying of the storm water pipe here. While the civic body invariably mandates residents to restore back any dug out portion to its original position, soon after doing the needful but it seems to be least bothered to meticulously follow its own guidelines on this count. Moreover, the recently laid down storm water pipe line has also been connected to the nearby sewer manhole instead of ensuring proper preservation of the rainwater as required in case of residential houses across the city. Why such double standards? Vinayak, PanchkulaCheck doubtful stay in group housing complexesThere are many multi-storey group housing complexes in some sectors in Panchkula and Mansa Devi Complex. Assistant Registrar Co-operative Societies, Panchkula, will do well to mandate a compulsory prominent display of regularly updated list of names of owners as well as occupants/tenants in all dwelling units at the entrance of every complex/towers therein. This will help in general awareness and check any doubtful occupancy or stay. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaRestore old-age pensionOld-age pension is a form of social security to old people who are incapable of any earning due to their weak-energy level in their old age and are in urgent need of financial assistance for their living. With the preparation of family IDs in Haryana state, and due to lack of awareness and in the race of getting their family IDs prepared hurriedly, many people entered the family income in the concerned column just for formality and they gave no serious attention to it. As a result, many old people got out of the old-age pension criteria and their monthly old-age pension was discontinued. When they approached the help centres for the withdrawal of pension they were shocked to know about the discontinuation. Returning empty handed from such help centres has been nothing but a serious blow to the elderly minds. It's a serious matter and must be given attention and old-age pension be restored to them at the earliest. Jai Bhagwan Galav, Kurukshetra Surajkund-Badkhal road in pathetic conditionThe Surajkund-Badkhal road is in pathetic condition. It is now a road only in patches, the rest is all potholes. No one seems to be concerned. A reader, Faridabad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/why-double-standards-by-panchkula-administration-370536
17-02-2022||Karnal||Annual sports meet concludes||Awareness on legal rightsKurukshetra: An awareness workshop on "Legal rights awareness: Need of the hour" was jointly organised by the legal literacy cell and anti-sexual harassment cell of Indira Gandhi National College, Ladwa. As many as 104 students participated and derived benefit from this workshop. Dushyant Chaudhary, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Kurukshetra, delivered an extension lecture on legal rights and discussed in detail various pros and cons of different acts POCSO, dowry prohibition, acid attack, domestic violence, PNDT and matrimonial disputes etc. He made the students aware of their legal rights as well as exhorted them never to misuse their rights as rights and duties went side by side. Dr Ravish Chauhan, officiating principal of the college appreciated the speaker for effective delivery of the informative lecture.Training on fruit, veggie preservationHisar: Santosh Kumari, wife of the Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Prof BR Kamboj said women tried to become self-reliant by setting up enterprises by forming small groups. She was speaking as the chief guest at the conclusion of the five-day training on the subject of fruit and vegetable preservation under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RAFTAAR) organised by the Saina Nehwal Agricultural Technology Training and Education Institute at HAU. The training was organised for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.Virtual int'l exchange programmeHisar: Students of Army Public School, Hisar, participated in a virtual international exchange programme with the students of Thomas Alva Edison School, Puerto Rico and ASPAM International School, UAE, to address the UN sustainable development goal 13: Climate action. The students discussed environmental challenges and their solutions under the theme 'Climate change: Youth solutions'. The issue of stubble burning, a conspicuous concern faced in states such as Haryana, was extensively discussed, along with its damaging impact on the environment and effective ways to solve the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/annual-sports-meet-concludes-370534
17-02-2022||Hisar||Hisar: Domestic help decamps with cash, jewellery by intoxicating house owner||A domestic help, along with two other accomplices, decamped with cash, gold and silver jewellery by intoxicating a house owner. She offered him tea laced with intoxicants at Padav Chowk in Hisar town last night. The incident has also been captured on the CCTV camera installed in the house.Sudhir Kumar, a resident, complaint to the police that a Nepali national woman, Tulsi Devi, was working at his house as a domestic help. He said she brought another woman Karishma Devi with her last evening. She later offered him tea after which he fell unconscious. When he regained consciousness, he found the house in a mess. He found that Rs 5 lakh cash and jewellery was also missing from the almirah. The police have registered a case and started investigation. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/domestic-help-decamps-with-cash-jewellery-370533
17-02-2022||Parveen Arora||NDRI to set benchmark for milk cells across India||Karnal, February 16After the success in setting standard limits of somatic cell counts (SCC) in the milk of indigenous cattle and Murrah buffalo of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) farm, the scientists of NDRI, here, have started work on developing a set of reference values of SCC of all dairy breeds of the country.Develop predictive modelsWe will set benchmark standards for milk somatic cells and develop computer-stimulated predictive models to link patterns of risk factors associated with higher SCC in indigenous dairy animals. Dr Ajay Kumar Dang, Principal Scientist, NDRIThe Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India, has sanctioned project “Generation of milk somatic cell reference values and intelligent predictive modelling for monitoring mammary profile and milk quality of indigenous dairy animals”.Scientists will screen high and low-producing dairy animals from various parts of the country to set desirable milk SCC levels in the indigenous breeds. They will also set a computer-stimulated predictive model to identify the risk factors associated with higher somatic cells.As per the scientists, high percentage of SCC in milk is not good for the animal, producer and consumer. High milk somatic cell count leads to poor mammary health, lesser milk synthesis, poor fertility and also reduced yield of dairy products. “Scientists have started work on this project, under which they will develop a set of reference values for SSC in the milk of indigenous cows, buffaloes and goats,” said Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan, director, NDRI. “India continues to be the largest producer of milk in the world. Milk production in the country has increased from 146.3 million metric tonnes in 2014-15 to 200 million metric tonnes in 2020-21, but export of milk stands only at about 10 per cent. This project will help Indian dairy farmers in achieving low milk somatic cell counts, reduce mammary infections and help to produce Grade A milk and its products,” Dr Chauhan added.Dr Chauhan added that this would boost consumer confidence in the safety of traditional milk products, profits to Indian dairy farmers and increase the welfare of the milk-producing animals. #NDRI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ndri-to-set-benchmark-for-milk-cells-across-india-370532
17-02-2022||---||Rs 2.5 crore to be spent on beautification of Saraswati Tirtha at Pehowa||Kurukshetra, February 16A budget of around Rs 2.5 crore will be spent on the beautification and development of Saraswati Tirtha at Pehowa in Kurukshetra.Pehowa is considered as a place of great religious importance and lakhs of people reach Pehowa every year from different parts of the country to perform post-death rituals of their family members, and also offer prayers to their ancestors. They also get entered their personal details in the “Bahis” or genealogy registers maintained by the priests. The purohits have the records of about last over 500 years, including some records on “Bhojpatras” as well.After Brahma Sarovar, Saraswati Tirtha is the biggest asset of the Kurukshetra Development Board.Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of the Kurukshetra Development Board, said, “A meeting regarding the development work was held recently and it has been decided to develop different “Tirthas” in Pehowa. However, the major focus will be on Saraswati Tirtha. Every year, lakhs of devotees reach there. It has been decided to develop the “Tirtha” on the pattern of Brahma Sarovar.”Minister of state for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh, who is also the Pehowa MLA, said, “The government has prepared a blueprint to make Saraswati shrine a world class pilgrimage. Continuous efforts are being made to develop all “Tirthas” so that the pilgrimages and other people who reach here in large numbers get all facilities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-2-5-crore-to-be-spent-on-beautification-of-saraswati-tirtha-at-pehowa-370531
17-02-2022||---||Sports Director reviews readiness for Khelo India Games in Ambala||Ambala, February 16Director, Sports and Youth Affairs Department Pankaj Nain today visited the War Heroes Memorial Stadium to check the preparations for the Khelo India Games and said the games might start in the first week of April.He visited the all-weather swimming pool, gymnasium and sports hostel.Pankaj Nain said, “Khelo India Games may start in the first week of April, and today we visited the stadium to check the preparedness and infrastructure. An all-weather Olympic-size swimming pool facility is ready and all equipment have also been purchased. Swimming and gymnastics events will be organised at the War Heroes Memorial Stadium. A security audit of the stadium will be done and it will be tested on all safety parameters by the audit team.”He was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Vikram Singh and officials of PWD (B&R) and the Sports Department.However, the Sports Director refused to comment on the alleged multi-crore scam in the construction of the Football stadium here and said the construction was done by the PWD (B&R) and he wouldn’t comment on that.Earlier this month, the Haryana Government had suspended three officials of the Public Works Department (B&R) for alleged negligence in duty and irregularities observed reportedly in the upgrade work of football stadium in Ambala Cantonment. In the preliminary report, misappropriation of funds to the tune of around Rs 45 crore was observed.On the other hand, Haryana Democratic Front’s general secretary Chitra Sarwara today sought a CBI and CAG inquiry into the alleged football stadium scam.Sarwara said, “Recently, the government decided to get the structural audit done from a team of experts of the IIT. We demand that the government should get the inquiry of the financial irregularity done from CAG, and also involve the CBI for investigation of corruption and criminal angle. Strict action should be taken against the people concerned.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sports-director-reviews-readiness-for-khelo-india-games-in-ambala-370530
17-02-2022||Faridabad||Vehicle thief wanted in 21 cases arrested||Financier ends life in HisarHisar: A financier hanged himself at his office in Dabra Chowk on Monday night. The deceased has been identified as Kapil (30) of Surya Nagar. The police said the family of the deceased had alleged that he was upset as some persons had not returned the money he had lent to them. A case has been registered against Virender, Mahesh Sangwan and Mamta on the charges of abetment to suicide. TNSTwo held with 6 stolen bikesYamunanagar: The police have arrested Abhishek of Sasauli village and Arjun of Chhapur village of Saharanpur district in UP and recovered six stolen bikes from them. Ramesh Rana, in charge, anti-vehicle theft cell, said the police arrested Abhishek with a stolen bike.“During interrogation, Abhishek confessed to selling stolen motorcycles to Arjun Chhapur. Later, Arjun was also arrested,” Rana said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vehicle-thief-wanted-in-21-cases-arrested-370529
17-02-2022||Chandigarh||Imbibe ideals of Sant Ravidas, says Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar paid tributes at the statue of Guru Ravidas on his birth anniversary here today.Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said Sant Ravidas dedicated his entire life to eliminate evils like untouchability and casteism. During his lifetime, he worked tirelessly to end discrimination among people and taught them to live in harmony and peace, the Chief Minister said. — #guru ravidas #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/imbibe-ideals-of-sant-ravidas-says-manohar-lal-khattar-370527
17-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram stabbing case: Egyptian woman sent to 14-day judicial remand||An Egyptian woman was nabbed by the police yesterday for creating ruckus and stabbing a cab driver at Rajiv Chowk. She was sent to judicial custody today.According to the police the accused woman was identified as 34-year- old Rihana, alias Noor Ali, an Egypt national, who came to Delhi around 15 days ago. “She could not produce any passport and visa. So, it’s not clear yet on which visa she came to India,” said the police.The police with the help of a translator questioned the woman, but failed to find the reason behind her attack on the cab driver. She was produced in a city court today, which sent het to 14 days judicial custody. Following complaint of the injured cab driver, Raghu Raj of Mahipalpur in Delhi, an FIR was registered against woman. A video of the incident had also gone viral in which the accused was seen punching woman cop. “A probe is on,” said Inspector Ved Prakash, SHO, Civil Lines police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stabbing-case-egyptian-woman-sent-to-14-day-judicial-remand-370526
17-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||50 buses checked, 3 challaned in drive to check violations at Jhajjar||Jhajjar, February 16Two days after a road mishap that left two school children dead and several others injured on the Jhajjar-Sampla road, the district authorities carried out checking operations of school buses in Bahadurgarh town here today.Checking done regularlyIt is not a new campaign. We used to conduct the checking of school buses every month to ensure that educational institutions are adhering to safety guidelines. Satish Kumar, a police officialPreliminary Report in 3 daysThe panel will conduct a detailed inquiry and submit a preliminary report in three days. A detailed report will be put up in 15 days. Action will be taken against guilty. Shakti Singh, Deputy CommissionerThe police checked 50 school buses and challaned three for not following safety guidelines.Sources said the number of students sitting in buses, speedometer, cameras, first aid box, driving license of drivers, fitness certificate of buses and insurance policies were checked during the campaign.“Three of the 50 buses checked during the inspection were found to be violating the guidelines and were hence were challaned,” said Satish Kumar, a police official.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Shakti Singh has formed a four-member inquiry committee to find out the exact cause of the mishap.On Monday, a school van carrying nine children rammed into a canter near Girawar village here.The committee will be led by Jhajjar Shikha. Additional SP Bharti Dabas, Road Transport Authority secretary Dharna Yadav and Block Education Officer Ramniwas are other members of the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-buses-checked-3-challaned-in-drive-to-check-violations-at-jhajjar-370524
17-02-2022||Karnal||Congress to raise problems of anganwari workers, helpers in Assembly: Kumari Selja||The Congress’ state president, Kumari Selja, on Wednesday extended support to aganwari workers and helpers protesting at Fountain Park in Sector 12. She demanded that the government should fulfil their demands, including promises made by the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister. Addressing angwari workers and helpers Selja said, “The Congress will raise issues of Aganwari workers and helpers in the Assembly session.”While accusing the BJP government for being insensitive towards demands of women Selja said, “The BJP talks about women empowerment, but in reality it does not do anything. Prime Minister, Chief Minister and the BJP leaders speak on women empowerment, but in reality they are not serious about their issues.”“The BJP only promises, but did nothing to fulfil them. Anganwari workers and helpers have been protesting across the state for the past over 70 days, but their demands, including increasing wages, have yet to be met,” Selja added.Meanwhile, an official spokesperson said the Haryana Government had sympathetically considered demands of Anganwari workers and helpers from time to time and fulfilled all of them. Haryana was making the highest monthly contribution of Rs9,961 to anganwari workers in its share of honorarium, while the Central share was Rs2,700, he said. This scheme was being run on 60:40 partnership of the Central and state governments, he added.In 2014, Haryana anganwari workers used to get Rs7,500 and helpers received Rs3,500 as honorarium, which had almost doubled now, he said. “The Haryana Government is giving honorarium of Rs12,661 per month to an Anganwari worker, Rs11,401 to mini anganwari worker and Rs6,781 to helper. The honorarium given to anganwari workers and helpers by the Haryana Government is the highest among North India states and second in the country,” he added. — #anganwari #kumari selja||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-to-raise-problems-of-anganwari-workers-helpers-in-assembly-kumari-selja-370523
17-02-2022||---||Rohtak police to track women lodging false rape complaints||Rohtak, February 16To keep a vigil on the cases of blackmail and honeytrap, the Rohtak police have decided to identify women who lodge false complaints of rape and sexual exploitation and later extort money from the accused for withdrawing the complaint.“After identifying such complainants, we will maintain their database so that they are not able to lodge false complaints at any police station in the district,” said Susheela Devi, Deputy Superintenden of Police (Crime against Women) at Rohtak.The step has been taken in view of the rise in the number of false rape cases lodged by women with the intention to blackmail the accused later. In one instance, the police arrested a woman and her foster father on Tuesday evening for blackmailing a man whom they had accused of rape.Police stations to maintain databaseAfter identifying such complainants, we will maintain their database so that they are not able to lodge false complaints at any police station in the Rohtak district. Susheela Devi, Deputy Superintendent of Police (crime against women), RohtakA police team nabbed the duo red-handed allegedly while accepting a payment of Rs 7.5 lakh in the name of settlement in the case.Rohtak Superintendent of Police Udai Singh Meena said a woman of Sampla township lodged a rape complaint on February 4, on the basis of which an FIR was registered.In her complaint, she said she was living alone in a rented accommodation in Sampla after separation from her husband. She added that a Sonepat man raped her for several months on the pretext of marrying her.However, during the investigation, the accused claimed that the charges levelled by the complainant were false and she had demanded Rs 8 lakh to settle the case.The police laid a trap and nabbed the woman and her foster father allegedly while accepting Rs 7.5 lakh in the presence of a duty magistrate. A separate case has been registered in this regard.In another case, a woman artiste had also lodged a complaint with the police against a Bhiwani man, accusing him of raping her.Upon investigation, it was revealed that the woman was married, but her husband went missing. Following that, she married another man. After some time, she lodged a case of rape and dowry harassment against him.After that, she came in contact with a Fazilka man, against whom she lodged rape complaint at a Delhi police station. Last year, she was involved with a Bhiwani man, against whom also she lodged rape complaint at Rohtak. When the police investigators got to know about the woman’s track record, they dropped the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-police-to-track-women-lodging-false-rape-complaints-370521
17-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Rs 9.59 crore budget to manage grey water in 30 villages of Kurukshetra district||Kurukshetra, February 16A budget of Rs 9.59 crore will be utilised for the management of grey water in 30 villages of the district.Grey water is the one that’s been used in showers, tubs, washing machines and bathroom sinks but hasn't come into contact with human waste. It can, however, contain traces of food, household cleaning products and other substances.Rural ponds to be restoredTo provide end to end solution for the wastewater in the rural areas, it will be channelised and diverted to ponds in villages. The existing ponds will be restored. The drainage network will be strengthened under this project to divert water to ponds in villages. Virender Chauhan, Executive Engineer, panchayati raj, KurukshetraTender process has startedFor greywater management and utilisation of wastewater, the state government has sanctioned 30 projects for Kurukshetra. A budget of Rs9.59 crore will be utilised for the project. The tender process for seven projects has started. A budget of Rs4.88 crore has been released for the purpose. Mukul Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, KurukshetraUnder the project, the existing village ponds and water bodies will be restored. Wastewater of the entire village will be diverted to ponds for which drainage network will be strengthened. After treatment, water will be used for agriculture purposes.Of 30 sanctioned projects, 12 works will be carried out in Thanesar block, seven in Pipli block, three each in Pehowa, Ismailabad, and Babain blocks, and two in Shahabad block of Kurukshetra.The Executive Engineer, Panchayati Raj, Kurukshetra, Virender Chauhan, said, “To provide end to end solution for the wastewater in the rural areas, it will be channelised and diverted to existing ponds in villages. The existing ponds will be restored. The drainage network will be strengthened under this project to divert water to ponds in villages.”“Without using any chemicals or installing a mechanical mechanism, water will be treated with the help of the wetland technique, which is a natural process, as proposed by the Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority. Drawings and designs are being provided by the authority,” the XEN added.“The wetland technology structure, in which a variety of plants and boulders are used to naturally treat water, will be installed at the inlet point of the greywater. Thirty villages have been selected. The remaining villages will be covered in a phased manner. Some villages may have multiple ponds. The project will help in recharging groundwater and available discharge will be used for agricultural purposes,” the XEN informed.“The groundwater is in a critical situation in the district. Out of 433 villages, 422 are categorised as severely groundwater stressed, 10 are moderately groundwater stressed, and only one is potential groundwater stressed village,” the XEN said.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, said “For greywater management and utilisation of wastewater, the state government has sanctioned 30 projects for Kurukshetra. A budget of Rs9.59 crore will be utilised for the project. Of the total, the tender process for seven projects has started and a budget of Rs4.88 crore has been released to the department.”“Wastewater will be treated and then used for agricultural purposes. The department concerned has been directed to identify all locations where wastewater is flowing so that it could be diverted and utilised,” the Deputy Commissioner added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-9-59-crore-budget-to-manage-grey-water-in-30-villages-of-kurukshetra-district-370517
17-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Traffic challans, penalties up in Faridabad||Faridabad, February 16The number of challans and penalties imposed against the traffic rule offenders have been on the constant rise in the city. The number of challans in the January has been higher than the monthly average of the past two years in the district. The number of accidents and deaths on roads has also risen in this period, sources in the police department said.Increased Presence of cops due to CCTVsWith the installation of more CCTV cameras, presence of police at sensitive points has been increased with regular checking of unauthorised vehicles. Sube Singh, PRO, police departmentSurveillance still not enoughThough around 1,200 CCTV cameras have been installed at major intersections in the city, the surveillance has still been inadequate in comparison to the number of vehicles. SK Sharma, coordinator, RSOThe traffic police has issued 19,694 challans in January (upto January 31), which is around 41.43 per cent more than the monthly average of 2021. This is also 52.20 per cent higher than the monthly average of 2020, according to the details compiled by the department of traffic police here. Against a total of 1,38,416 challans and a penalty of Rs 7.78 crore imposed last year, the police has issued 19,694 challans till January 31, imposing a fine of Rs 68.73 lakh already. The number of challans and the penalty imposed in 2020 was 1,12,949 and Rs 7.40 crore, respectively. The penalty imposed on the violations in this period has also gone up by six per cent.SK Sharma, coordinator, Road Safety Organisation(RSO), an NGO, said inadequate infrastructure could be a major factor for the rise in violations and accidents, as long term planning and execution of measures to contain the problem had been missing. Though around 1,200 cameras (CCTVs) have been installed at major intersections in the city, the surveillance has still been inadequate in comparison to the number of vehicles he adds.Claiming that the drive to curb the traffic violations has been stepped up, Sube Singh, PRO , Police Department, said with the installation of more CCTV cameras, presence of police at sensitive points has been increased with regular checking of unauthorised vehicles. He said help and services of the NGOs working in the field of road safety were also being taken to regulate the traffic at peak hours and to contain the problem of traffic rules violations. Auto stands were also being set up to regulate traffic, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traffic-challans-penalties-up-in-faridabad-370515
17-02-2022||---||Haryana Education Board facing fund crunch, burden shifted on pupils||Chandigarh, February 16Five private school associations of the state today expressed resentment against the Class VIII board examination “imposed on them”.The Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC), Haryana United Schools Association (HUSA), Haryana Private Schools Association (HPSA), Karnal Independent Schools Association (KISA) and Recognized Aided Private Schools Association (RUPSA) held a press conference and said that the board exam was not acceptable to school managements as well as students and their parents.Order against rulesThe govt’s order is completely against the rules. Schools were not in favour of putting mental and financial burden on students and their parents in the times of Covid. Suresh Chandra, VP, Hry pvt schools assnHPSC vice-president Suresh Chandra said the government’s order was completely against the rules wherein private schools had approached court earlier.Chandra said schools were not in favour of putting mental and financial burden on the students and their parents in the times of Covid.The State Education Board, which is facing a financial crisis, was shifting financial burden on the schools and parents by conducting the board examination of Class VIII, he added.“By fixing a fee of Rs 5,000 in the name of registration per school, Rs 100 for enrollment and Rs 550 for examination fee, the board has made a way of earning money, which is not acceptable to the schools and parents at all. There are about 2,000 private schools in the state. Board charges Rs 5,000 per school, which results in an earning of Rs 1 crore, whereas the Board charging Rs 550 per student from a total estimation of 4.5 lakh students makes a massive earning of nearly Rs 25 crore,” he added.Referring to the statement issued by Haryana Education Minister Kanwarpal Gujjar in the past where he said that the Class VIII exam wouldn’t be conducted, Chandra said if the board was facing a crunch, students of Class VIII should not be made victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-education-board-facing-fund-crunch-burden-shifted-on-pupils-370511
17-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Cancel Class VIII exams in Haryana, demand parents||Rohtak, February 16After private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), now parents have, for the first time, come forward against the state government’s move of conducting board exams of Class VIII in all government and private schools (affiliated to any board) located in the state.Kids under stress for two yearsThe board exam will cause stress for the already disturbed children who have been studying from home for two years. The govt should think practically and just not decide anything sitting in sanitised rooms. ParentsDuty to inform parents about examIt is our duty to inform the parents that the Board of School Education Haryana is going to hold exams of their wards next month so that they could prepare their children for that. Anil Kaushik, Prez, progressive pvt schools assnThey have launched a signature campaign on social media to register their protest against the exams. Over 8,000 parents had participated in the campaign by evening and many of them also commented “no board exams for Class VIII”, citing different reasons.“The schools have reopened after a long gap, hence the decision to hold board exams for Class VIII without any prior intimation is absolutely unjustified. Children are taking their final exams in school currently and the move has added to the mental stress and well-being of my child,” commented Donna, a parent.Anshul Pathania, district president, Haryana Progressive Schools Conference, said all associations of private schools were united over the issue and they had decided to apprise Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar of the ill-effects of the move and to urge him to cancel the exams. “We have also got an appointment for February 25 to meet the CM,” he claimed.Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools Association, said they were now carrying out a survey to get parents’ comments over the issue before proceeding further. “It is our duty to inform the parents that the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) is going to hold exams of their wards next month so that they could prepare their children for that. The children will get a detailed mark certificate issued by the BSEH if the exams are conducted,” he added.On being contacted, Kanwar Pal Gurjar, Education Minister, said the state government would soon take a vital decision regarding the ongoing row over the board exams for Class VIII. He denied getting any communiqué from the Centre regarding the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cancel-class-viii-exams-in-haryana-demand-parents-370507
17-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram: Unsafe 'Green View society' to be vacated by March 1||Gurugram, February 16With IIT Delhi declaring Green View residential society in Sector 37 D here unsafe, residents have been told to vacate it by March 1. Holding state-owned National Buildings Construction Corporation Ltd and its contractors responsible, the administration announced that flat owners who wanted to relocate permanently would be given refund along with one month’s interest.Also read: Cancel passports of Chintel Pardiso builders, says societyFollowing a meeting with 140 flat owners and NBCC officials, Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Nishant Yadav said the corporation would provide alternative accommodation or pay rent to residents.“We will not go ahead with demolition till the compensation is paid. A second survey of the society will be done and even if it is found livable with repairs, owners will be free to opt for refund,” said Yadav. The administration said evacuation was urgent to ensure that there was no Chintels Paradiso-like mishap. In November last year, residents were served evacuation notices, but they insisted on staying till they get compensation. NBCC CMD PK Gupta said, “The IIT team said high chloride level in water led to corrosion. After the first inspection, we wanted to undertake major repairs, but couldn’t go ahead with it due to Covid. Later, rains caused further damage to the buildings.” #green view society #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unsafe-gurugram-society-to-be-vacated-by-march-1-370470
