18-02-2022||Sumedha SharmaGurugram||Chintels collapse: All Gurugram high-rises to undergo quake safety audit||Rattled by the Chintel Paradiso partial tower collapse, the Gurugram Disaster Management Authority, headed by Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar, has ordered a safety audit of all high-rises.The city falls in Seismic Zone 4, second-most earthquake threatened zone, with around 2,000 registered high-rises or buildings having more than four floors. There have been numerous complaints of poor construction quality and doubts on the strength of buildings, with complainants worried about the fate of all structures in case of a quake."Ensuring safe living is our priority at the moment. We are in an earthquake sensitive zone and wish to ensure that Chintel-type incident is never repeated, so we will check each high rise. It will take time but will be worth it. We are identifying agency for the same," said Yadav.The city, according to experts, is at a higher risk than Delhi. While Delhi sits on top of three active seismic fault lines, Gurugram sits at 7, making it the riskiest area in the NCR. If any of these become active, it can cause an earthquake of up to 7.5 magnitude.A senior administration official said plans were on for such safety audits and the DTP would work on the execution. It was in 2015 when repeated tremors had led to panic amongst the high-rise dwellers and then the administration had ordered a safety audit. The plan never materialised, though a decision was taken that every builder would submit an earthquake safety certificate, ensuring the building was being made as per the disaster management mandate. This, however, never took off.It was in 2020 when the Delhi NCR was hit by 17 earthquakes in three months. The DC Gurugram had gone ahead with footer notes on all sale and purchase deeds and registries, warning the people about the city being in Seismic Zone 4. An advisory was issued to mandatorily consult a structural engineer in this regard, but nothing happened.It was in 1960 that an earthquake with epicentre along the Delhi-Gurgaon border of 6.2 magnitude had damaged nearly 200 structures and killed and injured several people. The area of Gurugram was then sparsely inhabited, with just a few mud houses and two people were reported dead and some injured. Areas under Seismic Zone 4The entire city falls under the seismic zone 4. Apart from the Jaipur depression, many normal faults pass through Gurugram. The major tectonic features in Gurugram district include Sohna Fault, Moradabad Fault, Delhi-Moradabad Fault, Delhi-Haridwar Fault, junction of Aravalli and Alluvium near Delhi.  #chintels collapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chintels-collapse-all-gurugram-high-rises-to-undergo-quake-safety-audit-371047
18-02-2022||Mukesh TandonPanipat||Panipat court sentences two men to death for rape, murder murdering a 12-year-old girl||A local court sentenced two people to death for the 2018 rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl in Panipat’s Urlana village in Madlauda.This is the first time Panipat’s court has handed down capital punishment.Pradeep and Sagar, alias Kallu, are both from Urlana village. The case was reported on January 4, 2018, when the naked body of the child was found near a pond in the village.Both the victim and the suspects were Dalits.    The court said in its judgment that such “inhuman” assault upon the child affected society’s “moral fiber”.“The convicts not only gang-raped the victim of such tender age but also murdered her by strangulating her neck using her shawl just with a view to screen themselves from punishment. The diabolical nature of the offence that shocks the collective conscience of the society and humanity is revealed from the fact that the convicts, having murdered the victim, again committed rape upon the dead body of the victim,”  Additional Sessions Judge Sumit Garg said in his order. “Any lesser sentence would do grave injustice not only to the victim and her family but to the society as well.”The victim, a student of Class 6, lived with her maternal grandparents. Her uncle said she went to throw out the trash on the evening of January 4, 2018, and never returned. The family filed a missing person’s report when they couldn’t find her.Police detained the two suspects from the vicinity the same day. Their detention lead to the recovery of the victim’s clothes, police said.The suspects admitted to having raped and strangled the child, police said.They also admitted to having continued with their sexual assault after the child had died and then threw her into the pond, police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accused-in-minor-rape-and-murder-case-awarded-death-sentence-371022
18-02-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana industry now awaits orders on private job quota||Chandigarh, February 17All eyes are on the Punjab and Haryana High Court, with the industry adopting a wait-and-watch approach on the law pertaining to the 75 per cent reservation for locals in private jobs that offer a monthly salary of Rs 30,000 or less.Portal functional againThe dedicated portal for registration of locals for employment and registration of companies is functional again. The portal was closed down after the Punjab and Haryana High Court had stayed the law granting 75 percent reservation for locals. Registration was resumed within hours of the SC vacating the stay, ACS (Labour) Raja Shekhar Vundru said.The Supreme Court vacated the stay on the law, but has asked the Punjab and Haryana High Court to decide the matter in four weeks.While the Labour Department held a meeting to deliberate on how to proceed following the vacation of the stay, the industry says the SC order is “favourable” to neither party since a final decision is pending.“The SC has said that no coercive action can be taken against the employers and left the decision to the High Court, which grated stay in the matter. There must have been some merit in the case that we got a stay. Let us await the final decision of the court. Both these directions are favourable and we will fight it,” said Rajiv Chawla, a Faridabad industrialist.From the Gurgaon Industries Association, JN Mangla, maintained that the vacation of the stay was nothing to celebrate for those advocating this law since the High Court has been authorised to decide the case.“The court will listen to us as well before a decision is taken. The next four weeks are critical. If we win, the law will not be enforced. If we lose, we will go by the government order on employing 75 per cent locals in the specific income bracket. However, right now, we have to wait and see the final order,” Mangla stated, adding that the industry was still hopeful.Meanwhile, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has welcomed the Supreme Court order vacating the stay imposed by the Punjab and Haryana High court on the law, granting 75 per cent employment quota for locals.The Deputy CM said they had again won the fight for the rights of the youth of Haryana in the case of 75 per cent jobs for locals. He said the SC had given a “big decision” that was completely in the interest of the youth. #Haryana #private quota||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-industry-now-awaits-orders-on-private-job-quota-370839
18-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Parents of medical students in Ukraine worried||Gurugram, February 17With tension between Ukraine and Russia rising, families of students studying medicine in Ukraine are worried.Pupils in a fixOur university is not in favour of online classes and has told us that we will have to cover up our missed classes. It has left many students in a fix. Ipsita Khandelwal, Medical Student in UkraineParents across Gurugram and Faridabad have appealed to the government to arrange immediate evacuation of their wards.Parents say they are getting distress calls from their children, but are unable to book tickets for them to come back to the country, with many institutions running out of food stock.“I have been trying to arrange a flight for my daughter, but have been unable to do so. She has told me that her institution is running low on food supply and her professors have also advised them to leave the country,” said Narender Pawar, a resident of Jyoti Park Colony.Pawar’s daughter Yashika is a medical student at Ivano-Frankivsk National Medical University. She is in her fourth year.Parents of another student, Ipsita Khandelwal, are also worried about her safety.“My daughter is very scared and so are her other 15 Indian friends in the university. We have been trying to book tickets for them even at double rates, but cannot get a flight. We just want our daughter back,” her mother Sunaina Khandelwal said.Ipsita is student at Kharkiv National Medical University.She said: “The university is not in favour of online classes and have told us that we will have to cover up our missed classes. It has left many students in a fix.”“Both my children are studying medicine in Ukraine. Their universe is 2,000 km from the border, so the situation is still better there, but still they are blocking tickets,” said Mansoor Khan, a resident of Faridabad.Over 20,000 Indians are presently in Ukraine, of which 18,000 are students.According to the website of the Ukraine’s Ministry of Education and Science, 24 per cent of overseas students in the country are from India.While states such as Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have prepared a list of students to evacuate and are coordinating with the Centre, Haryana is yet to start the process.Every year, thousands of students go to Ukraine for higher education. Of them, 80 per cent are pursuing medical, dental and nursing courses.“There are limited medical seats in India and the competition is also tough. Ukraine is lucrative for families who have to make their children doctors. Majority students are children of doctors who have legacy clinics or hospitals to run,” said Renuka Tuteja, an international education counsellor. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-of-students-in-ukraine-worried-370841
18-02-2022||Chandigarh||Congress writes to CM Khattar on evacuation of students from Ukraine||Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala has written to CM ML Khattar for the early evacuation of about 2,000 state residents from Ukraine. Surjewala said the Indian Embassy had advised Indians in Ukraine to leave the country, owing to the possibility of a war with Russia.He said: “There are limited flights from Ukraine to India and due to a rise in the demand, the tickets rates have increased five to six times. It is the responsibility of the state government to provide financial help to the residents of the state.” — TNSState should give aidDue to rise in demand, rates of flight tickets have increased five to six times. It is the responsibility of the state to provide financial help to the residents of the state. — Randeep Surjewala, Congress General Secretary #Khattar #randeep surjewala #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-writes-to-cm-on-evacuation-370842
18-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Driver of truck that killed actor Deep Sidhu arrested from Nuh||Sonepat, February 17The police on Thursday arrested from Nuh the truck driver who was involved in the road accident that led to the death of actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu on Tuesday.Also read: Judge must probe Deep Sidhu's accident: Simranjit Singh MannDeep Sidhu's girlfriend a day after his death writes 'just when we were planning our future together, you are gone', posts picturesDeep Sidhu's accident: Head injury main cause of death, airbag burst due to collisionTried overtaking from leftThe laden truck was moving in the middle of the first and second lane on the road and Deep Sidhu tried to overtake it from the left. The speed of the SUV might be over 100 kmph at that time, sources said.The driver, identified as Kasim Khan of Shingar village in Nuh of Mewat district, had managed to escape from the spot after the accident.Inspector Jaspal Singh, SHO, Kharkhoda, said that the 22-tyre truck was on the way to Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh from Kandla in Gujarat.Kasim has been locked up and would be produced in court on Friday. He would be taken on remand for further investigation, the SHO maintained. Over 100-ft-long skid marks on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway near Pipli toll plaza are enough to show the gravity of the accident in which Deep Sidhu lost his life.However, the Sonepat police have ruled out any conspiracy or foul play behind the death of Deep Sidhu on the basis of primary investigation reports.. #deep sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/driver-of-truck-that-killed-actor-arrested-from-nuh-370843
18-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||105 accidents in 13 months on KMP, KGP expressways||Sonepat, February 17Overspeeding of vehicles and miscalculation of speed of moving vehicles are the main reasons behind accidents on the 135.6-km-long Western Peripheral Expressway (KMP) and 135-km-long Eastern Peripheral Expressway (KGP).As many as 105 accident cases were reported from January 2021 to January 2022 on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) and Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal (KGP) expressways in which 16 people lost their lives under the three police station areas in Sonepat district.The KGP and KMP were made operational in 2018 and several major accidents were reported on the both expressways in which many people lost their lives.As per records, some major accidents reported on KMP-KGP expressways are: Nine persons died in an accident on KMP near Badli village in Jhajjar district on October 22, 2021. Seven persons also sustained injuries when they stopped their vehicle to help the accident victims. On November 3, 2020, five people died and 11 sustained injuries in an accident near Pai village in Kharkhoda of Sonepat district; On June 5, 2018, six persons died in accident near Chandhut in Palwal district. Three persons died near Manoli village on June 8, 2018.A long stretch of KGP and KMP lies in the jurisdiction of three police stations Rai, Kundli and Kharkhoda of the district.As per the details available, a total of 37 accident cases were registered in Rai police station in 2021. Of these, three cases were fatal and two were non-fatal. In January 2022, three cases were registered, but no casualty was reported.As many as 28 accident cases were registered in Kundli police station last year. Of these, four cases were fatal and three cases were reported non-fatal. Two cases were registered in January 2022 including a fatal accident.At Kharkhoda, 31 accidents were registered in 2021. Of these, seven cases were fatal and five were non fatal. Three cases were registered in January this year but none was fatal.Rajshree Singh, IG Traffic, said that over-speeding and miscalculation are the main causes behind the accidents on KGP and KMP expressways. Proper lighting, proper lay by on the side of roads and other facilities for commuters need to be improved on the expressways. For those, we would write to the authorities, the IG Traffic maintained. Besides, awareness campaigns for truck drivers are being organised by the traffic police from time to time, she asserted. #eastern peripheral expressway #western peripheral expressway||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/105-accidents-in-13-months-on-kmp-kgp-expressways-370844
18-02-2022||Chandigarh||High Court to hear plea against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s furlough today||A petition challenging the Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s release on furlough by the state government will come up for hearing before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday. Among other things, it has been contended before the HC that Ram Rahim has been released in view of the Assembly elections in Punjab.“His release at this stage is against the spirit of fair assembly elections,” it has been added. The petition has been listed for hearing before the High Court Bench of Justice BS Walia. In his petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents, Patiala district resident Paramjit Singh Saholi has added that that Ram Rahim, who committed “heinous crimes and has been convicted” ought not to have been granted furlough.“There is no justified reason to grant furlough to an individual like Ram Rahim and that too during the election days in the State of Punjab. There is every likelihood that Ram Rahim will foment issues/troubles in the State of Punjab and adversely impact its local populace along with his supporters,” he has added.Describing himself as the “Quami president of Akali Dal Sawtantar”, the petitioner has sought the setting aside/quashing of the order, vide which Ram Rahim, lodged in Sunaria jail, has been ordered to be released on furlough by the Haryana government, “especially when the assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled for February 20”. — #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-to-hear-plea-against-furlough-today-370845
18-02-2022||---||76 patwaris chargesheeted over fraudulent registries in Gurugram||Gurugram, February 17Taking a stern note of the inquiry report on fraudulent registries, the local administration has chargesheeted 76 patwaris.On two-day strikeKarnal: Upset at the issuance of the show-cause notices in connection with the violation of Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, between April 3, 2017, and August 13, 2021, revenue patwaris of Karnal and Kaithal district went on two days’ strike on Thursday. TNSMeanwhile, to protest against the action, patwaris of the district staged a symbolic protest at the Patwar Ghar, located in the Civil Lines on Thursday.Due to the protest, people faced difficulties, as routine work related to farad, mutation, domocile, girdawari could not be done across the district. The protesting patwaris alleged that they were being made scapegoats in the case of registries under Act 7-A, while they had no role in the registration, patwaris said, adding that their protest would go on for two days.In fact, about 15,000 registries were done at different tehsils in the district on behalf of the Revenue Department. In this case, the government had held the 76 patwaris of the district guilty after conducting an inquiry at the headquarters level. Deputy Commissioner was recommended to take action against these guilty patwaris and the district administration has chargesheeted 76 patwaris in which 20 patwaris have died and 25 patwaris have retired. The rest of the 31 patwaris have been chargesheeted in this.About 60 patwaris and kanungoes of all tehsils in the district are protesting led by the revenue Patwar and Kanungo association. The protesters alleged that these registries were done by the registrar and the sub-registrar, but action had been taken against the patwaris after sparing the main culprits. #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/76-patwaris-chargesheeted-over-fraudulent-registries-370846
18-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Industries asked to switch over to PNG by Sept 30||Karnal, February 17All industrialists of the district, part of the National Capital Region (NCR), have been told by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) to switch to piped natural gas (PNG) by September 30 or face action.Units seek more time from HSPCBThe deadline has upset industrialists where the laying of the PNG pipes may take time. The industrialists have sought more time till the installation of the pipes on the doorstep of all industries.NGT order of 2019As per the data gathered by The Tribune, there are around 500 industrial units in the industrial area, while a number of industries are situated in different parts like Barsat road, Kohand road, Mugal Majra, Alipur, Indri road and others. Around 50 industries of these areas are required to switch to the PNG, of these only 15 are using this fuel, said sources in the HSPCB. The HSPCB has served notices to 35 industries to switch to the PNG by this deadline.“We have served notices to 35 industries to switch to the PNG by September 30, 2022. If they fail, we will write to the higher authorities for further action,” said SK Arora, regional officer, HSPCB, Karnal.Manoj Arora, president, HSIIDC Industrial Welfare Association, said no doubt the PNG was cheaper, but still a large number of industries could not switch to this fuel as the pipeline of the PNG was yet to be laid for these industries.“The PNG lines have been laid in the industrial area where industrialists are getting connections, but there are several areas in the district waiting for the installation of the pipelines. The installation of these pipelines may take time in these areas, so we request the HSPCB to extend the deadline till the reaching of the fuel on the doorstep all the industries,” said the president.Ankush Jain, DGM, Haryana IGL, said they had laid the pipelines of the PNG in the whole industrial area, for industries on the Alipur, Barsat road and Kohand road, while the work to lay pipelines for the industries in Mugal Majra and on the Indri road was under way and would be operational in a month.The IGL has already issued around 14,000 domestic connections in Sectors 4/5/6/7/8/9/32/13 and other parts of the city. Of these, around 6,000 are using this fuel. The work to lay pipelines in Model Town, Sector 14, Ashoka Nursery, DC Colony, LIC Colony and other areas is under way, he added. #karnal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industries-asked-to-switch-over-to-png-by-sept-30-370847
18-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Gurugram: File affidavit on CCTV directive, HC tells Police Dept||Chandigarh, February 17The Haryana Police has landed itself in dock over the issue of installing CCTV cameras at a Gurugram police station in accordance with the Supreme Court directions.Areas to be covered in police stationsApex Court directions were to the extent of installing cameras at the main gates of the police stations, entry-exit points, in all lock-ups, corridors, lobby, reception areas, verandas, out-houses, officials’ rooms, outside the lock-up rooms, station hall and in front of the police station compound. The cameras were also to be installed outside washrooms and toiletsThe Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for an affidavit as to why the orders have not been complied with.The direction came just over a fortnight after Justice Alka Sarin directed the state counsel to file an affidavit, stating whether CCTV cameras, having audio and video recording facilities, had been installed at the Gurugram police station.The Bench was told that the petitioner was being forced to “sign something he had not stated” and had been harassed by the police. The state counsel, on the other hand, had stated that the petitioner and a lawyer had misbehaved with the investigating officer. The petitioner had also not been joining investigation. Justice Sarin had observed allegations and counter-allegations were being made while directing the filing of the initial affidavit.Justice Sarin was hearing a “protection petition” filed against the state by Ankit Bhargava through counsel Mahir Sood. As the matter came up for resumed hearing, a status report by Assistant Commissioner of Police, DLF, Gurugram, Dharamvir Singh, was placed before the Bench by State counsel Kirpal Singh Thakur.Justice Sarin observed that it stated CCTV cameras were installed at 22 places in the police station concerned. But the data of the CCTV cameras was stored only for 15 days and the petitioner’s interrogation was not captured by the cameras. The affidavit added that there was no provision for audio recording.Justice Sarin referred to the directions issued by the Supreme Court in the case of “Paramvir Singh Saini versus Baljit Singh”. Among other things, the apex court directions were to the extent of installing cameras at the main gates of the police stations, the entry and exit points, in all lock-ups, corridors, lobby, reception areas, verandas, out-houses, officials’ rooms, outside the lock-up rooms, station hall and in front of the police station compound. The cameras were also to be installed outside washrooms and toilets.Before parting with the order, Justice Sarin directed: “Let an affidavit be filed as to why, despite orders passed by the Supreme Court in the cases referred to, compliance of the same has not been made and CCTV cameras installed in the police station, firstly do not cover the entire police station; secondly, do not have the facility of capturing audio; and thirdly, why the data of the CCTV cameras is only maintained for 15 days.”The case will now come up in February last week. #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/file-affidavit-on-cctv-directive-hc-tells-police-dept-370848
18-02-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Potholed stretches give tough time to commuters in Yamunanagar, Jagadhri||Yamunanagar, February 17The poor condition of roads in twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri is giving tough time to commuters.Tejli road in poor stateThe ESI Hospital, branches of two banks and several colonies are connected with Tejli road. Hundreds of people have to use this road, but the very bad condition of the stretch gives them tough time. — Satbir Sharma, Resident, Lal dwara areaMaking life miserableWe don’t feel that we are living in a sector. Most of the roads of our sector are in a poor state. Potholes cause accidents and dust keeps flying all the time, making life of residents of this sector miserable. Tilak Raj, Resident, sec 18, JagadhriRepair work being undertakenRepair and construction work of damaged roads is being undertaken and soon, all roads of the twin cities will be in good condition. Madan Chauhan, MayorDilapidated roads dotted with potholes can be seen in colonies, even in sectors of the twin cities.Residents of the twin cities alleged that the authorities of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) didn’t seem to be serious about getting the re-carpeting or construction work done of the damaged roads.Advocate Ram Kumar Radauri, a resident of Model Town, Yamunanagar said the authorities of the MCYJ should take the issue of repairing dilapidated roads seriously to ease the problems being faced by commuters and residents.The commuters’ problems increase once they reach the Tejli road, which is believed to be one of the worst (damaged) roads of the twin cities.According to information, the residents of several colonies commute on Tejli road everyday to go to their destination. But, a stretch of this road near the ESI Hospital has become so bad that the commuters have to face a tough time to drive their vehicles on this stretch.Satbir Sharma, a resident of Lal Dwara area, said The ESI Hospital, branches of two banks and several colonies were connected with Tejli road. Hundreds of people have to use this road, but the very bad condition of the stretch gives them tough time.“Now, the authorities of MCYJ have put a layer of broken boulders mixed in soil/earth to cover up the big potholes of the Tejli road. There is air pollution on this stretch. Therefore, the authorities should soon construct this stretch properly putting layers of charcoal,” said Satbir Sharma.According to information, the stretches of road leading to Gadhauli village from Yamunanagar side, Chitta (Hanuman) Mandir road, road leading from Lal Dwara to Tejli Sports Complex, road leading from Madhu Hotel to Kanhaiya Sahib Chowk, roads of Sector 17 and 18 and a number of other roads of Jagadhri and Yamunanagar are dotted with potholes and crying for attention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholed-stretches-give-tough-time-to-commuters-in-twin-cities-370849
18-02-2022||Gurugram||Four held for making fake Ayushmaan cards in Gurugram||The Faridabad police have arrested four, including a heart centre in charge of BK Hospital, for allegedly duping the government by making fake Ayushmaan Bharat card. Even after taking Rs 95,000 cash for treatment from a patient, the accused fraudulently claimed money for treatment under the government scheme.Nitish Aggarwal, DCP (headquarters), said the economic offence wing (EOW) team nabbed four accused for duping the government by making fake Ayushmaan Bharat cards. The accused are identified as heart centre in-charge Man Singh, resident of old Faridabad, superviser Kapil of Malerna village, Ayushman Mitra Ashok Kumar of Dabua Colony and nursing staff Naresh, a resident of Kota in Rajasthan. All are employees with an agency working at the heart centre, said the police.According to the police, Praveen Kumar, chief operating officer (COO) of North India of Heart Centre, on August 27, 2020 registered a complaint at the SGM Nagar police station. He alleged that all these accused took Rs 95,000 from a patient, Naresh Kumar Sharma, in a fraudulent manner. An FIR has been registered which is being investigated by the police. All four accused were nabbed from Sector 12 while three are on police remand, Ashok Kumar has been sent into judicial custody in Neemka jail. — #ayushman scheme #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-held-for-making-fake-ayushmaan-cards-in-gurugram-370850
18-02-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Hooda lambasts BJP-JJP govt over unemployment||Rohtak, February 17In a curious development at Haryana’s political capital Rohtak, former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his wife Asha Hooda have launched a joint tirade against the state government.While Hooda has castigated the BJP-JJP regime over rising unemployment, his wife Asha has lambasted the local municipal authorities over insanitation in old Rohtak town.Asha Hooda, who visited the Kacha Beri Road area and interacted with the local residents yesterday, called up Rohtak Municipal Commissioner and apprised him of their plight. She gave a week’s ultimatum to the local municipal authorities to improve the civic amenities or be prepared to face agitation. “I have never participated in any protest demonstration, but I will come back and sit on dharna with the local women and traders if their concerns are not addressed within a week,” said Asha. On the other hand, Hooda has decried the rising rate of unemployment in Haryana, which, he pointed out, had become the highest in the country. “As per figures given by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, Haryana has the highest unemployment rate of 23.4 per cent in the country. This shows that the coalition government has completely failed in generating employment. To hide this failure, the government is touting the rhetoric of 75 % reservation in private jobs,” Hooda said. while talking to reporters at Rohtak today. The Leader of Opposition said the state regime had reduced the condition of Haryana domicile from 15 to five years. #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-lambasts-bjp-jjp-govt-over-unemployment-370851
18-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Old Karnal grain market to be developed as recreational, commercial hub||Karnal, February 17Aimed to creating retail destinations to attract people, the prime land of the old grain market in the city, which has been lying vacant for the past several years after the shifting of the grain market outside the city, is being developed as public recreational and commercial hub, keeping the young population in mind.Two basement parking proposedTwo basement parking have been proposed to cater to the existing and future parking demand. Ground floor and first floor will have commercial retail shops.Board of directors of Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) has given permission for this project, after which the tender has been floated.As per the authorities, this development will change the landscape of in and around the site, besides it will act as a catalyst in creating interactive public realm catering to the city level commercial demand and citizen aspirations of the place.“Keeping in view the redevelopment of this vacant land we have planned a commercial hub-cum-recreational destination. We have floated tender for this project and the work is likely to commence from April,” said Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO KSCL.The deadline of this project will be 18 months from the date of allotment of work order, the CEO maintained.At present around 1.2 acre is lying vacant and this project will attract people towards this side also, he added.Two basement parking have been proposed to cater to the existing and future parking demand. Ground floor and first floor will have commercial retail shops.“The ground floor and first floor will have commercial retail shops having a few anchor shops. Besides, the ground floor will have an inclusive and interactive space for the users having shops opening towards the main arrival plaza. The second floor will have high-end restaurants and food court with an open terrace space which will act as spill-over-area of the food joints,” said Yadav, adding that the third floor will have a entertainment zone to cater to the younger population and residents seeking high-end gaming facilities in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/old-grain-market-to-be-developed-as-recreational-commercial-hub-370852
18-02-2022||---||Bhiwani man gets 10-year jail for rape||Hisar, February 17A district court convicted a man of rape and sentenced him to ten-year jail term on Thursday. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on him.The convicted Rakesh, a resident of Dhani Mahu village in Bhiwani district, raped the victim in 2020 on the pretext of marrying her.The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Seema Singhal said Rakesh would have to undergo additional three-month jail term in case of non-payment of fine.The victim, in her complaint, had said the accused raped her multiple times after he promised to marry her, but later refused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-man-gets-10-year-jail-for-rape-370853
18-02-2022||---||Man held for threatening  Bishnoi||Hisar, February 17The special task force (STF) of the Haryana Police today arrested the person who had made an extortion call to the Congress MLA from Adamapur Kuldeep Bishnoi.The accused was identified as Ashok, a resident of Modamat in Bikaner district of Rajasthan. He was arrested following technical analysis of the case registered at the Adampur police station. The police had registered a case under Section 387 in this regard.Earlier, the police increased the security of Congress MLA from Adampur Kuldeep Bishnoi after he received an extortion call for Rs 2 crore two days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-threatening-bishnoi-370854
18-02-2022||Panchkula||Power union protests, seeks regular jobs||Members of the Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB) Workers’ Union organised a protest outside the Shakti Bhawan today against the state government for its “negligent attitude” toward the demands of the employees.The workers also announced to go on a state-wide strike on February 22.Sunil Khatana, general secretary of the HSEB, said they put their lives on line while performing their duty, but the government had turned a deaf ear to their demands.The main demands of the union are regularisation of employees, equal pay for equal work, restoration of the old pension scheme, risk allowance, unconditional cashless medical scheme and increase in the units of free electricity.Terming the change in labour laws, the union termed it as an “abuse of power” by the state government. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-union-protests-seeks-regular-jobs-370855
18-02-2022||---||Selja targets govt over mustard oil price||Chandigarh, February 17Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja has said the BJP-JJP government neither kept the supply of mustard oil continuous for the poor due to increase in price nor it compensates them by depositing money in their accounts.In a press statement, Selja said that there was a provision to provide two litres of mustard oil every month to the families of Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Below Poverty Line (BPL) at the rate of Rs 20 per litre per family in the state.The number of AAY (pink card) ration cards in the state is 2.48 lakh and BPL (yellow card) is 8.92 lakh. They are given mustard oil at subsidised rates. In such a situation, the number of poor beneficiaries getting mustard oil through the ration depot of the Food and Supplies Department is around 11.4 lakh.She said in April last year, when the prices of the mustard oil started increasing, the state government stopped the supply to the poor at the ration depots.When the matter regarding oil came to light, it was announced that these families will be given Rs 250 per month in lieu of oil, which will be deposited in their bank account. But for three months, these families did not get any help from the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-targets-govt-over-mustard-oil-price-370856
18-02-2022||Karnal||Annual training camp concludes||Demo of literacy, numerical skillsKaithal: Dr Vijay Chawla, a Hindi lecturer working at Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Keorak, met Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar and gave the demonstration of online and offline games of foundational literacy and numeracy skills prepared for the Nipun Bharat Mission under the New Education Policy-2020. He also presented infographic digital illustrated Hindi e-grammer in-front of the Education Minister. As per Chawla he was asked by the Education Minister to prepare a proposal of his innovative experiments in Hindi language teaching. The first edition of Hindi digital e-grammar has been prepared with interesting and interactive techniques, he said. In this digital e-grammar, mind maps have been prepared on all aspects of Hindi grammar with infographic, interesting and interactive techniques, which are useful for the children of the examination. As soon as the students click on the related topic, they will reach the reading material of that topic.Extension lecture conductedKarnal: The department of English of KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised an extension lecture by eminent speaker, Prof (Dr) CK Kantroo, former HoD, PG department of English, Dyal Singh College, Karnal, on Albert Camus', The Outsider. In the lecture Prof Kantroo deliberated upon critical and comparative study of the text, including multifarious perspectives to understand the text, along with the comparison with Shakespeare's, Hamlet. Sunit Bhandari, convener, extended a formal welcome to the guest. Vandana Rana, prefaced the lecture, with literary background. Dr Deepti Sharma applauded the lecture with a vote of thanks.Lecture on issues of Indian economyYamunanagar: An extension lecture on "Contemporary issues of Indian economy before and after Independence: Recent challenges" was organised by the department of economics of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar to celebrate Golden Jubilee of the postgraduation department. Dr Kiran Bharti, head of the department of economics welcomed the resource person Dr Parmod Kumar Aggarwal, (department of economics, Punjabi University, Patiala) and introduced him to the audience. Dr Pawan Gaba, co-convener of this extension lecture, thanked Dr Parmod Kumar Aggarwal for elaborating on the topic in detail and enhancing the knowledge of the students. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, appreciated the efforts of the economic department for organizing this extension lecture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/annual-training-camp-concludes-370857
18-02-2022||Residents of Professors Colony in Narwana are a harassed lot due to accumulation of water in the colony as the sewerage is choked there. The problem is persisting for the past five years but it has become worse for the past four months. Residents have to wade through the water to go to other places. The uthorities concerned are not paying heed to it despite being informed about it. Those residing in the street are forced to be confined to their houses. The authorities should do the needful to solve the problem.||Water accumulates in Narwana street due to choking of sewerage||AS Mittal, NarwanaStray cattle pose threat to commuters in GurugramIt is very shocking to point out that there is a great problem of stray cattle in the Millennium City which gives it a bad name. When I was going through Sector 48, opposite Tagore Public School, stray cattle could be seen sitting on the road posing threat to commuters. The authorities concerned should take action at once so that the ropds are safe for driving.Subhash C Taneja , GurugramProblem of garbage, stray cattle remains unaddressedThe authorities of the Smart city of Faridabad have 'failed' to address the problem of stray cattle and proper and safe disposal of garbage in the city. While garbage can be seen dumped in open areas in almost all colonies and residential sectors, the waste is easily accessible to the stray cattle and animals roaming freely on the city roads. Though several cattle die or fall sick after consuming plastic , the authorities tend to ignore the issue, despite the claims of spending crores on projects to rehabilitate stray cattle and to remove the animals from the roads and public spaces.Ajay Chaudhary, FaridabadRoad from Saha to Dukheri lacks maintenanceA stretch of nearly 10 km from the Saha highway to Dukheri in Ambala district was constructed some years ago under the PMSY, but now it is full of potholes which affect the smooth flow of traffic. Apart from this a cover of about 1000 ft has been provided by the Railway authorities on both sides of road as is conspicuous in picture. The spot is submerged and inundated (with rainwater) almost throughout the year. There is always a provision of maintenance in all such projects. In view of the above, both departments concerned of the roads and Railways must see in the right earnest and get the things set right. The area is developing fast. In the absence of proper road infrastructure and its maintenance people will continue to suffer.Gian P Kansal, AmbalaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-accumulates-in-narwana-street-due-to-choking-of-sewerage-370858
18-02-2022||---||High Court stay on Haryana local quota quashed||New Delhi, February 17The Supreme Court today quashed the Punjab and Haryana High Court order staying a Haryana law providing for 75 per cent reservation to local candidates in private sector jobs in the state.No Sufficient reasonsThe impugned order dated February 3, 2022, passed by the High Court is set aside as it has not given sufficient reasons for staying the legislation. — SC Bench“The impugned order dated February 3, 2022, passed by the High Court is set aside as it has not given sufficient reasons for staying the legislation,” said a Bench led by Justice LN Rao.“Courts are reluctant to pass interim orders staying legislations. Stay of legislation can only be when the court is of the opinion that it is manifestly unjust or glaringly unconstitutional,” it noted. The Bench directed the Haryana Government not to take any coercive steps against the employers and made it clear that the law would be applicable prospectively.Refusing to get into the merits of the case, it requested the HC to decide the matter expeditiously within four weeks and asked the parties to appear in the HC on February 22 for fixing the schedule of hearing. The parties should not seek adjournments, it added. The order came on Haryana Government’s petition challenging the HC order staying the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020.Notified in November last year, the law provides for 75 per cent reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offer a monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022. Various industry associations from Faridabad, Gurugram and other places have challenged it in the HC.On behalf of Haryana Government, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the HC order was contrary to the law laid down by the SC. No reasons was given by the HC while staying the law, he pointed out.Senior advocates Dushyant Dave and Shyam Divan, representing industrial associations, said over 48,000 companies registered in Haryana would face immense hardship as these wouldn’t be able to employ people from outside the state.The petitioners have contended before the HC that the Act was against constitutional provisions and went against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive. #haryana job quota #Reservation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-stay-on-haryana-local-quota-quashed-370787
