19-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat police nabs 4 for ‘contract killings’ in Punjab on direction of banned terror groups||Sonepat, February 19With the arrest of four persons, the Sonepat police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang which was involved in ‘contract killings’ in Punjab on the directions of the banned terrorist group handlers of ‘Khalistan Tiger Force’ (KTF) and ‘International Sikh Youth Federation’ (ISYF).The CIA unit of the district police recovered an AK-47 rifle, 49 rounds of AK, three foreign-made pistols and cartridges from the possession of the accused.Besides, teams of Punjab Police and National Investigation Agency (NIA) along with other intelligence agencies arrived at Sonepat to interrogate the accused.Three accused arrested have been identified as Sagar alias Binni, Sunil alias Pehalwan and Jatin of Juan village who were involved in a murder case in Punjab. Later in the evening, the police also nabbed their one more associate Surender alias Sonu from Rajpur village of the district. Two pistols were recovered from his possession.Sonepat Superintendent of Police Rahul Sharma said in a press conference that, “We received a tip-off from the Punjab police that some youths of Sonepat district have a relations with terrorists – Gurjant Singh alias Janta in Australlia, Arshdeep Singh Dala Canada, Hardeep Singh Nijjar Canada and Lakhbeer Singh Rod in Pakistan of banned terrorist groups KTF and ISYF through social media platforms.”The terror groups used these youths for targeted killings to spread terror in Punjab, he said.Sagar alias Binni is the kingpin of the gang and also has a criminal record in the district. He was the close associate of the notorious gangster Ravinder Pughthala, who was gunned down by police earlier.Following the tip-off, Inspector Bijender Singh, CIA team incharge, raided the residence of Sagar alias Binni on Saturday and nabbed three accused and recovered automatic weapons from their possessions, the SP said.The team recovered US-made Beretta pistol with two rounds from Sachin; Glock pistol with two rounds from Jatin and a Glock pistol made in Autria with one round recovered from Sagar. An AK-47 rifle with 49 rounds of cartridges was recovered from the room of Sagar, the SP said.It was revealed during preliminary investigation that Sagar along with his two associates had murdered one Avtar Singh of Udhampur Kalan village of Morinda in Ropar district on December 8 on the direction of Arshdeep Singh Canada. They had planned to murder another person in Mohali after elections, he said.The accused revealed that kingpin of the group revealed that he was in contract with Gurjant Singh alias Janta in Australlia, Arshdeep Singh alias Dala in Canada, Hardeep Singh Nijjar in Canada and Lakhbeer Singh Rode in Pakistan through social media for a long time and they had provided them weapons to kill the targets in Punjab and they had sent lakhs of rupees into their accounts, the SP said.A case has been registered under Sections 16, 17, 18 and 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) 1967; 120 B of IPC and 25,54,59 of Arms Act in Mohana police station.The sources said prima facie it was revealed that the accused were in contact with the banned terrorist groups for the past 3-4 months and they were searching for such youths who have criminal records in the past in Haryana but not in the Punjab.They were preparing such criminals for contract killings in Punjab on the directions of their handlers in Canada and Australia. #contract killing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-police-nabs-4-for-contract-killings-in-punjab-on-direction-of-banned-terror-groups-371325
19-02-2022||Ambala||Haryana: Teacher killed, three students wounded in Ambala amusement park accident||A 23-year-old woman was killed in a major accident in an amusement park in Ambala’s Mullana on Saturday, officials said.The victim, identified as Riya Garg, was a teacher at Jai Public School. She and her fellow teachers had taken 20 students to H20 waterpark, her father Sarwan said. Three of her students, Abhika (11), Kanika (12), and Himani (12), were wounded in the accident.A case of negligence has been registered against the owner of the amusement park, they said.They fell off a Ferris wheel when its safety grill broke. They were immediately taken to MM Hospital.The wounded children are undergoing treatment at the hospital officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-teacher-killed-three-students-wounded-in-ambala-amusement-park-accident-371309
19-02-2022||The bridge connecting Sector 4||Filthiest bridge in Panchkula sector||Vijay Katial, PanchkulaHisar residents being supplied dirty waterResidents of Patel Nagar in Hisar have been getting contaminated water supply for the past many months. Despite complaints, officials of the Public Health Department are not taking cognizance of the problem which is affecting not only residents in Patel Nagar but adjoining localities. I request the Deputy Commissioner to direct the officials concerned to install a new pipeline for water supply as defects in the old pipeline are resulting in contamination of water being supplied in the households and exposing the residents to diseases. Yograj Sharma, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/filthiest-bridge-in-panchkula-sector-371249
19-02-2022||Kurukshetra||KU signs MoU with UNESCO-MGIEP||Winter school for scientistsKarnal: The National Dairy Research Institute has organised a 21-day winter school on "Advances in agricultural extension research". It is a ICAR-sponsored programme for faculties of the ICAR and state agricultural universities. The programme was organised from January 28 to February 17 mainly to update the latest advances in agricultural extension research for teachers and scientists working in the National Agricultural Research System. Dr K Ponnusamy, course director of the winter school, presented the report. About 35 participants attended and nearly 75 lectures were delivered by the senior experts in the field of agriculture along with hands-on training using SPSS, excel and R software. Dr. KS Kadian, Head, Dairy Extension Division welcomed all the participants as well as dignitaries.Stone of Shaurya wall laidSonepat: The Member of Parliament from Sonepat, Rameshh Chandra Kaushik, laid the foundation stone of Shaurya wall and also inaugurated the Dhanwantri Health Centre at Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University in the district. He said Shaurya wall would be a true tribute in honour of the brave soliders of the country as it would create a sense of nationalism and patriotism in the present generation. Vice-ChancellorProf. Viney Kapoor Mehra threw light on the activities of the university.Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav seriesHisar: The speakathon club under the mentorship of training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised the 20th episode of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav Series' in the form of "Online Elocution Competition" to commemorate the 75th Year of India's independence. Dr Markandey Ahuja, renowned eye surgeon and founder Vice-Chancellor, Gurugram University, was the chief guest of the event. Dr Sumit Saroha from the electrical engineering department and Dr Prerna from the HSB department were the judges of the elocution contest. Total 21 students from various departments enthusiastically participated in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-signs-mou-with-unesco-mgiep-371247
19-02-2022||Hisar||Maternity room set up at Hisar mini secretariat||In an initiative for the mothers of newborn babies, the district administration has set up a maternity room at the Hisar mini secretariat today. Deputy Commissioner Dr Priyanka Soni inaugurated the maternity room and said many women who visited mini secretariat complex with their newborn for various works.“The purpose the maternity room is to provide such mothers a private place where they can breastfeed their child. ”, the DC said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maternity-room-set-up-at-hisar-mini-secretariat-371246
19-02-2022||---||Two children killed in mishap on Hansi road||Karnal, February 18Two children were killed and two seriously injured when a car hit them near Bajida village on Hansi road on Friday evening.The deceased have been identified as Sahil (8) and Ansh (7), residents of Shamli in UP, and at present living at a brick kiln in Bajida village with their family members. The injured are Sohil (10) and Alia (3),who are undergoing treatment at the KCGMC.The driver of the car fled from the spot after leaving the vehicle behind.As per the information, the incident took place at around 5.15 pm when Sahil, Sohil, Ansh, Alia and Raeesh were crossing the road. Meanwhile, a car hit them. They were rushed to the hospital where Sahil and Ansh were declared dead. After the incident, the residents blocked the road.Investigating Officer Jaspal said they had initiated an inquiry and the probe was on. An FIR would be registered as per the complaint of the family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-children-killed-in-mishap-on-hansi-road-371245
19-02-2022||---||Punjab elections: 7 inter-state nakas in Kaithal||Kaithal, February 18In the wake of Punjab elections, the Kaithal police have erected seven interstate nakas to keep a vigil on the borders.Besides, the police personnel have also been asked to maintain coordination with the sarpanches and general public of the villages situated along the Punjab border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-elections-7-inter-state-nakas-in-kaithal-371244
19-02-2022||---||8.95L Haryana farmers to get Rs561 cr relief||Chandigarh, February 18The Haryana Government has released an amount of Rs 561 crore as compensation for ‘Special Girdawari Kharif-2021’ to 8,95,712 farmers of 866 villages who have suffered crop damage due to heavy rain, waterlogging and insect attacks.The transfer of the compensation amount in the accounts of the farmers has begun. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while presiding over a meeting regarding disbursement of relief to the farmers with the Deputy Commissioners held through video-conferencing here today, directed them to ensure payment transfer into the accounts of the farmers at the earliest.“This amount should be transferred immediately to the accounts of the farmers through direct benefit transfer (DBT). Within 11 days (till February 28), the compensation works should be completed,” directed Khattar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-95l-haryana-farmers-to-get-561-cr-relief-371243
19-02-2022||Karnal||Haryana Dy CM Dushyant Chautala welcomes SC decision on quota for locals||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala today said reservation of 75 per cent to the state youth in private sectors would increase employment opportunities. Welcoming the decision of the Supreme Court in this case, he said the SC on Thursday quashed the Punjab and Haryana High Court order of staying the law of the Haryana Government, providing 75 per cent reservation to local candidates in private sector in jobs.“I welcome this order. It will provide more job opportunities to the youth of the state,” the Deputy CM said, who was in the district to attend the marriage ceremony of the daughter of former Gharaunda MLA Narinder Sangwan.He also asserted that those involved in the violation of the Section 7A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act between April 3, 2017 and August 13, 2021, would not be spared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dy-cm-dushyant-chautala-welcomes-sc-decision-on-quota-for-locals-371242
19-02-2022||Chandigarh||220 new vehicles for Haryana Police Department approved||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar reviewed a meeting of the High Power Purchase Committee on Thursday, during which approval to purchase goods worth Rs 1,000 crore was granted.A total of 23 agendas were placed during the meeting, of which 18 were approved.The Chief Minister said a decision was taken regarding the printing of children’s books from Class I to VIII. Besides, the process of installing jammers in jails, purchase of chairs, tables and cupboards in play-way schools, purchase of transformers and cables for the Electricity Department was completed.To strengthen the security apparatus of the Police Department, approval was also given to the purchase 220 new vehicles. The procurement process related to water flow meters on tubewells located in villages under the Atal Bhujal Yojana was also completed.Speaking on the matter of the Supreme Court lifting the stay of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on the law to give 75 per cent reservation to the youth of the state in the private sector, the Chief Minister said it was a matter of satisfaction for the government.Responding to a question, Khattar said the Ministry of External Affairs was keeping a close watch on the crisis arising between Ukraine and Russia, adding that all possible assistance would be given to Indians living there. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/220-new-vehicles-for-haryana-police-department-approved-371241
19-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Woman, friend get life for murder||Sessions Judge Deepak Aggarwal sentenced a woman and her friend to rigorous life imprisonment on Friday for the murder of the woman’s husband.The convicts have been identified as on Sapna, wife of the deceased, and Manjeet Kumar, Sapna’s friend for killing Ravi Sharma.On the complaint of the father of the deceased, a case was registered on September 12, 2019. In his complaint, he said Ravi married Sapna in 2013 and had two kids.The father of the deceased said there were disputes between Ravi and Sapna on account of her excessive use of mobile phone. “I received a call from Sapna on September 12, 2019. She told me Ravi and her got into a fight, during which she pushed him and he fell from the bed,” the complainant alleged.He said when he and his family reached Bilaspur, they saw Ravi on the floor with deep head injury.It was found during the investigation that Sapna, with the help of Manjeet, had hit Ravi with a small LPG cylinder on his head. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-woman-friend-get-life-for-murder-371240
19-02-2022||---||Deep Sidhu case: Truck driver gets bail||Sonepat, February 18The Kharkhoda police today produced the accused truck driver in the Kharkhoda court and sought two-day police remand to investigate the Deep Sidhu case. The court later released him on bail.The driver, Kasim of Shingar village in Nuh, was arrested on Thursday. As per the police, the driver said he was on way to Muzaffarnagar in UP and when he reached near the Pipli toll plaza, Sidhu’s SUV hit the left rear side of the truck.The collision of the Sidhu’s SUV was so strong that the axle of the truck was broken and the wheels on the left rear side also burst, said Jaspal Singh, SHO, Kharkhoda. #deep sidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deep-sidhu-case-driver-gets-bail-371239
19-02-2022||---||Panipat: Two get death sentence for rape, murder of 12-year-old||Panipat, February 18The court of Additional Sessions Judge Sumit Garg, Fast Track Court (POCSO), on Friday awarded death penalty to two convicts for raping and murdering a 12-year-old girl.It is the first capital punishment recorded in the Panipat court’s history.Rajesh Chaudhary, District Attorney, said that ASJ Sumit Garg awarded the capital punishment (to hang from the neck till death) to convicts Pradeep and Sagar alias Kallu, residents of Urlana Kalan village of Madlauda area of Panipat, under Section 302 (murder), 376-A (rape with a minor of 12 years or less than 12 years) of the IPC and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh each upon the convicts.The crime was reported on January 14, 2018 in Urlana village of Madlauda area of Panipat. The body of a girl was found lying in a naked condition near a small pond on the side of Valmiki chaupal in the village.Later, the victim was identified. The 12-year-old victim was living with her maternal relatives since her birth. She was studying in Class VI at that time.Her maternal uncle said that she had gone to throw garbage in the evening on January 13 but did not return home. They searched for her but in vain. Following his complaint, a case was registered in Madlauda police station.The police, on the same day, nabbed two accused Pardeep and Sagar alias Kallu of the same vicinity and investigated the matter. Later, the police recovered the ash of the burnt clothes of the victim and a ‘tasla’ (container in which she had gone to throw garbage) from the house of accused Pardeep.It was revealed during the investigation that both accused had abducted the girl and took her to the room of Pradeep. There, they raped her and murdered her by strangulating her with her shawl. Not only this, the accused also raped the body of the victim and threw the body in a naked condition near the pond. The court held that the case was the ‘rarest of rare’ and awarded capital sentence to the convicts.Man gets 20-yr RI for crimeGurugram: A Faridabad court today sentenced a man hailing from Uttar Pradesh to rigorous imprisonment of 20 years and a fine of Rs 5,000 for raping a minor aged four and a half years.Under the victim compensation scheme 2020, the District Legal Services Authority, Faridabad, also ordered him to pay Rs 7 lakh compensation to the victim.The convict, identified as Nasir Khan, alias Samir Khan, a native of Manpur village in Agra district of UP, was booked under Sections 342, 450 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act in 2018 at the women’s police station, NIT, Faridabad.According to the police, it was on February 18, 2018, when a rickshaw-puller had filed a complaint against an unknown accused regarding the matter. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-two-get-death-sentence-for-rape-murder-of-12-year-old-371235
19-02-2022||---||Nation's 1st green energy plant set up  in Rewari||Chandigarh, February 18The country’s first green energy plant, which generates electricity from stubble, has been set up at Khursaid Nagar village in Rewari district of Haryana.Moving towards environmental conservation, this plant can be considered as the most-successful step in power generation along with being pollution-free.An official spokesperson said the Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency along with K-2 Power Renewable Private Limited, a private sector company, had set up the country’s first green energy plant at Khursaid Nagar village, making Rewari district a model in this regard.The power generated from stubble through this plant in Khursaid Nagar is being provided to the Bisoha 33-KV substation and regular supply of electricity from the substation to Bisoha village has started.The green energy plant has generated 48,000 units of power from 600 quintal stubble in 24 hours without pollution. Along with the generation of electricity, about 150 persons of the area are getting direct employment in this plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nations-1st-green-energy-plant-set-up-in-rewari-371233
19-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Driver's licence issued to 'not specified' gender in past 11 years||Karnal, February 18The driver’s licence (DL) issuing authority of Karnal has issued 9,847 driver’s licences to ‘not specified’ category of gender since 2010. Reason, the applicants did not mention their gender while filing the application forms. The authority did not notice the flaw.As many as 4,266 driver’s licences have been issued to “not specified” category in 2010, 5,217 in 2011, 157 in 2012, 69 in 2013, 35 in 2014, 19 in 2015, 3 in 2016, 3 in 2017, 20 in 2018, 4 in 2019, 56 in 2020, and 4 in 2021.It was revealed in a RTI query filed by Karnal-based RTI activist Rajesh Sharma, who has sought information about the number of driver’s licences issued in the past 11 years with details of men, women and transgender.The number of women applying for driver’s licences is also very thin in comparison to the men, the reply said. The reply stated that the licensing authority had issued 2,38,044 driver’slicences from January 2010 to December 2021.The number of men licence holders was high in comparison to women as 2,00,917 men got their licenses in this period, while 27,269 women got the licences. The number of women licence holders was around 11 per cent of the total issued licences in this time period, said the data provided by the Public Information Officer of the SDM Office, Karnal.As many as 16 transgenders have been granted driver’s licences in this period, the reply said.However, in the replay nothing was mentioned about the “not specified category” of gender, but when contacted, the authorities said earlier it was not mandatory to mention the gender in the application forms till 2015, but now it is mandatory. The driver’s licences are generated based on the information filled by the applicant.Gaurav Kumar, SDM-cum-licensing authority of Karnal subdivision, said this data had been generated online through ‘Sarthi’ portal of the Union Government. “Earlier it was not mandatory to mention the gender, due to which licences were issued without specifying the gender, but now the gender column is mandatory and the licences are issued with gender mentioned,” said Kumar, adding that those who are coming to get their old licences renewed, the gender column is being updated.Was not mandatoryEarlier, it was not mandatory to mention the gender, due to which licences were issued without specifying the gender, but now the gender column is mandatory and the licences are issued with gender mentioned. Gaurav Kumar, SDM-cum-licensing authority of Karnal subdivision||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-drivers-licence-issued-to-not-specified-gender-in-past-11-years-371232
19-02-2022||---||Ambala: Gate in memory of Shaurya Chakra awardee Laxman Singh inaugurated||Ambala, February 18Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij inaugurated a memorial gate constructed in the memory of Shaurya Chakra awardee Laxman Singh of Babyal village on the occasion of his martyrdom day on Friday.Hailing from Babyal village, Laxman Singh had joined the Border Road Organisation as an operator, excavating machinery.On February 18, 2005, due to heavy snowfall at Khardung La, of Ladakh region three dozers were directed to clear the snow. The dozer being driven by Laxman Singh was hit by an avalanche. Laxman Singh’s body was entombed in the ice in February. It was only after the ice melted his body could be recovered. The family had to wait till July before they could perform the last rites. In 2006, Shaurya Chakra was awarded to him posthumously for his courageous action by the then president APJ Abdul Kalam.On the directions of the Home Minister, the construction of the gate was started last year.Anil Vij said it was his utmost duty to respect the martyrs, and because of them the country was safe. Last year, he came to know that the family of martyr Laxman Singh wanted to get a memorial gate constructed at Babyal village. On their demand, the work was started on the martyrdom day last year and the gate has been constructed by Municipal Council Sadar Zone at a cost of Rs 4.31 lakh. It has been constructed near the government school and the details about Laxman Singh and his courageous action have been mentioned on the gate so that the coming generations can know about him.Martyr’s wife Mina Kumari, sons Ajeet and Rajat along with several other people were present on this occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-gate-in-memory-of-shaurya-chakra-awardee-laxman-singh-inaugurated-371230
19-02-2022||---||FIR recommended against buyers, sellers of land in Kaithal village||Kaithal, February 18A 17-kanal, 4-marla land, which was acquired for Indira Awaas Yojana in Batta village in Kaithal district, was allegedly fraudulently resold by the previous owner, from whom the government had acquired this land in 1984.Interestingly, the families to whom plots of 100-100 yards were allotted have been living there for the past over 30 years.It came to the fore after the investigation report filed by the Kaithal CTM Gulzar Ahmed, who initiated inquiry on the directions of the Kaithal Deputy Commissioner, Pradeep Dahiya, following a complaint of the residents. The district authorities have recommended FIR against the buyers, seller and the revenue officials involved in it. The district authorities will initiate disciplinary action against the officials and employees of the Revenue Department involved in this procedure.The inquiry indicated that the land was acquired by the government, but the mutation of it was not done in the name of the beneficiaries. The registration of the land was done in the names of beneficiaries. The ownership was not changed in the revenue records that is “jamabandi”.Taking advantage of loopholes, the previous owner had sold the 16-kanal land to five persons of the village in October 2021 at Rs 50 lakh, while earlier in 2016, a compensation of Rs 6.90 lakh was taken from the NHAI. Interestingly, a loan of tractor was also taken on this land from a bank of Kaithal in 2004, 20 years after the land acquisition, said Pradeep Dahiya, DC. “I received a complaint, after which I have assigned an inquiry to the CTM in a time-bound manner. The CTM has completed it and found the land was fraudulently resold to five persons,” said the DC, adding that action would be initiated against those who were involved in this nexus.“I have recommended the registration of the FIR against the buyers and sellers,” he said.“Now without visiting the land, the mutation of the land was done in favour of the buyers by revenue employees and officials. We will get the mutation cancelled and update the revenue records as per the notification of the acquisition,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fir-recommended-against-buyers-sellers-of-land-in-kaithal-village-371228
19-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Cash-strapped Ambala Cantt board looks for aid||Ambala, February 18Cash-strapped Ambala Cantonment Board is desperately looking to the Army as the latter owes the board around Rs 670 crore as service charges. The board is also asking the state government to provide them financial grant. The board has an annual budget of Rs 50-60 crore, which includes salaries, maintenance, allowances and contingency funds.Board officials said the Cantonment board was like a local body and with taxes and service charges worth crores pending, the board has been facing shortage of funds.A senior official of the board said: “The board hasn’t received service charges regularly for past several years. The Cantonment board has very limited sources of generating revenue, including rents, house tax, service charges, and if it fails to get service charges from the Army, it will become difficult for the board to function.”Ajay Baweja, member of the board, said: “The Cantonment board has been facing a shortage of funds. We have been raising the issue with the Army as have told them that it owes a huge sum to the board in the form of service charges. If the board receives service charges, it will be able to maintain the development work carried out over the years and start new projects. Otherwise, the crisis will hit functioning of the board.”“Earlier, the board used to send an estimated budget and then the Ministry of Defence provided a lump sum budget, but now, the board only receives budget against the projects only. Other Cantonment boards are also facing a similar situation,” Baweja added.Meanwhile, the CEO of the board, Anuj Goel said: “We have taken up the matter with the Army and Ministry of Defence as funds are allocated by the Ministry. The board has also requested the state government for the allocation of funds out of the State Finance Commission. Efforts are being made to generate more revenue and collect the due taxes so that the board can start more public works.”Dues not cleared regularlyThe annual demand of service charges from the Army is about Rs65 cr, and since the charges are not being cleared regularly, total dues have increased to Rs670 crore. Cantonment board officialBoard using bufferThe board has been using its buffer but that too has decreased drastically. The board may even face difficulties in paying the salaries of employees in the coming months. Anuj Goel, CEO, Cantt Board||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cash-strapped-ambala-cantt-board-looks-for-aid-371225
19-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak: Food supplements found dumped in canal||Rohtak, February 18Food supplements and other drugs have been found dumped in a canal passing near Mayna village here raising the possibility of “illegal” trade of dietary supplements.Local officials of the Food and Drug Administration Department visited the spot to inquire about the case.The matter came to the fore when volunteers of ‘Suno Nahro Ki Pukar’, a special campaign to motivate people not to dump anything in the canal went there to clean the canal.They found packets of supplement capsules and powder floating on the water.“We spotted around 500 small packets of food supplements floating on the water. Many were also lying on the bank of the canal. It seems that these have reached here from other places. While the date of best use of many supplements has already expired, many others are about to expire in the coming days,” said Dr Jasmer Hooda, Assistant Professor, All-India Jat Heroes Memorial College, Rohtak.Hooda, who is leading the campaign, informed that a man who was on evening walk there told the volunteers that such packets had been floating on the water for the past two days. These are used in body building.Deepak Chhara, an environmentalist and another participant in the campaign, said they felt pain on finding garbage and other materials dumped in the canal whose water was supplied to houses every day.“We do not know when people will stop it but our campaign will continue to make them aware about it,” he added.An official of Food and Drug Administration Department, on the condition of anonymity, informed that they inspected the spot today to take stock of the situation. “The information about dumping of food supplements will be sent to DCOs of adjoining districts from where the canal passes through,” he added.Dr Harsh Kumari, Food Safety Officer, said she had not got any information about dietary supplements being dumped in the canal. “There is a procedure to dispose of supplements after expiry date. These are returned to the company concerned. Hence, it is illegal to dump supplements into the canal. We will look into the matter if any complaint comes,” she said, adding that surprise inspections at regular intervals were conducted at sale counters of food supplements.Most beyond expiry dateWe spotted around 500 small packets of food supplements floating on the water. Many were also lying on the bank of the canal. While the date of best use of many supplements has already expired, many others are about to expire in the coming days. Dr Jasmer Hooda, assistant professor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-food-supplements-found-dumped-in-canal-371221
19-02-2022||---||Nod to freeze 2 drug peddlers' properties in Karnal worth Rs5.08 crore||Karnal, February 18The Karnal police have got permission from the executive authority of NDPS, Ministry of Finance, to freeze properties worth Rs 5.08 crore of two drug peddlers and their family members of the district, claiming that they earned the property through the narcotics trade.The Karnal police had recommended the attachment of the property worth Rs 7.7 crore, but the executing authority of the NDPS, Ministry of Finance, has given permission to attach property worth Rs 5.08 crore.Giving details, Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police, said that they have received the copy of the order of the executing authority to freeze the movable and immovable property of Sahab Singh, a resident of Chaugama, and Surinder Singh, a resident of Dera Bhikiwala in Nissing.“We have recommended the competent authority to freeze the property of both peddlers worth Rs 7.72 crore. Orders have been confirmed by the authority to freeze movable and immovable properties worth Rs 5,08,55,113 out of the total assets of both the accused. The order includes movable and immovable property worth Rs 2,12,24,113 of accused Surinder and property of Rs 2,96,31,000 of Sahab Singh,” said SP Punia.The alleged peddlers would not able to sell their property to anyone and could not transfer or gift the same to anyone. Several cases under the NDPS Act had been registered against both accused in other states also, the SP said.He said that Assandh police had arrested Sahab Singh, who was earlier arrested in 2009 with 360 kg chura post and was sentenced to 10 years in jail and a penalty of Rs 1 lakh was imposed on him. He was later arrested in 2016 with 3.5 kg opium. In this case, he was sentenced to 15-year jail and a penalty of Rs 1.5 lakh was imposed. In third case, his son Gurjant Singh was arrested on January 5, 2022 with 3 kg opium and a vehicle.SP Punia said that Surinder was arrested in 2006 with 4,051 kg chura post by the Nissing police and he was sentenced to 12 years in jail along with a penalty of Rs 1.5 lakh. Later, Butana police had arrested him in 2021 with 130 kg chura post and a vehicle, the SP said. #drug peddlers #ndps||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-freeze-2-drug-peddlers-properties-in-karnal-worth-5-08-crore-371216
19-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: STPs likely to miss another deadline; HSPCB serves notice||Karnal, February 18Just 10 days are left for the completion of the deadline of two sewage treatment plants with the capacity of 20 MLD in Phoosgarh and 8MLD in Shiv Colony, but the work is likely to miss the deadline of February 28 again. Earlier, the project has missed five deadlines, said an official.Keeping in view the slow progress of work, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has served notice to the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) for the delay in the construction of both plants.“The River Yamuna Monitoring team inspected the sites and showed displeasure over the slow pace of construction of both the STPs. We have served notice to the KMC for the slow pace of construction of both the sewage treatment plants in the city,” said Shailender Arora, Regional Officer of Karnal Region, HSPCB.The KMC officials said if the agency failed to achieve the required progress and not complete the work of both STPs, then recovery of Rs 1 crore per month since April 7, 2021 will be made from the pending payments of the construction agency. “Many notices have been issued to the agency for the slow progress of work. We are trying our best to get the project completed by the agency within the stipulated time period. The matter is already in the notice of the Directorate, Urban Local Bodies, Haryana and necessary action will be initiated against the agency as per the directions,” said Gagandeep Singh, Joint Commissioner, KMC.Both plants are being constructed under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project, one of the flagship programmes of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Apart from both plants, a sewerage line of around 151 km was to be laid and two intermediate pumping stations – Saidpura and Sugar Mill Meerut road was to be built. The total cost of the project is Rs 128 crore. The work was started on July 1, 2017 and the deadline was January 31, 2019, later extended to March 31, 2020 and further to March 31, 2021 and later to June 30, 2021, and further to November 30, 2021 and now the deadline is February 28, said Satish Sharma, XEN, KMC.Matter already in noticeMany notices have been issued to the agency for the slow progress of work. We are trying our best to get the project completed by the agency within the stipulated time period. The matter is already in the notice of the Directorate, Urban Local Bodies, Haryana. — Gagandeep Singh, Joint Commissioner, KMCRiver Yamuna Monitoring team showed displeasureThe River Yamuna Monitoring team inspected the sites and showed displeasure over the slow pace of construction of both the STPs. Shailender Arora, regional officer of Karnal region, HSPC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-stps-likely-to-miss-another-deadline-hspcb-serves-notice-371215
19-02-2022||---||Partial relief for Yuvraj Singh in casteist remark case||Chandigarh, February 18Partly allowing a petition filed by Yuvraj Singh in a case alleging “casteist remarks”, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the former cricketer did not commit offences related to promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion and imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration punishable under Sections 153-A and 153-B of the IPC.Justice Amol Rattan Singh at the same time dismissed his petition with regards the commission of any offence punishable under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.The Bench made it clear that the investigating agency would continue with its investigation “wholly impartially and independently to come to its own conclusion as to whether any such offence has been committed by the petitioner or not”.Yuvraj Singh had moved the court for quashing FIR dated February 14, 2021, registered at Hansi police station in Hansi district. It was alleged that offences punishable under Sections 153-A and 153-B of the IPC and the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act had been committed.Yuvraj Singh was represented by senior advocate Puneet Bali and advocate Arjun Sheoran appeared on the complainant’s behalf.Justice Amol Rattan Singh added: “When a word denoting a caste or class of people who belong to a Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe is used in a derogatory sense, I would agree with the counsel for respondent-complainant, at least prima facie for the purpose of this petition, that it has become common parlance to use it as a pejorative word, thereby bringing indignity to that entire class of people, if it is used to describe a person not behaving in a ‘good manner’, in the eyes of the person using the word.”The Bench added the petitioner having used the offensive word to state that his friend did not do something good by making his father dance in a ceremony, “seemingly at least, at this stage, the word was not used in any good sense but, as said, in a pejorative manner”.Plea under SC/ST Act dismissedJustice Amol Rattan Singh dismissed Yuvraj’s petition with regards the commission of offence punishable under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. #yuvraj singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/partial-relief-for-yuvraj-singh-in-casteist-remark-case-371210
19-02-2022||---||Gurugram heist: IPS Dheeraj Setia, 2 others declared POs||Sanjay YadavGurugram, February 18In Gurugram’s multi-crore heist case, a city court today declared three accused, including suspended IPS Dheeraj Setia, proclaimed offenders (PO). The court of Additional Sessions Judge Amit Sehrawat also ordered attachment of their properties under Section 83 CrPC in order to secure their presence before the court.These three are gangster Vikas Lagarpuria, suspended IPS Dheeraj Setia and Chetan Maan alias Boxer.“Intimation in this regard be sent to the SHO of the police station concerned as well as DCP (HQ), Gurugram. Further proceedings be also initiated against these accused persons,” read the court orders. The STF had moved an appeal to the court seeking declaration of the trio as proclaimed offenders.Setia’s counsel Ajay Kumar Verma has moved an application not to pass any adverse order against Setia today as he has filed an application for anticipatory bail before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.However, the court denied it highlighting that the Punjab and Haryana High Court has not passed any stay order in regard to the present proceedings and the proclamation of accused Dheeraj Kumar Setia has already been affixed at his address.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-heist-ips-dheeraj-setia-2-others-declared-pos-371208
19-02-2022||---||Notice to Haryana in Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh's furlough case||Chandigarh, February 18Acting on a petition challenging Dera Saccha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s release on furlough, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to the State of Haryana. Justice BS Walia of the High Court also fixed February 21 as the next date of hearing in the matter.The case will now come up for further hearing before Justice Raj Mohan Singh on that date. Among other things, it has been contended before the High Court that Ram Rahim has been released in view of the impending assembly elections in Punjab. “His release at this stage is against the spirit of fair Assembly elections,” it has been added.In his petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents, Patiala district resident Paramjit Singh Saholi has added that Ram Rahim, who committed “heinous crimes and has been convicted”, ought not to have been granted furlough.Describing himself as the “Quami president of the Akali Dal Sawtantar”, the petitioner has sought the setting aside/quashing of the order, vide which Ram Rahim, has been ordered to be released on furlough by the Haryana Government, “especially when the Assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled for February 20”. He added that the order of furlough “was unwarranted, illegal, untenable in the eyes of the law, hence deserving to be set aside”.Unjustified releaseThere is no justified reason to grant furlough to an individual like Ram Rahim and that too during the election days in Punjab. There is every likelihood the man, who committed ‘heinous crimes and has been convicted’, will foment trouble in Punjab. Paramjit Singh Saholi, Patiala resident #dera saccha sauda, #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-haryana-in-gurmeet-ram-rahim-singhs-furlough-case-371205
19-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||High Court raps Haryana Housing Board for negligence||Chandigarh, February 18Rapping the Haryana Housing Board for being “remiss” in its functioning, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has summoned its Chief Administrator.He was asked to be present in person in a case where an ex-serviceman deposited the requisite amount nearly seven years ago for the allotment of a dwelling unit in a scheme floated as a “token of gratitude for exemplary sacrifices” made for the nation, only to be told later that there was no planning for the construction of flats in the area.To make matters worse, the housing board insisted that refund to the petitioner-ex-serviceman would be permitted only upon the forfeiture of 10 per cent of the deposited amount, compelling the High Court to observe it was appalled at the stand.The Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Lalit Batra asserted that it was not a solitary case. Rather, a bunch of writ petitions raising similar grievances were pending before the court.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Raj Pal Singh Gahlaut filed a petition through counsel Vivek Khatri against the Housing Board and another respondent. Taking up the matter, the Bench observed that nothing fructified and the petitioner had been running from pillar to post, and even served upon the respondents a legal notice, seeking the refund of the deposited amount.Going into the background of the matter, the Bench observed that the petitioner was successful in the draw of lots for the allotment of a flat in Faridabad’s Sector 65 in December 2014 and deposited Rs 4, 89,270 in March 2015.The Bench also took note of the categorical averments in the petition that the petitioner-ex-serviceman applied for a loan to raise the funds and was paying regular EMIs to service the debt. “It is the Housing Board which has been remiss in the matter. Till date, there is no planning to put the project on the ground insofar as Sector 65, Faridabad, is concerned,” the Bench asserted.Before parting with the order, the Bench added that the issue arising in the instant matter was whether the housing board could now confront an ex-serviceman, like the petitioner, with a regulation “so as to be agreeable to a refund only upon the forfeiture of the 10 per cent of the amount deposited”.The case will now come up in March first week.Summons board Chief AdministratorThe Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Lalit Batra asserted that even though under normal circumstances, this court would be reluctant to summon officers, they found that this was a matter where the Chief Administrator, Housing Board, Haryana, ought to be present in person and assisted them on the date adjourned. #haryana housing board||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-raps-haryana-housing-board-for-negligence-371202
19-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||All Gurugram high-rise to undergo quake safety audit||Gurugram, February 18Rattled by the Chintels Paradiso partial tower collapse, the Gurugram Disaster Management Authority, headed by Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar, has ordered a safety audit of all high-rises.The city falls in Seismic Zone 4, second-most earthquake threatened zone, with around 2,000 registered high-rises or buildings having more than four floors. There have been numerous complaints of poor construction quality and doubts on the strength of buildings, with complainants worried about the fate of all structures in case of a quake.“Ensuring safe living is our priority at the moment. We are in an earthquake sensitive zone and wish to ensure that Chintel-type incident is never repeated, so we will check each high rise. It will take time but will be worth it. We are identifying agency for the same,” said Yadav.The city, according to experts, is at a higher risk than Delhi. While Delhi sits on top of three active seismic fault lines, Gurugram sits at 7, making it the riskiest area in the NCR. If any of these become active, it can cause an earthquake of up to 7.5 magnitude.A senior administration official said plans were on for such safety audits and the DTP would work on the execution. It was in 2015 when repeated tremors had led to panic amongst the high-rise dwellers and then the administration had ordered a safety audit. The plan never materialised, though a decision was taken that every builder would submit an earthquake safety certificate, ensuring the building was being made as per the disaster management mandate. This, however, never took off.It was in 2020 when the Delhi NCR was hit by 17 earthquakes in three months. The DC Gurugram had gone ahead with footer notes on all sale and purchase deeds and registries, warning the people about the city being in Seismic Zone 4. An advisory was issued to mandatorily consult a structural engineer in this regard, but nothing happened.It was in 1960 that an earthquake with epicentre along the Delhi-Gurgaon border of 6.2 magnitude had damaged nearly 200 structures and killed and injured several people. The area of Gurugram was then sparsely inhabited, with just a few mud houses and two people were reported dead and some injured.Areas under Seismic Zone 4The entire city falls under the seismic zone 4. Apart from the Jaipur depression, many normal faults pass through Gurugram. The major tectonic features in Gurgaon district include Sohna Fault, Moradabad Fault, Delhi-Moradabad Fault, Delhi-Haridwar Fault, junction of Aravalli and Alluvium near Delhi.Safe living a priorityThe society falls in an earthquake sensitive zone and I wish to ensure that a Chintels-type incident is never repeated. Nishant Kumar, DC #chintels paradiso #gurugram roof collapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-gurugram-high-rise-to-undergo-quake-safety-audit-371200
19-02-2022||---||Flat owners of collapsed Gurugram tower to get refund||Gurugram, February 18Owners of flats in the partially collapsed tower of Chintels Paradiso here will soon get their money back.DC Nishant Yadav, who visited the society today, said the modalities of the refund would be worked out soon. There are 64 flats in D tower, which collapsed partially on February 10 claiming the lives of two residents. The owners have since been demanding buyback of flats at current market rate.“We have met residents and representatives of the builder. We will soon work out details of refund,” Yadav said.Officials said the inquiry report would be submitted soon. A team of IIT-Delhi today visited the society for its structural audit.Another realtor faces FIR for ‘shoddy’ work #gurugram building collapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/flat-owners-of-collapsed-gurugram-tower-to-get-refund-371078
19-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Multi-crore heist: IPS officer Dheeraj Setia declared proclaimed offender||Gurugram, February 18A local court on Friday declared three accused, including suspended IPS officer Dheeraj Setia, proclaimed offenders in a multi-crore heist case here.The court of Additional Sessions Judge Amit Sehrawat also ordered attachment of their properties under Section 83 of the Cr.P.C in order to secure their presence before the court. "Intimation in this regard be sent to the SHO of the concerned police station as well as DCP, (HQ), Gurugram.“Further proceedings be also initiated against these accused persons. Shri Surender Kumar, HPS, STF, Gurugram is directed to provide the details of the properties of these accused on the next date of hearing so that court may initiate the proceedings under Section 83 Cr.P.C, " reads the court orders.An STF had moved an appeal in the court seeking declaration of the trio as proclaimed offenders.The STF is currently investigating the multi-crore theft case that began as a robbery at a flat in Sector 82. Investigations have revealed the involvement of several people, including a gangster named Vikas Lagarpuria, Setia, and two doctors.Meanwhile, Setia's counsel Ajay Kumar Verma moved an application in the court to not pass any adverse order against the suspended IPS officer as he had applied for anticipatory bail before the Punjab and Haryana High Court as well as another petition under CrPC section 482 for quashing the orders passed in the present proceedings.However, the court denied it, highlighting that the High Court has not passed any stay order with regard to the present proceedings and the proclamation of the accused Dheeraj Kumar Setia has already been affixed at his address.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/multi-crore-heist-ips-officer-dheeraj-setia-declared-proclaimed-offender-371036
