21-02-2022||Chandigarh||DRTs for Punjab, Haryana, UT get presiding officers||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the proposal of the Department of Financial Services for the appointment of former District and Sessions Judges Man Mohan Dhonchak and Anand Sagar Narang as the presiding officers of two Debts Recovery Tribunals in Chandigarh.In all, the appointments of presiding officers in 18 Debts Recovery Tribunals across India have been approved. The DRTs in Chandigarh have jurisdiction over the states of Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh, along with the Union Territory of Chandigarh.Narang, appointed as the presiding officer of DRT-I, was Rohtak District and Sessions Judge, while Dhonchak, appointed as the presiding officer of DRT-II, was Gurugram District and Sessions Judge prior to retirement upon attaining the age of superannuation.DRT-I has jurisdiction over Punjab and Himachal, while DRT-II has jurisdiction over Haryana and Chandigarh. The appointments come at a time when the Supreme Court and High Courts have been criticizing the Central Government for not filling up the DRT vacancies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drts-for-punjab-haryana-ut-get-presiding-officers-371854
21-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Chintels Paradiso, other societies for CBI investigation into high-rise roof collapse||Hundreds of residents of the Chintels Paradiso apartments got on roads today, demanding a CBI probe into the recent high-rise roof collapse in Gurugram’s Sector 109. The angry residents sought “immediate arrest” of the promoters and directors of Chintels India Ltd and the government officials who gave occupation certificates (OCs) for these apartments.The residents, carrying placards, accused the police and administration of shielding the builder. The protest was also supported by adjoining housing society residents.The protest march began from the Chintels Paradiso main gate towards the ATS chowk. — #CBI #gurugram building collapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chintels-other-societies-for-cbi-investigation-371742
21-02-2022||Gurugram||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar reviews Gurugram hospital project||#Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-minister-reviews-hospital-project-371744
21-02-2022||Faridabad ||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya calls  for supporting differently abled||Since 75 per cent of differently abled persons (divyangs) hail from rural parts, social organisations should make all out efforts to reach them to ensure that no one is left out.This was stated by the Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya while speaking at a function organised to distribute artificial limbs among differently abled in Sector 7 here today. The function was organised under the joint aegis of Maheshwari Seva Trust (Regd) Faridabad, District Red Cross Society, the District Social Welfare Department and Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti, Jaipur.The Governor said such kind of camps must be held in all parts of the state, especially the rural areas, where three fourth of the affected persons reside.He said every person had a right to live with dignity and with the sense of being fully capable. This was possible when society comes to the aid for such persons, the Governor added. Living examples of such persons were the Paralympians, who brought laurels to the country by winning medals at the international level games, the Governor said.More than 1,200 differently-abled people were presented artificial legs, prosthetic hands, crutches, wheelchairs, hand-operated tricycles, and hearing aids at the function today.Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, Narender Gupta and Rajesh Nagar (both MLA’s) and DR Sharma, secretary, Red Cross Societywere present at the function. — #bandaru dattatraya #differently abled||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governor-calls-for-supporting-differently-abled-371745
21-02-2022||Faridabad||Haryana Diary: 'Political patronage' in Faridabad civic body||ASHA workers not allowed to protest in AmbalaAmbala: Hundreds of ASHA workers were not allowed to gather in the city to hold a protest in support of their demands recently. ASHA workers were stopped in their respective districts and those, who managed to reach Ambala, were made to sit in roadways buses and sent back. A heavy police deployment and barricading was done to stop ASHA workers. A senior leader of the ASHA workers union said the state government and the police worked tirelessly to stop them from reaching Ambala and holding a protest. If such coordination and efforts were made for the welfare of the people of Haryana, things would have been different, the leader added.Tender becomes political issuePanipat: The cleanliness tender in the ‘textile city’ has become a political issue among ruling party councillors. Twelve councillors in the city are in favour of allotting the tender ward-wise and they have submitted a letter to the MC Commissioner in this regard. Besides, another letter signed by 18 ruling party councillors was also submitted to the MC Commissioner in which they showed their satisfaction to allot the tender after dividing the city in two zones. However, the city sanitation system has collapsed as the old contract has been cancelled.New SP for better info exchangeHisar: Was it coincidence or otherwise, two days after mediapersons in Hisar boycotted a press conference of the DIG-cum-SP, Balwan Singh Rana, the district got a new SP Lokender Singh while Rana was shifted to Gurugram as DIG (Vigilance). However, soon after taking charge on February 15, the SP called a get together with mediapersons of Hisar. The event was meant to exchange ideas on how to coordinate in a better way to share information, besides a brief discussion on the issues related to the police in Hisar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/political-patronage-in-civic-body-371746
21-02-2022||Ambala||Ambala school kids win national awards||Seven children from four schools have won national awards in short filmmaking.The All-India contest on short film making by children on environment and our heritage was conducted by the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Ambala, under Colonel (retd) RD Singh, convener, in October last year.There were over 500 entries from all over India, which were assessed by the INTACH head office at Delhi. Children made interesting and meaningful short films, of about two minutes, with their own cameras, on subjects like – St Paul Church, Energy Conservation, Kalpana Chawla Planetarium, Magical Book, ‘Story of a Seed’, Covid Precautions, Old Heritage items in our homes. Tanishq Chopra, Shubhi Singh, Manit Chopra, Anubhav Yadav, Alin Mittal, Abhinav Mehta and Anirudh Gupta have won the awards. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-school-kids-win-national-awards-371748
21-02-2022||Karnal||Student brings laurels in taekwondo||Extension lecture organisedYamunanagar: To mark the golden jubilee of postgraduate departments, the economics department of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised an extension lecture on the topic 'Skill set requirements for new age economy'. Dr Kiran Bharti, head of the department of economics said Dr Ashok Chauhan, chairman, department of economics, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, was the speaker of the programme. Dr Pawan Gaba and Prof Dalbir Singh, co-conveners of the programme, thanked Dr Chauhan for sharing his personal experiences. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, appriciated the efforts of the economic department for the successful organisation of this extension lecture.'Employment opportunities in Hindi'Bhiwani: An extension lecture on 'Employment opportunities in Hindi' was organised under the aegis of the Hindi department at Adarsh Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Bhiwani. Prof Baburam, head of the Hindi department at CBL University, Bhiwani, highlighted employment opportunities for the students of Hindi language. He said there was a need for editors, sub-editors, correspondents, reporters, radio jockeys, anchors etc. in the field of Hindi media. The demand for script writers, dialogue writers, etc. has increased for radio, TV and cinema.Health check-up camp for childrenKurukshetra: On the fourth day of the seven-day long NSS camp at DAV Public School, Kurukshetra, students were sent to the adopted Jhinwarheri village. Principal, Geetika Jasuja briefed the students before they boarded their buses. The student volunteers were accompanied by Dr Shishir Gupta who is a pediatrician. A health checkup of about 72 children of the village was conducted and the children were made aware of the deficiencies they were having . The student volunteers of the Dayanand and Shardhanand group held a cleanliness drive in the village and made people aware of the importance of cleanliness around them. Rajguru group distributed masks and sanitisers in the middle-level school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-brings-laurels-in-taekwondo-371749
21-02-2022||Gurugram||Manohar Lal Khattar meets auto union representatives||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar reviewed the 'Parivartan' project launched in August last year to promote e-auto rickshaws in Gurugram during a meeting of the officials concerned called at the Public Works Rest House in Gurugram today.During the meeting, the Chief Minister also interacted with the representatives of the Haryana Auto Driver Association about this project and apprised them of the decisions taken in today's meeting. The Chief Minister, said that air pollution was a big issue in Gurugram, which was a matter of concern for the National Green Tribunal, the Supreme Court and Gurugram residents."I have also received a letter regarding the problems and difficulties faced by you, which was also discussed in the meeting today," said Manohar Lal Khattar while interacting with the representatives of the Auto Drivers Association.Informing about the decisions taken in today's meeting, the Chief Minister said that as per the decision of the National Green Tribunal, diesel vehicles which were 10 years old and petrol vehicles older than 15 years could not ply in the NCR region. — #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-meets-auto-union-representatives-371750
21-02-2022||---||Open spaces turned into garbage points||Hisar, February 20Improving the sanitation conditions is a major challenge for Urban Local Bodies Minister Dr Kamal Gupta, MLA from Hisar town, as several open spaces in Hisar have been turned into garbage dumping points.Residents, shopkeepers and even MC sweepers dump garbage at these spots which, besides being an eyesore, emanate a foul smell.This issue has been raised many times by municipal councillors and residents with the authorities concerned. Residents in several localities alleged that even MC sweepers disposed of garbage gathered from colonies at these spots. A shopkeeper at the Loharia Chowk, Deepak Goyal, said the open space along the roadside had been turned into a dumping yard. “This area near Loharia Chowk has been a major problem for us. The foul smell causes severe headache,” he alleges. Meanwhile, Urban Local Bodies Minister Kamal Gupta maintains Hisar would be made the number one city of the state in terms of cleanliness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/open-spaces-turned-into-garbage-points-371751
21-02-2022||Hisar||Boy dies in Hisar road accident||An 11-year-old boy died when a motorcycle rammed into a bus near Delhi bypass in Hisar on Sunday. The victim has been identified as Avashya. Another person, Kamal, suffered injuries in the accident.The police said that Kamal was going to drop Avashya at his residence in Sector 4 when a private bus rammed the bike from behind. They were rushed to the civil hospital where the boy succumbed to injuries.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boy-dies-in-hisar-road-accident-371752
21-02-2022||Ambala||Industrial motivation campaign||The internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) and technology business incubator (TBI), jointly organised a one-day industrial motivation campaign (IMC)/entrepreneurship awareness programme sponsored by the MSME-DI, Karnal, Ministry of MSME, Government of India, for undergraduate and postgraduate students from multi-disciplinary courses, at the MM (DU). The event marked the presence of more than 100 students and 25 faculty members from multi-disciplinary courses. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industrial-motivation-campaign-371754
21-02-2022||On one hand||No bus shelters for commuters at Pipli on National Highway||Employees should be deputed at Sub-health centresMore than 36 buildings of sub-health centres are ready for the past three years in the district but are not yet functional for want of para-medical staff. These centres were to be set up for villages having population of less than 5,000. One such centre needs at least one man, one woman and two helpers. These centres are proving to be just like white elephants as these are not serving any useful purpose and villagers have to run to civil hospitals in cities in case of emergency. The government should depute staff at these centres immediately. —Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-bus-shelters-for-commuters-at-pipli-on-national-highway-371756
21-02-2022||Karnal||13 injured in group clash at Karnal village||As many as 13 persons, including a woman, were injured in a clash between two groups in Kaimla village under Gharaunda police station late on Saturday.As per the police, 12 persons have been discharged and one is hospitalised.According to the police, the clash took place between two families over phone calls by a boy to a girl of the village, but investigation is on to ascertain the actual reasons behind it. Both the groups have filed complaints against each other and the police have registered one FIR.1 still hospitalised“We have registered an FIR on the complaint of the party related to the girl’s side under charges of hurt and molestation. The second party has submitted a complaint in the evening which is being looked into,” said Ganga Ram Punia, SP.The father of the girl has alleged that a boy in the neighbourhood used to harass his daughter by making calls. He, along with other family members, went to the boy’s father to complain against the boy. Instead of scolding his son, he, along with others, attacked him and other family members.The boy’s father alleged the girl used to call up his son. The family members of the girl attacked them. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-injured-in-group-clash-at-karnal-village-371739
21-02-2022||Sonepat||Sonepat: 4 'contract killers' get 8-day police remand||The Sonepat police on Sunday produced the accused, arrested for the alleged “contract killings” in Punjab on the directions of the banned militant group handlers of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) and International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), in court, which sent them to eight-day police remand.Besides, the police got e clues about associates of the banned militant groups which supplied automated weapons to the accused at various places. It was also revealed that the accused Sagar, alias Binni, the kingpin, had direct contacts with the terror group handlers through social media.The CIA-1 unit of the district police had nabbed four persons, Sagar, alias Binni, Jatin, alias Pehalwan, Sachin from Juan village and Surender, alias Sonum from Rajpur village. The police had seized an AK-47 with 49 rounds of cartridges, three foreign-made pistols Baretta and Glock and two country-made pistols from their possession.The police team sought a 12-day police remand of all four accused.Sources said the police said in the court said that they had to verify from where the accused had received the automated weapons, from which channel they received money in their accounts, identify their other associates of terrorist groups linked with the accused and investigate the links with the handlers of the militant groups sitting abroad. Following the police application, the court sent them in eight-day police custody for further investigation, the sources said.Besides, the Punjab police team, the NIA and other intelligence agencies arrived in Sonepat to interrogate the accused involved in terror activities on the directions of their handlers Gurjant Singh, alias Janta, in Australia, Arshdeep Singh Dala Canada, Hardeep Singh Nijjar Canada and Lakhbeer Singh Rode in Pakistan. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-contract-killers-get-8-day-police-remand-371737
21-02-2022||---||Solar pumps boost micro-irrigation in Haryana||Chandigarh, February 20Haryana has become the second state in the country after Gujarat to promote solar energy with the operation of solar water pumps in the promotion of micro-irrigation under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Utthan Mahabhiyan (PMKUSUM).This was stated by a government official here.There is about 80 lakh acres of cultivable land in the state, out of which 75 per cent area is irrigated. The rest of the land has to depend on rain for irrigation. By installing solar pumps, diesel will be saved for farmers and income will also increase, said the spokesman. The Central and state governments give 75 per cent subsidy on solar pumps and farmers have to spend only 25 per cent of the amount. There was little work done in the field of solar energy in the state and only 492 solar pumps were installed until 2014. The present government prepared a roadmap to promote solar energy in Haryana. #solar energy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/solar-pumps-boost-micro-irrigation-in-haryana-371736
21-02-2022||---||Rohtak residents face simian attacks, civic body fails to act||Rohtak, February 20Residents of Rohtak are facing attacks by troops of monkeys while the local municipal authorities continue to be in a state of deep slumber.Thanks to the lack of any mechanism to check the movement of monkeys in the HSVP sectors and other colonies, the residents are living under a constant threat of simian attacks.Troops of monkeys not only attack the residents on the streets and roads, but also enter their houses, take away fruits and other eatables and damage household articles.On the other hand, the Rohtak Municipal Corporation authorities have failed to take any concrete action regarding the matter for more than a year.“People are getting attacked by monkeys on the roads and in their houses. The issue has been highlighted by the media time and again, but the authorities concerned have failed to take any action in this regard,” says Kusum, a resident of Sector 2.The residents complain that monkeys enter their houses, take away eatables, damage household articles and even attack them and their family members, especially women, children and the elderly.“I was recently walking towards my home with a bag containing vegetables, fruits and groceries. On the way, I was attacked by a troop of monkeys. I threw the bag away and somehow saved myself,” says Surender Kumar, a resident of Sector 1.On another occasion, an elderly woman sitting in the courtyard of her house was bitten by a monkey.The local municipal councillors lament that they have raised the issue at the meetings of the corporation several times, but to no avail.Sources maintain that the delay in the tendering process to rope in a contractor to catch the monkeys has given a free run to the monkeys in the city.“Cages arranged to keep the monkeys caught by the contractor are gathering dust for several months due to the delay in the tendering process,” say sources.Contacted for comments, Rohtak Mayor Manmohan Goyal stated that he had asked the local Municipal Commissioner to expedite the tendering process to catch the monkeys and rid the residents of the simian scare. “We have received numerous complaints regarding the attacks and rioting by monkeys in the HSVP sectors and other colonies. A contractor will soon be roped in to catch the monkeys,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-residents-face-simian-attacks-civic-body-fails-to-act-371735
21-02-2022||---||Yamunanagar DC pulls up officials over poor roads||Yamunanagar, February 20Taking note of the dilapidated condition of roads, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Parth Gupta on Saturday asked the authorities of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation (MCYJ), Public Works Department (PWD) and other departments concerned to complete repairing and construction work of roads in the district at the earliest.Presiding over a review meeting related to roads and development works at his office in the mini secretariat on Friday, the DC asked the officers to take concrete steps to expeditiously complete the ongoing road repair and construction work in the district.Complete ongoing works, officials toldHe asked the authorities to complete the patch and widening work of the Kail-Kalanaur road by March 15.He also reviewed the progress report of widening work of the Jagadhri-Bilaspur road, widening and strengthening work of the Jagadhri Bypass road, construction work of the Kalawar-Jagdhauli road and widening of the Saharanpur-Kurukshetra road.Authorities should take action soonRoads in rural and urban areas are in a very bad condition. The damaged roads are giving a tough time to commuters. The authorities of the departments concerned should take action at the earliest. —Joginder Singh, resident, Devdhar villageGupta also directed the authorities of the MC to get roads, falling under the MC area, repaired soon.“The officials of the MC, PWD and other departments concerned should ensure completion of the patch work of roads at the earliest,” Gupta said. Most roads has in the district have got dotted with potholes and are in need of immediate repair work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-dc-pulls-up-officials-over-poor-roads-371734
21-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||Hisar residents complain of contaminated water supply||Hisar, February 20The supply of contaminated water has been a major problem in several localities in Hisar district. The leakage in the underground pipeline at many places is resulting in adulteration of water supply.Residents said the water was unfit for drinking so they were dependent on the water tanker services to get the daily quota of drinking water. The affected localities where the contaminated water is supplied include Officers Colony, Patel Nagar, Aath Marla colony, Hari Dharamshala locality, Pratap Nagar, Vinod Nagar and Shiv Nagar.The residents said they had been taking up the issue with the officials but the officials expressed their helplessness stating that the pipeline was laid about 2-3 decades ago. “This is becoming a routine problem. We have been carrying out repairs on getting complaints”, said an official of The PHED.Have Asked DC to set up new pipelineI have urged the Deputy Commissioner to install a new pipeline for drinking water so that the people get clean water. —Yograj Sharma, Social activistWill get leakage repairedI will get the leakage in the pipelines repaired. —Balwinder Singh, Phed executive engineerA social activist, Yograj Sharma, met the Deputy Commissioner, Dr Priyanka Soni, with the demand of laying a new pipeline in the affected areas. Sharma said many households are getting contaminated water supply of the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED).“Several residents have come with a bottle filled with yellowish water to register their complaint about the contaminated water supply, especially in the Patel Nagar, Aath Marla Colony. I have urged the Deputy Commissioner to install a new pipeline for drinking water so that the people get clean water”, he said adding that there are many households who cannot afford additional expense of water thus they are getting exposed to the disease. The PHED Executive Engineer, Balwinder Singh, he would get the leakage in the pipelines repaired.Affected localitiesThe affected localities where the contaminated water is supplied include Officers Colony, Patel Nagar, Aath Marla colony, Hari Dharamshala locality, Pratap Nagar, Vinod Nagar and Shiv Nagar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-residents-complain-of-contaminated-water-supply-371733
21-02-2022||Pradeep Sharma||'Faux pas': Haryana enacted law to change name of 4 Central Acts||Chandigarh, February 20Can a state Legislative Assembly change the name of any Central Act without seeking the approval of the Central Government?The answer may be no, but the Haryana Assembly has performed this task.In March, 2021, the Haryana Assembly passed the Haryana Short Titles (Amendment) Bill, 2021, after which it got the assent of the then Governor, Satyadev Narain Arya, on March, 31, 2021, and, consequently, it became the Haryana Act 15 of 2021 and was enforced with effect from April 5, 2021.The Act substitutes the words Punjab and East Punjab with Haryana in Short Titles in total 154 laws which were enacted before November 1, 1966 ie before the formation of separate Haryana state which was carved out of the joint Punjab through the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966.For example, the name of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, got changed to the Haryana Excise Act, 1914. However, even after such change, it would still be cited as the Punjab Act 1 of 1914 as the citation of the law via Act number and the year remains unchanged. Even otherwise, the above Act cannot be termed as the Haryana Act 1 of 1914 since Haryana came into existence only with effect from November 1, 1966.Meanwhile, when an advocate at the Punjab and Haryana High Court Hemant Kumar, in December, 2021 checked Short Titles of all 154 laws where the words Punjab and East Punjab got substituted with the word Haryana, he came across 4 number of laws which, though bear the name Punjab, but actually are not Punjab Acts, but rather Central Acts viz the Punjab Laws Act, 1872, the Punjab District Boards Act, 1883, the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887 and the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887.In Schedule to above Haryana Short Titles (Amendment) Act, 2021, the above four Acts have, however, been mentioned as Punjab Act 4 of 1872, Punjab Act 20 of 1883, Punjab Act 16 of 1887 and Punjab Act 17 of 1887, respectively. However, Hemant asserts that when he checked the official website of the Legislative Department under the Union Ministry of Law and Justice, he saw above four Acts shown as Central Acts.He filed an RTI application with the Legislative Department under the Union Ministry of Law and Justice in December, 2021, seeking information in this regard. The department transferred his RTI plea to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) which is the nodal Ministry to deal with amendments by states in Central laws.Haryana Act 15, 2021In March, 2021, the Haryana Assembly passed the Haryana Short Titles (Amendment) Bill, 2021, after which it got assent of then Governor, Satyadev Narain Arya, on 31st March, 2021 and consequently it became Haryana Act 15 of 2021 and was enforced with effect from April 5, 2021||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faux-pas-haryana-enacted-law-to-change-name-of-4-central-acts-371731
21-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||In Faridabad, Covid infection rate down 63%  in two weeks||Faridabad, February 20The Covid curve in the district is on sharp decline. While the recovery rate is 128.77 per cent more than new cases in the past fortnight, both the hospitalisation and sample positivity rate have also slipped in this period in the district.Revealing that fresh and active cases have reduced between 73 and 78.5 per cent in the past two weeks, a senior official of the Health Department said that the Covid curve has shown a remarkable improvement as around 2,846 patients have recovered against a total of 1,244 persons testing positive since February 6 in the district. Only one death has taken place in this period according to the officials concerned.While the recovery rate is around 128.77 per cent, hospitalisation has also gone down from 56 to just 10 in this period which is 82.14 per cent down in 14 days.Civil Surgeon Dr Vinay Gupta said that the sample positivity rate (infection rate) has decreased by 63.47 per cent as it has slipped to 2.21 per cent from 6.05 per cent registered two weeks ago. This has improved the overall recovery percentage up from 97.95 per cent to 99.11 per cent in this period, he said, adding that only one death that has taken place in the current month has been on February 6.The district recorded as many as 19 deaths in January. It is claimed that co-morbidities had been the prime factor behind casualties.Dr Man Singh, Nodal Officer-Covid Vaccination, said with 103 per cent of the residents getting fully vaccinated (both doses) till date, the Health Department has achieved 125 per cent of the vaccination of the first dose of the vaccine already. Adding that 80 per cent of the youngsters (aged between 15 and 18 years) have also been given the first dose, he said the precaution (booster) dose percentage reached 38 per cent on Sunday. He said the focus of the department was to provide vaccination to youngsters by holding camps in educational institutions.Meanwhile, the district reported 39 new cases and 84 recoveries today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-faridabad-infection-rate-down-63-in-two-weeks-371729
21-02-2022||Parveen Arora||7 months on, no headway in Karnal-Yamunanagar railway project||Karnal, February 20Almost seven months after approval from the Railways Ministry and also the sanctioning of the budget, around 64-km long Karnal-Yamunanagar railway line project is hanging fire.Sources said the process for the identification of the land and acquisition had not started yet. To provide the shortest link between these two cities and to reduce the travel time for the passengers and freight traffic, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had kept a provision of laying railway lines between Karnal and Yamunanagar in his budget speech on February 28, 2020, for which residents have been waiting since 1998.Only on paper, nothing on groundThe project was first announced on May 29, 1998, when the then government had announced to lay a railway line of 128 km between Yamunanagar and Kaithal districts via Karnal city, but it could not be implemented. Later, it was announced in February 24, 2010, and February 25, 2011, rly budgets, but never materialised. Only surveys were conducted, but it could not come up on the ground. —Anshul Narang, Social activistThe proposed railway line will have stations near Bhenikhurd village, Ramba, Indri, Ladwa, Radaur, Damla and Jagadhri workshop for access to market for agricultural produce, plywood, timber, industrial products, metal industry, fertiliser and others. After the approval from the Railways Ministry last year, the state government had sanctioned a sum of Rs 883.78 crore in July 2021. The project was to be implemented in about four years.The delay in the process has caused resentment among residents.Anshul Narang, a resident of Sadar Bazar and social activist, said to strengthen the infrastructure and also to provide fast, safe, economical, comfortable and reliable mobility option to people of the state, the CM had announced this project, the detailed project report of which had already been approved by the Railways Ministry. However, after around seven months of approval and sanctioning of the budget, nothing had been done on ground.Rajiv Kumar, another social activist, said the project was a long-pending demand of residents and one of the ambitious ones of the CM. The Union government should take it on a priority basis. “This project will ease the traffic between both major cities of the state. The state government should also raise the issue of the non-commencement of the project with the Union government,” he demanded.Despite several attempts, the Railways authorities could not be contacted for their comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-months-on-no-headway-in-karnal-yamunanagar-railway-project-371727
21-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Groundwater level dips 1.2 metre every year in Kurukshetra villages||Kurukshetra, February 20The groundwater level in Ladwa, Pehowa and Shahabad blocks of Kurukshetra is decreasing at a rate of 1.2 metre, 1.5 metre and 1.65 to 2 metre per year, respectively.As many as 51 villages of Pehowa, 65 villages of Shahabad, and 75 villages of Ladwa block in Kurukshetra district were identified as dark zones and selected under the Atal Bhujal Yojana of the Centre Government to improve the groundwater.According to a survey report of June 2021, the groundwater level has dropped to 33.42 metre in Ladwa, 39.54 metre in Pehowa, and 44.39 metre in Shahabad. The groundwater experts, who have been preparing the water security plans under the scheme, observed that nearly 8 to 14 times more water than its requirement is drawn from the ground for agriculture, domestic and livestock purposes.Groundwater expert Dr Naveen Nain said, “We have been collecting the scientific data related to groundwater situation in 189 targeted villages of Kurukshetra district.”“Out of 433 villages, 422 villages are categorised as severely groundwater stressed. Farmers have to adopt crop diversification and use micro-irrigation schemes to stop the over exploitation of the groundwater,” Dr Nain said. “Piezometers will be installed in 189 villages to measure and keep a watch on fluctuation in water table. Due to confined aquifer conditions, the groundwater recharge capacity is slow,” Dr Nain added. #groundwater level||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/groundwater-level-dips-1-2-metre-every-year-in-kurukshetra-villages-371726
21-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Convicts' hanging will be real tribute: 12-year-old rape victim's granny||Sonepat, February 20“Hanging of both convicts will be a real ‘shradhanjli’ to our 12-year-old daughter who was inhumanly dragged, raped and murdered. We are waiting for that day,” says maternal grandmother of the victim.Additional District and Sessions Judge Sumit Garg has awarded death penalty to Pardeep and Sagar of Urlana Kalan village for raping and murdering the minor girl on January 13, 2018. The convicts abducted the victim while she was on way back home after throwing garbage. They raped her, murdered her and then sexually violated her body.Justice, finallyWe are satisfied with the decision of the court. Our innocent daughter has finally got justice. — Victim’s maternal grandmotherUrlana villagers say they are satisfied with the verdict. While there was no one at Pradeep’s house, some women gathered near the house of Sagar were seen weeping when The Tribune team visited the village today. The neighbours seemed tightlipped over the incidentVictim’s maternal grandmother said her daughter (deceased’s mother) was married, but her husband left her while she was pregnant. After the birth of the victim, her daughter remarried, but her second husband refused to adopt the child. So, she had to keep that child with her at Urlana Kalan, she said. #death penalty||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/convicts-hanging-will-be-real-tribute-rape-victims-granny-371636
