22-02-2022||With almost all green belts adjoining the main roads being waterlogged with the rain or waste water discharged by various residential societies and colonies||Waterlogged green belts pose health risk in Greater Faridabad||Paras Bhardwaj, FaridabadVillagers living in poor condition in Rohtak districtI would like to bring to your notice the life being lived by the villagers of Gaddi-Khedi Tehsil in Rohtak district. Families are not even in the position to come out of their house due to mud on the road in front of their houses. The authorities have not taken any action despite their pursuance. Action should be taken as deemed fit to sort out the problem.Ranvir Singh, RohtakRoad in front of ITBP threat to commutersThe road which is in front of the ITBP, Panchkula, is really life threatening as it connects four lanes, out of which one goes towards Ramgarh, adjacent to it, it is the road connecting to the flyover. Again adjacent to it is the road connecting with the flyover, and the last road takes us to Sector 25. The point of intersection of these four roads needs to have an under path, so that the last two lanes can be connected without disturbing the traffic on the overbridges.Sonia Gupta, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogged-green-belts-pose-health-risk-in-greater-faridabad-372046
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana, Jindal Stainless sign MoU||Expert lecture At Guru Nanak collegeYamunanagar: The training and employment cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised an expert lecture on "Interview preparation - an industry perspective". Principal of the college, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said the resource person of the programme was Vinit Pundir, an alumnus of 2002 batch of the college and joint vice-president, Corporate IT, Indorama Ventures, Thailand. Dr Rajinder Singh Vohra, coordinator, training and employment cell, introduced the speaker. Randeep Singh Jauhar, president, governing body of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, expressed his satisfaction on the student-centric activities and initiatives being undertaken by the college.Seven-day NSS camp beginsAmbala: A seven-day NSS camp began at SD Vidya School, Ambala Cantt, aimed at sensitising the young generation about the need to contribute in social service. The NSS programme officer-cum-district NSS programme coordinator Vijay Kumar visited the school for the inauguration of the camp. On the occasion, NSS programme officer of the school, Priyanka, along with the team members Amit Sharma, Sushma Madaan and Kanika Kaushik were present. The inauguration of the camp began with a yoga session for students. The NSS volunteers presented a beautiful NSS song. Kaushik gave a motivational lecture to the students during orientation. She spoke at length about the objectives of NSS and motivated the students to give their contribution in service of the society.Lecture on quantum computingKarnal: The department of physics & department of computer science, KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised an online inter-disciplinary extension lecture on "quantum computing" under the guidance of principal Renu Mehta. Renu Mehta emphasised on the importance of organising such online academic events in her speech. Key speaker Sunita Kumari, assistant professor, department of computer science and engineering, GB Pant, DSEU Okhla-I Campus, Delhi, deliberated upon the importance of quantum computing. She said the future of quantum computing seemed quite enhanced and promising. It will enable the industries to tackle those problems, which one always thought were impossible to solve. Meenu Sharma, head of the department of physics and Sakshi Aneja, head of the department of computer science, along with their respective faculty members worked round the check to make the event a grand success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-jindal-stainless-sign-mou-372045
22-02-2022||Faridabad||2 electrocuted at marriage function in Faridabad village||Two persons working as lightmen for a marriage band died after they got electrocuted during a ceremony at Junehra village of the district on Sunday night.The police have launched a probe into the incident.The victims have been identified as Attru (53) and Akbar (31). They got electrocuted after they came into contact with an electric transformer installed on the way to the way the bride’s house in the village. Both victims suffered serious burn injuries. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-electrocuted-at-marriage-function-in-faridabad-village-372044
22-02-2022||Karnal||Karnal: 20-yr-old man found dead in fields||A youth in his early twenties was allegedly found murdered in the fields of Unchasamana village in the district this morning. The body bore several injury marks, said the police.The deceased was identified as Sumit of the same village and was a worker at a jewellery shop in the city. The family members said he went out from his house on Sunday evening, but did not return till night. Sajjan Singh, SHO, Madhuban, said a case had been registered against Sandeep and Arju of the same village, Ravinder of Narukheri village. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-20-yr-old-man-found-dead-in-fields-372043
22-02-2022||---||Rohtak: CPM leader remembered||Rohtak, February 21Doctors, educationists, advocates, students and social activists paid tribute to a veteran leader of CPM and noted lawyer Raghubir Singh Hooda by organising a remembrance function here on his fifth death anniversary today. He passed away due to prostate cancer in 2017.Intellectuals gathered on the occasion also deliberated on the ‘deteriorating’ health system and necessity for public awareness over the increasing menace of fatal diseases like cancer for timely prevention. Surgeon Dr Ranbir SinghDahiya and Dr Ashok Chauhan, senior Professor at Pt BDS University of Health Sciences shared their experiences on the health situation and challenges. Inderjit Singh, president of Shahid Jasbir Samarak Samiti, recalled the important role played by Hooda in mobilising the farmers and workers during adverse period while facing repression, including 19 months detention under MISA during the Emergency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-cpm-leader-remembered-372038
22-02-2022||---||Student found dead  in hotel bathroom in Gurugram||Gurugram, February 21A 27-year-old student of LP University here was found dead in a bathroom of a hotel in Gurugram.It was alleged that he died after inhaling some toxic gas from a geyser in the bathroom. An FIR was registered in this regard against the owner and manager of the hotel.Pankaj Kumar, a resident of Jhunjhunu district in Rajasthan, said he was working with the Army and had gone on a tour with his friends Sunil, Suman, Pankaj Tanwar, Satdev, Vinod, Tanveer to Uttarakhand. They visited various places in the state and reached Gurugram on February 19.Pankaj Kumar, in his complaint to the police, stated that Satdev went to take bath in a washroom of the hotel where the tragedy occurred. He did not come out of the bathroom for long, forcing them to break open the door of the washroom. Satdev was lying unconscious and was rushed to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared brought dead.Following the complaint, an FIR was registered against the hotel owner and manager under various Sections of the IPC at the City police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-found-dead-in-hotel-bathroom-in-gurugram-372032
22-02-2022||---||Khattar: Village committees in Haryana to oversee works||Chandigarh, February 21Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said that till the panchayat elections were not held in the state, village-level committees would be constituted to play an important role in the implementation of development works.Work would be done in the village only in consultation with these committees. Due to this, development work in the villages would also not be affected and the demands of public representatives would also be heard. Along with this, the meetings of the Gram Sabha would also be organised regularly, said Chief Minister Khattar. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-village-committees-in-haryana-to-oversee-works-372030
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||Road map to tackle drug menace in Haryana ready||Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal on Monday said the Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau had prepared a roadmap to tackle drug menace at village, ward and state level.Kaushal was presiding over a meeting of the State Apex Committee held today in this regard. In the meeting, he said the bureau coordinate with various departments for the prevention of drug abuse.The Chief Secretary said the objective of the government was to prevent and control smuggling and rehabilitate drug addicts.“The bureau should prepare an institutional structure, in which senior officials of the departments concerned should also be involved so that schemes could be implemented effectively,” he said. He directed the officials that the Administrative Secretaries of the departments should send their suggestions to the bureau within the next week so that a state action plan could be finalised at the earliest. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-map-to-tackle-drug-menace-in-haryana-ready-372026
22-02-2022||Panipat||Panipat: Man gets 20-yr jail for raping stepdaughter||The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sumit Garg on Monday sentenced a man to 20 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) for raping his eight-year-old stepdaughter.The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 75,000 upon him and ordered that in case of non-payment of the fine, the convicted will have to undergo further imprisonment of one year.The incident was reported on August 14, 2018.The complainant, mother of the victim, is a resident of Faizabad district in UP and was living near Bhainswal village here at the time of the crime.In her complaint, she said her she had gone to work when the incident happened. Her son and eight-year-old daughter were home with her husband, she added.“When I came back, I found my daughter weeping. She told me that my husband raped her in inebriated condition and when she tried to stop him, he slapped her.”Following the complaint, a case was registered against the accused under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 376AB of the IPC. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-man-gets-20-yr-jail-for-raping-stepdaughter-372024
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||Extension to Faridabad jail supdt challenged||The extension in service granted to the Faridabad district jail Superintendent, Jai Kishan Chhillar, “beyond his date of superannuation” on Monday came under judicial scanner with the filing of a petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The petitioner, Dharam Veer Singh, working as Deputy Superintendent Jail, Bhondsi, sought the quashing of the impugned order dated February 3, extending his services beyond February 28 — his date of superannuation. Appearing before Justice Arun Monga’s Bench, the petitioner contended: “The respondent has been given this order of extension just because of the reason that he is the blue-eyed baby of the State. In fact, he is the son-in-law of Hukam Singh, former Chief Minister of Haryana, and owing to these political connections, the petitioner has been given an extension on the basis of pseudo President award.”He added that the extension order was passed “without any provision of law, any statutory source of power, any rule under the jail manual or any statutory rule governing the service conditions of the Superintendent Jail.Taking up the matter, Justice Monga today fixed March 3 as the next date of hearing. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/extension-to-faridabad-jail-supdt-challenged-372022
22-02-2022||---||Faridabad: Prof SK Tomar appointed VC of  JC Bose University of Science and Technology||Faridabad, February 21Professor Sushil Kumar Tomar (56), professor in the department of mathematics at Punjab University, Chandigarh, has been appointed as the new Vice-Chancellor (VC) of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology here. He succeeds Raj Nehru, who had been given the charge of VC on additional basis on November 8, last year. Nehru had been given the charge after Dr Dinesh Kumar, who had completed his tenure as the VC here on November 3, 2021.The appointment of Prof Tomar has been made by the Governor, Haryana, whose office in a communication released on Monday says that “Consequent upon the recommendation of the Government of Haryana in exercise of the power conferred under (1) and (2) of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, Act- 2009, Prof Sushil Kumar Tomar is appointed as the VC of the university for a period of three years or till he attains the age of sixty eight, whichever is earlier, with effect from the date he assumes the charge of the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-prof-sk-tomar-appointed-vc-of-jc-bose-varsity-372019
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||Congress opposes increase in development charges in Haryana||The general secretary of the AICC, Randeep Surjewala, today opposed the ‘hefty increase” by the BJP-JJP Government in the development charges for granting permission for residential and commercial use in the municipal limits.Addressing a press conference here today, he accused the government of robbing the hard-earned money of the people by imposing irrational development charges. “The development charges for all municipalities notified by the state government on February 18 had been increased by 10 times to 5 per cent of the collector rate. This means that now, one will have to pay a fee of Rs 1,50,000 to Rs 2,00,000 for getting the map of a house of 100 square yards approved,” Surjewala asserted. He claimed that during the Congress regime the development charges were Rs 30 per square yard in municipal committee, Rs 50 per square yard in the municipal council, Rs 100 per square yard in the MC and Rs 150 per square yard in the Faridabad and Gurugram MCs. If a resident has already built a house, even got the map passed and has also paid “development fee”, if he applies for the “revised building plan” or “occupancy certificate”, then he will also have to pay a fee as per new rates, after deducting the amount paid. An official spokesman said the state government had now rationalised the development charges to bring uniformity in the development charges. Earlier, equivalent charges were charged for a property costing Rs 50 crore or Rs 50 lakh, which certainly was not fair for property owners. He claimed that certain elements were trying to mislead the people over the issue. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-opposes-increase-in-development-charges-in-haryana-372016
22-02-2022||Sunit Dhawan||42 months on, Haryana State Vigilance Bureau seeks Hindi translation of plaint!||Rohtak, February 21The Haryana State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) investigators have asked a complainant to provide a Hindi translation of a complaint lodged by him in English more than three years ago.The charges levelled in the complaint included gross irregularities in appointments, nepotism, misappropriation of funds, misuse of emergency powers by the former vice-chancellor and harassment of those who opposed his wrongful acts.The Haryana Government ordered an inquiry on the said complaint by the SVB, which was initiated in July, 2019.The SVB investigators called the complainant on February 18, 2022, and asked him to submit a Hindi translation of his complaint so that they could understand it and investigate the matter.“More than 42 months after I lodged the complaint and more than 30 months after the state government ordered a Vigilance inquiry into the allegations, the SVB officials have sought a Hindi translation of the complaint,” says Pannikker, who has also written to the Director-General (SVB) to get the matter probed thoroughly after getting an FIR registered.Inspector Ram Niwas of the SVB, Rohtak, conceded that a Hindi translation of the complaint (which was originally lodged in English) has been sought, adding that investigation was going on in the matter.On the other hand, Punia has refuted the allegations levelled against him, maintaining that he had acted in accordance with the MDU Acts and statutes during his tenure as the Vice-Chancellor.Irregularities during VC’s tenure #haryana state vigilance bureau||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/42-months-on-haryana-state-vigilance-bureau-seeks-hindi-translation-of-plaint-372013
22-02-2022||Chandigarh||IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar Setia bail plea hearing today||The anticipatory bail plea filed by IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar Setia will come up for hearing before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on February 22 again. The petition was placed before the Bench of Justice Avneesh Jhingan, but the hearing was adjourned for a day.Setia was posted as a DCP in Gurugram and was seeking pre-arrest bail in a case registered under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code. A “quashing petition” filed by Setia too will come up for hearing on February 22. — #ips officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ips-officer-dheeraj-kumar-setia-bail-plea-hearing-today-372007
22-02-2022||---||Cattle smugglers held in Gurugram||Gurugram, February 21Four cattle smugglers were nabbed in a chase by members of cow task force and Bajrang Dal after the cow smugglers allegedly attacked and fired at them in Manesar area late on Sunday.The smugglers were allegedly taking a cow in their vehicle to Rajasthan. An FIR has been registered at IMT Manesar police station and the cow was rescued from their vehicle.According to the complaint filed by Mohit, a resident of Manesar village and member of cow task force and Bajrang Dal, cattle smugglers came in a pick-up jeep with the cow and were going towards Rajasthan.He and his team members Vinod, Sandeep, Sahil and Deepak reached Kasan village in their SUV.“We signalled to the jeep to stop but a cow smuggler started firing at us. We narrowly escaped but the bullet hit our vehicle. We gave chase and a tyre of the smugglers’ vehicle burst after hitting a stone and crashed in a field. We nabbed four of them with their vehicle and the police were called,” Mohit told the police in his complaint.A police team reached the spot and rescued the cow, which was tied with ropes, from their vehicle.An FIR was registered against the accused under Sections 307 (murder attempt), 427 (causing damage), 34 (common intention) of the IPC and Sections 3, 5, 13 of the Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gausamvardhan Act, 2015 at IMT Manesar police station.According to the police, the arrested persons have been identified as Nishar, Rafiq, residents of Khod Basai village, Jakir of Badwa village and Irshad alias Rami, a resident of Sundh village in Nuh district.“We have nabbed all four and seized an illegal weapon, which was used for firing, from the possession of Rafiq,” said inspector Naresh Kumar, SHO of IMT Manesar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cattle-smugglers-held-in-gurugram-372006
22-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||Seepage, part of road caves in at Bhiwani||Bhiwani, February 21A portion of the main road near Dinod gate in Bhiwani town caved in resulting in a traffic jam today. The police diverted traffic to alternative roads in the town and officials rushed to the site to repair the damage.Local residents said that the patch of the road near Dinod gate had caved in earlier too. But the officials have not been able to find out the reason for the water leakage which is causing the earth to sink, resulting in damage to the road.Ashok Bhardwaj, a local resident and social activist, said that water seepage under the road has been the problem at this patch.“Officials of the Public Works Department arrived at the site and dug it up to ascertain the seepage which caused the caving-in. But surprisingly, officials failed to trace the seepage from the pipelines,” Ashok Bhardwaj said.Praveen Jangra, Sub-Divisional Engineer of PWD (Buildings and Roads), said that they had dug up the site to find out the source of seepage.“There is no water pipeline or sewerage line at this site. We have located nine lines of BSNL wires and these wires were dripping with water. It is possible that the leakage in a water pipeline at some other site has been flowing to this site through the BSNL wires,” he said.The officials maintained that they were trying to locate the source of leakage and would repair that fault.Local residents said that there had been instances of similar seepage resulting in damage to the road on 4-5 occasions in past some years. “But officials have not been able to trace the exact leakage and remove the fault,” said Bhardwaj.Water source a mysteryThere is no water pipeline or sewerage line at this site. We have located nine lines of BSNL wires and these wires were dripping with water. It is possible that the leakage in a water pipeline at some other site has been flowing to this site through the BSNL wires. Praveen Jangra, Sub-Divisional Engineer, PWD (B&R)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seepage-part-of-road-caves-in-at-bhiwani-372004
22-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: Not so 'Smart', slow pace of  work  results in traffic, sanitation mess||Faridabad, February 21The slow pace of work on the Smart roads project launched under the Smart City project four years ago has led to a prolonged civic and traffic mess.“Though the project envisages of converting a total of 19 roads having a length of 26 kilometres into smart ones, the slow pace of work has made the completion deadline jump over by almost two years, this has also emerged as a major cause of traffic problems and lack of cleanliness in the areas nearby. While traffic snarls and jams have become the order of the day, the poor pace of work has left the commuters and residents at the receiving end,” says AK Gaur, a resident. “As the project has already missed the deadline of January 2020 and the whole of 2021, it is not likely to be completed within the next few months due to the hurdles involved”, claim sources in the district administration. They further add that a budget of Rs 150 crore has already been spent. Lockdown conditions, ban on construction in view of the imposition of GRAP(Graded Response Action Plan) for several months, delay in payments and lack of proper coordination of various agencies has been blamed for the delay.Launched in 2018, the project includes construction of two major roads that run parallel to connect Badkhal Chowk and Old Faridabad Chowk on the national highway with the bypass highway besides other patches in the area earmarked under the Smart city project. The task envisages widening and building of the roads with cement and concrete having 1.5 m wide paved shoulders on each side, pedestrian walkways, parking spaces and cycle tracks besides the storm water drainage, sewerage system and underground electrical cables. Smart features like information kiosks, Wi-Fi connectivity, panic button, CCTV cameras, smart bins, environmental sensor, message sign boards, smart lighting, landscaping, street furniture, green cover and modern bus bays for parking will be provided.“Work on the project has been stepped up and it is likely to be over by July end this year,” says Arvind Kumar, a senior official of Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) involved in the project.Traffic snarls order of the dayWhile traffic snarls and jams have become the order of the day, the poor pace of work has left the commuters and residents at the receiving end. — AK Gaur, a residentNot likely to be completed soonAs the project has already missed the deadline of January 2020 and the whole of 2021, it is not likely to be completed within the next few months due to the hurdles involved. — Sources in the district administrationWork likely to be over by July-endWork on the project has been stepped up and it is likely to be over by July- end this year. — Arvind Kumar, a senior official of Faridabad Smart City Limited #smart city project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-not-so-smart-slow-pace-of-work-results-in-traffic-sanitation-mess-372003
22-02-2022||Hisar||Court orders deduction of Rs 2L from 3 Hansi cops' salaries||Acquitting a person who was made an accused in the rape of a 12-year-old girl, a District Court has directed the Hansi police to give compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the acquitted person by deducting the amount from the salaries of three cops, including a DSP and two inspectors, of the Hansi police.ADJ Seema Singhal also directed the police to submit a report about another person who was initially made an accused, but was given a clean chit by the police in investigation by March 17.The Hansi police had registered a case of rape and criminal intimidation under various Sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act on February 19, 2021, at the Hansi sadar police station. The complainant stated that his wife spotted blood stains on the clothes of their 12-year-old daughter. When asked about the matter, the girl revealed that a villager had taken her to a secluded place and raped her. The girl identified the person of the village as Bhoop Singh, who was arrested by the police after registering a case. He remained in custody for about a month.However, the police discharged the accused Bhoop Singh from the case while giving him clean chit and arrested another person, identified as Mukesh, on March 15, 2021. Mukesh was lodged in the jail for nearly 11 months. During the trial in the court, the police failed to establish the facts to prove that Mukesh was accused in the rape case.The court, while acquitting the accused Mukesh, directed the Hansi Superintendent of Police to initiate action against the DSP and two inspectors who were related to the case by deducting Rs 2 lakh from their salaries. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-orders-deduction-of-2l-from-3-hansi-cops-salaries-372002
22-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Treat all lifers equally while mulling sentence remission||Chandigarh, February 21In a significant judgment on the premature release of convicts undergoing life imprisonment, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that all lifers were equal when it came to the implementation of the policy decision on granting sentence remission. The state could not treat some lifers more equal than others.The ruling came, as Justice Sant Parkash of the High Court allowed the premature release of a lifer, who had undergone actual sentence of more than 12 years and a total sentence of over 14 years with remissions, after he was convicted and sentenced to life on May 17, 2002. The government had deferred his premature release case for re-consideration, keeping in view the nature of the crime committed by the life convict and his involvement in three other “grave criminal offences”.Referring to a judicial precedent, Justice Sant Parkash observed that it became clear that pardons, reprieves and remissions were “manifestation of the exercise of prerogative power”. These were not the acts of grace and were part of the constitutional scheme. It was as much an official duty as any other act vested in the authority, not for the benefit of the convict only, but for the welfare of the people.Justice Sant Parkash further observed that the impugned order’s perusal showed that the government had deferred the petitioner’s case keeping in view the nature of the crime committed by the life convict and his involvement in three other grave criminal offences. But the petitioner was acquitted in two out of the three criminal cases. In one case, he had undergone the sentence.Justice Sant Parkash asserted that the pre-mature release policy, dated April 12, 2002, made it clear that the life convict’s overall conduct during his confinement in jail, with specific emphasis on his conduct for the last five years from the date of his eligibility to be considered for pre-mature release, was to be seen. The petitioner had not committed any offence during the last five years and there was nothing adverse against him during the period. “The petitioner be set at liberty forthwith, if not required in any other case,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-treat-all-lifers-equally-while-mulling-sentence-remission-372000
22-02-2022||Ambala||84% parents had opposed Haryana government move of conducting board exams||Nearly 84 per cent parents, who had participated in an online survey conducted by a private schools’ association in Haryana, were not satisfied with the state government’s move of conducting board exams of Class VIII in all government and private schools. More than 5,000 parents had participated in an online survey conducted by the Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association in the state.Also read: No board exams this session for Class V, VIII: Haryana CM Manohar Lal KhattarPrivate schools had already been mounting pressure on the government to withdraw its decision. Meanwhile, the government has also decided not to conduct board exams for Classes V and VIII in this academic session. The private schools’ body has sought the constitution of a State School Standards Authority in Haryana to take such decisions in the future.Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the association, said, “An online survey was conducted in which over 5,000 parents participated in Haryana. Nearly 84 per cent parents were not satisfied with the state government’s move of conducting board exams for Class VIII.“The parents were asked their opinion regarding transparency in the functioning of CBSE and state board. While 89 per cent chose the CBSE, the remaining 11 per cent chose the state board,” said Kulbhushan Sharma.The association president said, “We welcome the move of the state government of not conducting exams in the current session.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/84-parents-had-opposed-haryana-government-move-371999
22-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||No board exams this session for Class V, VIII: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||Rohtak, February 21The Haryana Government has decided not to conduct board exams of Class V and VIII for all government and private schools in the state in the current academic session.Also read: 84% parents had opposed Haryana government move of conducting board examsThe development has brought major relief to over 2,000 private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) which had been fighting a legal battle against the government’s move of conducting the board exams. They have termed the development as their victory.“We had decided to hold board exams for Class V and Class VIII for all schools in the state, but some people said the Covid situation had badly affected studies this year. So, board exams should not be conducted. Keeping this in view, no board exams for Class V and VIII will be held in the current session. The schools will be able to hold the exams for both classes like the previous session,” said Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister.CM makes announcementWe had decided to hold board exams for Class V and Class VIII for all schools in the state, but some people said Covid had hit studies this year. So, board exams shouldn’t be conducted. So, no board exams for Class V and VIII will be held in the current session. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterThe development came at a time when the process for registering private schools affiliated to boards other than Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) and enrolling their students was underway for the board exams. The last date for enrolment was also recently extended after private schools affiliated to the CBSE showed dismal response to get themselves registered with the BSEH.“We hail the decision and also express gratitude to the Chief Minister who resolved the row after understanding the concern of private schools, students and their parents. The development will take some pressure off the students who were at the receiving end following the uncertainty over the exams,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools Association.Kaushik claimed the move of conducting exams was a violation of Section 30 (1) of the Right to Education Act which says no child shall be required to pass any board examination till completion of elementary education.Last month, private schools affiliated to the CBSE had approached the High Court challenging the state government’s decision to conduct board exams for Class VIII through the BSEH.They had pleaded that mandating Class VIII exams by the BSEH for all schools would mean dual affiliation which was neither practical nor feasible.Later, the government informed the court that the power of conducting the exams had been withdrawn from the BSEH and the SCERT had been notified as “Academic Authority”.The SCERT then asked the BSEH to conduct the exams as an agency, pleading that the BSEH possesses expertise to hold such exams. The schools again moved the High Court against it. The case is yet to be decided. #BSEH #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-board-exams-this-session-for-class-v-viii-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-371901
22-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Killer roads: 13 lives lost in Haryana every day||Karnal, February 21Haryana witnessed a spike in the number of deaths due to road accidents last year. Data from the state police revealed on an average, 13 persons were killed and 22 sustained injuries in road mishaps every day.The state reported 9,933 accidents that resulted in 4,706 deaths and injuries to 8,121 persons in 2021. In comparison, 4,507 lives were lost in 9,431 accidents in 2020.With 871 accidents, Gurugram leads the tally. These mishaps resulted in 379 deaths and injuries to 695 persons. It was followed by Karnal (688 accidents and 383 deaths), Sonepat (626 and 348) and Panipat (567 and 311).Dr Rajshree Singh, IGP, Traffic and Highways, said, “We regularly hold awareness campaigns on road safety and challan drives to enforce traffic rules. Negligent and drunk driving are the major reasons behind accidents.” The most common violation these days was the use of mobile phone while driving, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/killer-roads-13-lives-lost-in-haryana-every-day-371896
22-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||No state board exams for Classes 5 and 8 in Haryana this session||Rohtak, February 21 The Haryana Government has decided not to conduct board exams for Classes 5 and 8 in this academic session due to the prevailing coronavirus pandemic.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar has confirmed the decision.The development has brought cheer to private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) as they had been resisting the move ever since the government announced to hold the board exams for Classes 5 and 8 from this academic session.Notably, the SCERT had authorised the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) to conduct the exams for students of all government and private schools being run in the state. The BSEH had also started the process by directing all private schools to get them registered with it besides enrolling their students for the exams.The private schools rued that the BSEH could not take exams of those schools affiliated to other boards as it would mean dual affiliation which was neither practical nor feasible. Hailing the government’s decision, Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools’ Association, said their struggle had finally borne fruit. “It will also take some pressure off students as well as parents,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-state-board-exams-for-classes-5-and-8-in-haryana-this-session-371812
