24-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Building collapse: Haryana govt orders audit of 5 more residential societies for compliance||Gurugram, February 24Taking cognisance of building collapse in Chintel Paradiso society, Sector 109, Gurugram, the director, town and country planning, Haryana, has ordered structural audit of five more residential societies. These societies are located in Sectors 107, 108, 109 and 110-A.The DTP issued order to STP, DTP, DTPE, Gurugram for audit of Raheja Vedanta, Sector 108; Raheja Atharwa, Sector 109; Brisk Lumbini, Sector 109; M3M Woodshire, Sector 107; and Mahindra Aura, Sector 110-A. It may be noted that DTP RS Bhath also visited Brisk Lumbini society as the residents had filed complaint after the Chintel incident.“Keeping in view, the seriousness of the matter and threat to the life of the residents, it has been decided to get the audit of structural stability, quality of construction, which includes use of materials in required ratio, quality of steel used and quality of other material used, etc., of the tower mentioned in the above colonies from IIT, Roorkee, on urgent basis on the same pattern as being done by IIT Delhi in Chintal Paradiso, Sector 109, Gurugram. The audit team will also flag any other issues of stability of structure or quality of material noticed and suggests measures to cure any defect. The structure audit will be held on the cost of respective developer,” read the order.The builders of societies concerned have also been served notice about the impending structural audit.“Keeping in view the structural audit requirement by the residents of M3M Woodshire, the Company has engaged with M/s Bureau Veritas, an independent NABL accredited French company which has specialisation in the structural audit, health monitoring & testing, inspection and certification. Based on the report, M3M India will take necessary steps to the satisfaction of our residents,” said spokesperson, M3M India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/building-collapse-haryana-govt-orders-audit-of-5-more-residential-societies-for-compliance-372749
24-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Professor, research scholar develop chemical-free sunscreen formula||Rohtak, February 24A Professor at the Pharmaceutical Sciences Department in Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here and her research scholar have developed a chemical-free sunscreen formula to protect the human body from ultraviolet radiations that cause skin burn, skin cancer and other skin-related diseases. The product also has antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and moisturising properties.Significantly, the Government of India has granted patent to Professor Sanju Nanda and research scholar Dr Kumud Madan for their sunscreen formula ‘Broad Spectrum Sun Protective Topical Formulation.’“The sunscreen product is all natural and does not have any skin whitening effect. It has such a colour which not only matches the skin colour but also has a smooth texture. The formulation consists of safranal, a component of saffron (kesar). The product is recommendable for men and women as it has anti-ageing benefits, too,” said Dr Sanju.Kumud, presently working as Associate Professor with Lloyd Institute of Management and Technology, Greater Noida (Uttar Pradesh), said the idea to conduct the research came to her mind while exploring natural herbs with skin benefits.“Before the study, a survey was carried out in small geographical locations to ascertain sun-screening habits of Indian consumers who were exposed to sun for long hours during work. Results were surprising as the majority of people use sunscreen products without knowing much about their properties,” she added.Kumud said sunscreen products in the market mainly consist of chemical agents such as cinnamates and benzoates which can be harmful for skin on prolonged usage, hence she wanted to develop a chemical-free product that could help protect the skin from various problems like photo-aging, photo-immune suppression and photo-carcinogenesis.“Our product also contains natural ingredients like aloe vera gel, hen egg oil, almond oil, etc., besides natural minerals like pearl powder and zinc oxide. Nanotechnology has been applied on natural ingredients for better efficacy of the product. The research took over four years to complete. The product was tested for Sun Protection Factor (SPF), Boot star rating and PA factor and was found very appropriate for Indian-type skin,” informed the research scholar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/professor-research-scholar-develop-chemical-free-sunscreen-formula-372732
24-02-2022||Sonepat||Major fire breaks out at factory in Haryana's Sonepat||A major fire broke out at a factory in the industrial area of Haryana's Sonepat district on Thursday and six fire tenders from the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) were rushed to the spot on the request of the Haryana administration.The fire occurred at Inox World Industries, Phase 5 in Sector 53 of the Kundli industrial area in Sonepat.Haryana fire-fighters were trying to bring the fire under control and needed more engines and hence sought help from Delhi since the place is located on the Delhi-Haryana border.The factory makes cutlery and other steel utensils."Delhi Fire Service has rushed six fire tenders for helping the Haryana fire service on the request of ADM/owner of the factory," said a fire official.A short circuit is said to be the reason behind the fire.The rescue operation is going on. IANS #sonepat fire||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/major-fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-haryanas-sonepat-372669
24-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Drug peddling on rise in Faridabad||Faridabad, February 23Drug peddling and recovery of drugs in the district and the neighbouring Palwal district have been on the rise. With a recovery of 391.8 kg of ‘ganja patti’ valued at Rs 39.18 lakh in the first month of this year, the average monthly recovery is reported to have hit a new high.As per the Police Department, the average monthly recovery of ‘ganja patti’, the commonly used drug, shot up to 129.01 kg in January this year (first month of 2022) from 62.56 kg in 2021 in the district.951 held since January 1As many as 951 persons have been arrested in 871 cases registered under the NDPS Act and for illicit liquor trade, gambling and possession of illegal arms since January 1 this year. —Sube Singh, Pro policeRevealing that ‘ganja’ recovery has surged more than three times in the past three years, an official said that the average monthly recovery in 2020 and 2019 had been just 21.75 kg and 16.83 kg respectively. Against a total seizure of 261.1 kg in 2020, the seizure of ‘ganja’ was over 750 kg in 2021.Besides ganja, as many as 1,317 drug injections, 24.45 gm of smack (valued at Rs 2.5 lakh) and 10 tablets of similar kind were also seized in January. With registration of 55 cases under the NDPS Act, 59 persons were arrested in this period. Moreover, a total of 12.387 kg of ‘charas’, 116.76 kg of ‘bhang’ candy, 5 gm of brown sugar, 5,077 injections, 1,700 bottles of syrup and 6,480 tablets have been seized in the past 37 months in Faridabad.In Palwal district, record 262.84 kg of ‘ganja’ was seized in the first month of 2022.The recovery was 207.4 kg in 2021, and 1,529.33 kg were seized in 2019.The total recovery of ‘ganja patti’ in Faridabad and Palwal since January 2019 is around 3,343.11 kg, which is valued at over Rs 3.34 crore in the market, it is claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drug-peddling-on-rise-in-faridabad-372596
24-02-2022||---||2 IAS officers transferred in Haryana||Chandigarh, February 23The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of two IAS and six HCS officers.Rajeev Ranjan, Commissioner, Gurugram Division, has been posted as Commissioner, Rohtak Division, in addition to his present duties.Mahavir Kaushik, Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula, has been posted as Director, Art and Cultural Affairs besides his current assignment. The HCS officers are Satyender Duhan, Additional Director (Administration), Medical College, Nalhar (Nuh), who has been posted as Additional Director (Administration), Haryana Institute of Public Administration (HIPA), Gurugram.Gagandeep Singh-I, Joint Director (Administration) Food and Drugs Administration, has been posted as CEO, ZP, Panchkula and CEO, DRDA, in addition to his own duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-ias-officers-transferred-372598
24-02-2022||Panipat||Progressive farming setups||Two students to get scholarshipKarnal: Two students of Aakash Institute Karnal -- Udhav Goyal and Madhav -- have cleared the examination for the NTSE 2021 scholarship, one of the prestigious scholarships in the country. Aakash Chaudhry, managing director, Aakash+BYJU'S, said the result this year has been exceptional. "Our students and teachers have worked hard to achieve this feat. I wish them all the best for the future," he added.Lecture on world social justiceAmbala: IA lecture on "World social justice" was organised by the legal literacy cell of GMN College under the chairmanship of college principal Dr Rajpal Singh. Dr Surendra Kumar Kundu acted as a resource person on this occasion. He told that World Day for Social Justice 2022 is celebrated every year. Social justice works to establish justice in human rights and the distribution of opportunities and privileges in the society amidst the inequalities spread in the world. Principal Dr. Rajpal Singh stated that justice is very important for any civilised society and justice protects the moral and human rights of the people along with keeping the society away from many evils and anti-social elements. He said the inequality and discrimination spread in the society intensifies the demand for social justice, which is a considerable aspect.Exemplary work in blood donationFaridabad: Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, was honoured by a unit of the district Rotary Club for making maximum contribution in blood donation recently. The award was given at a function held in the auditorium of Faridabad Industry Association here. Revealing this principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta said this was another achievement as the college has also been named as the first educational institution to donate maximum blood for the year 2020-21 earlier with Late Sh Rtn SC Gumber Memorial Trophy for the highest number of blood donations by an educational institute. He said the college had been actively involved in the work of blood donation under the Rotary Blood Bank Charitable Trust, for the past few years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/progressive-farming-setups-372601
24-02-2022||---||Government launches scheme  to  give infra boost   to MSMEs||Chandigarh, February 23The Haryana Government today launched the Programme to Accelerate Development for MSME Advancement (PADMA) programme."Based on the principles of 'local yet global', the PADMA aims to create self-sustainable and thriving industrial infrastructure at the cluster level for each block of Haryana," said Manohar Lal Khattar while launching the scheme at a function held here today.He said the PADMA programme was a multi-department programme, which would not only promote local products but also give employment opportunities to the youth, especially the targeted Antyodaya Anna Yojana beneficiaries. "The MSME sector plays a significant role in economic landscape of Haryana, contributing over 22 per cent to the Gross State Value Added (GSVA)," said Khattar.The Chief Minister also said under the PADMA scheme, one product in each block of 22 districts, covering all 140 blocks in the state had been identified based on the locally available resources, existing micro enterprise ecosystem, demographic profile, key opportunities, sunrise sectors and growth potential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-launches-scheme-to-give-infra-boost-to-msmes-372602
24-02-2022||---||Gurugram ASI suspended for road rage||Gurugram, February 23An Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) posted at the Sadar police station was suspended on Tuesday by the DCP headquarters for allegedly assaulting a nursing official, near Medanta hospital, as his car touched the ASI’s vehicle.The incident happened two days ago. An FIR has been registered against the ASI, and a departmental inquiry has been initiated against him after his suspension. According to the police, the victim, identified as Mayank Tomar was reversing his car outside the Medanta Hospital on Tuesday when it touched the ASI’s vehicle. The ASI beat him with a stick, due to which his facial bone was broken. According to the victim’s father, many policemen present on the spot also assaulted his son. On Tuesday, an FIR was registered, and today, the ASI, identified as Gyanender Singh, was suspended. Spokesperson Subhash Bokan confirmed the ASI’s suspension.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asi-suspended-for-road-rage-372605
24-02-2022||The sugar mill of Shahabad Markanda has made the life of people residing in the vicinity miserable. The ash is causing irritation in the eyes and nose. As the mill is owned by the government||Sugar mill a health hazard to residents||Potholed Gurugram road poses riskIt is a matter of great pity that there is large number of patholes on the road in Sector 69 leading to Tata Apartment in Sector 70. It is a risky road where commuters face so many problems and risks. All concerned must take remedial action at the earliest. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sugar-mill-a-health-hazard-to-residents-372607
24-02-2022||---||Man  kills wife after quarrel, dies by suicide||Faridabad, February 23A 42-year-old man committed suicide after allegedly killing his wife, who was a Head Constable in the Haryana Police. The incident took place in the Police Lines in Sector 30 here last night.According to information, the bodies of the deceased —Dharmender and his wife Saroj (40), who were residing in the quarter number 60 of the Police Lines here, were found around 7.30 am today. It is suspected that Dharmender, who was in a private job, strangulated Saroj after a quarrel on some domestic issue and later, hanged himself from the ceiling fan. Though the exact reason of the incident is yet to be ascertained, police sources said the relationship between the couple may have been strained over the job security of Dharmender. The couple who got married in 2005 is survived by a 14-year-old son. The bodies of the deceased have been handed over to their kin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-wife-after-quarrel-dies-by-suicide-372608
24-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Two metal factories sealed in Jagadhri||A team of the Municipal Corporation Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) has sealed two metal factories in Jagadhri, which were allegedly being run without obtaining the change of land use (CLU) documents and passing a site plan/building plan from the MCYJ. The authorities of the MCYJ had got complaints regarding this. On the directions of Dhirendra Khadgata, Commissioner, MCYJ, a team was formed, which conducted an inspection of the factories on Tuesday and sealed these after their owners failed to provide documents related to the CLU and site plan. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-metal-factories-sealed-in-jagadhri-372609
24-02-2022||---||Local polls: BJP chalks out strategy||Rohtak, February 23Though the dates of urban local bodies’ polls are yet to be announced, the state BJP has started gearing up for the elections with deciding to send its top leaders in poll-bound municipal committees/ councils/corporations to meet the party workers for chalking out poll strategies.A meeting of BJP leaders chaired by state president Om Prakash Dhankar was held here on Monday to discuss the upcoming polls management. “We have decided the tours of our leaders in the poll-bound urban local bodies areas to meet party workers there and discuss the election strategies in advance.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/local-polls-bjp-chalks-out-strategy-372610
24-02-2022||Palwal||Alleging scam, ex-minister Karan Dalal seeks judicial inquiry||Alleging a scam in the recent announcement of hike in development charges for residential, industrial and institutional use, and the withdrawal of the decision within five days, ex-minister and senior Congress leader Karan Dalal demanded the dismissal of the officials concerned.Dalal said the move of announcing the hike and withdrawing it under pressure within a few days pointed to a big scam. He said it was likely that the hike was announced due to pressure from land or property mafia, which he claimed had been prevalent for the past several years. “The government is not providing any relief to the residents by implementing such policies.” He demanded a high-level judicial probe into the matter. — #karan dalal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/alleging-scam-ex-minister-seeks-judicial-inquiry-372560
24-02-2022||Panchkula/Ambala||Govt duty to provide security on threat perception: Haryana CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said that the Z-plus security had been given to Gurmeet Ram Rahim after a threat assessment, “as it was the duty of the government to provide security to any prisoner or outsider”.Ram Rahim is on a 21-day furlough from Rohtak’s Sunaria jail where he has been serving a life sentence.The CM was speaking to mediapersons at the foundation stone-laying programme of Haryana ‘Vitt Bhawan’ in Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5. He claimed the financial management of Haryana was the best among all states.“The Finance Department is the backbone of the government, thus, one whose financial management is strong will surely climb the ladder of success. Even though revenue had declined in the corona period and an additional expenditure of Rs 1,500 crore was also incurred, the government still ensured the best financial management.”Khattar said the people and institutions capable of paying tax should come forward so that the needy persons standing at the end of the queue should get the benefits of government schemes. There was a need to take strict action against those who indulged in corruption and tried to evade tax. He said the revenue collected in the form of tax was spent on the public.Meanwhile, addressing to media queries in Ambala on Wednesday, Home Minister Anil Vij said he had no information about the Z-plus security given to Ram Rahim. — TNSRam Rahim Not a hardcore prisoner: StateChandigarh: The state on Wednesday defended before the Punjab and Haryana HC its move to release Ram Rahim on furlough after submitting that he was not a “hardcore prisoner”. In his reply, Rohtak District Jail supdt submitted “the respondent doesn’t fall in any category of hardcore prisoners and all assertions made by the petitioner in this regard are incorrect and without any basis”. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-duty-to-provide-security-on-threat-perception-khattar-372562
24-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||No boards, yet BSEH tells pvt schools to register||Rohtak, February 23Despite the CM’s announcement for no board exams for Classes V and VIII in the current academic season, the row between the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) and private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has refused to die down.The BSEH authorities have said the registration of private schools affiliated to other boards is mandatory on its portal with a fee of Rs 5,000 by February 28 or a penalty would be imposed upon those failing to do so.Describing the move as illogical, private schools have threatened to move an application against it in the High Court if the BSEH authorities pressurise them to follow its directives. “The government has decided to conduct regular exams for Classes V and VIII for all government and private schools from next year. Hence, private schools would have to get them registered for one-time so that all information about their exact number and students could be collected for conducting the exams in time next year,” Ved Prakash Yadav, vice-chairman, BSEH, told The Tribune.Yadav said since the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) had authorised the BSEH as an agency to conduct the exams hence it was their responsibility to complete the process well in time so as to avoid any untoward situation. “So, the private schools have been asked to get them registered with the BSEH. Also, the enrolment fee deposited by Class VIII students for annual exams will be refunded but the school concerned has to file a claim application in this regard,” he added.On the other hand, Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private School Association, questioned how the BSEH could direct private schools in a situation when no Class VIII exams were being conducted this year. “Our petition against the state government’s decision for holding the Class VIII exams is still pending before the HC, hence the BSEH should wait for its verdict instead of pressuring the private schools to deposit fee for the registration,” Kaushik said, adding that they would move another application against the BSEH in the HC for continuing the registration process. #BSEH||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-boards-yet-bseh-tells-pvt-schools-to-register-372564
24-02-2022||Panipat||On Anil Vij's order, 4 cops suspended||Following the directions of Home Minister Anil Vij, SP Shashank Kumar Sawan has suspended four police personnel whose names were mentioned in an FIR.Meanwhile, members of various traders’ associations came in support of the suspended cops and held a press meet here. The traders said the suspension was wrong, as the decision was taken after hearing the one-side story. We have been able to work only due to the good police system in the city, they added.Hiralal Ahuja, a furniture trader, had met Vij on Tuesday in Ambala and alleged that a case had been registered on the court directions against the cops — CIA-2 incharge Virender Singh, Jaibir Rana, Subhash and Sumit Dahiya — for kidnapping his son Rajkumar and extorting money from the family.Following his complaint, Vij directed the Panipat SP to suspend the cops whose names were mentioned in the court order. The SP suspended them today. — #anil vij||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-vijs-order-4-cops-suspended-372567
24-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||74 Faridabad colonies to be surveyed for regularisation||Faridabad, February 23The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has launched a fresh survey of the unauthorised residential colonies proposed to be covered under the regularisation move announced by the state government recently. Around 74 colonies are reported to be in the ambit of the survey, it is reported.“The final report of the survey proposed to be carried out with the help of private agency in the next two weeks is expected to be submitted to the Town and Country Planning Department, so that the process of regularisation is taken up as per the norms,” say sources in the civic body. They further said instructions had been issued by the office of the Commissioner, MCF, to the officials concerned. The state government in its notification issued recently had announced the plan to regularise all those colonies which had come up prior February 14, 2022. According to officials, certain changes in the norms for regularisation have been affected, which include the existing network of wide roads, community centre and ample space (two per cent of the total area) for commercial activities, parks, and a fire NOC. Applications having all relevant details of such colonies are to be uploaded on the official website of the Urban Local Bodies department, it is claimed.Pvt agency to help carry out survey}The final report of the survey proposed to be carried out with the help of private agency in the next two weeks is expected to be submitted to the Town and Country Planning Department so that the process of regularisation is taken up as per the norms. —Sources in civic bodyFinal report to be ready soon}While the survey will cover around 74 colonies, which include 56 colonies identified by the DTP office and 18 colonies selected already by the MCF, the final report of the number of colonies and the development charges to be collected is expected to be ready soon. —Dharam Pal Tahlan, Chief town planner, MCFThough a drone survey of 553 unauthorised residential colonies in the district has already been conducted through the Town and Country Planning Department (TCP- Enforcement) for the assessment of the current status of civic facilities, the majority of these colonies do not conform to the criteria, it is claimed. However, a report of this survey is likely to be passed over to the civic body for final evaluation, it is added. Earlier, the DTP office had invited online applications from the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) of such colonies last year but got a poor response.Dharam Pal Tahlan , Chief Town Planner, MCF, said while the survey will cover around 74 colonies, which include 56 colonies identified by the DTP office and 18 colonies selected already by the MCF, the final report of the number of colonies and the development charges to be collected is expected to be ready soon.Recent govt notificationRecently, the s tate govt in its notification issued had announced the plan to regularise all those colonies which had come up prior to February 14, 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/74-faridabad-colonies-to-be-surveyed-for-regularisation-372569
24-02-2022||---||Gurugram University decides to conduct offline exams||Gurugram, 23 FebruaryRefusing to bow down to students’ demand of taking online exams, Gurugram University has decided to uphold its previous decision “in best interest of students”.A special meeting was held today under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar. In which all Deans of Gurugram University, heads of departments and principles of its affiliated colleges participated.Based on the suggestions of everyone in the meeting, keeping in mind the quality of education in the interest of the students, it was decided that the examinations would be conducted as per the guidelines given by the university earlier.The examinations will be conducted as per the rules laid down earlier. During this important meeting, all principals assured the Vice-Chancellor that they would make full contribution in completing the examinations of all students studying here as per rules.The principals of all colleges appealed to the students to take the examinations peacefully. Do not spoil your time and future by being misled by anyone. During this, the Vice-Chancellor said the question was not about the examination, but the importance of the degree. It is related to the future and life of thousands of students. That’s why we have taken the decision keeping in mind the future of all students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-varsity-decides-to-conduct-offline-exams-372570
24-02-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Civic body to take action against shopkeepers using plastic bags||Yamunanagar, February 23The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) will take action against shopkeepers, who are using the banned single-use plastic carry bags.Mayor Madan Chauhan and Commissioner of the MCYJ Dhirendra Khadgata have asked the officials concerned to start a drive soon in all 22 wards of the MCYJ, so that no shopkeeper, especially street vendors and hawkers, can make use of the single-use plastic carry bags in twin cities.They also asked the officials to prepare a list of wholesalers, who were stocking and selling single-use plastic carry bags.Hazardous to both humans, animalsThe plastic carry bags, which are thrown after being used, cause harm to the environment and pose health hazards to stray cattle that eat these with other eatable items. We are advising shopkeepers and customers to use cloth bags. —Madan Chauhan, Mayorcustomers insist on carry bagsMost customers demand carry bags to carry fruits and vegetables. If, we refuse them, they go to other rehriwalas/vendors. Therefore, we are forced to use carry bags. —Rehriwala“We want to ensure a plastic-free environment in the twin cities. Therefore, we have asked the officials concerned of the MCYJ to start a drive against shopkeepers, who are using single-use plastic carry bags and wholesalers, who are stocking and selling such plastic carry bags,” said Dhirendra Khadgata.He said besides taking action against the violators, they would carry out an awareness campaign also against the use of single-use plastic carry bags. According to information, a number of shopkeepers, especially street vendors and hawkers, can be seen using the banned single-use plastic carry bags in all markets of the twin cities.A rehriwala (vegetable and fruit seller) said people chose to use plastic bags for buying fruits and vegetables.“Most customers insist on carry bags to carry fruits and vegetables. If, we refuse them, they go to other rehriwalas/vendors. Therefore, we are forced to use carry bags to pack fruits and vegetables,” said a rehriwala.Mayor Madan Chauhan said the single-use plastic carry bags were thrown either in open spaces or in the garbage by the people after using them.“The plastic carry bags, which are thrown after being used, cause harm to the environment and pose health hazards to stray cattle that eat these with other eatable items,” said Chauhan. He said they were spreading awareness among shopkeepers and people to shift to eco-friendly carry bags. “We are advising the shopkeepers and customers to use cloth bags,” said Chauhan.To begin campaign in 22 wardsMayor Madan Chauhan and Commissioner of the MCYJ Dhirendra Khadgata have asked the officials concerned to start a drive soon in all 22 wards, so that no shopkeeper, especially street vendors and hawkers, can make use of single-use plastic carry bags in the twin cities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civic-body-to-take-action-against-shopkeepers-using-plastic-bags-372574
24-02-2022||---||Rohtak farmers to get crop insurance policy on doorstep||Rohtak, February 23With a view to making the farmers aware about the provisions of the Prime Minister’s Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and ensuring the delivery of crop insurance policies to them, the Haryana Government plans to launch a doorstep policy distribution drive titled “Meri Policy Mere Hath” with effect from February 26.With the launch of the said drive, the farmers will get their crop insurance policy on their doorstep and also get to know about the provisions of the scheme to facilitate the settlement of their claims and grant of due compensation to them in the event of need.No hurdles in claiming compensationThe idea behind the exercise is to educate the farmers about the provisions of the crop insurance scheme so that they do not face hurdles in claiming their due compensation. —Dr Wazir Singh, Dy Director (Agriculture)The campaign has been envisaged by the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare as part of the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”.As per a communique issued by the ministry, the crop insurance policy distribution drive for the insured farmers of rabi 2021-22 will be launched by insurance companies and state governments at the village panchayat level.The Director-General of the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Haryana, has directed all deputy commissioners and deputy directors (agriculture) across the state to make the necessary arrangements in this regard.The official said many farmers used to complain that they did not get their crop insurance policy or did not understand the provisions of the scheme, due to which they could not get their due compensation.“Hence, the government has decided to launch a mega awareness-cum-policy distribution drive at the village level to provide the policy documents as well as requisite knowledge regarding the scheme to the farmers on their doorstep,” he stated.The farmers will also be told about the steps required to be taken by them for prompt and successful settlement of their crop insurance claims. According to the state orders, the expenditure on the awareness programmes will be borne by the respective insurance companies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-farmers-to-get-crop-insurance-policy-on-doorstep-372577
24-02-2022||Sanjay Yadav||'Fake' hospital in Gurugram raided; owner, aides held||Gurugram, February 23A combined team of the CM flying squad and the drug controller, Health Department, raided a ‘fake’ hospital in Fajilwas village.‘Shri Balaji and Eyecare’ hospital was being run illegally in the village market. The squad detained 10 persons, including the operator of the hospital, and handed over them to the police. An FIR has been registered under Sections 420 and 336 of the IPC and Section 15 (2) B of the Indian Medical Council Act. Three persons, identified as Bittu Yadav, Dharmender and Sonu have been nabbed.DSP Inderjeet Yadav of the CM flying squad said following a tip-off, his team conducted a raid and busted this hospital being run by Bittu, a resident of Baghanki village. The hospital has 14-15 beds, including emergency, general and private wards, ICU, private rooms, operation theatre, pharmacy and eye check-up room, but has no license from the Health Department.During the raid, Sonu was found sitting in the doctor’s chair with a stethoscope, and there were 10 other persons, including the sanitation and the nursing staff.Sonu could not produce any medical degree and said the patients were not treated by him, but by Dharmender. Dharmender, who had MBBS degree, said he had no association with the hospital since two months and no official document was signed by him. He alleged his stamp was being misused by the hospital.It was a 24-hour hospital offering emergency admissions too.The staff were allegedly carrying out deliveries without gynaecologist and performing surgeries too, said DSP Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-hospital-in-ggram-raided-owner-aides-held-372580
24-02-2022||Chandigarh||Can't absolve Centre of liability to reply on pleas against 75% quota, says court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that it did not deem it appropriate to absolve the Union of India of its responsibility to appear and file reply on a bunch of petitions challenging the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, providing 75 per cent reservation in Haryana industries for the domiciles of the state.The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain said that it noted with regret that the Union of India had not entered appearance even though it was served and despite the fact that no less than the Solicitor-General of India had personally appeared in the matter on February 3. He had conceded that the petitions involved substantial questions of law, which would have to be gone into by the court. “In view of the candid concession of the Solicitor-General of India, we do not deem it appropriate to absolve the Union of India of its responsibility to appear and file reply in this matter,” the Bench added. Law Secy to appear in personThe Law Secretary to the Government of India will appear in person to explain the position in case the reply was not filed by March 1 with advance copies to the counsel for the petitioners. —Justice Ajay Tewari & Justice Pankaj Jain, Punjab & Haryana High CourtThe Bench described Haryana Additional Advocate-General’s request for time to file reply to the cases in which the same has not been filed. “In our opinion, the request is unreasonable, considering that even if the replies had to be filed, it could have been well filed in the interregnum between the order of the Supreme Court dated February 17 and today. However, we leave it at that, but the request for two weeks’ is excessive and, therefore, we adjourn the matter to March 4, with the direction that an advance copy of the written statement/s be served upon the counsel for the petitioners on or before March 1,” the Bench added.The Supreme Court, on February 17, had quashed the HC order staying the implementation of the Act. The HC has made it clear that the core issue for adjudication before the Court was whether a State could restrict employment even in the private sector on the basis of domicile. The assertion came in the detailed order staying Act, 2020, providing 75 per cent reservation in Haryana industries for the domiciles of the state. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-absolve-centre-of-liability-to-reply-on-pleas-against-75-quota-says-court-372582
24-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Mere mention in suicide note not enough to prove guilt: High Court||Chandigarh, February 23In a significant judgment liable to change the way abetment to suicide cases are adjudicated, the Punjab and Haryana HC has ruled that the guilt of an accused would not be established by itself merely because of being named in a suicide note until the ingredients of the offence were made out.Referring to a plethora of judgments on abetment, Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi asserted that there must be a proximate and live link between the occurrence and the subsequent suicide to constitute the offence. Instigation or illegal omission or commission at the hands of the accused “must be the only factor, which subsequently led to the committing of suicide”.Link vitalThere must be a proximate and live link between the occurrence and the subsequent suicide to constitute the offence. —Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi, High CourtJustice Bedi added that the intention and involvement of the accused to aid or instigate the commission of suicide was imperative to constitute the offence of abetment. The ruling came on a petition for quashing an FIR registered in May 2019 for abetment and common intention under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC. Directions were also sought to quash all subsequent proceedings arising from the matter.Justice Bedi’s Bench was told that the “deceased” was initially beaten up by a close relative of the petitioner-accused. He was reversing the car when the incident took place. The state counsel added that the FIR in the assault matter and the suicide note established that the petitioner and the co-accused were threatening and harassing the “deceased”, which ultimately led to his death by suicide.Justice Bedi asserted that taking the contents of the FIR and the suicide note to be the gospel truth, thepetitioner approached the “deceased” at a Civil Hospital to threaten him and his family in February 2019, whereas the “deceased” committed suicide onMay 16, 2019.There was nothing on record to establish that the petitioner threatened the “deceased” or his family in any way during the three-month intervening period. There was, rather, no evidence of any contact between the “deceased” and his family with the petitioner. “Thus, it is established that there is no proximate and live link between the alleged threats given in February 2019 and the subsequent suicide in May, 2019,” Justice Bedi added.Allowing the plea, Justice Bedi asserted there was no positive act on the petitioner’s part to instigate or aid in the committing of suicide. “From the allegations and the record, it is not established that the petitioner-accused intended to push the deceased into committing the suicide. The issuance of the alleged threats three months prior to the suicide without any positive act of instigating would not by itself create an offence under Section 306 of the IPC,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mere-mention-in-suicide-note-not-enough-to-prove-guilt-high-court-372585
24-02-2022||---||Accused of embezzlement, UHBVN employee ends life||Panipat, February 23Accused of embezzling government funds, a 50-year-old employee of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) reportedly died by suicide in the XEN office of Samalkha subdivision here on Wednesday.The police have a four-page suicide note in which the victim — Chakravarti Sharma of Shivaji Colony of Karnal — refuted the allegations of his involvement in the Rs 63-lakh scam. Sharma had joined the Samalkha UHBVN office around a month ago. Today, he came to office around 10.30 am and told people present there that he took celphos tablet. After which, they immediately rushed him the General Hospital in Samalkha from where doctors referred him to Panipat. They took him to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead.Soon after, the police reached the spot and recovered a four-page suicide note in which the victim refuted the allegations of embezzling government funds.Victim’s wife Seema said her husband was posted as UHBVN Deputy Superintendent in the Bilaspur XEN office for just four months.She said XEN Neeraj Kamboj, Lower Division Clerk Raghav Wadhawan, Head Clerk Rakesh Nanda and an accountant had embezzled the government funds and lodged a fake case against her husband. Investigation Officer Krishan Kumar said a case was registered against the four accused, including the XEN. — TNS #uhbvn||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accused-of-embezzlement-uhbvn-employee-ends-life-372588
24-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram residents have lost trust in builders: MP Rao Inderjeet Singh||Gurugram residents suffered from ‘trust deficit’ with builders, and the government was working on dealing with it, said Gurugram MP Rao Inderjeet Singh. He met Chintels Paradiso residents today and said the collapse highlighted a graver issue.“Gurugram is a key resource centre for the state and if people don’t trust builders, it will impact the realty market and also stop people from coming here and settling. This will eventually affect our key revenue centre Gurugram. Dealing with the trust deficit is our priority,” he said. He chaired a review meeting with the officials in connection with the tragedy. One being questioned about delay in investigation or enquiry reports, he said, “It may take time, but people are looking into it. The matter will be investigated,” he said.“The builder is being shielded. We will live under trauma forever,” said a resident. — #rao inderjeet singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-residents-have-lost-trust-in-builders-mp-372590
24-02-2022||Rohtak||Dental surgeon found dead in PGIMS Rohtak hostel||Dr Devender, a dental surgeon who had completed his BDS course and was preparing for the MDS course, allegedly died by suicide by hanging himself at a hostel room of the local PGIMS last evening.According to the suicide note found from the room, he held his break-up with a girl responsible for the extreme step. However, the dentist’s father alleged that his son had been murdered as he was being mentally tortured by his girlfriend and her friend. Meanwhile, family members of the victim blocked traffic, seeking the arrest of the duo allegedly responsible for his death. The police have registered a case and started investigation. — #pgims rohtak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dental-surgeon-found-dead-in-pgims-hostel-372591
24-02-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana takes U-turn, withdraws hike in development charges||Chandigarh, February 23After an uproar by the Opposition, the BJP-JJP government today withdrew the “hefty” development charges for granting permission for residential and commercial use in the municipal limits.A day after Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda flagged the issue of unreasonable hike in the development charges, the Urban Local Bodies Director withdrew the February 18 order that had sparked off protests.People’s victoryThe BJP-JJP govt’s decision is the victory of people as it was wary of earning the Oppn’s ire during the forthcoming Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha. — BB Batra, Cong“This decision is people’s victory as the government was wary of earning the Opposition’s ire during the forthcoming Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha,” said Congress Rohtak MLA BB Batra, who had given a notice for adjournment motion on the issue in the Budget session.With the Opposition stepping up the attack and the municipal elections slated to be held in April 2022, the BJP-JJP government was in a fix on the issue as the linking of the development charges to the collector rate had put financial burden on the property owners.In the February 18 order, the state government had pegged the development charges at 5% of the collector rate for both the residential and commercial property. Since the collector rate in several cities, including Gurugram, Faridabad and Panchkula, has gone up substantially in recent years, the public alleged that getting the residential and commercial constructions regularised after the payment of the development charges was getting out of the reach of the common man.Currently, there is a provision to charge development fee at 5% of the collector rate or the fixed rate, whichever is higher. Official sources said according to the February 18 order, the municipalities were asked to notify 5% of the collector rate as development charges to bring uniformity in the fee. However, it has been decided not to implement it after due consideration, officials added.Since November last year, the government has taken a U-turn on four issues. These include putting on hold Class VIII board exams till next year, virtually reversing the decision on university autonomy regarding recruitments and ban on the firecrackers during the festive season. #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-takes-u-turn-withdraws-hike-in-development-charges-372473
24-02-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad taxi driver 'kills' head constable-wife, then 'hangs self'||A head constable of the Faridabad police was allegedly killed by her husband who later ended his life by hanging himself, officials said on Wednesday.The woman has been identified as Saroj and was posted at the women police station at Faridabad’s NIT, they said.The man has been identified as Dharmender (38) who worked as a taxi driver.The bodies were recovered from their quarter at police lines here, the police said.According to the police, the couple has a 13-year-old son who had gone to the tuition class when a fight broke out between the two on Tuesday night.Dharmender allegedly strangulated Saroj and later ended his life by hanging himself, the police said.Sector 31 SHO Balwant Singh said the couple’s son slept at their neighbour’s house when his parents did not open the door. On Wednesday morning, the door was broken open, he said."We have kept the bodies in the mortuary. Action will be taken as per the law," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-taxi-driver-kills-head-constable-wife-then-hangs-self-372387
