26-02-2022||Chandigarh||Congress, SAD, AAP object to Centre ending Punjab, Haryana’s permanent membership in BBMB||The Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party have raised strong objection to the Centre reportedly ending Punjab and Haryana’s permanent membership in the Bhakra-Beas Management Board.Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday objected to the Union Power Ministry reportedly amending the rules which govern the appointment of the member (power) and the member (Irrigation) on the Bhakra-Beas Management Board (BBMB) from Punjab and Haryana, respectively.Hooda, who is the Leader of Opposition in Haryana, termed it an attack on the rights of the state.Hooda said, “According to the Bhakra-Beas Management Board Rules, 1974, the member (power) in the BBMB was from Punjab and the member (irrigation) was from Haryana. But in the amended rules of 2022, this requirement has been done away with.“Under the amended rules, the criteria for the selection of members have also been defined in such a way that the power departments of Haryana and Punjab cannot meet the criteria,” Hooda said in a statement here.Hooda said there has been a reduction in the posts available from Haryana quota in the BBMB in the past as well due to the alleged neglect of the BJP-led state government.“The Haryana government did not say anything then and they continue to be silent even after the new decision of the Union government. This silence of the BJP-JJP government is anti-state,” he said.“All political parties of Punjab, including the Congress, are unanimous and raising their voice against this decision to protect the interest of the state. In such a situation, the Haryana government, along with all the parties, should oppose this decision and protect the rights of the state,” he added.Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said by ending the representation of Haryana and Punjab in the BBMB, the Narendra Modi government has once again “crushed” the rights of Haryana and Punjab.“This is a direct attack on the federal structure and the rights of the states,” Surjewala said in a statement.“Once again, Haryana and Punjab are paying the price for making the BJP government bow down in the farmers’ movement,” he said.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal described it “a frighteningly grave development fraught with serious consequences for the state of Punjab”.Badal said, “The fact of the matter is that as per the law of the country, precedents and the prevailing practices, the control of Satluj-Beas headworks belongs exclusively to Punjab as a riparian state. But first they unconstitutionally took that control away from us and now they are shutting Punjab completely out the BBMB.” “This is the height of injustice against us. This is also another instance of the federal principle has been outraged repeatedly by governments at the Centre. We will fight it with all the might at our disposal,” Badal said in a statement.The Akali Dal president appealed to every Punjabi to close ranks to fight for justice for the state.He alleged that the decision was “yet another link in the long and painful chain of political, economic and religious discrimination against Punjabis in general and the Sikhs in particular”.Badal further said the decision was certain to rub salt into the already festering wounds of Punjabis in general and Sikhs and other farmers in particular.Congress leader from Punjab Sunil Jakhar said “BBMB rules are tweaked to the detriment of Punjab”.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also termed it another direct attack on the rights of Punjab.AAPs Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann said that the move is “a direct blow to India’s federal system”.“The Union government should refrain from taking arbitrary decisions in the BBMB rules and abandon the step-motherly attitude towards Punjab,” he said.Mann said he would take up the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Mann also said that “various conspiracies were being hatched to hurt the brotherly bond of Punjab and Haryana formed during the farmers’ agitation. Eliminating the permanent representation of Punjab in the management of the BBMB is also part of this conspiracy and people should stay cautious, he said.  #AAP #bbmb #Congress #SAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-sad-aap-object-to-centre-ending-punjab-haryanas-permanent-membership-in-bbmb-373346
26-02-2022||The accompanying photograph since taken at an open ended space||Reckless dumping of waste in the open||Vinayak, PanchkulaSlow pace of work on expressway harassment for commutersThe sluggish pace of work on the construction of a patch on the Delhi- Mumbai Expressway passing through the city is proving to be a bottleneck for commuters and residents of the city, especially those using the bypass road and those commuting between Greater Faridabad and the main city. While all crossings on the bypass road have been undergoing construction for the proposed flyovers, the space left for the commuters has been narrowed down sharply resulting in traffic snarls and chaos throughout the day. The construction work is not only hindering the movement of vehicles but also emerging as a cause of acute dust pollution in an area of several kilometers. The authorities need to look into the problem immediately.Pramod Manocha, FaridabadIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reckless-dumping-of-waste-in-the-open-373248
26-02-2022||Hisar||Science festival organised||Students felicitatedRewari: The yoga science department at Indira Gandhi University (IGU) felicitated its students who qualified JRF/NET examination organised by the University Grant Commission (UGC). This year, 10 students of Yoga Science Department of the university cleared this exam, out of which two --Vikas Saini and Kaushilya qualified for JRF and eight -- Sheetal, Sheela, Monika Chaudhary, Nikki Saini, Lokesh, Sayonara, Neeru, Khushboo, qualified for NET. Prof SK Gakhar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Pramod Bhardwaj, Registrar, congratulated the students for this achievement and also congratulated the faculty of the department for helping and motivating the students.JC Bose varsity to promote researchFaridabad: The Vice-Chancellor of JC Bose University, Prof Sushil Kumar Tomar, has expressed his commitment to promote research oriented eco-system in the university. While interacting with the representatives of the alumni association of the university, Dr Tomar said researchers would be provided with more opportunities to conduct quality research in emerging technological areas. The Vice-Chancellor applauded the idea put forward by the alumni association to promote university-industry linkage and to conduct industry oriented research. Claiming that he was also an ardent researcher, Tomar said that he was of the view that the research should be solution oriented and must benefit the society.Webinar on professional ethicsAmbala: The commerce department of Gandhi Memorial National College, Ambala Cantt, organised a one-day national webinar under the chairmanship of college principal Dr Rajpal Singh on the theme "Professional ethics". Around 125 participants participated in the webinar. Presiding over the programme, Principal Dr Rajpal Singh while welcoming the chief guest stated that along with rights, it was also relevant to talk about duties. He said in the professional field, ethical considerations could be analysed either from an individual point of view or collectively. Programme convener Dr Suman highlighted the main points. Dr VK Jain, head, commerce department highlighted the academic achievements and experiences of the chief guest and shared his views on the subject with everyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/science-festival-organised-373245
26-02-2022||Chandigarh||Rs 9 cr released to remove poles in Karnal||The Forest Department has released an amount of Rs 9,71,92,170 to the Electricity Department for removing poles and underground wires from a site in Karnal. After that, the Forest Department will develop ‘oxy van’ (oxygen forest) there. Forest Minister Kanwar Pal Khattar informed that on June 5, 2021, the CM had laid the foundation stone of ‘oxy van’ from Sector 4 of Karnal to Madhuban Canal. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-cr-released-to-remove-poles-in-karnal-373242
26-02-2022||Bhiwani||Bhiwani: Hail hits region, rabi crops damaged||Hail, coupled with rain, lashed several villages of the Loharu region in Bhiwani district this evening, causing damage to the rabi crops.Crops, including mustard, wheat and vegetables, were damaged in villages Singhani, Kharkhari, Budhedi, Nakipur, Chahar and adjoining villages of Bhiwani district. A farmer from Chahar village, Sombir Singh, said mustard was almost at the flowering stage and the hail had extensively damaged mustard plants. “We are assessing the losses. The hail occurred for about 10 minutes and a white shield enveloped the fields,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hail-hits-region-rabi-crops-damaged-373241
26-02-2022||---||Ambala: Man arrested for sharing RTA team's location||Ambala, February 25A man has been arrested for doing the recce of Regional Transport Authority (RTA) team and sharing locations in a WhatsApp group in Ambala. The accused has been identified as Atinder Singh, a resident of Ambala. He was produced before a court which sent him to one-day police remand.As per the information available, secretary RTA Ramit Yadav has been staying at PWD rest house in Ambala City. The accused was held on the basis of suspicion as he was observed moving around on several occasions.Secretary RTA in his complaint stated that Atinder Singh was held by the staff and during checking, it was found that he was operating a WhatsApp group ‘Building Material’ and sharing the location of the RTA checking team in the group with transporters for mone.A case was been registered under Section 420 and 186 of the Indian Penal Code at Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-man-arrested-for-sharing-rta-teams-location-373240
26-02-2022||---||Head constable 'hangs' self in Palwal||Palwal, February 25The police recovered the body of a head constable found hanging from the ceiling inside the police post at Hathin Gate in the district this evening.While cops claimed that the deceased, identified as Ranjit (35), hailing from Naya village in the district, had committed suicide, the kin of the victim alleged that it could be a case of murder and staged a road blockade for over an hour in the evening, demanding a probe into the matter and arrest of the accused.Claiming that his brother might have been murdered, Narender, brother of the deceased, said his brother was found hanging inside the police post in his official dress and his feet were touching the floor. This, he said, suggested that he might have been hanged after murder.It was reported that a dispute regarding his duty in the police post could have been the reason behind the incident, his brother said.However, according to DSP Yashpal Khatana, while the head constable had reportedly committed suicide, he said a probe would also be carried out in response to the complaint of his kin on the basis of the postmortem report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/head-constable-hangs-self-in-palwal-373239
26-02-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Bail rejected, Jail Deputy Superintendent ends life||The deputy superintendent of Narnaul jail ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance on Thursday. He was identified as 45-year-old Kuldeep Hooda, a resident of Polangi village in Rohtak district.The family of the deceased today alleged the Narnaul police and Vigilance Department had been framing Kuldeep in false cases. They filed a complaint with the Gurugram police.“Last year, a jail warden had been nabbed accepting bribe. Later, the police and Vigilance Department framed Kuldeep,” family said.According to the police, he consumed some poisonous substance around 3.30 pm on Thursday. He succumbed at around 6.30 pm.“Kuldeep had two cases of extortion and corruption against him, in which his anticipatory bail petition was rejected yesterday by High Court. That might have disturbed him, making him end his life,” said a police spokesperson. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-bail-rejected-jail-deputy-superintendent-ends-life-373238
26-02-2022||---||15-yr-old boy jumps to death from rooftop in Faridabad||Faridabad, February 25A 15-year-old boy died by suicide on Thursday night here by jumping from the top floor of his society in Greater Faridabad.The victim has been identified as Aarvey Malhotra, a student at private school in Sector 81.The deceased left a suicide note, in which he named one of his teachers as the cause of his depression. Aarti Malhotra, mother of the deceased, has blamed the school authorities for the death of her son. She is a teacher at the same school and has claimed that inaction on the part of the authorities was the reason why her son took the extreme step.She said Aarvey was dyslexic and had difficulty in keeping up with studies. “A teacher didn’t help him to prepare for a pre-board exam held recently. He got depressed and jumped from the building.”The complainant has demanded a strict action against those allegedly responsible for the her son’s suicide.The body of the victim was handed over to the the family members after a postmortem examination was conducted and investigation is being conducted into the matter, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-yr-old-boy-jumps-to-death-from-rooftop-in-faridabad-373237
26-02-2022||---||Yamunanagar: Challans to 10 shopkeepers for using plastic carry bags||Yamunanagar, February 25The authorities of Municipal Corporation have started a drive to make the twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri free from single-use plastic carry bags (polythene bags).A team of Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) headed by Sanitary Inspector Amit Kamboj carried out a checking drive in Jagadhri on Thursday.The team visited Pathrowala Bazar, Khera Bazar, Pansari Bazar, Durga Garden, Buria Chowk, Civil Line and other places and issued challans to 10 shopkeepers, who were allegedly found using banned single-use plastic carry bags.Sushil Bhukal, Executive Officer of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, said they had decided to make twin cities free from single-use plastic carry bags.“We have started action against shopkeepers, who are using single-use plastic carry bags. Soon, we will start to prepare a list of wholesalers, who are stocking and selling single-use plastic carry bags and action will be taken against them,” said Sushil Bhukal.He said besides issuing challans, the shopkeepers and public were also being made aware of the harm of polythene bags and what effect these could have on the health of human beings and animals.To ready list of wholesalersWe have started action against shopkeepers, who are using single-use plastic carry bags. Soon, we will prepare a list of wholesalers, who are stocking and selling single-use plastic carry bags and action will be taken against them. Sushil Bhukal, executive officer,MCYJ #Environment #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-challans-to-10-shopkeepers-for-using-plastic-carry-bags-373231
26-02-2022||---||Best breeds showcased at 3-day livestock exhibition in Bhiwani||Bhiwani, February 25Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya said 25,000 units of animal husbandry, piggery and fisheries will be set up in Haryana during 2022-23, which will provide employment to thousands of people.Addressing the farmers at the inaugural function of the three-day State-Level Livestock Exhibition at Bhiwani today, the Governor stated that the state government had so far disbursed an amount of Rs 924 crore under the Livestock Credit Card and Kisan Credit Card.He said during the time of Covid pandemic when the whole country was facing lockdown, the farmers got going and continued farming and allied activities. The hardworking farmers of Haryana have brought laurels at the national and international level in various fields such as agriculture, sports, industry and education, he said.Dattatraya said Haryana was the second largest producer of milk after Punjab. The day was not far when the state would be the number one state in milk production by adopting best practices, he added. He said to further improve the breed of milch animals, this event being organised by the Department of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry would provide exposure to the farmers about the improved breeds of cattle and technology about livestock farming.Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said the best breeds of animals had been showcased in the exhibition. Pankaj Aggarwal, Financial Commissioner and Principal Secretary, Animal Husbandry Department, said artificial insemination was being promoted to improve the breed of animals in Haryana. The government has reduced the fee of artificial insemination from Rs 500 to Rs 200.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/best-breeds-showcased-at-3-day-livestock-exhibition-in-bhiwani-373226
26-02-2022||---||HC reserves verdict on Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh's furlough||Chandigarh, February 25Justice Raj Mohan Singh of the Punjab and Haryana High Court today reserved verdict on a petition challenging Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s release on furlough after hearing lengthy arguments in the matter.Among other things, the petitioner had contended that Ram Rahim was released in view of the Assembly elections in Punjab. “His release at this stage is against the spirit of fair Assembly elections,” petitioner Paramjit Singh Saholi had submitted.His counsel had added Ram Rahim, who committed “heinous crimes and has been convicted”, ought not to have been granted furlough.In his reply placed before the High Court, the Superintendent of Rohtak District Jail submitted “the respondent does not fall in any of the categories of hardcore prisoners and all the assertions made by the petitioner in this regard are incorrect and without any basis”. #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-reserves-verdict-on-dera-sacha-sauda-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-singhs-furlough-373223
26-02-2022||---||Order declaring IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar Setia PO stayed||Chandigarh, February 25Just about a week after IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar Setia was declared a proclaimed offender in a corruption case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the operation of the impugned order, while granting interim anticipatory bail to him.The state’s stand in the matter was that the allegations were serious. “The investigation, which started for the theft of Rs 50 lakh unfolded the theft of more than Rs 30 crore and gold” and the petitioner-IPS officer was named by a co-accused. Justice Avneesh Jhingan observed that the petitioner was nominated on the basis of a disclosure statement.The special task force went to his office on December 3, 2021, with notice under the provisions of the CrPC for appearance on December 6, 2021. The petitioner was on leave, but sent a request through WhatsApp for extending the time. His arrest warrants were issued by the court on December 16, 2021. Justice Jhingan asserted that it was an undisputed fact that the petitioner’s request for the extension of the time for appearance in pursuance of the notice was dealt with by seeking arrest warrants. No delay was attributable to him in availing his remedies.Justice Jhingan observed that the petitioner was, in fact, pursuing his statutory remedies and was holding a senior post in disciplinary force for 17 years. It was not being disputed that he was having an unblemished service record. Justice Jhingan added that the petitioner’s name surfaced in the disclosure statement and its evidentiary value would be subject matter of trial. #dheeraj setia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/order-declaring-ips-officer-dheeraj-kumar-setia-po-stayed-373220
26-02-2022||---||Actress Munmun Dutta gets anticipatory bail||Chandigarh, February 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court today “made absolute” or confirmed the interim anticipatory bail granted to actor Munmun Dutta in a case registered under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Disposing of her plea, Justice Avneesh Jhingan of the High Court asserted that the petitioner, vide order dated February 4, was directed to join the investigation, subject to the compliance of the condition envisaged in the CrPC. The state counsel, on instructions from a deputy superintendent of police, submitted that the petitioner had joined the investigation and was cooperating.Best known for her portrayal of Babita Iyer in Hindi serial “Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah”, Dutta had moved the court for anticipatory bail through counsel Ruchi Sekhri in an FIR registered in May last year under Sections 3(1)(u) of the Act at the city police station in Hansi district. Four FIRs, registered for the same incident, were clubbed with the present case after a petition was filed in the Supreme Court.Justice Jhingan, on the previous date of hearing, had observed that it would be a debatable issue whether the use of an objectionable term for describing herself would itself be enough to fall within the ambit of the Act.“This court exercises self-restraint from saying that ‘prima facie’ the provisions of the Act are not applicable, as it may affect the investigation and the trial,” Justice Jhingan had asserted, adding that the petitioner was related to media and used the objectionable term in a video. As per the contention raised, the objectionable term was used by the petitioner for herself and not for any other person belonging to any particular community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/actress-munmun-dutta-gets-anticipatory-bail-373217
26-02-2022||---||Old artillery shells found in Ambala||Ambala, February 25Over 230 old artillery shells were recovered from the forest area near Begna river in Shahzadpur on Friday.As per the information, a person observed that artillery shells were left abandoned in some sacks in the forest area near Begna river, Manglor village, under the jurisdiction of the Shahzadpur police station.After getting information, Rajesh Kumar, SHO, Shahzadpur, and the bomb disposal team reached the spot and the shells were inspected. The team found 232 artillery shells in the sacks.Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, SP, Ambala, said, “To avoid any untoward incident, the bomb disposal squad and the Shahzadpur police team were immediately sent to the spot. During inspection, 232 artillery shells in different shapes and sizes, were recovered. A case will be registered under the Explosives Act and appropriate action will be taken. We will check the markings of the shells to get other details and the Army unit to which the shells were supplied. During the investigation, we will ascertain how these artillery shells reached there. For the time being, a sand wall has been constructed and guards have been deployed there. We are coordinating with the Army and will get the shells disposed of.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/old-artillery-shells-found-in-ambala-373216
26-02-2022||---||Gurugram roof collapse: Committee reconstituted||Gurugram, February 25The administration has reconstituted the committee looking into Chintels Paradiso apartment collapse. Following government orders for proper coordination, officials from Gurugram police and Engineering Department were included in the inquiry.“We have different departments working on the same issue. The finds and reports need to be shared and corroborated. So rather than having different committees investigating, we have reconstituted the committee to include all authorities concerned,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav.The committee will be headed by Additional District Magistrate as chairperson and will have Chief Engineer (Building), PWD B&R, Superintending Engineer, Gurugram Circle (PWD B&R), District Town Planner, Enforcement, Gurugram, and Rajeev Kumar, ACP Udyog Vihar, as members.“The committee will supervise the resettlement of families who were residing in Tower-D4 of the said society and will also provide options for shifting of families of Tower-D4 which may also include expertise of evaluation of market rates/interior works etc,” added DC Yadav.Panels working on same issueRather than different committees investigate the same issue, we have reconstituted the committee to include all authorities concerned. Nishant Kumar Yadav, Gurugram DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-roof-collapse-committee-reconstituted-373215
26-02-2022||---||Special structural engineering panel formed for residential properties in Haryana||Gurugram, February 25Haryana has formed a special structural engineering committee to deal with the structural issues of residential properties.This was stated by Chief Secretary at the inaugural function of the two-day Urban Development Conclave in Gurugram today.He said the state government was working on a mechanism to assure allottees about the quality of the construction. He said, “We are living in the era of regulation in which the NGT, Supreme Court and RERA etc have given many provisions on subjects like environment and urban development. Gurugram and Faridabad are important cities falling in the NCR of Haryana State, in which the issues of urbanisation need to be resolved.”He said issues related to urbanisation, ensuring quality of construction, electricity, drinking water supply and transportation were important.Presiding over the inaugural session, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India, Manoj Joshi, said it was the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that every family should have a roof over its head. Joshi said full cooperation would be given for the betterment of Haryana in the NCR planning.Chairman, RERA Panchkula, Rajan Gupta, said urbanisation in Haryana was about 35 per cent and at the national level, this figure was about 32 per cent. Giving a detailed presentation, Additional Chief Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, Devender Singh talked about various aspects of urban development in Haryana.Real estate looks upAfter the pandemic, real estate is again on the path of growth. Devender Singh, additional chief secretary, town and country planning department||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-structural-engineering-panel-formed-for-residential-properties-in-haryana-373213
26-02-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Plan to regularise non-conforming industrial areas awaited in Faridabad||Faridabad, February 25The issue of pending regularisation of industrial units operating from non-conforming zones (residential) in the city has attracted the attention of the bodies of entrepreneurs, who have raised the demand again.“The Chief Minister, in a meeting of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Corporation last year, had given directions to the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to prepare a verification report of the units operating in the unauthorised area, but a final plan is yet to come out,” sources in the district administration have said.“Despite collection of taxes and other charges by the administration, several units in the unauthorised areas were operating under pathetic conditions,” Ramneek Prabhakar, general secretary, Manufacturers’ Association Faridabad said.Claiming that the demand for regularising zones having 70 per cent or more units had been pending for long, Rajiv Chawla, president, Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises of India (IAMSME), said the delay had resulted in unavailability of the civic amenities, making the industrial units and residents suffer.“As many as 23 clusters, having around 16,800 industrial units, were found in a survey carried out last year. The government had also announced relocation incentives for the units whose number was less than 70 per cent in June 2018,” he added.It is reported that the Municipal Corporation had also adopted a resolution for regularising the clusters having 80 per cent or more industrial units in 2008. Sarurpur, Mujheri, Gazipur, Mujesar, Bajri, New DLF, SGM Nagar, Jawahar Colony, Indira Colony, Krishna Colony, Malerna Road, Gurukul, Kharkhana Bagh,Ajronda and Dabua-Pali road are among the non- conforming zones here.“The issue is being taken up on a priority basis for a proper solution,” said a senior official of the Faridabad MC.Demand pending for 2 yearsNo announcement in the matter of regularisation of the unauthorised industrial areas has been made. It is a cause of concern. The demand has been pending for the past two decades. Ramneek Prabhakar, general secretary, manufacturers’ association, FaridabadIssue our priorityThe issue is being taken up on a priority basis for a proper solution. A senior official, Faridabad MCUnits, residents sufferThe delay has resulted in unavailability of civic amenities, making the industrial units and residents suffer. Rajiv Chawla, president, IAMSME||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plan-to-regularise-non-conforming-industrial-areas-awaited-in-faridabad-373210
26-02-2022||Gurugram||Former councillor, brother shot dead in Gurugram village||Terror gripped Khod village in the Pataudi block as a former councillor and his elder brother were shot dead by bike-borne assailants today.The deceased were identified as Parmjit Singh Thakran (36) and his elder brother Surjit Singh Thakran (39), residents of the village.It was around 9.20 am when former district councillor Parmjit Singh was talking on phone outside his home when five armed assailants came there and opened fire at him. They also targeted his brother Surjit around 200m away and fired more than 30 rounds at both men.The duo was taken to a private hospital in Gurugram, but could not be saved.The victims were in liquor trade and were also operating a private school. The police said prima facie, it seemed to be a case of business rivalry.Following the complaint of Ajit Singh, a brother of deceased, an FIR was registered against 10 persons at the Pataudi police station. According to the police, the accused were identified as Ajay, Dinesh, Rohit, Dinesh alias Gangram, residents of Khod, Sandeep Goriyawas, Dharmender, sarpanch of Mushedpur village, Dhanpat and Jassu, residents of Dhanora village.Police sources said it seemed to be the result of revenge between Dhanpat and the deceased, as both were partners in liquor business in past, but now a dispute was going on between them. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-councillor-brother-shot-dead-in-gurugram-village-373206
26-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Schools back to normal, parents must resume fee payment: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, February 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that parents are expected to resume payment of tuition fee, as they did in pre-Covid days, with the schools resorting to normal functioning and the classes taking place.“I am of the view that once the schools have now resumed to normal functioning and the classes are taking place, it is expected of the petitioner, who is the parent of a ward, to resume payment of tuition fee, as was being done during pre-Covid time. However, the question with regard to charges to be paid during Covid period is left open to be decided by the competent authority,” Justice Arun Monga asserted.The assertion came on a petition filed by a minor-student through his father against the state of Haryana and other respondents. He was seeking directions for restraining the respondents from taking “any measure to deny the facility of online/offline classes”. Directions were also sought to further restrain the respondents from taking “coercive measures so as to collect the amount of revision of fee in excess of 10 per cent of the fee charged during the session 2020-21”. Appearing before the Bench, the father argued that the school had unreasonably revised the fee for session 2021-22. He further contended that the classes for the first six months were held online during session 2020-21. The classes were being held offline on alternate days only after October 1, 2021. As such, the school should not hike the fee.After hearing rival contentions, Justice Monga asserted he was of the opinion that a similar controversy had already been decided in September last year by a coordinate Bench of the High Court while hearing a civil writ petition.Justice Monga also reproduced the operative part of the last year’s order, which said the petitioners’ counsel could not refer to relevant rule in the Haryana School Education Rules, 2003, under which Haryana Director-General, Secondary, could take action against the respondent-school on the allegations of charging excess fee.The Bench had added that a “Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee” was provided for entertaining complaints regarding charging of excess fee. “The instant writ petition stands disposed of with liberty to the petitioner to seek his remedy in accordance with view taken by this court,” Justice Monga concluded.On charges during Covid periodThe question with regard to charges to be paid during Covid period is left open to be decided by the competent authority (Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee). — Justice Arun Monga, Punjab and Haryana High Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-back-to-normal-parents-must-resume-fee-payment-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-373204
26-02-2022||Deepender Deswal & Parveen Arora||Ensure safe return of wards from Ukraine: Kin to govt||Tribune News ServiceHisar/Karnal, February 25“We are in possession of our passport and personal belongings. We are running out of food and are extremely concerned about our safety. The Ukrainian authorities have asked us to bunk at underground metro stations.” Jagwati Devi breaks down sharing the SOS from his son Ajay Kumar, who is among scores of Indian students stuck in the war-torn Ukraine.She said she talked to her son on Friday, who informed her they had been asked to stay in underground stations.“Ajay told us that they are not getting any updates from the local authorities about the situation. I appeal to the Centre to evacuate our children,” she said in an emotional appeal to the government. Ajay had gone to Ukraine three years ago to pursue MBBS.Minakshi Sharma, a nurse at Hisar Civil Hospital, said her daughter Khushi Sharma had gone to Kiev to pursue MBBS. “I talked to Khushi on Thursday. She informed me that they are being taken to underground stations as bombardment by the Russian planes has intensified. We don’t have any message from her today and are waiting for the Indian Government to intervene in the situation to bail out our children,” she said. Utkarsh Mehta, a Hisar resident who is a medical student in Ukraine, said he returned home on February 14. Utkarsh said he was in contact with his peers from Hisar.“I talked to my friends, who are also MBBS students there. They have no chances to return home right now as flights have been cancelled. They said there was a scramble to store eatables and food as the general stores had run out of ration. There are long queues for water as well,” he said.The family of Pawan Goyal, a resident of Uklana, heaved a sigh of relief as their daughter, also an MBBS student in Ukraine, returned home on Friday.“She reached home at 11 am on Friday. We are highly relieved. Though she had to shell out double the amount for her flight ticket, we are happy to see her back home,” Goyal said, adding that they were concerned about the fate of other Indians who were stuck.“My parents were worried about the situation in Ukraine and they asked me to come back. I was trying to book tickets, but the rates were increasing every minute. Earlier, I had planned to come on a flight scheduled on February 24, but luckily I got ticket for February 22. If it wasn’t for change in my flight, I would have been stranded there as well. I paid Rs 10,000 extra for my ticket,” said Ria, a fifth-year MBBS student in Ukraine. Ria is a resident of Karnal.A Kaithal-based first-year student at Bukovanion State Medical University in Chernivistri, who returned home on Thursday, said students stuck in Ukraine were facing a tough time.“The Indian Government should have taken steps to evacuate their citizens a lot earlier. The good news is that the first batch of Indian students of my university is being evacuated to Romania. I pray for all stranded students to have a safe return,” she said.Bhavya Jain, a first-year student of MBBS, said they were told about a possible war on February 16. “I managed to book a ticket to India, but my friend could not return due to some paper issue. The Indian Government and Embassy should take steps for safe return of students,” she said.Meanwhile, parents of some students met Karnal Deputy Commissioner Anish Kumar Yadav and Sanjay Bathla, CM’s representative of Karnal Assembly segment, on Thursday, demanding evacuation of their wards.The Karnal DC said the state government had established a control room. “We are in touch with the Ministry of External Affairs Ministry for evacuation,” the DC added.In touch with MEAThe Central and state governments are concerned about the Indians stranded in Ukraine. PM Narendra Modi is in constant touch with the PMs of Ukraine and Russia. The state govt is in touch with the Indian Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to bring back Indian nationals and a special control room has been set up by the Centre for it. Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CM #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-safe-return-of-wards-kin-to-govt-373202
26-02-2022||Bathinda/Karnal||Fee difference for medical education driving pupils to foreign shores||The biggest reason for Indian students opting for medical education in Ukraine is that the fee there is almost one-third of what is charged by private medical colleges here.Costs half the priceThe MBBS course fee is around Rs 30 lakh in Ukraine, while it ranges from Rs60 lakh to Rs80 lakh in private institutes of Haryana. — Viresh Kumar Jain, Haryana residentDr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor (VC), Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, said, “The fee in private medical colleges here is Rs 6 lakh per year, but colleges are charging around Rs 8-9 lakh per year. The matter is under study in a court. Moreover, this fee does not include hostel and food charges, so the total cost for the MBBS course per student is around Rs 50 lakh in private colleges here.”Dr Raj Bahadur said, “Students go to Ukraine for the MBBS course because the fee there is less when compared to what is charged by private colleges here. It is also easy for them to get admission in any institute there. In India, admissions are through the NEET merit list. In Ukraine, a student just has to qualify NEET.”Dr Dheeraj Sharma from Tapa Mandi, whose son is stranded in Ukraine, said, “There is a big difference in the fee. In Ukraine, it works out to less than one-third of what we are charged on different pretexts by the colleges here. There the fee is Rs 3-4 lakh annually. Also, there is a big variation in fee charged by different private medical colleges in our country.”Fifth-year MBBS student Ria, who recently returned to her home in Karnal, said, “If a student has to get admission in a government-run medical college or university here, he/she has to secure a good rank. If the student fails to do so, he/she takes admission in a private institute where the tuition fee is very high. Before exploring the option of Ukraine, my family had inquired from private institutes. The tuition fee ranged from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 20 lakh per year, while in Ukraine, the complete course fee is between Rs 25-30 lakh.”Viresh Kumar Jain, father of Bhavya Jain who is in first year of the MBBS course in Ukraine, said a degree from there was globally accepted. “The MBBS course fee is around Rs 30 lakh in Ukraine, while it ranges from Rs 60 lakh to Rs 80 lakh in private institutes of Haryana.” #indians in ukraine #MBBS #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fee-difference-driving-pupils-to-foreign-shores-373098
