27-02-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Ukraine crisis: Cheaper education driving students abroad||Chandigarh, February 26Low merit in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), a test to secure an MBBS seat, and cheaper medical education is the reason behind Indian students opting for medical education in Ukraine, Russia and other breakaway USSR states to become a doctor.They apply through agents, who have tie-ups with medical colleges or universities in these foreign countries. Some students even pay their annual fee through these agents. After returning home, these foreign medical graduates have to take the National Exit Test of the National Medical Commission (NMC) for practicing in India.Utkarsh Mehta of Hisar is a third year student at Kyiv Medical University. He managed to return on February 14. Talking to The Tribune, he said: “Education in Ukraine is cheaper than private medical colleges here. It will cost me around Rs 25 lakh for six years, including the fee and accommodation.” He qualified for the NEET but was not in the merit list for government colleges. He got 82 per cent in Class XII. “Many students opt for Russia, Tajikistan, Philippines, Ukraine, and even China,” he added.As per a notification of the state government, dated January 12, the tuition fee in private medical colleges affiliated to Rohtak Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences is Rs 12 lakh per annum with an annual increase of 7.5 per cent. With an upper limit of Rs 75,000 per annum hostel fee, it comes to Rs 73.5 lakh for five years. Besides, there are university charges, examination charges, refundable college security of Rs 2 lakh, library fee and sports and medical charges.The course fee for MBBS at SGT University, Gurugram, is Rs 18 lakh per annum while at Al-Falah University, Faridabad, it is Rs 65.50 lakh for five years, including course fee and development charges. As per Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed University), Ambala, the MBBS fee in 2021-22 is Rs 15.50 lakh per annum, with an annual increment of 10 per cent.However, at Maharaja Agrasen Medical College (MAMC), Hisar, which is a government-aided medical college, it is Rs 2.19 lakh per annum. At government colleges, the tuition fee is Rs 61,410 and with an annual increase of 10 per cent and other charges, one has to shell out Rs 80,000 for the first year.Bhawna of Rohtak, a fifth year student at Donetsk Medical University, said: “You end up paying Rs 1 crore in a private college in India while in Ukraine, my fee is Rs 3.5 lakh per annum. For a six-year course, it amounts to Rs 21 lakh and by adding accommodation charges, it will increase to around Rs 25 lakh,” she said while talking from Ukraine on phone.SGT University Vice-Chancellor (VC) OP Kalra, opined: “Students who do not get selected in government colleges in India move to Ukraine and other breakaway USSR states.” “Earlier, people used to go to USSR. After its breakup, students started opting for the breakaway states of the USSR,” said Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences VC Anita Saxena. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cheaper-education-driving-students-abroad-373465
27-02-2022||---||Haryana department holds virtual meet with kin of stranded Ukraine students||Chandigarh, February 26Officials of the state Foreign Cooperation Department interacted with Haryana youths stuck in Ukraine and their guardians through a virtual meeting on Friday.During the meeting, the officials listened to their issues and reassured the participants that the state government was in constant touch with the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, for providing them with support in Ukraine.The officials also assured the participants that the Ministry of External Affairs, is taking all possible steps and working round the clock to handle the situation and support the Indian community stuck in Ukraine.During the meeting, the officials shared information, including the latest advisory issued to Indian nationals, students in Ukraine by the Ministry of External Affairs, contact details of the Indian team at the border of Hungary, Poland, Slovak Republic and Romania respectively and the helpline details of the state government.It was also advised that the people belonging to Haryana stuck in Ukraine must carry their passports and necessary documents in person at all times. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-meeting-with-kin-373466
27-02-2022||---||Families of Karnal students stranded in Ukraine meet SDM||Karnal, February 26“Our kids are in trouble. They are short of money and food. We request the government to safely bring our kids back to India,” requested family members of the students who are stranded in Ukraine. They also met Karnal SDM Gaurav Kumar on Saturday in this regard.Short of food, cashOur kids are in trouble. They are short of money and food. We request the government to safely bring our kids back to India. — Kin of stranded studentsThere is resentment among the family members as they say they rue that the government is not taking timely action.“My son Shivam is stranded in Ukraine. We are in touch with him. He is fine but the situation is getting worse with each passing day. They are short of food items. The government should have taken measures much earlier,” said Dr Alka Goel.The Indian Embassy should ensure food and lodging facility for the stranded students, said Shivani. “We are in touch with the Embassy, but it should ensure the availability of food and other necessary facilities for them,” she added.A couple of students — Ria and Bhavya — who returned to Karnal two-days back, were also among the delegation that met the SDM. They said scores of their friends were still stuck in Ukraine and they were concerned about their safety. “Our friends could not sleep for the last three days. We request the government to help all stranded persons by bringing them back to India,” they added.The Karnal SDM assured the family members that the government was making all-out efforts in this regard. “The state government is in touch with the Ministry of External Affairs and hopefully, all stranded students will be back soon,” he added. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/families-of-pupils-meet-karnal-sdm-373470
27-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Hailstorm damages crops in Rewari, Mahendragarh||Rewari, February 26The hailstorm that lashed Rewari and Mahendragarh on Friday evening has brought misery for farmers as the standing crops of wheat and mustard spread over 40,000 acres in 80 villages of these districts have suffered considerable damage. The Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has started preliminary surveys to ascertain losses.Hopes of bumper crops dashedWe were expecting bumper crops this time but the hailstorm has dashed our hopes. Both wheat and mustard crops have suffered extensive damage. — Krishan, farmer, Khol villageFile applications, farmers toldFarmers have been asked to file applications within 72 hours to get localised claims for the crop loss under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana. — Vazir Singh, Agri Dy Director, Mahendragarh“As many as 50 villages of Khol, Jatusana and Bawal blocks in Rewari district have been found affected by the hailstorm where losses to wheat and mustard has been reported up to 35 per cent. These villages include Aulant, Babroli, Balawas, Dahina, Dakhora, Gothra, Gulabpur under Jatusana block, Budla, Saraywas, Majri Duda, Jarthal, Panchor, Deodhai, Gujriwas and Lalpur under Bawal block,” said a source.Sources maintained Siha, Lohana, Dhawana, Khaleta, Majara, Jainabad, Pranpura, Khori, Majra Ahir, Kundal, Aaliawas, Chimnawas, Kadhu, Mandola, Bhathera, Mundi, Buroli, Bharawas, Masani, Hansaka and several other nearby villages witnessed damage to both crops. “We were expecting bumper crops this time but the hailstorm has dashed our hopes. Both wheat and mustard crops have suffered an extensive damage in the hailstorm hence the government should announce a special girdawari to bail us out of this crisis,” said Krishan, a distressed farmer from Khol.Deepak, SDO (Agriculture), Rewari, said teams were carrying out preliminary surveys in affected villages. “In Mahendragarh, the hailstorm has taken a toll on standing crops of wheat and mustard in Kanina, Satnali and Mahendragarh blocks. Initially, a survey by the local office of Agriculture Department had assessed losses upto 25 per cent in both villages. Daroli Ahir, Israna, Rambaans, Khudana, Garhi, Aadampur, Bhurjat, Sihor, Basayi, Sehlang, Jadwa, Dhani Bhalothia and Aakoda villages are worst-affected,” said sources. Vazir Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Mahendragarh, said affected farmers had been asked to file applications within 72 hours to get localised claims for the crop loss under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana. “Officials of the Agriculture Department and Insurance Company have been deputed at block levels to receive claim applications. We will ensure compensation to farmers soon after carrying out the survey to calculate actual loss at the earliest,” Singh added. Meanwhile, Ateli MLA Sitaram Yadav along with administrative officials visited some villages to take stock of the situation. He also interacted with distressed farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hailstorm-damages-crops-in-rewari-mgarh-373471
27-02-2022||Chandigarh||Give relief to farmers in 15 days: Selja||Kumari Selja, president, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, has said farmers in the state were suffering due to rain and hailstorm, inflation and anti-farmer policies of the BJP-JJP government.She said, “Frequent rain and hailstorms have broken the backbone of farmers. It has caused heavy damage to the crops. The Congress demands from the state government that the farmers should be compensated for their loss within 15 days by immediately getting a special girdawari conducted.”In a statement, Kumari Selja said that farmers were on the verge of ruin due to damage caused to crops in two consecutive seasons. Earlier, they suffered big loss in paddy and cotton crops and now, wheat, mustard and vegetable crops had been damaged by rain and hailstorm.She said the central and state governments were bent on ruining farmers.“Right from selling their crops in mandi till getting its payment, farmers have to suffer at every point. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-relief-to-farmers-in-15-days-selja-373472
27-02-2022||---||Congress must clarify why it stopped pension, says CM||Kaithal, February 26Launching attack on the Congress over the issue of restoration of retirement pension by the Rajasthan Government, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said it was the Congress which had stopped retirement pension earlier.“Congress must clarify its intention behind stopping the retirement pension earlier,” said the CM.The Chief Minister was in the city to attend the ongoing Maharudra Yagya at Gyara Rudri Shiv Temple.The Chief Minister said pilgrimages falling within the radius of 48 ‘kos’ were also being renovated and beautified by the Kurukshetra Development Board. He also visited Mundri village, where Maharishi Valmiki Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya was being constructed.He said setting up of the university would prove to be a boon for students studying Sanskrit and play a pivotal role in strengthening our cultural roots.About Rs. 3.8 crore have been spent on the construction work of this University and classes have also been started for Sanskrit students in the Dr. B.R. Ambedkar College.Khattar also inaugurated various projects, including synthetic hockey field at Habri, a 33 KV substation at Serdha and a 33 KV sub-station in Pabsar, and a 100-bedded portable hospital for Covid at the Civil Hospital.The Chief Minister also unveiled the bronze statue of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur at Shaheed Samark site.On the issue of stranded students of the state in Ukraine, Khattar said he was in touch with the Ministry of External Affairs. “We will bring back all students safely,” the Chief Minister added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-must-clarify-why-it-stopped-pension-says-cm-373473
27-02-2022||---||Hooda flays govt over BBMB issue||Chandigarh, February 26Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today flayed the abolition of the permanent membership of Punjab and Haryana in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB).Surjewala: State's rights crushed He termed it as an “attack” on the rights of Haryana. Hooda said according to the Bhakra Beas Management Board Rules, 1974, the member (power) in the BBMB was from Punjab and the member (irrigation) was from Haryana.“However, in the amended rules of 2022, this requirement has been done away with. Under the amended rules, the criteria for the selection of members have also been defined in such a way that the electricity departments of Haryana and Punjab cannot meet the criteria,” he said.The former CM said there has been a reduction in the posts available from Haryana quota in the BBMB in the past as well, due to the neglect of the state government.“The Haryana Government did not say anything then, and they continue to be silent even after the new decision of the Union Government. This silence of the BJP-JJP government is anti-state,” he stated.“All political parties of Punjab, including the Congress, are unanimous and raising their voice against this decision to protect the interest of the state. In such a situation, the Haryana Government, along with all parties, should oppose this decision and protect the rights of the state,” he added.In a press statement issued today, he also drew the government’s attention to the damage suffered by crops due to intermittent rain and hailstorm in last two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-flays-govt-over-bbmb-issue-373474
27-02-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad Municipal Corporation issues notice to property tax defaulters over Rs193-cr dues||With only a month to go for the rebate on pending property tax dues to end, the Faridabad Municipal Corporation has renewed its drive to recover the amount.Notice has been issued to defaulters for availing the rebate, for which the last date is March 31. The MC authorities said defaulters could face penalty, besides the sealing of property after the due date.The civic body sources said there were around 1.6 lakh defaulters, who have Rs 193 crore outstanding to their names. It is revealed that inadequate level of recoveries had been a major issue and hence, 60 per cent of property tax units in the city had been in the defaulter list.A sealing drive launched by the civic body last year had resulted in the recovery of Rs 4.75 crore from over 500 units. According to MC officials, 13,000 units, which owe an amount of Rs 5 lakh or more as property tax had been identified last year. With an amount of over Rs 60 crore already recovered, the civic body was likely to get Rs 90 crore by March, the sources claimed. #faridabad municipal corporation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-property-tax-defaulters-over-193-cr-dues-373475
27-02-2022||Deepender Deswal||'Dhanno 2.0' tops beauty contest at Bhiwani||Bhiwani, February 26The attachment of Haryanvi people with their livestock knows no bounds, it seems. Farmers have named their cattle in cute ways — Rustam, Patwari, Dhanno 2.0, Taaj, Surya, Mangal, Druva and even Katrina. And the price tag of these cattle is phenomenal; rather unbelievable.Bulls and buffaloes of Murrah breed are the most pampered. They are the centre of attraction at the livestock exhibition being held from February 25 to 27 by the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying. These animals have surpassed the price of top cars.Murrah buffalo named Dhanno 2.0, owned by resident of Singhwa Khas village in Hisar Hoshiar Singh, was adjudged best buffalo in the Beauty and Milking Category at the exhibition. Singh said earlier, his buffalo Dhanno had earned several national awards and was no longer being taken to exhibitions due to old age.“I don’t want cars. My ‘Haryana Maan’ is my pride. I have not quoted any price for him because he is not up for sale,” says Satpal Maan, a Sirsa resident. Satpal has given his surname to his Murrah bull out of love. “He is our family member. So he should be known by the family surname,” he said.State Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala who visited the fair today said there is no match for the hard work of farmers. “Farmers and livestock farmers should also get hefty amounts as sportspersons for getting the best position in events. I will recommend to the CM to increase the amount of prices for livestock,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dhanno-2-0-tops-beauty-contest-at-bhiwani-373476
27-02-2022||---||Wanted criminal held in Samalkha case||Panipat, February 26The district police have nabbed a wanted criminal, who was carrying a cash reward of Rs 25,000, after a brief encounter on Thursday in the Samalkha area.Nabbed after brief encounterThe accused has been identified as Deepak, alias Kukku, of Atta village in the Samalkha area. He is reportedly the prime accused involved in the murder of a Samalkha ghee trader.He has been absconding in six criminal cases of loot and murder, registered against him in Panipat, Sonepat, Jind and Rohtak districts.Panipat Superintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said the CIA-1 team on Thursday night got a tip-off that the accused was moving towards his village on a motorcycle which did not bear a number plate. Following this, the team laid a trap on the Hathwala road near Dikadla village and tried to nab the accused but the motorcycle-borne accused shot two rounds of bullets upon the police team. The police team chased him and nabbed him near Jaurasi village after firing two rounds of bullets, said the SP.The team also recovered a loaded .32 bore pistol with a cartridge. The accused was produced in a court on Saturday and the court sent him on three-day police remand, he said.Notably, two motorcycle-borne youths had looted a cash bag after murdering a ghee trader Rajkumar of Samalkha on January 4. The police had arrested three accused — Prashant, Anshul and Vansh — in the matter while the main accused Deepak was on the run. The SP had announced a cash reward on their arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wanted-criminal-held-in-samalkha-case-373477
27-02-2022||---||Two arrested with stolen vehicles||Yamunanagar, February 26A team of the anti-vehicle theft cell of the Yamunanagar police arrested two persons and recovered seven stolen motorcycles from their possession.The accused have been identified as Sudesh of Mehmodpur Brahman village and Ajay of Dadupur village of Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh.The accused were on Saturday produced before a court in Jagadhri, which sent them to judicial custody.Chamkaur Singh, a police spokesman, said they had received a tip-off, after which a team of the anti-vehicle theft cell arrested Sudesh and Ajay near Kalanaur village on Haryana-UP border.He said the accused were riding on a stolen motorcycle and were going to UP to sell the vehicle.Ramesh Rana, in-charge of the cell, said during interrogation, the accused had confessed that they stole seven motorcycles from Yamunanagar.“All seven stolen motorcycles have been recovered from their possession,” said Ramesh Rana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-with-stolen-vehicles-373478
27-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar -Jagadhri MC removes 20 kiosks||The Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation (MCYJ) on Saturday removed 20 kiosks during a special drive against illegal encroachments. The said kiosks were kept illegally on a drain (nullah) near the vegetable market in Yamnunanagar industrial area.According to information, Amrit Wadhawan, president, Vegetable Market Association, Yamunanagar, along with several members of the association, had met Mayor Madan Chauhan on Thursday and lodged a complaint against the illegal kiosks.Taking note of the complaint, the Mayor, along with Senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Sharma and ward councillor Prince Sharma reviewed the market and its surrounding area.He asked the MC authorities to remove the illegal kiosks and keep the area of vegetable market clean.“The office-bearers of the Vegetable Market Association told me that some persons have encroached upon the drain near the vegetable market by keeping kiosks illegally there. The drain is not being cleaned and is blocked, owing to which water gets waterlogged in the area,” said Chauhan.He said the officers-bearers of the association had demanded the removal of the said encroachments to solve the problem of waterlogging. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-removes-20-kiosks-373479
27-02-2022||Ambala||1 booked in artillery shells case||Tribunal officer takes chargeChandigarh: Former District and Sessions Judge Man Mohan Dhonchak has taken over as the presiding officer of Debts Recovery Tribunal-II, having jurisdiction over Haryana and Chandigarh. The post had been lying vacant for the past two years. According to information, about 10,000 cases are pending before the tribunal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-booked-in-artillery-shells-case-373480
27-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Killer roads: Wrong overtaking to blame for mishaps on Haryana e-ways||Panipat, February 26As many as 125 persons lost their lives on the Western and Eastern Peripheral Expressways in 151 accidents in 2021. Wrong side overtaking is said to be the main reason behind most accidents on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) and Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal (KGP) Expressways.125 killed in 151 accidents on kmp, kgp expressways in 2021 Overspeeding, lane-changing by vehicles at a high speed, and improper lighting are the other culprits. Sources say many drivers, mostly the ones driving heavy vehicles, keep changing lanes, sometimes abruptly, causing fatal accidents. While the entire KMP stretches through the four districts of Haryana, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Gurugram and Mewat, the KGP falls in some parts of Sonepat, Faridabad and Palwal districts and its maximum stretch is in Uttar Pradesh.As per the data, 151 accidents took place on the stretch of these expressways that fall in Haryana. Of these, 123 took place on the KMP in which 103 persons were killed and 83 sustained injuries. The remaining 28 took place on the KGP in which 22 persons lost their lives and 22 sustained injuries.Rajshree Singh, IG, Traffic, said wrong side overtaking, overspeeding and speed miscalculation were identified as the main reasons. “To improve road safety some issues need to be addressed. These include shortage of lay-bys, improper lighting, improper access to expressways and lack of other facilities such as restrooms, fuel stations and restaurants. We have already written to the National Highways Authority of India and the HSIIDC in this regard,” the Inspector General of Police said.Besides, she said, awareness campaigns for drivers of heavy vehicles were organised regularly and the installation of close circuit television (CCTV) cameras on highways was underway. #haryana highways #killer roads||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrong-overtaking-to-blame-for-mishaps-on-haryana-e-ways-373413
27-02-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Medical student from Haryana refuses to leave Ukraine, says will take care of house owner’s kids as he joins war||Rohtak, February 26It is a tale of human values, compassion and universal brotherhood — or sisterhood, precisely in this case — which bind us together even during a war.A girl from Haryana, who is studying medicine in Ukraine, has refused to leave the war-torn country even though she got an opportunity to get evacuated.Read more stories:-Ukraine crisis: Holed up inside Kharkiv tube stations Indian students running out of suppliesFirst batch of Indian students enter Hungary from Ukraine; embassy issues fresh advisoryUkraine crisis: First Air India evacuation flight with 219 citizens lands in MumbaiThe reason: the owner of the house where she has been staying as a paying guest has voluntarily joined the Ukrainian Army to serve his country during the ongoing war with Russia and the girl is supporting his wife in taking care of his three small children.“I may live or not, but I will not leave these children and their mother in such a situation,” Neha told her mother, a teacher based in Charkhi Dadri district of Haryana.Neha lost her father, who was in the Indian Army, a couple of years ago. Last year, she got admitted to a medical college in Ukraine.As of now, the 17-year-old student from Haryana is living in a bunker with the wife and three children of the house-owner.“We keep on hearing blasts outside, but we are fine so far,” she told a family friend recently.A student of MBBS, Neha rented a room at the home of a construction engineer in Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine, as she could not get hostel accommodation.Savita Jakhar, a close friend of Neha’s mother, said, “Neha got attached to the children of the house-owner. She got advisories to leave the country as the war seemed imminent. Her mother made frantic efforts to arrange for her daughter’s evacuation. Finally, the girl got an opportunity to cross over to Romania, but she refused to abandon the affectionate family she has been staying with at this critical juncture.”Savita, an educator who belongs to Jhanswa village in Jhajjar district of Haryana, is now a French national presently based in Copenhagen, Denmark.Talking to The Tribune from Copenhagen on Saturday, Savita maintained that Neha’s family members and acquaintances have been trying to convince her to return to India, but she has plainly and firmly refused to do so.“It’s going to be 4 a.m. I feel restless as I couldn’t sleep throughout the night. A 17-year-old daughter of a close friend is stuck in Kyiv where she went to pursue her bachelor’s degree...The owner of the house where she has been staying joined the army a couple of days ago. As of now, the girl is staying in a bunker with the house-owner’s wife and three children,” Savita wrote in a Facebook post.The post is going viral, with a number of people praising Neha’s compassion and determination.“She knows that she may lose her life, but she is determined not to return in the given circumstances. I don’t know what gives the girl so much strength to stand with the family…” observed Savita. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-student-from-haryana-refuses-to-leave-ukraine-says-will-take-care-of-house-owners-kids-as-he-joins-war-373347
