28-02-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Water works without boundary wall, gates||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Water works without boundary wall, gatesThe water works at Mali Tibba locality in Narnaul town of Mahendragarh district has no boundary wall and gates. Both hatches of the main water tank are open for stray animals/reptiles to fall. There are no flanges on tank breathing pipes. It can be disastrous for the locals if someone puts anything poisonous or if a stray animal/ reptile falls in the tank. Moreover, leaves and dirt keep falling in the tank for which there's no one responsible and answerable. There are multiple openings at the sides of the tank from where snakes/puppies can creep into the tank. The authorities concerned must pay attention to it. Anil Kaushik, NarnaulWashroom built by civic body lying defunctThe washroom size 6'× 10 ' shown in the picture has recently been constructed at a whooping price of Rs17 lakh by the municipal authorities. Obviously, the people are wondering how a small public toilet can cost so much? In fact, it was designed to be a water less washroom where the urinal, flush and taps worked on sensors. Just next day of its inauguration, the thieves stole all its expensive fittings, thus rendering it useless. Action should be taken against those who designed and executed this white elephant. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-works-without-boundary-wall-gates-373745
28-02-2022||Rohtak||Student comes second at science festival||Book exhibition at KVA DAV collegeKarnal: KVA DAV College for Women organised a book exhibition on the birth anniversary of Swami Dayanand Saraswati on the college premises under the guidance of principal Renu Mehta. The exhibition was inaugurated by officiating principal Santosh Bisla by paying floral tribute to Swami Dayanand. Multifarious books related to Swami Dayanand were exhibited. Along with it books related to vedic philosophy and Arya Samaj were also displayed. She also emphasised on the positive effect of books in one's life, and spoke about the contribution of Swami Dayanand in context of women education.Science awareness programmeHisar: A science awareness programme was organised by the department of bio and nano technology and central instrumentation laboratory, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, in association with sophisticated analytical instrument facility, Panjab University, Chandigarh, under the Synergistic Training Programme Utilizing the Scientific and Technological Infrastructure (STUTI) supported by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Dr Sandeep Kumar, coordinator of STUTI of GJUST and Prof Neeraj Dilbaghi coordinated the programme along with several scholars of the department. Dr Sandeep Kumar said 170 students of PGSD Senior Secondary School from Science stream took part in the programme. Quiz competition, poster, speech and slogan sessions were conducted during the science awareness programme to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav and science week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-comes-second-at-science-festival-373744
28-02-2022||Yamunanagar||Man stabbed to death in Yamunanagar||A man was allegedly stabbed to death in Balauli village of Yamunanagar district. The deceased has been identified as Gurvinder Singh (35), alias Sunny, of Balauli village.On the complaint of Kulwinder Kaur, the wife of the deceased, a case was registered against Gurbaj Singh, Jagnur Singh and Sandeep Singh, all residents of Balauli village and some other unknown persons under Section 302 and 120-B of the IPC at the Chhachhrauli police station today.The complainant stated to the police that her husband Gurvinder Singh and his friend Deepak of Balauli village were strolling on a road outside the village on Saturday evening. She alleged that Gurbaj, Jagnur, Sandeep and six to seven other persons were standing on the road. She further alleged that some persons caught Deepak and started beating him with wooden sticks. Gurbaj and Jagnur caught her husband’s arms and Sandeep stabbed him with a knife several times, she added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-stabbed-to-death-in-yamunanagar-373743
28-02-2022||---||Rs 1K crore for urban infra investment in Haryana||Gurugram, February 27Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar addressed a gathering at the valedictory session of the Urban Development Conclave in Gurugram.During the conclave, the CM said the Haryana Government had decided to allocate Rs 1,000 crore for supplementing urban infrastructure investment requirements in the state.The CM also announced ‘Samadhan Se Vikas Policy’ formulated to grant relief to builders for paying external development charges (EDC). The due date for payment of EDC has been extended by six months to encourage defaulting colonisers to opt for the policy.The Chief Minister said that the transferable development rights (TDR) policy, dated November 16, 2021, is yet to be operationalised. However, the Town and Country Planning Department has now prepared an online application for the receipt, scrutiny and processing of TDR applications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-1k-crore-for-urban-infra-investment-373741
28-02-2022||---||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar opens astronomy lab at Bhiwani school||Bhiwani, February 27Haryana Chief Minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, inaugurated an astronomy lab set up on the premises of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School and Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Bhiwani today.The CM said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasises on inculcating scientific temper in children. “Generally, children studying in government schools are confined to the general curriculum. With the setting up of these labs, children belonging to the poorest of the poor families will be able to learn about the mystery of the universe,” he said.Deputy Commissioner RS Dhillon informed the Chief Minister that in the first phase, astronomy labs have been set up at Government Model Sanskriti School and Government Girls Senior Secondary School at the district headquarters and Government Model Sanskriti School in Bawani Khera.Kalpana Chawla Astronomy Lab will also be set up in Government Model Sanskriti School and astronomy lab in the name of Dr Vikram Sarabhai at Government Girls Senior Secondary School.The Chief Minister also interacted with students and told them about the knowledge they would get from this astronomy lab. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-opens-astronomy-lab-at-bhiwani-school-373739
28-02-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha Budget session from March 2||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, will present the state Budget for 2022-23 in the Vidhan Sabha on March 7.As per the tentative schedule released by the Vidhan Sabha, the Budget session will begin with Governor Bandaru Dattatreya delivering the address on March 2.After a discussion on the Governor’s address for two days, there will be voting on the Motion of Thanks on March 4. After the Budget on March 7, the Vidhan Sabha will take a break for six days and resume with a discussion on the estimates for three days from March 14 to 16.After a further break for four days, there will be voting on the Budget estimates on March 21. The last day of the session, March 22, will be reserved for legislative business. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/budget-session-from-march-2-373736
28-02-2022||Chandigarh||Indians stuck in Ukraine: Haryana in touch with Ministry of External Affairs||The state is in touch with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to bring back the youth stuck in Ukraine.To date, 700 youth have been brought to India. Right now, the government is trying to bring back more students via Romania, Hungary and Poland. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar shared this information while interacting with mediapersons at the 38th state-level Livestock Exhibition held at Bhiwani.Responding to questions regarding expensive medical education, the CM said the PM had urged private colleges to reduce the fee of courses so that Indian youth don’t have to go aboard for studies. Over 12 medical colleges are being built in the state. The government would try to open moresuch colleges, he said. — #indians in ukraine #Khattar #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manohar-lal-khattar-haryana-in-touch-with-ministry-of-external-affairs-373734
28-02-2022||Mahendragarh||Rao Inderjit’s daughter Aarti Rao to contest poll||Elections to test BJP, JJP tiesAmbala: Already strained relationship between leaders of the BJP and the JJP will be further tested during the upcoming local body polls. Leaders of both the parties, especially at the grassroots level, are eyeing top posts in poll-bound municipal committees and councils. They have started holding workers’ as well closed-door meetings to discuss poll strategies. While the BJP has already started sending its senior leaders to meet workers, assess the situation and start a campaign, leaders of the JJP will be marking their presence soon in the field.Covid could dampen mela spiritFaridabad: The announcement to hold this year’s Surajkund International Craft Mela between March 19 and April 4 is not only a signal of the state government’s move to open all activities that had come to a standstill due to the ongoing Covid pandemic, but also points to a kind of obsession of the authorities concerned to organise an event despite the virus threat. “Holding mela at delayed timings is quite surprising as there is hardly any pressing need for such an event,” claim sources in the local administration. “The proposed mela timings not only clashes with the annual school examinations, but also with the tight schedule of the majority of government and private offices, which are busy in clearing pending works and closing budget at the end of the financial year,” the sources added. “Start of the harvesting period, rising day temperatures and the persistent Covid- 19 threat could prove a damper for the event, which will require a handsome budget,” said an official of the district administration.DC’s instructions taken lightlyYamunanagar: The people of twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri are continuously demanding repair of damaged roads. Even Deputy Commissioner (DC) Parth Gupta has also written twice to the authorities of the Municipal Corporation, Public Works and other departments concerned in the past one month in this connection. So far, there has not been much improvement in the bad condition of roads. Now, local residents have started saying that it seems that the MC authorities, the PWD and other departments concerned have started taking even DC’s instructions too lightly.Contributed by: Ravinder Saini, Nitish Sharma, Bijendra Ahlawat and Shiv Kumar Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rao-inderjits-daughter-aarti-rao-to-contest-poll-373733
28-02-2022||Chandigarh||20 lakh kids administered polio drops in Haryana||The national immunisation (NID) round of the pulse polio 2020-21 started today in all districts of the state. Booth activity was undertaken on the first day of the drive to maintain the polio free status of the state.An official spokesperson said 36 lakh children would be covered during the campaign, which would continue for another two days. On first day, 20 lakh (55 per cent) children under five years of age were administered polio drops. Around 30,000 health teams have been constituted for the campaign. As many as 1,500 mobile teams will cover children in underserved and poorly approachable areas. The remaining children, who were unable to receive polio drops, would be administered vaccine tomorrow and on March 1. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-lakh-kids-administered-polio-drops-in-haryana-373727
28-02-2022||Bhiwani||Manohar Lal Khattar tells farmers to use less fertilisers||The Haryana Chief Minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, announced to double the budget of medicines of the Animal Husbandry Department. Addressing the 38th state-level livestock exhibition in Bhiwani today, the CM said more programmes would be implemented to improve the breed of milch animals. "The promotion of animal husbandry and livestock rearing will help eradicate unemployment and increase income of farmers,” he added.“Being a farmer myself, I understand the pain and problems of farmers. Efforts are being made to increase farmers’ income,” he said. “Promotion of cattle rearing will improve milk production in Haryana. Those selling spurious milk will not be spared,” he added. While appealing to farmers to reduce the use of chemical fertilisers and pesticides, the CM said the government would organise a conference on zero budget farming.Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said the livestock exhibition was successfully organised after two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. — #farmers #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manohar-lal-khattar-tells-farmers-to-use-less-fertilisers-373725
28-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Started in 2018, Karnal physiotherapy college yet to hire regular teaching staff||Karnal, February 27More than three years after the start of the first session, the Physiotherapy College, a part of the under-construction Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayaya University of Health Sciences in Kutail village of Karnal, is still awaiting the regular faculty.TEMPORARY ARRANGEMENT MADEAn associate professor along with four faculty members of the KCGMC physiotherapy department and two from Panchkula are teaching students. Besides, the staff from other departments — preventive and social medicine, anatomy, surgery, physiology and biochemistry — have also been roped in. Dr Jagdish Dureja, director-cum-controlling officer, Kalpana Chawla govt medical collegeAs per the officials, the recruitment rules for regular faculty are yet to be finalised. Notably, the state government had sanctioned 13 posts of the faculty, including one of professor, two of associate professors, four of assistant professors and six of lecturers, which are lying vacant. Only a contractual associate professor has been given the charge for teaching so far.The authorities, however, claimed four faculty members of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) and two from the Physiotherapy Department of Panchkula had been deputed to teach the students.Moreover, unavailability of the regular staff has forced students to protest. They staged a dharna for three days on the KCGMC premises to press for their demands, including regular faculty, classes from the college building and hostel facility among others.As per the information gathered by The Tribune, the state government had started the academic session for 40 seats of BSc (Nursing) and 30 seats of BSc (Physiotherapy) courses temporarily from the KCGMC building in November 2018.The work for both the colleges was started in April 2018 at Kutail village. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had inaugurated both the colleges, constructed at the cost of around Rs31 crore, on September 12, 2019. The building was handed over to the KCGMC in January 2020.Owing to the Covid-induced lockdown, online classes were being conducted. Now, physical classes have been started from the new college building at Kutail village from January 2022.“We don’t have regular faculty here. The college building at Kutail village is over 10 km away from Karnal city. At the time of admission, we were assured of the hostel and bus facilities, but nothing has been provided by the authorities so far. We also demand safety in the new building,” said a student.Another students said, “The temporary staff hasbeen forcing us to take online classes. We want regular classes. If our demands are not met, we will continue with our protest.”“Our major demand is of regular faculty, which should be appointed,” said a 2019-batch student.Meanwhile, Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director-cum-Controlling Officer, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, said students had been demanding regular faculty, for which the recruitment rules were being framed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/started-in-2018-karnal-physiotherapy-college-yet-to-hire-regular-teaching-staff-373721
28-02-2022||Ravinder Saini||Treated water to irrigate 1,600 acres in 3 Rohtak villages||Rohtak, February 27The district administration has come up with an ambitious project to provide treated water to three villages – Kanhaili, Sunariya and Mayna – in the district. The water would be supplied through pipelines from the sewage treatment plant (STP) in Sunariya village.“A total 1,600 acres of agriculture land has been identified in three villages for the project. Since the ground water in these villages is salty, farmers use drain water to irrigate their fields,” said Parmod Sharma, Executive Engineer, Irrigation Department.He maintained that tenders had been invited to execute the project. “The project is part of the District Water Resources Plan and will cost Rs37 crore,” he added. “Majority of farmers have given consent to execute the project in their villages,” he added.Mahendra Pal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), Rohtak, said, “A plan has been chalked out to conserve water and provide it in every part of the district.”Manoj Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Rohtak, said the project would prove a milestone and officials had been asked to ensure its completion at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/treated-water-to-irrigate-1-600-acres-in-3-rohtak-villages-373717
28-02-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Nuh court failed to consider 'bail, not jail' rule for juveniles||Chandigarh, February 27The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that a court of an Additional Sessions Judge in Nuh had failed to take into consideration Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000, which says bail, and not jail, is the rule.Justice Vikas Bahl asserted: “A perusal of the impugned order will show that the provisions of Section 12 of the Act had not even been considered and it was not even remotely observed therein that the case of the appellant is covered by any of the exceptions. The appellant was 16 years old on the day of the alleged incident.”The assertion by Justice Bahl came in a case, where a juvenile in custody since July 24, 2019, was denied bail. The Bench took note of the fact that a co-accused in the case, an adult on the date of the alleged incident, had already been granted regular bail by a coordinate Bench of the court, vide order dated November 16, 2021, and his custody period was lesser than that of the appellant.Justice Bahl, during the course of hearing, was told that an FIR in the matter was registered for murder, attempt to murder and other offences under Sections 148, 149, 323, 342, 506, 307 and 302 of the IPC at the Rozka Meo police station in Nuh district.The counsel for the appellant-juvenile told Justice Bahl’s Bench that neither any specific injury was attributed to him, nor was he stated to be armed with any specific weapon. The dispute was between two persons and the injuries on the victim’s head were inflicted by a co-accused. It was also submitted that there were 11 accused. The present appellant was nominated on the pretext of being the son of one of the accused.Justice Bahl asserted Section 12’s perusal showed that bail was the rule and not jail in a juvenile’s case. The same was to be refused only in case the court came to the conclusion, on the basis of material, that the case was covered under three exceptions mentioned in Section 12 of the Act.Among other things, the Section says bail can be declined only in case a juvenile’s release was likely to bring him in association with known criminals, expose him to moral, physical or physiological danger, or where his release will defeat the ends of justice.Granting bail to him, Justice Bahl referred to the cases of giving relief, where allegations against the petitioner-juveniles were of inflicting injuries. Allowing the plea, Justice Bahl added the trial was likely to take a long time, in view of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-nuh-court-failed-to-consider-bail-not-jail-rule-for-juveniles-373712
28-02-2022||Ambala||Ambala lab owner discharged in data manipulation case||A court of Judicial Magistrate First Class has discharged owner Dr Vasu Dogra and staffer Govinda who were booked for alleged discrepancies in reporting Covid cases at Dogra Path Lab.A raid had been conducted by a team of the Health Department in April last year and Dogra Path Lab in Ambala City was sealed.In a police complaint, the raiding team had stated that taking cognisance regarding a sting operation conducted with reference to the manipulation of the report of Covid patients as per the requirement of clients, a raid was conducted. The record, which was supposed to be in a register, was found in loose paper form, which was clearly indicative of mala fide intentions of the lab owner.Moreover, as shown in the sting operation, the centre was providing negative reports to clients as per the client’s requirement. A case was registered at Sector-9 police station. The order read: “After going through the case file, the court is of the view that prosecution even failed to establish prima facie case against accused. Therefore, they are hereby discharged. Their bail bonds also stand discharged.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-lab-owner-discharged-in-data-manipulation-case-373709
28-02-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar: Transport wing to be set up in govt schools||Chandigarh, February 27Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar presided over a meeting of the School Education Department.During the meeting, the Chief Minister said transport facilities should be provided to the students of government schools of villages located at far-off places. For this, a school transport wing should be established and a teacher should be made the nodal officer of the wing, he added.The Chief Minister said depending on the number of students in the respective schools, arrangement of small and large vehicles could be made accordingly.He said no eligible student would be denied admission under Rule 134A in the new academic session. “Apart from this, the state government is also going to increase the number of model Sanskriti schools. Such students can also be admitted in such schools offering state-of-the-art facilities,” he added.For students from far-off placesDuring the meeting, the Chief Minister said transport facilities should be provided to the students of government schools of villages located at far-off places. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-transport-wing-to-be-set-up-in-govt-schools-373706
28-02-2022||Nitish Sharma||Ambala: Repair of approach road to flyover hits hurdle||Ambala, February 27Commuters and locals will have to wait more to use an approach road leading to Umrao Singh Flyover (earlier known as Kali Platoon railway bridge) as the project to repair the important link is set to be delayed. The work to repair the approach road has hit a hurdle due to design-related issues and now it is being redesigned.Lying closed for over three yearsThe approach road has been lying closed for over three years now. It will be beneficial for people if the approach road is repaired soon. It will not only save time of thousands of commuters but also the costly fuel. Rohit Garg, residentIn October 2018, a section of the approach road caved in after the soil along its retaining wall was removed, and then the road was closed for commuters. A tender was awarded in August last year by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to repair the section at a cost of around Rs 1.40 crore, and the work was expected to be completed in six months.Ravinder Singh, a local resident, said, “It links a road along the Ambala-Chandigarh highway with the flyover which connects two parts of Ambala Cantonment. If you are travelling on the national highway and you need to approach the flyover then you have to enter the busy areas of Ambala Cantonment and then reach the flyover while if the approach road is available then you can conveniently use it to reach the flyover from the national highway.”Rohit Garg, another resident, said, “The approach road has been lying closed for over three years now. It will be beneficial for all the people if the approach road is repaired soon. It will not only save time of thousands of commuters but also the costly fuel.”A senior official at the National Highways Authority of India in Ambala, said, “A tender was awarded and the road was to be repaired at a cost around Rs 1.40 crore. But during the excavation work some issues related to its design and weight-bearing capacity were observed, the agency is getting it redesigned. The project was expected to end in February but now we have to wait for the new design. Only after getting the new design the NHAI will be able to tell how much more time it will take for the completion of the work. It may have some implications on the cost of the project too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/repair-of-approach-road-to-flyover-hits-hurdle-373702
28-02-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Land acquisition process for Eastern Bypass begins||Karnal, February 27The process of land acquisition for the Eastern Bypass project has started. The rates of the identified land are likely to be finalised by March 15, said an official.The 34.5km Eastern Bypass and third phase of the Western Bypass, are part of the outer ring road of the city and ambitious project of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, which is being constructed under the Bharatmala Pariyojana aimed at easing traffic congestion in the city and NH-44, as well as ensuring smooth connectivity, reducing travel time, and also boosting development works in the villages along it.Process of fixing land value award to beginWe are now going to start the process of fixing the land value award. I have asked the DRO to start the process. We are hopeful the work will start on this project soon. Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.Nearly 231 hectares is required for this stretch between Shamgarh and Bijana villages through Dadupur, Jhanjhari, Kurali, Darar, Salaru, Taprana, Danialpur, Newal, Kunjpura, Subri, Chhapara Khera, Sohana, Sheikhpura, Ranwar, Ganogarhi, Kutail, Unchasamana, Kharkali, Jhinwerheri and Samalkha villages. Out of this required land, the process of Section 3 D of land acquisition under the National Highways Act, 1956 of around 213 hectares has been completed, while in 18 hectares, the process under Section 3-A has been completed. Under Section 3D, the land is finalised individually based on khasra number, while in Section 3 A, the land is earmarked, said Shyam Lal, District Revenue Officer (DRO).“The gazette notification of the earmarked and finalised land has been published. The process of hearing objections and suggestions is going on. We are now going to start the process of fixing the land value award. I have asked the DRO to start the process,” said Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.“We are hopeful the work will start on this project soon,” said the DC.This project is a step of the government to boost road infrastructure in the district. This bypass will be of six-lanes and the width of the road will be 60 meters, the DC said, adding that it will reduce the traffic burden and help in streamlining the traffic congestion. “It will also reduce the pollution in the city as a majority of the vehicles will pass from outside the city,” said the DC.The DC said the first phase of the Western Bypass is already functional, while the work on the second phase is about to start. The third phase of the Western Bypass will be connected with the Eastern Bypass near the Bastara toll plaza. The Eastern Bypass will also give direct connectivity to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayaya University of Health Sciences, Karnal, in Kutail village.TO GIVE DIRECT CONNECTIVITY TO UNIVERSITYThe Eastern Bypass will also give direct connectivity to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayaya University of Health Sciences, Karnal, in Kutail village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-acquisition-process-for-eastern-bypass-begins-373700
28-02-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Pool  ‘scam’ comes to fore at Murthal tech varsity||Sonepat, February 27An alleged scam in the construction of a swimming pool in Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University for Science and Technology (DCRUST) at Murthal has reportedly come to the fore. RTI activist PP Kapoor had filed a complaint regarding the embezzlement of lakhs of rupees with the State Vigilance Bureau eight months ago but to no avail.XEN denies allegationsNo govt funds have been embezzled. The equipment was installed as per the specifications of the tender pact and approved by the committee. Some people are knowingly raising the issues to defame the university. Balbir Singh Sheokand, XEN, Construction WingHe had alleged construction division officials were involved in corruption and they installed substandard equipment at a higher cost, which caused revenue loss to the government.Kapoor had also filed a complaint to the Governor-cum-Chancellor of the DCRUST, Vice Chancellor and the University Grants Commission (UGC) Chairman in April last year.After inaction, the complainant, in December last year, approached the State Information Commissioner (SIC), who served notices to three officials of the Director, Technical Education Department.Kapoor, in his complaint, had said a swimming pool was under-construction near gate number 1 of the DCRUST at the estimated cost of Rs 5.50 crore, received from the UGC and the state government.“As per the condition mentioned in the tender agreement, three filters of Pragya Model 2,000-mm diameter (total anti-corrosive bobin wound filter) costing Rs 10.82 lakh per piece was to be installed in the swimming pool. Even the construction division officials had mentioned the same filters in their measurement book,” the RTI activist said.“But the filters mentioned in the tender agreement weren’t installed. Instead, the filters of Emaux company costing Rs 3.20 lakh per piece were installed,” the complainant added.Kapoor further alleged the actual cost of installed filters was only Rs 9.60 lakh but a payment of Rs 32.36 lakh had been made to the contractor by the construction wing of the university. “Besides, other materials like PVC pipes and valve batteries, etc were also installed on very high rates in comparison to the market prices.”The RTI activist alleged the complaint was filed in last April with all evidence and relevant documents but no action had been initiated so far. In July last year, he filed an RTI to get the details about the action initiated into the matter by the Directors, Higher Education,and Technical Education and Vigilance, but he received no reply. After almost eight months, Kapoor approached the SIC and filed a complaint against the State Public Information Officers (SPIOs) concerned of the departments.Now, SIC Yashpal Singhal has served notices to the SPIOs of all three departments and summoned them for March 8 to file a reply.Meanwhile, Balbir Singh Sheokand, XEN, construction wing, refuted the allegations about any embezzlement of government funds.‘Substandard equipment installed’In his complaint to the State Vigilance Bureau, RTI activist PP Kapoor alleged construction division officials were involved in corruption and they installed substandard equipment at a higher cost, which caused revenue loss to the government||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pool-scam-comes-to-fore-at-murthal-tech-varsity-373695
28-02-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana mulls third-party audit of new buildings||Chandigarh, February 27The certification exercise for structural fitness of buildings will no longer be left entirely to the developer with the Haryana Government planning to introduce an independent third-party audit before giving the occupation certificate (OC) to a building.The collapse at Chintels Paradiso in Gurugram has forced the Town and Country Planning Department to rethink its decision of completely relying on self-certification by the developers who were extended this facility to cut down delays in project approvals.Sources said the new system would be a mix of self-certification and government intervention whereby audits will be introduced to ensure compliance of regulations.They said the department would empanel structural engineers to carry out this audit or outsource it to reputed institutions while also creating in-house capacity.“Gurugram has a number of ageing buildings. We are proposing that the structural audit be carried out at three stages — when the building is under construction, after its completion and then review of aging buildings on regular intervals,” said Devender Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (Town and Country Planning).Eight institutions, including IIT-Delhi and IIT-Roorkee, were being considered for empanelment for the purpose, he said, adding a team from IIT-Delhi was already carrying out the audit at Chintels.Gurugram DTP (Enforcement) RS Batth said no government agency was involved with auditing the structural strength of the buildings so far. Earlier, Gurugram MP Rao Indrajeet Singh, while chairing a meeting following the Chintels collapse, had suggested that the department drew up a panel of structural engineers for the developers to choose rather than leaving it entirely to them to pick someone independently.Tough approval norms on cards #gurugram building collapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-mulls-third-party-audit-of-new-buildings-373692
28-02-2022||---||Faridabad principal held over suicide by Class X boy||Gurugram, February 27Days after a Class X dyslexic student of a Faridabad-based private school allegedly died by suicide, the police today arrested the principal for “abetting” the same.The boy had accused the headmistress of harassment in his “suicide note”. He had also accused several students of bullying him. Sources claimed names of at least eight students had come up.“We have arrested the principal and identified a few students who were reportedly bullying the victim,” an official said. The victim had allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the top floor of his residential society. #faridabad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-principal-held-over-suicide-by-class-x-boy-373638
28-02-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Suicide by dyslexic student: Faridabad school principal arrested||Gurugram, February 27A day after a class-10 dyslexic student of a private school in Faridabad committed suicide, police on Sunday arrested the school principal on abetment charges.In a purported suicide note, the boy had accused the headmistress of private school in Sector 81 of harassment. He, in a letter left for his mother, had also accused students of constantly bullying him.Give the sensitivity of the matter, police are keeping investigation details a secret, even as highly placed officials have confirmed the arrest.Sources claimed that names of eight students too have been added to the list of suspects, while four have already left the school.“We have nabbed the principal and have zeroed in on few students accused of bullying and harassment,” an official said.The deceased had jumped from the top floor of his residential society after being allegedly harassed by school principal and bullied in school.As per the complaint an FIR was registered against headmistress and school management under Sections 306 (abatement to suicide), 34 (common intention) of IPC at BPTP police station.The boy’s mother had shared details of his diary and jottings from notebooks where he had reportedly highlighted how he became “school-phobic owing to constant bullying and even sexual harassment in 2020”. Though allegations of sexual harassment have not been added to the evidence list so far. #bullying #dyslexic||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/suicide-by-dyslexic-student-faridabad-school-principal-arrested-373633
28-02-2022||Vijay Mohan||New rules do not alter representation or benefits of member states, says BBMB||Chandigarh, February 27After new rules notified by the central government for the appointment of two top functionaries of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) kicked up a controversy, the board on Sunday said the representation of all the four BBMB member states is secured and they continue having equal representation on the board as well as getting the existing benefits.BBMB is a statutory body constituted under The Punjab Re-Organisation Act, 1966, that manages the water resources of the Sutlej and Beas and controls hydro power stations located on these rivers. It consists of a whole-time Chairman and two whole-time members designated as Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power), appointed by the Central government.A representative each member state—Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh – is nominated by the respective state government.As per convention, Member (Irrigation) and Member (Power) were appointed from senior engineers serving in the state of Punjab and Haryana. New rules allowed appointment of engineers serving in any state across the country.A section of stakeholders had contended that the new rules drastically reduce the chances of aspirants from Punjab and Haryana to be appointed to these two posts, which may adversely affect the interests of these states. Political leaders across various parties too had voiced similar concerns.Pointing out that the structure of BBMB remains unchanged and no previously existing member has been dropped and no new member has been added, an official statement issued today said, “The recently notified rules only specify the technical qualifications required for the functional members -- Power and Irrigation -- in BBMB. The notified rules comply with the directions of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in Jagmohan Singh Vs Union of India and others.”“Earlier, neither The Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, nor BBMB Rules, 1974, specified the eligibility criteria, necessary qualification or relevant experience for appointment to the post of whole-time members in BBMB. The new rules will help ascertain the suitability of the candidate for appointment of members,” the statement added.The power and Irrigation benefits accruing to the member states on pre-determined percentages also remain unchanged.Rules notified by the Ministry of Power on February 23 state that the posts of the Chairman and whole-time members shall be filled on deputation or direct recruitment basis with the approval of the Appointment Committee of Cabinet.The Member (Irrigation) is required to be a civil engineering with minimum 20 years of regular experience of which at least three years should be as head of a project involved in construction and operation of a large dam having minimum 50m height and 300m length, or a barrage of minimum 15m height and 350m length or a canal network with water carrying capacity of minimum 1,000 cusecs.The Member (Power) should be an electrical or mechanical engineer with minimum 20 years experience and at least three years as head of a project involved in construction and operation of large hydro electric projects above 200 MW capacity or minimum 500 circuit kilometres transmission line of 132kV and above. #bbmb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-rules-do-not-alter-representation-or-benefits-of-member-states-says-bbmb-373628
