01-08-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Kejriwal meets AAP Punjab MLAs, discusses strategy for upcoming assembly polls, farmers’ issues||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal met his party’s MLAs from Punjab on Sunday and discusses matters related to next year’s assembly polls and the ongoing farmers’ protest.According to a statement issued by the Punjab unit of the AAP in Chandigarh, the meeting with the AAP MLAs at the chief minister’s Delhi residence lasted for about three hours.Punjab AAP state president Bhagwant Mann, who is MP from Sangrur, and Leader of Opposition in Punjab, Harpal Singh Cheema, were present.After the meeting, Mann said the AAP’s chief minister face for Punjab will be announced soon.Kejriwal met all the party MLAs from the state and discussed in detail how the AAP’s policies could be taken to every voter in Punjab, he said.“Kejriwal discussed party strength at booth level and roadmap and strategy regarding assembly elections. We discussed what would be the blueprint for the polls,” he told reporters in Delhi.According to the party statement, Kejriwal held discussion regarding the assembly elections and sought detailed suggestions for strengthening the farmers’ movement.When contacted, a senior party leader from Punjab said one MLA said that the party should soon declare its chief ministerial candidate.During his Amritsar visit last month, Kejriwal had announced that the party’s chief ministerial face for the 2022 polls will be from the Sikh community.Giving special directions to all the MLAs, Kejriwal said the farmers’ movement should be supported at all levels, said the party statement.“He said today the ‘annadatas’ (farmers) of the country were forced to fight for their land and existence; but the Narendra Modi-led central government is not giving up its stubborn stance, which is reprehensible.”          “He reiterated that the Union government should immediately repeal the anti-agriculture ‘black’ laws and should not introduce the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2021, in Parliament,” said the party statement.During the meeting, the support given by the AAP government to the farmers’ movement and the voice raised by Mann in favour of the farmers inside and outside Parliament was highly appreciated.Kejriwal said that everyone is well aware of various mafia, which allegedly flourished during the rule of previous SAD-BJP and the present Congress regime.He said the people of Punjab were eagerly waiting for the polls to oust the Congress from power and keep the SAD and its erstwhile ally BJP at bay.In the meeting, Kejriwal advised the AAP Punjab MLAs and the entire leadership to go door-to-door to tell the people about the development-oriented policies of the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi.If AAP comes to power in Punjab, it is committed to make Punjab a prosperous state again. Also, Kejriwal gave many examples of Delhi’s development model to the Punjab leadership, said the statement.     Party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha, Deputy Leader of Opposition in Punjab Saravjit Kaur Manuke, and MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Principal Budh Ram, Aman Arora, Baljinder Kaur, Jai Kishan Singh Rodi, Manjit Singh Bilaspur, Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Kulwant Singh Pandori, Master Baldev Singh Jaito, Amarjit Singh Sandoa were present in the meeting. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-meets-aap-punjab-mlas-discusses-strategy-for-upcoming-assembly-polls-farmers-issues-291430
01-08-2021||Abohar||Firing case: 2 held in Abohar||Two accomplices of miscreants who shot at a petrol pump owner to steal cash in Sriganganagar on Thursday night have been arrested. SP Rajan Dushyant said Mohit (19) and Monu Sain (18) were nabbed after examining CCTV footage. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firing-case-2-held-in-abohar-291195
01-08-2021||Amritsar||SI, ASI booked under NDPS Act in Amritsar||Following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana HC, the Amritsar rural police have booked a Sub Inspector and an Assistant Sub Inspector under the NDPS Act for “unnecessarily searching, detaining and arresting” a person.They were identified as SI Satish Kumar of the Lopoke police station and ASI Rajpal of the Kakkar police Chowki. The case pertains to the seizure of tramadol capsules from four persons a year ago. The police had arrested Kulwinder Singh, Jugraj Singh among four persons. Kulwinder had moved the HC, alleging he was picked up from a filling station at Manawala where he was buying petrol on July 8, 2020. He said Jugraj and others were already in the police vehicle. Next day, he said, he was booked under the NDPS Act, showing a recovery of 5,000 tramadol capsules. Amritsar rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khuranna said they were booked under Section 58 of the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/si-asi-booked-under-ndps-act-in-amritsar-291194
01-08-2021||---||4 BSF officers to head jails||Chandigarh, July 31After deputing some battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) for security, the Punjab Jails Department today posted four officers of the Border Security Force (BSF) as superintendents of central jails in four districts.This is the first time officers from the BSF or any central security force have been posted as the head of jails in Punjab, said ADGP Jails PK Sinha.Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said officers from the BSF had been taken on deputation to upgrade the management and security. Also, Punjab Police officials were reluctant to come on deputation with the jails department.As many as 33 officers, including 10 jail superintendents, were given new postings in the department. Others transferred included additional jail superintendents, deputy superintendents and parole officers.The BSF officers posted as jail superintendents are Surinder Singh (Central Jail, Ferozepore); Parvinder Singh (Amritsar); Rajinder Singh Hundal (Gurdaspur) and Joginder Pal (Faridkot). Officers from the jail cadre given the new postings are Iqbal Singh Dhaliwal (Central Jail, Bathinda), Manjit Singh Tiwana (Hoshiarpur), Arvinderpal Singh Bhatti (Maximum Security Jail, Nabha); Rahul Raj (Open Jail, Nabha), Lalit Kohli (New District Jail; Nabha) and Baldev Singh Kang (Special Jail, Bathinda).2 Pak intruders shot||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-bsf-officers-to-head-jails-291192
01-08-2021||Aman Sood||Congress man accuses Patiala Mayor of ‘shielding’ mafia, writes to Navjot Singh Sidhu||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 31A senior Congress leader has approached PCC chief Navjot Sidhu to investigate alleged corrupt deals of Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu — considered close to the CM family.However, Bittu has denied the allegations as baseless and politically motivated.In a letter to Sidhu, Punsup vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu has accused Bittu of shielding “illegal building mafia and colonisers”. “Already the morale of Congress workers in Patiala is low and many of them plan to quit the party due to massive corruption led by the Mayor. His assets need to be probed,” he wrote.“We have high hopes from Sidhu as the CM’s inaccessibility has led to such a situation where a selective close coterie to New Moti Bagh Palace is running a parallel, but corrupt government,” he said. “I have served the Congress for over 50 years, just like my father. I will not quit the party but will continue to fight corruption. I have urged Sidhu to get to the bottom of the scandal, involving a few officers of the corporation, and remove the Mayor to prevent Congressmen exodus before the polls,” he told The Tribune.He also showed resentment against party leaders for ignoring him as he was the senior-most municipal councillor of the city and was winning the local bodies election since 1992. “I am facing discrimination within the party. I still believe Capt will do justice, but the fact that we are not allowed to meet him means that only a handful of Patiala coterie inform him what suits them and hence the average Congressman suffers,” he said.However, Bittu said the allegations were politically motivated as he was a contender for the ticket in 2022. “My rivals are trying to play dirty politics, without any proof. Funds allocated by the government through us are spent by the officers. There is no way I can be held responsible for it,” Bittu said, warning to file a defamation case against Budhu. All efforts to contact Sidhu proved futile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-man-accuses-patiala-mayor-of-shielding-mafia-writes-to-navjot-singh-sidhu-291191
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Veteran athlete Mann Kaur dies at 105||Once the face of Fit India Movement, internationally acclaimed veteran athlete Mann Kaur breathed her last at the age of 105 today. She died of liver cancer at a hospital here.Mann Kaur, who took to athletics at the age of 93, received the Nari Shakti Puraskar from the President at the age of 103. In 2016, she was declared the fastest centenarian at a competition in the American Masters Games. In 2019, she won four events — shot put, 60m sprint, 200m race and javelin throw — in her age category at the World Masters Athletics Championships in Poland. She won more than 25 medals at the veteran athletics championship.Popular as Bebe Mann Kaur, she stayed mostly in Canada and for some months every year at her son’s house in Chandigarh. After she won a marathon event in Patiala in 2016, the organisers provided her lodging in Hotel Neemrana, renovated version of famed Rajindra Kothi of Patiala Kings. She stayed in the Maharani’s room.“I was staying in room number 1 of the hotel, the place where the Maharani lived. I relived my whole life in a blink,” she told The Tribune in an interview in 2016.During her younger days, Mann Kaur served as a member of the royal staff. “My father was a cook in the royal kitchen. I was later married to a cook in his team,” she recalled. Her son moved to Canada after Independence. He was the first to participate in veteran athletics in Canada at the age of 78.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/veteran-athlete-mann-kaur-dies-at-105-291043
01-08-2021||---||Key suspect in Patti double murder case ‘linked’ to Canada drug cartel||Amritsar, July 31The prime suspect in the Patti double murder case, Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, has alleged links with the international drug racket busted by the Canadian police in a yearlong operation in April, claim the Punjab Police. Of the 30 persons nabbed in the operation, 25 are of Punjab origin.The Tarn Taran police had recently put forward a case of issuing a red corner notice against him to Bureau of Investigation, Punjab, which was sent to the CBI for taking up the matter with Interpol.“We have found evidence that Landa and his associates had links with the drug cartel busted by the Canadian police. Among the Punjab origin persons nabbed by them, several belonged to the Makhu area of Ferozepur,” said Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale.In the report, the police claimed Landa fled to Canada just before he was convicted in a criminal case in 2017. He was sponsored by his sister Sukhraj Kaur, who lives in Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/key-suspect-in-patti-double-murder-case-linked-to-canada-drug-cartel-291189
01-08-2021||---||Schools to open for all classes from tomorrow in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31The state government has announced opening all schools from Monday.The schools will open after a gap of almost one-and-a-half years. As per the new Covid guidelines issued by the government, all schools are allowed to open for all classes from August 2. The government has said the schools shall follow proper protocol to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. The Department of School Education has been asked to issue instructions in this regard.Apart from that, restrictions imposed on July 20 have been extendedup to August 10.Besides, the district authorities have been asked to continue to ensure strict implementation of all the directives of the state government on Covid-appropriate behavior, including social distancing and wearing of face masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schools-to-open-for-all-classes-from-tomorrow-in-punjab-291188
01-08-2021||Chandigarh||Extend help to flood-hit in Punjab: Shiromani Akali Dal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to review the crisis which had come in Moonak with the flooding of thousands of acres of land besides initiating relief measures immediately.SAD Kisan Wing president Sikander Singh Maluka said the government had not deputed any relief teams to affected villages and asked the Chief Minister to take control of the situation before it worsens further. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extend-help-to-flood-hit-in-punjab-shiromani-akali-dal-291146
01-08-2021||Bathinda||Bid to gherao Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal in Bathinda||Contract employees of various departments, who have been demanding regularisation, today tried to gherao Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, but were stopped by the police on the way.Due to the barricading, they could not move forward and sat on a dharna near a private college where Manpreet had come to attend a function. The employees continued to raise slogans against the Finance Minister for almost two hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-gherao-finance-minister-manpreet-singh-badal-in-bathinda-291124
01-08-2021||---||Non-teaching employees in Punjab demand regular jobs||Bathinda, July 31Members of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) Mid-day Meal Non-teaching Staff Union staged a protest in front of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s office on Saturday.In a novel protest to express their resentment, the protesters carried bags of salt, conveying that the government had “rubbed salt into their wounds”.The protesters raised slogans against the state government and demanded regularisation of services of non-teaching staff recruited under the SSA/RMSA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-teaching-employees-in-punjab-demand-regular-jobs-291106
01-08-2021||Karam Prakash & Archit Watts||Kamalpreet Kaur 5th athlete from Punjab to enter Olympics final||Tribune News ServicePatiala/Lambi, July 31Discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur has become the fifth athlete from Punjab to qualify for the final of an athletics event at the Olympics with a throw of 64 metre today.Gurbachan Singh Randhawa had finished fifth in the 110m hurdles’ final at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics, four years after Flying Sikh Milkha Singh reached the final and finished fourth in 400m. Rajwinder Kaur and Manjit Kaur, as part of the 4x400 m relay team, had reached the final of the 2000 games.Previous finalistsTalking to The Tribune over the phone, Kamalpreet said she would give it her best shot in the final. “I was a bit nervous in the qualifying rounds since this is my first Olympics,” she admitted. Her father Kuldeep Singh, a marginal farmer, said: “I am overwhelmed. I spoke to her over the phone and congratulated her. I am sure she will make the country proud in the final on August 2.”“Kamalpreet once got the fourth position at the state level. After her Class X, she developed keen interest in sports. We visited the SAI’s centre at Badal village, but by that time the trials were over. On our request, she was allowed to play. She started practising shot put before switching to discus throw,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kamalpreet-kaur-5th-athlete-from-punjab-to-enter-olympics-final-291098
01-08-2021||Talwandi Sabo||Vijay Sampla faces farmers’ ire in Talwandi Sabo||Farmers today gheraoed senior BJP leader Vijay Sampla’s convoy in Bathinda.Sampla’s convoy was passing through Talwandi Sabo when farmers started a protest on the road. The situation became tense when the police used force to remove the farmers. As per information, Sampla was to go to nearby Dadu village in Haryana to meet HSGPC president Baljit Singh Daduwal.The farmers, who later gathered under the leadership of BKU (Ugrahan) block president Binder Singh Jogewala, accused the police of using force and slammed the administration, saying the government in Punjab was hand in glove with the BJP. It is learnt that due to the protest, Sampla, instead of going to Dadu village, diverted towards Sirsa in Haryana and his meeting could not take place today. The Haryana Police have filed an FIR against 21 persons by name and 600-700 unidentified persons for staging a protest outside Daduwal's residence. — TNSMittal’s car ‘attacked’Anandpur Sahib: A large number of farmers staged a protest when senior BJP leader Madan Mohan Mittal visited Rampur Jhajjar village on Saturday. The farmers blocked the way and allegedly hit Mittal’s car with sticks when he was leaving the spot after holding a meeting with BJP workers around 6.30 pm. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vijay-sampla-faces-farmers-ire-in-talwandi-sabo-291053
01-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu pays tribute to martyr in Fatehgarh Sahib||Newly appointed PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu paid tribute to Shaheed Udham Singh on his martyrdom day at a memorial situated at Rauza Sharif here today.“The communities and nations that forget and don’t respect their martyrs cannot make progress and their future is not safe,” he said, remembering the sacrifice of the martyr, who avenged the Jallianwala Bagh massacre by assassinating General Michael O’ Dwyer in London.He called upon people to take a pledge to wage a war against social evils and build a healthy society by maintaining communal harmony. The PPCC president was on a whirlwind tour of the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency represented by PCC working president Kuljit Nagra. Sidhu refused to address the media but agreed to answer non-political queries. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-president-navjot-singh-sidhu-pays-tribute-to-martyr-in-fatehgarh-sahib-291041
01-08-2021||Sunam||Attempt to gatecrash Punjab CM’s function foiled||With CM Capt Amarinder Singh scheduled to reach Sunam in Sangrur district today to inaugurate a memorial dedicated to freedom fighter Udham Singh, protesters gathered near the venue to express their anguish against the state government.But the police, to avoid chaos, shifted the helipad where the CM was expected to land, from the Sunam grain market to the Mansa road last night. However, senior officers kept it a highly guarded secret.Expecting the CM’s arrival at the grain market, anganwari workers blocked the ITI Chowk, MGNREGA workers staged a protest around 150 metre from the memorial, while family members of freedom fighters blocked the road near the memorial.The police opposed the protesters to pose as if the CM would land at the grain market, but the CM landed on the Mansa road and reached the venue and left without any problem.Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said: “We only prevented the protesters from reaching inside the venue.” The CM announced that his government would soon construct a memorial as a befitting tribute to the countless unsung heroes who laid down their lives. — TNSMemorial unveiledThe state-of-the-art Sunam memorial includes a life-sized copper statue of Shaheed Udham Singh, four stones on which his brief life history and heroic deeds are engraved in Punjabi and English, a museum displaying relics, rare pictures and documents, and an urn containing ashes of the martyr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attempt-to-gatecrash-punjab-cms-function-foiled-291039
01-08-2021||Parvesh Sharma||No confusion, Navjot Singh Sidhu runs party, I head govt: Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 31Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said workers and leaders of the state party unit should not get confused over two power centres as Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was running the party, while he was heading the state government and both had different responsibilities.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMWill work as teamIt’s an old issue (pardoning Sidhu). These are not the things we should be worried about. We have to work as a team as elections are just six months away“I do not know why the media is asking such questions. There should not be any confusion. Both party and the government are two different things. Today, we are in a good position and we need to work to consolidate our position further for the Assembly elections,” the CM told mediapersons in Sunam after inaugurating a memorial of Shaheed Udham Singh.It is for the first time that the CM attended an event here since the formation of his government in 2017. A function is organised every year to mark the martyrdom day of the freedom fighter. While Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla reached the venue late, Charanjit Singh Channi returned from Sunam city as protesters had blocked the main road. The CM also passed as “not a major issue” the questions about reported unease between him and Sidhu on stage when the latter took charge as the party chief last month.“By meeting all district MLAs and other leaders of the party, the state chief is doing his duty as he should know all our leaders and meet them,” the CM said.Meanwhile, AAP senior leaders Bhagwant Mann and Harpal Cheema visited the ancestral home of the martyr at Sunam and paid floral tributes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-confusion-navjot-singh-sidhu-runs-party-i-head-govt-capt-amarinder-singh-291038
