03-08-2021||New Delhi||Scrap penal provisions on farmers in Air Pollution Bill: Kisan Sansad||The ongoing ‘Kisan Sansad’ organised by the agitating farmer unions on Monday demanded the scrapping of sections in a Bill on checking air pollution that penalise farmers for stubble burning, according to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).In a statement, the SKM, which is an amalgam of 40 farmer unions that have been agitating against the three central agriculture laws, expressed concern over the ‘Commission on Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas’ Bill 2021; that was introduced in the Lok Sabha earlier during this monsoon session,.The SKM said that the new Bill has an additional section that allowed the farmers to be penalised for stubble burning in the name of environmental compensation.The Kisan Sansad or mock Parliament of farmers demanded that the penal provisions on farmers in the bill be dropped.“While in the new Bill, a caveat has been added in the penalties provision (Section 14) that farmers will be exempted from the provision of penalties of up to Rs 1 crore and five years of jail term, a new penal provision on farmers has been deviously included as Section 15, in the name of ‘Environmental Compensation’,” the SKM claimed.The farmers’ body said that the government needed to provide alternatives to farmers to tackle the problem of stubble farming instead of penalising them.“There is no economically viable solution put in place to deal with paddy straw with the genesis of the problem in wrong technologies and policies being promoted. Kisan parliamentarians suggested that there are solutions to tackle the straw burning problem through legally-guaranteed MSP for all crops, through practices like mulching and composting, through low-cost appropriate machinery, etc, which is not being done,” the SKM said.The ‘Kisan Sansad’ is being organised by protesting unions to draw attention to the farmers’ issues while the Monsoon session of Parliament is underway.The farmers have expressed fear that the central agriculture laws could lead to elimination of the minimum support price system and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that the MSP and the Mandi system will stay.Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.The SKM also announced that the Kisan Sansad will see talks by eminent economists and other experts in the upcoming days to “enrich the proceedings”.“The Kisan Sansad will discuss matters related to MSP legal guarantee over the next two days, on August 4-5. The Kisan parliamentarians will be joined by experts like Devinder Sharma, Sucha Singh Gill, RS Ghuman, and others,” the statement said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scrap-penal-provisions-on-farmers-in-air-pollution-bill-kisan-sansad-292438
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Three deaths, 43 fresh virus cases in Punjab||Three more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Tuesday as 43 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count to 5,99,204, according to a medical bulletin. So far, the infection has claimed 16,299 lives in the state.The toll includes two deaths which were not reported earlier, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases stood at 463. Jalandhar reported 15 infections, followed by five in Fazilka and four in Kapurthala. With 47 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,82,442.Meanwhile, Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, reported five fresh cases, taking the infection count to 61,965, according to a medical bulletin. The death toll stood at 811.The number of active cases was 34, as per the bulletin.The number of cured persons stood at 61,120. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-deaths-43-fresh-virus-cases-in-punjab-292429
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD promises free power up to 400 units, quota for youth in private jobs||The SAD on Tuesday promised free power up to 400 units per month for all households and 75 per cent quota for the state youth in private sector jobs if the party’s alliance comes to power in Punjab next year.The slew of promises included quota for women in jobs, reservation for government schools students in professional colleges, cheap electricity to the industry and the MSP for fruits and vegetables.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which has an alliance with the BSP, also promised a grant of Rs 2,000 per month to women heads of “blue card” holder families (BPL beneficiaries) and a Rs 10 per litre reduction in price of diesel for agriculture consumers.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said a 13-point charter of initiatives will be implemented by the alliance if it comes to power in 2022.He said 75 per cent jobs will be reserved for the Punjabi youth in the private sector.Badal promised free power up to 400 units per month to all households and doing away with outstanding bills of all “blue card” holders.All connections of BPL families, which have been disconnected due to non-payment of bills, will be restored, Badal said here.The SAD leader also said there will be a provision of power at the rate of Rs 5 per unit for industry and an interest free loan of Rs 10 lakh for students.He promised a health insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh per annum, which will cover treatment, medicines, diagnostic tests, surgeries and medical equipment in all public and private hospitals.For the youth, he promised if the alliance comes to power, it will help them go for higher studies within the country and abroad and said a “student education card” with interest free loan up to Rs 10 lakh will be issued.Speaking about the initiatives which would be taken up in the agriculture sector, Badal said a legislation will be brought in the state assembly to ensure that the Centre’s three agriculture laws are  not implemented in Punjab.He said simultaneously the government will introduce the minimum support price (MSP) for fruits and vegetables and pay the differential in case of reduction in prices to farmers.The SAD-BSP alliance, if it comes to power, will prioritise health and education, he said, adding a 500-bed medical college with super specialty facilities will be established in every district. Thirty-three per cent reservation for government school students will ensured in professional colleges, including medical colleges, he said. A minimum of 50 per cent reservation for women in government jobs will be ensured, he said.The SAD chief said one lakh new jobs will be created in the government sector and 10 lakh jobs in the private sector.All contractual employees, including safai karamcharis, will be regularised, Badal said.He said big companies will be encouraged to switch to solar energy by waiving transmission charges in the state.New textile and IT hubs will be created in the state, he promised.Asserting that the SAD always delivered on promises, Badal said his party had earlier promised free power to farmers and delivered on it.“We promised unique schemes for the socially disadvantaged,” he said, reminding of the “Aata-Daal” and “Shagun” schemes.“We promised to make the state power surplus and did so. Similarly, we promised to provide world-class infrastructure to people and delivered on it,” he said.He also said “the SAD-led governments of Parkash Singh Badal had always stood for peace, communal harmony, brotherhood and respect for all religions”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-promises-free-power-up-to-400-units-quota-for-youth-in-private-jobs-292421
03-08-2021||Amritsar||197kg heroin seizure: Court issues Anwar Masih’s arrest warrant||The court of Additional Sessions Judge Pushpinder Singh on Tuesday issued arrest warrant of former Punjab sub ordinate staff selection board member Anwar Masih in connection with the seizure 197kg of heroin by Special Task Force in January last year.Three days ago, the court had rejected his bail and asked him to surrender before the court on August 3.Nevertheless, he failed to appear in the court and his lawyer reportedly demanded extension of period for surrendering on the basis of health grounds.An official of STF said that they would collect the arrest warrant from court tomorrow and would arrest Masih.The STF had arrested Masih in the seizure of 197kg of heroin from a residential complex allegedly belonging to him last year. He was out on interim bail in the case on the basis of health grounds.The court had earlier rejected his application of getting regular bail and asked him to surrender in Amritsar Central Jail. Following this, he had filed an application before the court seeking further 10-day time for surrender.On July 14, Masih attempted suicide when he along with several Christian organisations was protesting against alleged harassment by a former AIG and three DSP rank officials of STF.They were demanding quashing of case registered against him in connection with seizure of contraband from the residential building in Akash Avenue located in Sultanwind village on January 31, 2020.As the building belonged to Anwar Masih, the STF booked him under Section 25 of the NDPS Act (owner of the place where drug trade is being carried out is responsible for the premises).The STF had seized 197-kg heroin and narcotic material and arrested around 20 persons including an Afghan national in the case. Masih had claimed that he had sold the house and he was unaware about any drug factory being run from the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/197kg-heroin-seizure-court-issues-anwar-masihs-arrest-warrant-292395
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Temperatures remain below normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures on Tuesday hovered below normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab.According to the Meteorological Department here, Chandigarh (2.4 mm), Ambala (1 mm), Ludhiana (28 mm) and Patiala (30.8 mm) were among other places to receive rainfall.Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 30.1 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a high of 32 deg C.The maximum temperature in Rohtak settled at 33.6 deg C while Bhiwani registered a high of 33.3 deg C. Karnal registered a high of 31.6 deg C.Gurgaon registered a high of 32.8 deg C.Chandigarh, common capital of the two states, which was lashed by rains, recorded a maximum temperature of 31.4 deg C.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 35 deg C.Ludhiana recorded a high of 29.2 deg C, while Patiala's maximum settled at 30.8 deg C. Faridkot recorded maximum temperature of 34 deg C. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/temperatures-remain-below-normal-in-haryana-punjab-292390
03-08-2021||Balwant Garg||Faridkot court grants bail to dera followers in sacrilege case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 3The court of Judicial Magistrate Ist Class (JMIC) Faridkot on Tuesday ordered to release to two followers of Sacha Sauda Dera and accused in sacrilege cases on bail.Both accused, Nishan Singh and Pardeep Kumar, were in the jail since May 16 after they were arrested by the new Special Investigation Team (SIT), constituted by the state government to probe the sacrilege and police firing cases early this year.While granting the bail to the accused, the court observed that the accused had remained in custody for sufficient long period of time. Moreover, the offences for which the accused were arrested carry the maximum imprisonment up to 5 years.As the accused have already remained in custody for considerable period and there is no point in keeping the accused behind the bars till the conclusion of the trial, the court observed. Moreover, challan in the present FIR has been filed in the court. In view of the existing situation due to Covid-19 pandemic, the trial of the case is not going to conclude anytime soon. In view of the above discussion, the accused are allowed to be released on bail, the court observed in its order.Earlier the accused were declined bail by the court on June 21 on the ground of that the investigation of this case as well as other case was to be completed and the accused were required in respect of the investigation in the other connected case.While granting bail to the accused, the court observed today that the challan was already been presented in the Court and investigation was completed qua the accused. So far as the question of pendency of investigation in another case is concerned, accused were already on bail in that case. Court was of the view that the accused cannot be kept behind the bars in one FIR for the sake of investigation in another FIR in which they are already on bail.The accused claimed that they were not named in the FIR with regard to the alleged commission of crime. They were nominated as accused on May 15, 2021, about six year after the sacrilege incident, by SIT simply on the basis of alleged disclosure statement made by one Mahinderpal alias Bittu (since deceased) in the custody of the police in a case in June 2018.Apart from the disclosure statement of Mahinderpal alias Bittu there was no other evidence against the accused to connect them with the crime and CBI has already given them a clean chit in these cases, they claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-court-grants-bail-to-dera-followers-in-sacrilege-case-292387
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Free speech fundamental to democracy, says Punjab and Haryana HC; grants bail to farm leader||Freedom of speech is a fundamental right and makes a foundation for a strong democracy, the Punjab and Haryana High Court said on Tuesday while granting regular bail to farm leader Dalbir Singh.He had delivered speeches that the State claims were objectionable, especially with regard to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The State’s stand was that the speeches could have resulted in caste-based division and threatened peace and harmony.Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted the Court has no occasion to consider the merits of the allegations in detail while dealing with the petitions for grant of regular bail. “Suffice to say that freedom of speech is a fundamental right and makes a foundation for a strong democracy. At this stage must hasten to add that embargo to freedom of speech is prescribed in Article 19 of the Constitution of India itself”.Dalbir had moved the High Court against the State of Haryana by filing two petitions through senior advocate Randeep Surjewala and counsel R. Kartikeya for regular bail in FIRs registered on February 22, 2017, and May 24 at Sadar police station in Jind.Claiming the petitioner’s false implication in the case, Surjewala and Kartikeya submitted he was only exercising his fundamental right to protest. “The petitioner has a right to criticize the functioning of the State,” it was added.The Bench was also told that the petitioner was ready to furnish surety of Rs 2 lakhs each in both the FIRs to meet the apprehension of the State. If enlarged on bail, he would indulge in similar activities and create a law and order problem.Justice Jhingan added: “The nature of contents of the speeches would be the  subject matter of trial as to whether it was a lawful protest against the policies and working of the government or had a different goal and intention. Be that as it may, the investigation in both the cases is complete”.Justice Jhingan added the trial’s conclusion was likely to take time. It would not be appropriate to deny personal liberty to the petitioner on mere apprehension of bail misuse. As such, the petitioner was granted bail, subject to furnishing surety/bail bonds of Rs 2 lakhs each in both the FIRs before the Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-speech-fundamental-to-democracy-says-punjab-and-haryana-hc-grants-bail-to-farm-leader-292384
03-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Issue week’s notice before arrest of Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini in Kotkapura firing case: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday directed the issuance of a week’s notice, if Punjab’s former top cop Sumedh Singh Saini was sought to be arrested in Kotkapura police firing case registered three years back.Justice Avneesh Jhingan’s order paves way for Saini “to have recourse to remedies available to him”.Saini had moved the High Court against the State of Punjab through senior counsel APS Deol with advocate H.S. Deol for anticipatory bail in the FIR for attempt to murder, disappearance of evidence and other offences registered on August 7, 2018, under Sections 307, 326, 324, 323, 341, 201, 218, 120-B, 148, 149 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, and the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, at Police Kotkapura station city in Faridkot district.Appearing before Justice Jhingan’s Bench, Deol submitted Saini was apprehending arrest on being summoned for March 26 by the Court of Faridkot Judicial Magistrate First Class on presentation of fourth supplementary report under Section 173(8) CrPC.Justice Jhingan observed notice of motion was issued on March 4, 2021. In the meantime, Saini’s arrest in the FIR was stayed. The interim directions were modified on March 22. The petitioner’s arrest remained stayed, but the prosecution/State was given liberty to proceed with the matter in accordance with law.Justice Jhingan took note of the State counsel’s submissions that a new SIT was constituted after the High Court in April set aside the charge sheet filed in the present FIR. Justice Jhingan further took note of submissions by the petitioner’s counsel that apprehensions of arrest were still in existence as Saini had been summoned by new SIT.Justice Jhingan added the petitioner was not named in the FIR and summoned only on the basis of fourth supplementary report. But the charge sheet and fourth supplementary report no longer existed and fresh investigation was being carried out by the newly constituted SIT.“However, it would not be appropriate to ignore the factual background of the case. Petitioner served the State being IPS officer. This Court in another matter, considering various aspects involved including political colour, vide order dated October 11, 2018, granted protection that in case petitioner is to be arrested, a clear seven days’ notice would be served,” Justice Jhingan observed.Disposing of the petition in view of the change in circumstances during the pendency of the matter, Justice Jhingan ordered a week's notice would be given to the petitioner in case he is sought to be arrested to enable him to have recourse to remedies available to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/issue-weeks-notice-before-arrest-of-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-in-kotkapura-firing-case-hc-292380
03-08-2021||New Delhi||Pakistan not allowing anyone to travel through Kartarpur corridor due to pandemic: Govt||The central government on Tuesday informed the Lok Sabha that Pakistan is not allowing anyone to travel through Kartarpur corridor due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in India in April this year.Replying to a written question by Congress member in Lok Sabha from Amritsar Gurjeet Singh Aujala, Minister of State (MoS) for Home Nityanand Rai said, “The movement of pilgrims through the Kartarpur Corridor was suspended in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic”.The Minister then went on to add saying: “Furthermore, Pakistan’s National Command and Operations Centre (NCOC) has banned all travel from India citing the surge in Covid-19 cases in India since April 2021.”India had signed the Kartarpur corridor agreement with Pakistan on October 24, 2019. Under the pact, Indian pilgrims of all faiths are allowed to undertake round-the-year visa-free travel through the Kartarpur corridor to Gurudwara Kartarpur Sahib, one of the most revered shrines of Sikhs, in Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-not-allowing-anyone-to-travel-through-kartarpur-corridor-due-to-pandemic-govt-292338
03-08-2021||Sangrur||IELTS India trademark owner to issue legal notices to all institutes across country||Having received numerous complaints about overcharging, lack of facilities at institutes and lack of trained faculties and other alleged frauds being committed with IELTS aspirants, India trademark owner of IELTS Jagdeep Singh Gil has decided to issue legal notices to various institutes across the country for running IELTS coaching centres without his consent.A team of legal experts hired by Gill has been conducting videography of various IELTS institutes, located in various districts of Punjab for the last 15 days and has already covered Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Khanna, Moga, Ropar districts.These days, his team is busy in the Sangrur district and collecting details. He has already collected details of various IELTS institutes from Bus stand road, Kaula Park, Guru Nanak Colony, Haripura road, from near Deputy Commissioner residence and other locations.“In India IELTS is my intellectual property that is registered with "the office of the Controller General of Patents, Designs & Trade Marks, Government of India” and Registered trademark number is 1859912, valid until September 08, 2029. But all IELTS institutes are using IELTS course and its name, without my consent and committing frauds with poor students by overcharging and offering poor coaching", Gill told The Tribune in Sangrur.He alleged that he has received around 110 complaints received from poor students of Bathinda, Moga, Sangrur and other districts, where IELTS institutes had charged thousands but did not give proper coaching to students, leading to a poor score in IELTS.“After completing videography, I would issue legal notices to all IELTS institutes and would also get the FIRs registered as without my consent they could not even use IELTS word. I want to fix the lower fee to help our students and fix the accountability of institutes to prevent the further loot of our students. If the need arises, I may shut IELTS from India for some time", said Gill.But the majority of owners of institutes are unaware that they should take the consent of Gill if they want to open IELTS institutes.“We have taken permission from the DC office and are not aware that we should also take the permission of Jagdeep Gill. I would look into the matter,” said Amit Alisher, Sangrur president of Sangrur Abroad Consultant Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ielts-india-trademark-owner-to-issue-legal-notices-to-all-institutes-across-country-292333
03-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Here's how Kapil Sharma and Bharti Singh scared a fan away; she yells, 'kahaan bhaag rahi ho'; watch viral clip||Video of comedian Kapil Sharma and Bharti Singh singing the viral hit song 'Bachpan Ka Pyaar' has gone insanely viral.While everyone enjoyed the version, one fan seemed to be scared by their singing.Kapil shared this video on his Instagram stories. Kapil and Bharti's singing scared away the fan, who ran away before taking a picture with them.In the video, Kapil and Bharti were seen sitting in a car, and heard singing 'Bachpan Ka Pyaar'.Bharti turns the camera towards the woman, who ran away, and said: “Yeh hai jaaneman. Kahaan bhaag rahi ho? Ruko, ruko. Photo toh khichao (She is our sweetheart. Where are you running off to? Wait, at least click a picture)!”“Fun with fans,” the caption read, along with a heart emoji.Kapil and Bharti’s video was widely shared online by fan accounts.Have a look:A post shared by PGs Video Hub (@pgsvideohub)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heres-how-kapil-sharma-and-bharti-singh-scared-a-fan-away-she-yells-kahaan-bhaag-rahi-ho-watch-viral-clip-292322
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||The latest case against ex-DGP Punjab Sumedh Singh Saini explained||Punjab Vigilance Bureau booked ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini under the Prevention of Corruption Act and conspiracy along with six others, including PWD XEN Nimrat Deep Singh, over an alleged deal involving fake documents and questionable financial transactions regarding a house in sector 20 here.As per the FIR lodged by Vigilance Additional Director Varinder Singh Brar which established that Saini paid a whopping Rs 2.5 lakh rent for the first floor of house no 3048, sector 20-D to an excise officer’s family besides paying Rs 6 crore 40 lakhs since October 2018.Vigilance Bureau teams tried to arrest Saini on Monday night but could not succeed despite laying siege to the house for over four hours. Saini, known for his controversial methods in fighting terrorism in Punjab, is in trouble since his retirement in 2018. Mohali police had booked him last year for the alleged disappearance and murder of one Balwant Singh Multani. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Punjab police is also examining his role in the opening of fire at protesters in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura in 2015 when he was the DGP.The FIR said the Vigilance Bureau found these financial transactions during the inquiry against Nimrat Deep Singh, Executive Engineer, Public Works Department (PWD). Other persons named in the FIR include Nimrat’s father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, Ajay Kaushal, Parduman Singh, Paramjit Singh and Amit Singla.The FIR further states that he and his family members owned 35 properties besides possessing over Rs 20 crores in various banks/ FDRs and foreign currency. The FIRs say a vigilance inquiry found these possessions were beyond known sources of income of Nirmat Deep. One of the properties mentioned was House No 3048, in sector 20 D. Ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was shown in records as the tenant on the first floor of the two-storey house.It said Surinderjit Singh Jaspal bought the sector 20 house for rs 6.40 cr in September 2017. The house owner had earlier bought it for Rs 7.85 crore in an e-Auction by the State Bank of India in 2014. The FIR noted the house was sold at Rs 1.45 cr less than its price to Surinderjit, who later showed that he spent rs 1.50 cr on the renovation of the house. Saini took one floor of the house on rent of Rs 2.5 lakh per month in October 2018. However, he paid via bank transaction rs 45 lakh advance to the owner though his rent for the 11 months as per rent agreement was Rs 27.5 lakhs only. Later, a bank transaction showed Saini paid rs 6.40 crores in different directions to the owner.An unregistered sale/purchase agreement between Saini and the owner in September 2019 claims they agreed to sell the house to Saini. The FIR states this document was illegal and back-dated.Vigilance officials remain tight-lipped about the case. DGP-cum-Director Vigilance B K Uppal did not respond to calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/the-latest-case-against-ex-dgp-punjab-sumedh-singh-saini-explained-292308
03-08-2021||Realising my dream of playing in Oly||5 stars from Amritsar: Aim for glory, say hockey players’ kin||Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 2In the two Indian hockey teams that have entered the semifinals in Tokyo, five are from Amritsar district — four men and one woman — quite a feat indeed.Harjinder Kaur, mother of Gurjit Kaur, who scored the all-important goal in the women’s team win today, said Gurjit’s prayers and hard work have been blessed by ‘Guru Maharaj’. The family is based in Miadi Kalan village in Ajnala. Gurjit’s cousin Gurcharan Singh said the entire village was upbeat after learning of her feat. “Despite there being no hockey culture in the village, both Gurjit and her sister Pardeep played the game,” he said.Making village proudThe four players from the district who are in the men’s team are Shamsher Singh of Attari, Dilpreet Singh of Butala, Gurjant Singh of Khaliara and Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village.Shamsher’s father Hardev Singh, a farmer, said he enjoyed watching each match on TV, and vividly remembers the goal his son scored against Argentina.Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh, who had played the nationals from 1990 to 1996, said: “I keenly watched each match. Dilpreet gave several good passes to his teammates, who converted them. It was like realising my own dream of playing in the Olympics.”Gurjant’s father Baldev Singh said all residents of Khaliara village were elated with his son’s performance. Gurjant was inspired to take up the sport by his maternal uncle Hardev Singh Chahal.Harmanpreet’s father Sarbjit Singh said he was proud of his son and the team. “I think the team performed well and I wish them luck for the semifinal tomorrow,” Sarbjit said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-stars-from-amritsar-aim-for-glory-say-hockey-players-kin-292213
03-08-2021||---||I’ll talk to Gurjit Kaur only after matches: Father||Jalandhar, August 2“I have still not spoken with Gurjit. I want her to concentrate on her next matches. Main te keha hai ki hun final khedke hi gall karange,” an elated Satnam Singh, father of quarterfinals match-winner Gurjit Kaur, said today.Also read: Gurjit converted penalty corner, father misses it as he performs sewa at Anandpur SahibA farmer by profession, Satnam Singh could not watch the match and came to know of the win only when he started receiving calls from relatives and journalists. He said he also used to play hockey but never played professionally, but never thought his daughter would make it to the Olympics.Pardeep Kaur, elder sister of Gurjit, is a hockey coach at Sansarpur. “Since childhood I have not seen her interested in anything other than sports,” said Pardeep.Gurjit studied in Jalandhar for two years after she completed her 12th. Talking about her sister, Pardeep said she talked to Gurjit early in the morning and wished her good luck. “I don’t have the words to explain how proud I am to see my little sister achieving this position,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ill-talk-to-gurjit-kaur-only-after-matches-father-292214
03-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal & Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||‘Hardik’s magical goal left us overwhelmed’||Tribune News ServiceBatala/Jalandhar, August 2Batala Police SP Varinderpreet Singh, father of midfielder Hardik Singh, who scored a peach of a goal against Great Britain in the quarterfinals, is trying hard to adjust to his new-found fame.“Hardik called me minutes after the match. He said winning a gold medal was more important for him than scoring goals,” said Varinderpreet, himself a national player from 1996 to 1999. After his magical goal, Hardik looked above and pointed to the sky and murmured something — who was he talking to?Varinderpreet told The Tribune that Hardik was remembering his grandfather. “His grandfather had this dream of seeing Hardik in the Olympics and when he passed away in 2017, Hardik made this the ambition of his life,” Varinderpreet said. Hardik’s grandfather used to take him to the village ground to practise, and both of them dreamt of the day when Hardik would play at the Olympics.“Hardik told his mother that he thanked his Daddy (as he used to fondly call his grandfather) for his blessings,” said Varinderpreet.Remembering Hardik’s childhood, Varinderpreet said he would never go for a family event and would instead go to the hockey ground to play. “Other than hockey jerseys, he never liked to shop for anything,” he said. “Since he hardly attended any family function and always focussed on games, some of my wife’s relatives did not even know that Hardik is our son!” he added.Goal!As recounted by Varinderpreet, these are the exact words of his son about that fabulous goal: “I collected the ball nearly 15-20 yards from outside the circle. I then weaved my way towards the goal from the left side and once the citadel was in clear sight, I pushed the ball in. However, the push lacked punch. I attempted this shot knowing perfectly well that the angle was acute and the goalkeeper had already adjusted himself to block my shot. A moment of sadness followed when the goalkeeper padded away the ball but then, much to my delight, it landed back into play. I rushed towards the centre of the circle but found myself hemmed in by a couple of defenders. I managed to get my stick to the ball but then thought hitting the ball without having much space, which would have meant hitting it without the desired force, would serve no purpose. As if on a hunch,I pulled the ball a few inches away from the defenders. This gave me enough space, and with it the desired punch, to whack the ball in!”Hardik belongs to a hockey-playing family which includes former Indian women’s team captain Rajbir Kaur and her husband Gurmail Singh, who was part of the 1980 Moscow Olympics gold medal-winning team. India’s former star drag-flicker Jugraj Singh is his uncle. Varinderpreet said he was flooded with calls once the match was over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hardiks-magical-goal-left-us-overwhelmed-292215
03-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar: Sweet success as Mithapur village rises again||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 2In the newly-independent India, hockey sticks fashioned out of crooked branches plucked from trees and khido (balls) made from the ‘Akk da boota’ (calotropic gigantea) served as the earliest equipment for the young boys of Mithapur wanting to satisfy their sporting passion.Also read: 3 from Jalandhar's Mithapur village in Indian hockey teamHockey was an intriguing sport picked up from the British at the nearby Cantonment. After Swarup Singh’s glorious 1952 Olympics outing, hockey became a way of life. Army and hockey clubs fuelled passions. An exodus of village residents to foreign shores brought sombre times to the village hockey scene since the 1990s, fortunes have turned around due to a revival that kicked off in the 2000s.Good sticksToday even the youngest kids train with top-brand hockey sticks at the Mithapur Hockey Academy and Youth Sports Club. Several patrons — including former Olympians, Pargat Singh, NRIs and the Round Glass Academy — are responsible for bringing Mithapur out of the rut.The village has produced six hockey Olympics stalwarts — Swarup Singh (1952 Helsinki), Kulwant Singh (1972 Munich), Pargat Singh (1988,1992 and 1996), and now the trio of Manpreet Singh (who played at the 2012 and 2016 Olympics too), Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar.The story of Mithapur has even gone global. Aussie legend Ric Charlesworth — a patron of the Mithapur Hockey Club and the Round Glass Academy — is a regular and has rubbed shoulders with village elders here! The 70-student strong Mithapur Hockey Academy has state-of-the-art facilties and players have their own jerseys, bottles, bags and lack no funds for their training — which, veterans say, makes them envious.There are several rags to riches stories and many players from modest homes have risen to affluence. The modest village is now dotted with huge bungalows and kothis. Many former Olympians’ families have settled abroad — families of Swarup Singh and Kulwant Singh, for instance; former coaches and residents have moved abroad too, and many have played for English and Italian leagues. MLA Pargat Singh said: “In the 2000s the stadium was in tatters with 3-4 foot of sand. The rooms were used by drugs users. Hockey legacy was getting lost.” Pargat, then Director (Sports) in the state government, wanted to identify young talent. “I asked prominent villagers to find 10-12 good sporting kids to train,” he added. “We found 42 kids. We levelled the stadium. Sukhminder Grewal (international player), Sarabjit Singh Sabi, Amrik Singh, Surinder Pal pitched in with hockey expertise. Now drugs are history, hockey is future.”First batchWhile Manpreet was part of the first batch, later the families of Manpreet and Varun also rose to prominence from modest beginnings. The village now has four players marked out for future Olympics. At most players’ homes there is a bank of hockey sticks any kid can take — “if someone needs a stick, they don’t have to go empty handed”, said Pargat. Manpreet and Mandeep regularly coach youngsters.Surinder Pal Singh Ghugga (72), who played for the East Bengal Club for six years, says, “We had never seen money as young players, now kids training have uniforms we could only dream of.”“Mithapur had little agricultural land. There was no TV, hockey was the only entertainment. Men in hordes headed to the village gurdwara with hockey sticks every evening to play. The kids used trees as goals,” he adds. “A majority of Army personnel of village began playing for army clubs and money started coming in. The patronage of the East Bengal Club brought us prosperity.” “We have many talented kids who are on par with the best of players,” coach Balwinder Singh says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-sweet-success-as-mithapur-village-rises-again-292216
03-08-2021||Manpreet Singh and Varun Kuamr are village kids who have made it big. Now they want to give back to the game. Every time Manpreet Singh comes to the village||Sport changes fortunes of two families||“I am overjoyed at Manpreet’s success,” Manjit Kaur says. “We were not from a well-off family. Manpreet’s elder brothers Amandeep and Sukhraj used to play hockey too. There was no earning hand as Manpreet’s father used to be ill. Amandeep went to Germany at age 17-18. Manpreet stayed back and concentrated on sports. Brahmanand, father of Varun Kumar, was a truck driver. The family lived in a rented accommodation but now has a big home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sport-changes-fortunes-of-two-families-292217
03-08-2021||Balwant Garg||Defying all odds, drag-flicker Rupinder Pal Singh shoots into limelight||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 2Rupinder Pal Singh, 30, figuring in his second Olympics, has won acclaim as one of the best drag-flickers in the world and Tokyo 2020 presents him possibly the last chance to win an Olympics medal. The strapping, 6ft 4in tall Rupinder, who comes from an economically modest background, started playing the game at 11 and made his international debut in 2010 at the Azlan Shah Cup in Malaysia, which India won. He was part of the Indian team that won gold at the 2014 Incheon Asian Games and bronze at the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games.Rupinder’s father owned a sports shop in Faridkot but setbacks in business left them in financial trouble. They resided in a rented one-room dwelling in Dogar Basti here for many years before Rupinder hit the limelight and became a fixture in the Indian team. His older brother was a good player but had to give up the sport to take up a modest job. When Rupinder was training in Chandigarh for seven years, it put a big financial burden on his family. To keep Rupinder going, his mother Sukhwinder Kaur took to stitching clothes for a daily earning of Rs 100-150. “When he started playing in the national hockey teams, he asked me to stop this job,” remembers the mother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/defying-all-odds-drag-flicker-rupinder-pal-singh-shoots-into-limelight-292218
03-08-2021||Archit Watts||Proud of Kamalpreet Kaur, she’ll come back stronger: Family||Tribune News ServiceKabarwala (Muktsar), Aug 2Despite heartbreak at Tokyo, where Kamalpreet ended in the sixth position in the women’s discus throw event, her family is proud of her and hopes she will prepare harder for the future events and make the countrymen proud. In a jam-packed house at a ‘dhani’ located on the outskirts of Kabarwala village in Lambi, everyone was glued to the chairs even before the event started.As her mother Rajwinder Kaur performed ‘path’, father Kuldeep Singh and younger brother Satinder Singh gave interviews to mediapersons and hosted guests. Every time Kamalpreet appeared on the television screen, there was pin-drop silence. “Preet (Kamalpreet) is a warrior and she will definitely make the countrymen proud with her success in the future,” said Kuldeep.“Rain played spoilsport. It was her first participation in the Olympics and she was nervous. She had told me over the phone today she couldn’t even sleep last night. Further, her coach could not accompany her to Tokyo, which went against her. I am proud of my daughter who performed better than even her senior colleague and got the sixth position in her first attempt,” he added.After the event, CM Capt Amarinder Singh praised her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/proud-of-kamalpreet-kaur-shell-come-back-stronger-family-292219
03-08-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||1.11L apply for 560 SI posts in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The Punjab Police have received nearly 200 times more applications than the number of vacancies for the posts of Sub-Inspector in the district, armed, intelligence and investigation cadres. A process of many firsts10,106 employees to be recruitedPosts Vacancies Last dateA record 1,11,025 candidates have applied for 560 posts that will fetch a salary of up to Rs 50,000 on regularisation of service. This is nearly more than 25 per cent of applications received for the recruitment in 2016 when around 85,000 had filed applications. A candidate will thus compete with 200 other candidates for winning the job this year.The high number of applications also reflects the rate of unemployment in the state. The posts for the Sub-Inspector are a small 560 portion out of the 10,106 posts advertised by the police for different ranks and cadre. They want to recruit subject domain experts for legal wing, computers and even 20 drone experts.Applications for SI have been closed, while those for constables, head constables, a first-time initiative of civilian support staff, besides skilled posts in the rank of SI and constable in technical services cadres are still open (see box). The police are expecting over 15 lakh applications for these posts.While simple graduation is the basic qualification for the SI, nearly 25 postgraduates, including a few pursuing PhDs and others unemployed; 4,419 engineering graduates, 9,334 mechanical and electronic graduates and 38,209 graduates in computer science, computer applications and business management would be vying for the job.The police recruitment happens roughly every five years but this time the focus is more on finding skilled persons for specialised jobs. Also, stress is on mental ability than mere raw physical force. The police would be holding written test before the physical exams for the first time. The physical exams do not carry marks and is purely for qualification purposes.“We are preparing a police force for the future,” said DGP Dinkar Gupta, adding: “We have introduced new cadre for posts for skilled persons. The focus is more on technology. Punjab being a border state has the twin duty of keeping the state and the nation safe with constant vigil.”He said: “Apart from hiring experts in intercepting and using drones, we also need computer and mobile forensics to match the criminals both inside our country and abroad.”The recruitment is a first of its kind where the police will be conducting exams spread over two months. Thirty-seven different exams for different posts will be held. The police are expecting heavy rush for the post of constables, which are almost 75 per cent of the total advertised posts. In 2016, nearly 7 lakh candidates had applied for this post and this year the police are expecting at least 8 lakh applicants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-11l-apply-for-560-si-posts-in-punjab-292220
03-08-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda DSP gets one-year extension against govt policy||A police officer, DSP Bathinda City 1 Gurjit Singh Romana, has been given a year-long extension in service by the government in contravention of the state policy implemented last year against the practice.Indicted in probeNorms overlookedWhile other officials have been denied extension owing to the new rule, it is surprising one has been given extension, ignoring this norm. — Govt Employees Union office-bearerDSP Romana was set to retire on July 31, but the Home Department issued a notification on July 26, extending his tenure till July 31, 2022. Romana has remained the blue-eyed official during both Congress and SAD-BJP regimes.In 2017, a departmental inquiry was ordered against him after a case was registered at the Nehianwala police station on April 10, 2017, against Gobind Gupta of Goniana Mandi. Gupta was arrested with an illegal stock of 1,500 habit-forming tablets. He was, however, released within 10 days after an inquiry by DSP Romana gave him a clean chit.When the matter came to the notice of then Bathinda IG MS Chhina, he marked an inquiry to then Faridkot SSP Dr Nanak Singh. Romana was indicted in the probe report as allegations against him were found true, but no action was taken after the internal report concluded that Gupta’s release was a “mistake, not a deliberate attempt”.However, after the indictment, he was transferred to 6th IRB, Ladda Kothi, Sangrur, and later returned to Bathinda as DSP. Since then, he has been deputed here. AAP state spokesman Neel Garg said: “This government does not care about rules. This is wrong that going against its own policy, extension has been given to a government employee.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-dsp-gets-one-year-extension-against-govt-policy-292223
03-08-2021||---||Cops, Punjab VB sleuths at ex-DGP Sumedh Saini’s house in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 2Sleuths from the Punjab Vigilance Bureau surrounded the house of ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on Monday evening in what seemed a bid to arrest him.Nearly 20 police officials in mufti blocked the two gates of the former DGP’s private house in Sector 20-D in Chandigarh. Officials of the Punjab Police as well as the Punjab Vigilance did not respond to calls on the motive behind the deployment of teams in civvies at the former DGP’s house. The teams did not make any attempt to break into the house till the filing of this report. Saini’s lawyers had reached the house and they were allowed to enter into it.There has been speculation that the ex-DGP can be booked by the Vigilance Bureau over his ownership of the house, which it is alleged did not meet his known sources of income. However, there is no official confirmation regarding the allegation. The Vigilance had asked Saini to deposit the monthly rent of about Rs 2.5 lakh he earned from the house to the treasury.Saini was also recently questioned by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the Kotkpaura police firing incident on whether the police officials had opened fire illegally at a mob that was protesting the series of sacrilege incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-punjab-vb-sleuths-at-ex-dgp-sumedh-sainis-house-in-chandigarh-292225
03-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Petitioners to specify if bail plea filed in superior court, says Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court has changed the way bail pleas are filed before the lower courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. It has made it mandatory for an applicant to specify in the plea whether bail applications under any of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure have, or have not, been filed before any superior court.Lapse may invite actionJustice Manjari Nehru Kaul also ordered that the public prosecutors/prosecuting agency would be duty bound to apprise the court concerned on the issue after collecting necessary information from the investigating officers.“In case of lapse/ default on the investigating agency/ prosecution’s part in this regard, it would be construed to be a fraud played upon the court, which could invite departmental as well as penal action against the erring parties/ officials, as the case may be,” the High Court ruled. The Registrar-General was also directed to circulate the order to “all concerned” for not only information, but also “necessary and strict compliance”.The directions came on a second regular bail petition in a house-trespass case registered in August last year under Sections 454 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code at Hajipur police station in Hoshiarpur district.A report was called from the court below after the petitioner’s counsel, on a previous date of hearing, sought the petition’s withdrawal on the ground that he had since been released on bail by the Mukerian Judicial Magistrate First Class.Justice Kaul observed the report clearly revealed the petition’s pendency was cleverly concealed from the court below. Refusing the petition’s withdrawal, Justice Kaul added the court deemed it appropriate to take suo motu cognisance of the fraud played upon both the HC and the trial court by the petitioner. Notice was also issued to the petitioner as to why the bail should be not cancelled.Justice Kaul added time and again, more so in the recent past, it came to the court’s notice the accused clandestinely approached the trial court seeking a similar relief in bail matter by either concealing the pendency of a petition before the HC or by misrepresenting facts. Such malpractices were undoubtedly a matter of serious concern deserving to be nipped in the bud at the earliest.Justice Kaul made it clear to the courts below in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh that bail pleas would also mention the outcome, if a superior court was at all approached for similar relief. An application, not containing the information would not be accepted/entertained and returned for resubmission with necessary information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/petitioners-to-specify-if-bail-plea-filed-in-superior-court-says-punjab-and-haryana-hc-292226
03-08-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Four of family drown as Jeep plunges into canal in Hanumangarh||Four members of a family drowned while one was missing after the Jeep they were travelling in fell into the Indira Gandhi Canal near 50RD bridge at Ranjeetpura village in Hanumangarh, near Abohar, yesterday.Harish Jakhar (40), his wife Suman (38), daughter Meenakshi (14), son Manish (7) and sister-in-law Manju (36) were there in the vehicle, police said. The bodies of Suman, Manju and Meenakshi were recovered from the canal by a State Disaster Management and Relief Department (SDRF) team that was assisted by 10 divers from two nearby villages. The ill-fated vehicle was also retrieved from the canal.Investigating official SI Puran Ram said search for others was discontinued at night and was resumed today. Divers spotted Harish’s body floating as the water level dipped today afternoon. The bodies were handed over to the family after a post-mortem. Many villagers were camping around the canal as divers continued to search for Manish. The victims belonged to Bhuranpura village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-of-family-drown-as-jeep-plunges-into-canal-in-hanumangarh-292227
03-08-2021||Amritsar||2015 Sacrilege: Punjab Congress leaders fail to appear before Akal Takht||Ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three Congress MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Singh Kiki Dhillon, who failed to turn up at Akal Takht today, have now been directed to appear on August 11 by ‘parallel’ acting Jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand.The two ministers and three MLAs were summoned to appear before Akal Takht on August 2 at 11 am. They were called to explain as to why the promises made to end the ‘Bargari Morcha’ protests over the 2015 sacrilege and the subsequent police firing were as yet unfulfilled. “As a last chance, they have been recalled on August 11 at Akal Takht. If they overlook it again, they will be liable to face religious punishment,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2015-sacrilege-punjab-congress-leaders-fail-to-appear-before-akal-takht-292228
03-08-2021||Ropar||Ropar: SIT to probe ‘molestation’ of minor by cops||Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary has ordered an inquiry by a special investigation team (SIT) into allegations against two cops of molesting a rape victim last week.The 16-year-old victim from the Chamkaur Sahib area had been missing from her home since April 4 and the local police had recovered her from Jabbar Singh in Mohali district. After recovering her on July 30, the policemen took her to Chamkaur Sahib, from where she was taken to Ropar to hand her over the Child Line officials. The victim alleged while on the way to Ropar, two of the four policemen present in a police vehicle molested her.The SSP said an SIT comprising SP Ankur Gupta, DSP Ucee Chawla and Inspector Jasmine Kaur would conduct an inquiry and submit the report at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-sit-to-probe-molestation-of-minor-by-cops-292229
03-08-2021||---||Punjab Government's ordinance likely for pvt varsity in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2In the upcoming Cabinet meeting, the Punjab Government is likely to bring in an ordinance for setting up Plaksha University, a private institution, at IT City in Mohali.Capt meets GuvOnce the Punjab Governor gives his assent to the ordinance, the university can begin its new session, it is learnt. In the event of the ordinance not being cleared by the Governor, the matter will have to be tabled in the monsoon session of Vidhan Sabha slated in September in the form of a Bill.However, given the urgency to enable the university to begin its session, the ordinance route seems practical at this juncture. A private university can be established in Punjab by way of legislation brought in under the Punjab Private Universities Policy.In this regard, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh along with Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra besides Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan today held a meeting with Governor VP Singh Badnore.Though there was no official statement regarding the meeting, sources said to set up a world-class university, the CM wanted to bring the Governor on board before bringing in the ordinance. Once the monsoon session begins, the ordinance would be converted into a Bill and tabled in the Assembly.The issue of development of Beant Singh India International Centre (IIC) at Beant Singh Memorial in Sector 42 was also reportedly discussed at the meeting. The centre is to be developed on the lines of Delhi India International Centre.Sources, however, ruled out discussion on the legislative amendments passed by the Vidhan Sabha against the central farm laws that had not been forwarded by the Governor to the President.Meanwhile, the meeting with Governor led to speculation about discussion being held on impending Cabinet reshuffle. However, officials denied any such discussion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-governments-ordinance-likely-for-pvt-varsity-in-mohali-292230
03-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||UGC grant: Punjabi University staffer among 7 booked for fund embezzlement||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 2The Patiala police have registered a case against seven persons, including an employee of Punjabi University, in a case of embezzlement of university funds of the UGC grant.The university had recently dismissed one contractual employee and suspended two others for their alleged involvement in the case and sought registration of a case. It had found the three employees guilty of fraud, forging signatures and embezzlement.Those named in the FIR are senior assistant Nishu Chaudhary, ex-peon Jatinder Singh and Akashdeep Singh, Sonu Kumar, Harpreet Singh, Vinay and Nisha Sharma. Police officials said they have started an investigation into the case and as such, roles of all accused would be ascertained.SHO Ronnie Singh said: “We have visited the houses of the accused but they were missing. Attempts to nab them are on.”The university, in its letter to the police, had recently stated that it came across forged bills generated by Nishu Chaudhary and Jatinder Singh. The bills were generated in the names of a number of former students and others, which were passed by a superintendent at the university.As per the opinion of a handwriting expert, Dr Inderjit Singh, whose services the university used, the signatures of the head of department on the bills were also forged. It said it found similar fake bills had been generated and passed in the recent past and checks for lakhs of rupees were issued.During the inquiry, the police found that the accused named in the FIR cheated the university.One of the accused, Vinay Kumar, a gym trainer who trained Nishu Chaudhary, in his statement to the police said the latter deposited checks amounting to Rs 7 lakh in his bank account, stating that those were payments for his apple orchards. The police have not found any proof of involvement of the superintendent, who was suspended by the university. She has not been made part of the case as of now. The other accused have not submitted their statements with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ugc-grant-punjabi-university-staffer-among-7-booked-for-fund-embezzlement-292231
03-08-2021||---||Schools reopen in Bathinda to thin attendance||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 2Schools for all classes reopened to a thin attendance in Bathinda on Monday. Though the schools were opened for all classes but the attendance remained comparatively low in primary and middle class students.50% turnout in Amritsar, Tarn TaranStudents had been asked to bring parents’ consent forms. Notwithstanding a steep decline in number of Covid cases and deaths, parents of many students are still apprehensive about sending their wards to schools amid reports of possible third wave and that children would be more vulnerable.The Principal of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall Road said 50 per cent of the students had started attending classes and efforts were on to convince parents to send their wards to the school.At Government Senior Secondary School, Parasram Nagar, only 450 students turned-up on Day 1 out of total 1,762 students. While, out of 1,054 students, only 246 students turned-up at Government Primary School, Parasram Nagar.In Ludhiana, private schools are reopening in a phased manner. Some are holding classes for just two to three days in a week for the students’ convenience. It was made sure that students followed the guidelines properly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schools-reopen-in-bathinda-to-thin-attendance-292232
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Now, housing projects can come up on 50 acres at New Chandigarh||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has allowed affordable housing projects in 50 acres in New Chandigarh, reducing the minimum area requirement from 100 acres, but without disturbing the density norms.Industrial boostThis would enable proper utilisation of the left-out pockets to provide housing facilities. The decision was taken at the 42nd meeting of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Board chaired by the CM through video conferencing.The approval was also granted for change of land use (CLU) for certain categories of industries, in an effort to further boost industrial activity in the state. The CLU will be applicable on green and orange industries at a distance of 100 metres and 250 metres, respectively, from Lal Lakir or nearby Abadi (minimum 50 pucca houses) on minimum 6 karam (30-33 feet) approach road, under the policy of permitting industrial activity in agricultural zone of master plans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-housing-projects-can-come-up-on-50-acres-at-new-chandigarh-292233
03-08-2021||Abohar||Liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda’s bail plea rejected||A local court has rejected a bail application filed by liquor baron and Bhim Tank murder convict Shiv Lal Doda in a property fraud case.Asha Rani, wife of retired Intelligence Bureau official late Satpal Thatai, had alleged in the FIR that Harjit Singh, Gurjit Singh, Vaisakha Singh and Sukhwinder Singh, in connivance with Doda, had committed a fraud of Rs 2.45 crore with her family in an immovable property deal.The court observed not only did the applicant suppress the fact of cancellation of bail plea by the Additional District Sessions Court and pending of several FIRs against him, but also didn’t reveal that he had already been imprisoned for life. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-baron-shiv-lal-dodas-bail-plea-rejected-292234
03-08-2021||Bathinda||Medical Laboratory Technicians’ Union protest privatisation||Medical Laboratory Technicians’ Union members staged a dharna at the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, and raised slogans against the privatisation policies of the state government on Monday. The protesters alleged medical laboratories of government hospitals were being given to private players. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-laboratory-technicians-union-protest-privatisation-292235
03-08-2021||New Delhi||Balwant Singh Ramoowalia’s daughter, 4 other SAD leaders join BJP||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections, five former SAD leaders, including Amanjot Kaur Ramoowalia, daughter of former Union Minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, and one from AAP, social worker Chetan Mohan Joshi, on Monday joined the BJP. TNSPatialaDharamsot faces protest, shown black flagsFarmer union leaders today protested and raised black flags against Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot at Bhadosn, when he visited the area to lay the foundation of a new bus stand. Heavy police force prevented the farmers from going near the function venue, following which the protesters sat on a dharna on the road and raised anti-government slogans. TNSMohaliFarm loan waiver a hoax, alleges SADSAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday alleged the farm debt waiver amounting to Rs 590 crore announced by the Congress government was turning out to be hoax. He said the government had come out with preconditions which would make a majority of the supposed 2.85 lakh beneficiaries ineligible for the waiver. TNSChandigarhSupport farm agitation, Kejriwal tells party leadersAAP Punjab affairs in charge Jarnail Singh on Monday said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had directed party leaders and volunteers set aside the party flag and agenda and support the movement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balwant-singh-ramoowalias-daughter-4-other-sad-leaders-join-bjp-292238
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly Nanded-Amb Andaura special train begins today||For the convenience of rail passengers, the Ambala Division of Northern Railways will now operate a weekly superfast special train (05427/05428) between Nanded and Amb Andaura. Nanded-Amb Andaura weekly special train (05427) will leave Nanded at 11.05 am every Tuesday from August 3 and will arrive at Amb Andaura at 5.50 pm the next day.In the return direction, Amb Andaura-Nanded weekly special train (05428) will depart every Thursday at 3.10 pm from August 5 and reach Nanded at 9.40 pm the next day.The special train will halt at Poorna, Hingoli Deccan, Wasim, Akola, Malkapur, Khandwa, Itarsi, Habibganj, Bhopal, Bina, Jhansi, Gwalior, Agra Cantonment, Mathura, New Delhi, Panipat, Ambala Cantt (fully reserved train), Chandigarh, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Morinda, Rupnagar, Anandpur Sahib, Nangal Dam and Una stations in both directions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/weekly-nanded-amb-andaura-special-train-begins-today-291981
03-08-2021||---||Surplus rain likely in second half of monsoon, says IMD||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 2Rainfall during the second half of the June-September monsoon season is expected to be on the higher side of normal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said today.The rain over the country during the second half (August and September) 2021 southwest monsoon season “is most likely to be normal (95 to 105% of Long Period Average) with a tendency to be on the positive side of the normal”, the weather office said.In August, rain is expected to be “normal to below normal over parts of northwest and central India”. “Monthly rainfall for August over the country is most likely to be normal (94 to 106% of the LPA). Spatial distribution suggests that below normal to normal rainfall is likely over many areas of central India and some areas over northwest India. Normal to above-normal rainfall is most likely over most parts of peninsular India and northeast India,” IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said.West Madhya Pradesh and adjoining Rajasthan, some parts of interior Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, some parts of Punjab and HP are expected to receive below normal rainfall in August, Mohapatra said.Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Rayalaseema region of Andhra Pradesh, Konkan and Goa, central Maharashtra, south Gujarat, northeastern states, Bihar are likely to receive above-normal rainfall during the month, he added.The latest global model forecasts indicate that the prevailing neutral ENSO conditions are likely to continue over the equatorial Pacific Ocean. However, sea surface temperatures over central and east equatorial Pacific Ocean are showing cooling tendency and there is an increased possibility of re-emergence of the La Nina condition at the end of the monsoon season or thereafter.So far, June received 10 per cent more rainfall than normal. July recorded a rainfall deficit of seven per cent. The deficit was 25 per cent in the east and northeast India division of the IMD whereas the south peninsula received 27 per cent more rainfall than the normal. Northwest and central India registered a deficiency of 7 per cent.Overall, the country has received one per cent less rainfall than normal from June 1 to July 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surplus-rain-likely-in-second-half-of-monsoon-says-imd-292128
03-08-2021||Vishav Bharti||2nd surge: Punjab saw 40K ‘excess’ deaths in 3 months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2There were around 40,000 excess deaths in Punjab between April and June this year during the second wave of Covid-19. The number is four times the toll stated in the official bulletin issued by the Health Department. As per data obtained from the Death and Birth Division, Statistical Branch, Directorate of Health Services, there were 88,931 deaths between April and June this year. The figure was 48,834 during the corresponding months last year.Statistics reveal that the number of deaths started increasing significantly from the beginning of April this year. April saw 24,983 deaths, while the figure was 37,292 in May and 26,656 in June.However, the official Covid toll during the said months was 9,190. In the same report earlier, the government had said there were over 52,000 excess deaths between March 2020 and June 2021. Thus around 80% of the excess deaths occurred in just three months. The month of May proved most fatal with 20,000 excess deaths.The state sees around 2.1 to 2.2 lakh deaths due to various reasons every year. However, 1.47 lakh persons have died in the first six months this year. Experts attribute this rise in deaths to Covid-19, claiming that the mortality due to other reasons was low this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-surge-punjab-saw-40k-excess-deaths-in-3-months-292121
03-08-2021||Balwant Garg||MD/MS admission: NMC issues draft guidelines, seeks feedback||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 2Changing the procedure for admission to MD/MS courses, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has put forth its draft guidelines for colleges.As per the guidelines, the National Exit Test (NEXT) (from the date it becomes operational) shall be the basis for admission to the MD/MS courses in each academic year. Notably, seven medical colleges in Punjab offer about 690 MD/MS seats.“For admission to MD/MS courses, the candidate must qualify NEXT and be eligible to be granted a licence to practice as a medical practitioner and for enrolment in the state or national medical register, as the case may be,” reads the draft guidelines issued by the NMC in the public domain, seeking feedback from the public and various stakeholders.For admission to postgraduate broad specialty courses, NEXT marks shall remain valid for three years from the date a person has become eligible to be granted licence to practice as a medical practitioner. After the expiry of the validity of the NEXT marks, the person shall have to appear for and qualify the exam again to be eligible for admission to MD/MS courses.The MD/MS students also have to undergo a three-month District Residency Programme. This is aimed at acquainting the students with the planning, implementation, monitoring and assessment of the outcomes of the national health programmes at the district level and to orient them to promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitative services being provided by various categories of healthcare professionals under the umbrella of the National Health Mission.Moreover, the answer scripts of the students will be subjected to two valuations. The average of the total marks awarded by the two valuators for the paper, rounded off to the nearest value, shall be considered for the computation of the results. All answer scripts, where the difference between the two valuations is 15 per cent and more of the total marks prescribed for the paper, shall be subjected to a third valuation. The average of the two best total marks, awarded by the three evaluators for the paper, 25 rounded off to the nearest value, shall be considered for final computation of the results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/md-ms-admission-nmc-issues-draft-guidelines-seeks-feedback-291848
03-08-2021||Chandigarh||Schools reopen for all classes in Punjab; children happy, but many parents apprehensive||Schools for all classes reopened in Punjab on Monday, with physical classes resuming after a gap of a few months for pre-primary levels.The attendance was reported more from rural areas while turnout at many private schools was not that high.The state government on Saturday had allowed reopening of schools for all classes from August 2 as it further relaxed Covid restrictions in the wake of declining cases.While all coronavirus-related protocols will have to be strictly followed, parents will have to provide a written consent for their children to attend schools from 8 am to 2 pm.Officials said schools reopened for all classes across the state on Monday.Earlier, schools had reopened for pre-primary levels and classes 1 and 2 in Punjab in February this year after a gap of nearly 10 months after classes were suspended in March 2020 following the outbreak of Covid.Before deciding to reopen schools for all classes from August 2, the government had already allowed reopening of schools for Classes 10 to 12 from July 26.Virtual classes will continue for students who are unable to attend classes at schools.At many places including Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Rupnagar, Mohali and Patiala, children looked in a happy and festive mood as they returned to their respective schools after a long break.Ridhi, a student of Class 9 at DAV Public School in BRS Nagar in Ludhiana, expressed happiness over the decision. "We were really fed up sitting at home," she said.Payal, a Class 9 student in Rupnagar, said she had been missing her teachers and friends and was now feeling delighted to attend the school.A science student from Amritsar, Rajbir Kaur, said, "It is not possible to take practical classes while sitting at home and without a science lab."Some parents, however, expressed apprehension on classes resuming in physical mode amid the pandemic.In Patiala city, 50 per cent attendance was reported in the schools while villages recorded a higher percentage.According to Gurmukh Singh, father of an eighth class student of a government school in Patiala, he did not send his child to school because the children had not yet been vaccinated against Covid.Another parent from Patiala, who did not wish to disclose his name, said there was pressure from the "private school lobby" to reopen schools for all classes.In Rupnagar and some other districts, thin attendance was seen in primary classes, while in Ferozepur, both students and parents had mixed reactions on government's decision to reopen schools for all classes.Although most parents are still worried about Covid, they said they would monitor the progress of the reopening of schools for a week.Some parents claimed that their wards were unable to learn well through online classes due to the internet connectivity issue.Many parents expressed apprehensions about a possible spike in Covid cases."Of course, I am worried about my daughter's safety, even though she is excited. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the Covid situation, you feel scared," said Pooja Vohra, a parent in Ferozepur.Leader of Opposition in Punjab Assembly and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema sought to know from the state government on the basis of which report of doctors and education experts did it take "such a big decision" (on reopening all classes) relating to the lives of 60.5 lakh children, who constitute 20 per cent of the state's total population. PTISchool staff welcome students in PatialaPatiala: School staff welcomed the students on the first day of opening of government schools in the district.The schools were closed owing to the second Covid wave. Students were screened at the entrance.School administration said all the teachers who are attending school, have already received at least one dose of Covid vaccine. “Majority of teachers are fully vaccinated while all of them have received one dose. Besides, Covid-appropriate behaviour is being followed by both the students and teachers.”The district education department said random sampling of students would be done at schools. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schools-reopen-for-all-classes-in-punjab-children-happy-but-many-parents-apprehensive-291762
03-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Hockey player Dilpreet Singh wins hearts at Olympics, kin elated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hockey-player-dilpreet-singh-wins-hearts-at-olympics-kin-elated-291743
03-08-2021||Patiala||Patiala ex-Mayor Amarinder Bazaz wants Sanjeev Sharma Bittu probed||Though PCC chief Navjot Sidhu is yet to react to a letter by Punsup vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu, alleging corruption by Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, former mayor Amarinder Bazaz has now written to the CM, demanding a probe into development funds allegedly misused by the MC.While Sidhu remained incommunicado on the issue, Bazaz said “every single penny spent in the name of development be accounted for”. He said: “Important projects like shifting dairies and canal-based water are still pending and only the works where money can be minted easily are operational.”Bittu maintained the allegations were politically motivated as he was a contender for the ticket in 2022. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-ex-mayor-amarinder-bazaz-wants-sanjeev-sharma-bittu-probed-291627
03-08-2021||Amritsar||Don’t raze Sri Guru Ramdas Ji Niwas ‘sarai’ in Golden Temple: Activists||Conservationists have voiced concerns over losing the historical character around the Golden Temple by replacing old structures with new ones.Situated in the vicinity of the Golden Temple, they favour preservation of oldest ‘sarai’ Sri Guru Ramdas Ji Niwas, whichthe SGPC decided to demolish to pave wayfor new construction.Conservationists are citing both national and international rules to stress the point. Citing the report of the National Commission on Urbanisation, published in 1988, Rajinder Singh Baath, a retired archaeologist of the Department of Cultural Affairs, Archaeology and Museum, pointed out that neither an elevated road nor a flyover or a road-widening scheme was allowed in historical towns.Baath said the focus must be to preserve the old buildings. Conservation spatial planner Balvinder Singh, retired former head of Sri Guru Ramdas School of Planning, GNDU, said though the ‘sarai’ was constructed in the 1930s, a step inside it showed the simplicity of the pilgrims staying in it.“Though due to rising number of pilgrims more inns were required with modern amenities amid changing lifestyle, the character of the area should never be changed, as preservation of the character is the basic principle of the architectural conservation,” he said.“If a new building for pilgrims is constructed, the facade of the old ‘sarai’ with a couple of traditional rooms should be preserved,” he said. — TNS‘Stop work at excavation site’A Panthic gathering was held by the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal on Sunday. The activists gave an ultimatum to the SGPC to stop the construction work being done at the site from where a medieval-period structure was discovered during excavation by August 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-raze-sri-guru-ramdas-ji-niwas-sarai-in-golden-temple-activists-291623
