04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab sees 62 new cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported 62 new Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 5,99,266, according to a medical bulletin.No new Covid-related death was reported on Wednesday and the toll stands at 16,299, it said.There are 473 active cases in the state.Jalandhar reported 13 new infections, followed by eight in Patiala and seven in Ludhiana.With 52 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,82,494, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh did not report any fresh Covid case and the infection tally stands at 61,965, according to the bulletin.A total of 811 people have died due to Covid so far, it said.The number of active cases is 31 and a total of 61,123 people have so far recovered from the infection, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-62-new-cases-292968
04-08-2021||Patiala||PUNSUP vice-chairman sacked days after he raised corruption allegations against senior Congress party leaders||Days after Congress leader and PUNSUP vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu publicly accused senior party leaders of corruption, the state government has relieved him of the position. Budhu’s public statements had brought fissures in the Patiala Congress party out in the open, leaving it open to jibes from rival parties.The orders have been released from the office of Rahul Tiwari, secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, upon directions of the office of the governor. The Tribune has a copy of the same.Krishan Chand Budhu, who has been a Municipal Councillor in Patiala since 1992, recently accused senior party leaders of being involved in, and also shielding those involved in, illegal practices including sale of liquor, drugs and other activities. He had met new PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over the matter and claimed he had contacted senior party leaders over various problems several times but was not given a hearing. The councillor was also the first among party leaders in the royal city to install posters congratulating former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu for becoming Punjab Congress Committee chief.In response, the district congress committee (DCC) along with various chairmen and presidents from Patiala held a press conference on Tuesday where some leaders made counter-allegations against Budhu.Responding to the development, Krishan Chand Budhu said, “I have been punished for speaking the truth. I have been removed from the position of Vice-Chairman of PUNSUP for having spoken the truth.” He added, “Despite the same, I will not flinch from ‘the truth’. I will move forward from this as I have enough proof of illegal activities against those involved”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punsup-vice-chairman-sacked-days-after-he-raised-corruption-allegations-against-senior-congress-party-leaders-292965
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal says proposal to appoint full-fledged Administrator for Chandigarh another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday described the proposal to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for the Union Territory by divesting the Punjab Governor of this charge as another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city.“We will oppose this tooth and nail. Chandigarh is an inseparable part of Punjab and should be transferred to the parent state as soon as possible,” he said.In a statement here, the SAD president said there was no reason to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for the Union Territory from outside the state.“If at all an Administrator has to be appointed till such time the Union Territory is not transferred to Punjab, the officer should be from the parent state. Earlier also the chief commissioner of Chandigarh used to be from Punjab.”Asserting that all decisions taken at the time of reorganisation of Punjab were being violated one after another, Sukhbir Badal said the Centre was not following the 60:40 ratio for posting of officers in the Union Territory with a majority of officers being from Punjab.“Separate cadres have been created to reduce the strength of Punjab service officers in the Union Territory and now even AGMUT officers are being posted on key posts in utter violation of the 60:40 formula,” he said.Stating that instead of correcting the wrongs being done to Punjab vis a vis Chandigarh, Badal said it was condemnable that the Union government was now planning to dilute Punjab’s role in Chandigarh even further.He said it was unfortunate that the NDA government was following the path of the Congress government by proposing to implement an anti-Punjab move which was also against the spirit of the Constitution.Badal said the SAD had earlier also opposed a move to appoint a separate Administrator for Chandigarh in 2016 by divesting the Punjab Governor of this charge.“We will launch an agitation to ensure this move does not fructify again.”He also requested Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to pursue the case vigorously with the Union government and ensure no anti-Punjab decision was taken by the Centre.“The SAD is ready to approach the prime minister as part of an all-party delegation from Punjab to apprise the Union government of the sentiments of Punjabis on this sensitive issue. If the chief minister does not take any initiative, the SAD will approach the prime minister and demand the proposal is not implemented,” he said.Badal said Punjab had the first right over Chandigarh as the Union Territory was established by uprooting people from villages belonging to Punjab.He said even though Chandigarh was still the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, efforts were on to dilute its stake in the Union Territory on one pretext or another.“The Union government has even replaced Punjabi with English as the official language of Chandigarh even though the area does not have any English-speaking people. Similarly, the parent state is being denied a share in the taxes collected from the Union Territory,” he said adding the SAD would take up all these issues for resolution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-says-proposal-to-appoint-full-fledged-administrator-for-chandigarh-another-attempt-to-dilute-punjabs-claim-292955
04-08-2021||New Delhi||183 people arrested by Delhi Police in connection with protests against farm laws: Govt||Altogether 183 people were arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the farmers’ protests against three agricultural laws enacted last year, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday.Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said that according to the Delhi Police, provisions of sedition or any anti-terror law such as the UAPA have not been invoked in any of the cases registered against the protesting farmers.Replying to a written question, he said, “183 people have been arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the farmers’ protests since 2020 (upto July 20, 2021).”     Several farmer organisations have been protesting at Delhi’s borders blocking vital roads since November last year protesting against the three contentious farm laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/183-people-arrested-by-delhi-police-in-connection-with-protests-against-farm-laws-govt-292910
04-08-2021||Amritsar||Gangster Rana Kandowalia dies day after he was shot in Amritsar hospital; police books four||Gangster Rana Kandowalia, who was shot at a private hospital in Amritsar yesterday, succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday, said Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill.Kandowalia was critical after being shot at and was undergoing treatment at the ICU of the hospital. The city police booked four persons, including Jagroshan, Mani Rayya, both accomplices of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, and two unknown persons in this connection.Meanwhile, a Facebook post on an account named Bhgwanpuria Jaggu claimed that Goldy Brar killed Rana Kandowalia at the direction of Bhgwanpuria. Jaggu, in a Facebook post, claimed that Rana used to support Vicky Gondar and Davinder Babiha in the past and he had warned him of the consequences. Jaggu also threatened other targets and asked them to be ready in his alleged Facebook post. Police officers claim that they will check the authenticity of social media posts and take action.Kandowalia had gone to meet a relative admitted to the hospital at circular road yesterday. Four armed assailants entered the hospital premises around 7.20 pm last evening. Two of them went up to the second floor, where they allegedly opened fire at Kandowalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-rana-kandowalia-dies-day-after-he-was-shot-in-amritsar-hospital-police-books-four-292858
04-08-2021||---||Harsimrat Badal, Ravneet Bittu on camera in ugly spat outside Parliament, accuse each other of cheating farmers||New Delhi, August 4Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu and Shiromani Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Badal on Wednesday engaged in a verbal spat outside Parliament over the issue of passage of farm laws.Both the Akali Dal and Punjab Congress MPs were standing outside Parliament protesting against farm Bills when suddenly Bittu and Badal started trading barbs over the issue of passage of the legislations.While Bittu accused Badal of aiding the passage of farm laws and being a part of the Cabinet that approved the Bills, the former union minister lashed out at Bittu saying the Congress walked out of the Lok Sabha and helped in the passing of Bills.“You were part of the Cabinet that approved the farm bills and are today engaging in dramatics on the issue,” Bittu said to Harsimrat.An infuriated Bathinda MP hit asking where were Sonia and Rahul Gandhi when the Bills were being passed?The entire Congress walked out of the House helping easy passage of the Bills, said Harsimrat.Bittu later again attacked the Akali Dal asking where was their president Sukhbir Singh Badal while the Parliament and Kisan Sansad was on.“He is holding press conferences elsewhere and not coming to Parliament to raise farmers issues,” said Bittu as the two parties squabbled.Punjab MPs of Akali Dal and Congress were both holding placards to demand repeal of farm laws.The political parties have been going out of their way to show solidarity with farmers after the farm unions earlier declared they would assess the performance of MPs on farm issues and then determine the support in elections. Punjab elections are due in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harsimrat-badal-ravneet-bittu-on-camera-in-ugly-spat-outside-parliament-accuse-each-other-of-cheating-farmers-292855
04-08-2021||Garhshankar||Farmers to contest all 117 seats under ‘Mission Punjab’: Gurnam Singh Charuni||Gurnam Singh Charuni, leader of the United Kisan Morcha, on Tuesday announced to contest all 117 seats in the 2022 Assembly elections during a meeting with farmer leaders at Garhshankar. Naming the initiative as ‘Mission Punjab’, Charuni said till now all political parties have used farmers as vote bank but never did any work in their interest. He said after Punjab, they plan to contest General Election under ‘India Mission’.Talking to reporters after the meeting, he said elections would be contested on all 117 seats of the state not under the banner of Kisan Union but under the banner of ‘Mission Punjab’. He said he has put this proposal before the people and hoped that everyone would accept it. Responding to a question, he said it was not yet decided whether he would contest the elections himself or not.He said ‘Mission Punjab’ would be formed soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-contest-all-117-seats-under-mission-punjab-gurnam-singh-charuni-292774
04-08-2021||---||Amritsar: Couple dies in accident as car ‘driven by drunken cops’ hits bike||Amritsar, August 3A rashly driven car hit a bike and dragged a couple to several feet in a road mishap, thereby leading to their death on the spot on Ram Tirath Road on Tuesday.The occupants of the car fled from the spot leaving behind their car. People found liquor bottles, a police belt and stickers from a white-coloured Maruti Suzuki Swift car (PB-02-CN-2647”. The police have taken the car into their custody and started a probe into it while initiating the process of registering an FIR.Car dragged them 20-ft away from spot Akash, son of the deceased, told the police that when his father Balwinder Singh (in pic) and mother Raj Kaur reached near Wadala farmhouse, a rashly driven car hit their bike. The car dragged them to around 20-foot from the spot leading to on-the-spot death. Eyewitnesses said it appeared that some cops, who were driving the car, were under the influence of liquor.The victim have been identified as Balwinder Singh and Raj Kaur, both residents of Baoli village falling under the Kamboh police station here. A cyclist, Amrik Singh, was also injured in the mishap. He was admitted to a hospital.The victims were going from Sanghna village to meet some relative when the incident took place. Akash, son of the deceased, told the police that when his father and mother reached near Wadala farmhouse, a rashly driven car hit their bike. The car dragged them to around 20-foot from the spot leading to on-the-spot death. Eyewitnesses said it appeared that some cops, who were driving the car, were under the influence of liquor.Prabhjot Singh, SHO, Kamboh police station, said a case had been registered against unidentified persons for now and the car was impounded. “We are in the process of getting the details about the ownership of the car which would further reveal who were the occupants,” he said, adding that the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-couple-dies-in-accident-as-car-driven-by-drunken-cops-hits-bike-292711
04-08-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Three minors drown in reservoir near Abohar||Gangster among three held, two pistols confiscatedSangrur: The Crime Investigations Agency (CIA) of Malerkotla has arrested three persons and confiscated two pistols with eight live cartridges. The police have also seized two cars from their possession. Malerkotla DSP Devinder Sandhu said the team arrested gangster Mohd Rizwan from near Raikot bridge and seized one country-made pistol with two live cartridges. “The police also arrested two of his aides with the cars and seized another pistol with six live cartridges,” said the DSP. TNSHired on compassionate grounds, cop electrocutedMuktsar: A 20-year-old constable on Tuesday was electrocuted at the district police lines here. Sher Bahadur Singh of Lambi village, had got the job just about three months ago on compassionate grounds after his father died on duty in 2008. Sources said the deceased came into contact of an electricity wire, which claimed his life. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-minors-drown-in-reservoir-near-abohar-292693
04-08-2021||---||Farmers’ protest: Attari woman dies at Singhu border||Attari, August 3Bibi Rajinder Kaur, a resident of Muhawa village in Attari, who took active part in the farmers’ protest at Delhi borders, died last night.She was 86. Her health got deteriorated at the Singhu border on August 2. She was rushed to a hospital in Sonepat, where she breathed her last. After postmortem, her body was shifted to her native village and cremated this evening. She had actively participated in the farm agitation since July 28.Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala, Kabal Singh Muhawa, Pargat Singh Jamarai, Rattan Singh Randhawa demanded the government to compensate one of her family members with a government job and financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-attari-woman-dies-at-singhu-border-292687
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu hears out Dalit MLAs||To resolve the outstanding issues raised by Dalit MLAs, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu has sought time from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for a meeting. The PPCC chief today called up CM’s Chief Principal Secretary, after Dalit MLAs at a meeting with Sidhu sought redress of Dalit-related issues ahead of the Assembly elections.Ministers Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Aruna Chaudhary attended the meeting, Charanjit Singh Channi stayed away. During the brain-storming session, the Dalit lawmakers stressed the need for ensuring political deliverance of the welfare schemes run by the Congress government. “Be it increasing the old age pension to Rs 1,500 or shagun scheme amount to Rs 50,000, party MLAs should be involved in the disbursal of welfare funds, instead of officials,” said an MLA.At the three-hour meeting with Sidhu, 20 MLAs and two ministers spoke about the programmes and policies needed for the welfare of the Scheduled Caste community of the state. A detailed plan of action to take up Dalit issues for redress by the state government was formed, keeping in view the demand and grievances of the community.The PCC chief reiterated party’s commitment to fulfilling the 18-point agenda and doing even more for the community at the earliest.While the MLAs urged the PCC chief to meet party workers on the ground, the latter said he would do so after August 15. Some MLAs suggested the party should counter the “false propaganda” paddled by Opposition parties of the Congress government doing little for the Dalits.The PCC chief pointed out instead of blaming the government, the party workers must highlight pro-Dalit measures such as the upcoming Bill to earmark budget for SC community welfare.Sidhu later held a two-hour meeting with Congress workers from different blocks of Nawanshahr district along with working presidents Sangat Singh Gilzian and Kuljit Singh Nagra, besides MLAs Angad Saini, Darshan Lal Mangupur and other leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-hears-out-dalit-mlas-292686
04-08-2021||---||Gangster Rana Kandowalia shot at in Amritsar, admitted to ICU||Amritsar, August 3Gangster Rana Kandowalia, out on bail since December 2019, was shot at in a private hospital on the Circular Road here this evening.According to the police, Kandowalia was alive, but in a critical condition. He was admitted to the ICU of the hospital.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said initial investigations suggested around four armed assailants entered the hospital premises. Two of them went up to the second floor, where they allegedly opened fire at Kandowalia. The incident occurred at 7.20 pm.According to information, Kandowalia had gone to meet a relative admitted to the hospital four days ago. He had visited her earlier too.The suspects had apparently kept track of his movements, said the police. Initial probe suggested the incident was the outcome of gang rivalry. Further investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-rana-kandowalia-shot-at-in-amritsar-admitted-to-icu-292574
04-08-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||82% rural households in Punjab have tap water: Union Minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3More than 82 per cent of the rural households in Punjab have tap water connections. More than 34 per cent of these came after the Jal Jeevan Mission by the Centre was launched on August 15, 2019, said Minister of State for Jal Shakti, Prahlad Singh Patel, in reply to a question by Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Partap Singh Bajwa during the ongoing Parliament session on Monday.Punjab has a total of 34.73 lakh households, of which 28.68 lakh have tap water availability.At the same time, Haryana has more than 98 per cent rural households having regular water connections. As many as 30.50 lakh out of 30.97 lakh houses have tap water connections. Haryana got 12.84 lakh water connections after 2019.Himachal Pradesh has about 79 per cent houses in the rural areas with tap water facility. Official data showed that as many as 13.63 lakh out of 17.04 lakh have water in their homes. More than six lakh of the total came after 2019. All rural schools and anganwaris in Punjab and Haryana have water. Himachal also has all 17,669 anganwaris , except one, having the facility.Patel said when the Jal Jeevam Mission was launched on August 15, 2019, only 3.23 crore of the total 19.12 crore had the tap water in their homes, which was only 17 per cent of the total households. After the launch of the mission, at least 4.62 crore more homes had been added, taking the total to 7.85 crore which is more than 41 per cent of the total.Reacting to the reply, Bajwa said “I appreciate the state government’s efforts under the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ programme. It is good to know that 100 per cent of anganwaris and schools in Punjab have tap water connections”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/82-rural-households-in-punjab-have-tap-water-union-minister-292561
04-08-2021||---||Despair & hope at homes of hockey stars||Jalandhar, August 3It was a day of rollercoaster emotions for fans of Indian hockey. When the Indian men led Belgium 2-1 in the semifinals of the Olympic Games hockey, it was a moment to celebrate — but as they conceded goals to first give up their advantage and then concede the lead, joy turned to despair.The families whose sons were playing in Tokyo went through the same emotions — joy and despair. But there remains the hope of a medal, which a win over Germany in the bronze playoff would ensure.Manjit Kaur, mother of Indian captain Manpreet Singh, was crestfallen after today’s loss. She was unhappy, and said her son was in the same state of mind when they talked after the match. “Khush nahi si oh,” she said.“All of us are disappointed after today’s loss,” she added. “Let’s see what happens in the next match with Germany… Asi Germany nu easy nahi lai sakde (we can’t take it easy against Germany).”Hoping for bronzeThe families of the four players from Amritsar district are also hoping for a bronze with a win over Germany. Balwinder Singh, father of Dilpreet Singh, said he spoke to his son after the match. “He sounded a little disheartened, and I told him to not lose heart over a result which cannot be altered,” said Balwinder. “I told him — put all your energy into the next match as the whole country would be looking at all of you with hope.”“It is better to have something rather than nothing,” said Hardev Singh, father of Shamsher Singh, from Attari village. “One out of the two teams must lose. Sadly, it was not our day.”Sarbjit Singh, father of Harmanpreet Singh, said he spoke to his son and his room partner Mandeep Singh to motivate them for the crucial match against the Germans.“I told them to not brood over a lost match and focus on the next match as the whole of India hopes for a hockey medal this time,” Sarbjit said. “Anyway, it is not a small feat that after decades, this team reached the semifinals at the Olympics.”“I told them they played well today, and that it was only in the last 10 minutes that Belgium steered the match in their favour,” he added.Gurjant Singh’s father Baldev Singh said the team played well for the most part. “They led 2-1 in the first half and it was only in the second half that Belgium converted penalty-corners into goals. This means our team’s field hockey is strong enough to counter direct attacks,” he said, hoping the team would ensure a medal on Thursday.In Faridkot, the family of drag-flicker Rupinder Pal Singh remains confident that the team would come back with a medal. “They still have a chance to secure a bronze medal, and I have no doubt that the boys will bring back a medal,” said Rupinder’s father, Harinder Singh.(With inputs from Amritsar & Faridkot)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despair-hope-at-homes-of-hockey-stars-292562
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura Fring: Give week’s notice to Sumedh Saini before arrest, directs HC||TThe Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the issuance of a week's notice, if former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was sought to be arrested in the Kotkapura police firing case registered three years ago. Justice Avneesh Jhingan's order paves way for Saini “to have recourse to remedies available to him”.Saini had moved the High Court against the state through senior counsel APS Deol with advocate HS Deol for anticipatory bail in the FIR for attempt to murder, disappearance of evidence and other offences registered on August 7, 2018, under various Sections of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act, 1959, at the Kotkapura police station city in Faridkot.Appearing before Justice Jhingan’s Bench, Deol submitted Saini had apprehended arrest on being summoned for March 26 by the Court of Faridkot Judicial Magistrate First Class on presentation of fourth supplementary report under Section 173(8) of the CrPC.Justice Jhingan took note of the state counsel's submissions that a new SIT was constituted after the HC in April set aside the chargesheet filed in the present FIR. Justice Jhingan further took note of submissions by the petitioner's counsel that apprehensions of arrest were still in existence as Saini had been summoned by new SIT.Disposing of the petition, the judge said the petitioner was not named in the FIR and summoned only on the basis of fourth supplementary report, which no longer existed and fresh probe was being carried out by the new SIT.“It would not be appropriate to ignore the factual background of the case. Petitioner served the state being IPS officer. This court in another matter, considering various aspects involved, including political colour, vide order dated October 11, 2018, granted protection that in case petitioner is to be arrested, a seven-day notice would be served,” the Bench observed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-fring-give-weeks-notice-to-sumedh-saini-before-arrest-directs-hc-292563
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, PWD XEN Nimratdeep Singh booked in corruption case||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau last night booked former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini along with six others, including PWD XEN Nimratdeep Singh, under the Prevention of Corruption Act and conspiracy. The agency is probing Saini’s role in a fraudulent deal involving fake documents and questionable financial transactions linked to a Sector 20 house.The FIR lodged by Vigilance Additional Director Varinder Singh Brar was based on a Vigilance inquiry, which established that Saini paid Rs 2.5 lakh rent for the first floor of the house to an excise officer’s family besides paying Rs 6.40 crore since October 2018.Teams of the Vigilance Bureau tried to arrest Saini last night but could not succeed despite laying siege to the house for over four hours.Saini, in the dock over controversial methods adopted during the fight against terrorism in Punjab, has been facing a series of cases since his retirement in 2018. The Mohali police had booked him last year for the alleged disappearance and murder of Balwant Singh Multani. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Punjab Police was also examining his role in opening of fire at protesters at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura in 2015, when he was the DGP.The FIR said the Vigilance Bureau found these financial transactions during an inquiry against Nimratdeep Singh, Executive Engineer, Public Works Department (PWD). — TNS‘Fraudulent’ house deal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-pwd-xen-nimratdeep-singh-booked-in-corruption-case-292564
04-08-2021||Rajmeet Singh and Jupinderjit Singh||Punjab Home Dept blames STF for delay in catching drug trade ‘big fish’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3In the backdrop of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and other party leaders targeting the Chief Minister for not exposing the “big fish” in drug trafficking, the state Home Department has shot off a strongly worded letter to the Special Task Force chief, asserting the delay, if any, was on part of the STF alone.The department has questioned the delay of three years in the requisite action.The letter, written by Anurag Aggarwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, on Monday seems to be the latest in a fast exchange of letters between him and STF chief ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu over the issue of catching the “big fish” in drugs smuggling. Sources said the STF was instructed earlier to take action against top smugglers or expose the police-smuggling racket, as was claimed three years ago when the name of a SSP cropped up in an investigation by the STF. The STF responded that the investigation report was already submitted in the High Court and there were no further instructions by the court or the government.Responding to this in the latest letter, Aggarwal pointed out that it was needless to say after three years that there was no government or HC order to investigate the matter.“The STF does not require any government or HC order to probe the drug trafficking matters. Moreover, in this case, there are no stay orders from the HC. In case the STF has cogent evidence against the said ‘big fish’ or even otherwise, if the STF is of the view that the matter needs to be investigated, nothing stops you from doing so. The entire delay is on part of the STF,” the ACS said. ADGP Sidhu said he would reply to the letter instead of responding through the media. He said there seemed to be some misunderstanding on drugs smuggling cases investigated separately by the police and the STF.The CM was under fire by Cabinet colleagues, Sidhu and the Opposition for allegedly failing to catch any top drugs smuggler in the four-and-a-half year tenure. The CM had made a poll promise that he would take action against drugs smugglers within a month of forming the government.In 2018, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had asked the chief of an anti-drug STF, set up by CM Capt Amarinder Singh to catch the “big fish” in drug trade, to file a status report on the entire matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-home-dept-blames-stf-for-delay-in-catching-drug-trade-big-fish-292565
04-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court finds investigation into NDPS case ‘not normal’, hands it over to CBI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3In a severe indictment of the Punjab Police, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today transferred the investigation of a drugs case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after asserting that “everything was not normal with the investigation of NDPS cases in the state”.Cites report by The TribuneAmong other things, the CBI was asked to look into the involvement of any public servant in delaying the registration of an FIR or any other investigation. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted the state functionaries, for reasons best known to them, were intentionally protecting the drug offenders.Justice Sangwan was hearing a bail petition by Sarabjit Singh in a drugs case registered at the Bhogpur police station in Jalandhar district. Justice Sangwan, during the course of hearing, took cognisance of a news report carried in these columns on the seizure of 12 lakh tablets of tramadol.Justice Sangwan then asked Punjab Director, Bureau of Investigation, to file a specific affidavit regarding the investigation conducted with reference to the news item dated December 22, 2019, “wherein huge quantity of tramadol tablets was recovered, but the FIR has been registered only under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act of 1940 and not under the NDPS Act”. As the case came up for resumed hearing, Justice Sangwan added the Director’s affidavit, filed in the court about one-and-a-half-years ago, stated that an offence under Section 22/32 of the NDPS Act was made. But no FIR had been registered till date.Referring to another reply by the Joint Commissioner (Drugs) Food and Drugs Administration, Justice Sangwan added it acknowledged the recovery of 12 lakh tablets. But shockingly, in both affidavits, nothing was stated about the whereabouts of the recovered stock of 12 lakh tablets. Even the batch number, etc, was not given.Justice Sangwan added: “This is a serious lapse and inaction on the part of the police and the drug controller and this reveals that everything is not normal with the investigation of the NDPS cases in the state.” Justice Sangwan made it clear that the CBI would ensure the entire contraband recovered from Ravenbhel Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd was handed over to it. In case of shortage, the CBI would investigate if it was misused to implicate an innocent. Setting a 10-week deadline, Justice Sangwan clarified the directions were only regarding the recovery from Ravenbhel Pharmaceuticals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-finds-investigation-into-ndps-case-not-normal-hands-it-over-to-cbi-292566
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Exam for officer cadres from Aug 23||The next departmental examination of assistant commissioners, extra assistant commissioner /IPS officers, tehsildars/revenue officials and other departments will be held from August 23 to 27. Vivek Partap Singh, Principal Secretary, Department of Personnel, Punjab and Secretary, Department Examination Committee, said those who intended to appear in the exam should send their applications to the Principal Secretary, Department of Personnel and Secretary, through their departments by August 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exam-for-officer-cadres-from-aug-23-292567
04-08-2021||---||Yo Yo Honey Singh's wife files domestic violence case||New Delhi, August 3Rapper and singer Yo Yo Honey Singh has landed into legal trouble as his wife Shalini Talwar has filed a domestic violence case against him.According to reports, the case was registered on Tuesday before Tania Singh, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate of Tis Hazari Court. The court has issued a notice to Honey Singh to file his reply by August 28. The court has also passed interim orders in favour of Shalini Talwar, restraining Honey Singh from disposing of his jointly owned property.In the complaint, Shalini has alleged that she has been subjected to numerous incidents of physical, verbal and mental abuse at the hands of her husband. She has also alleged that Honey Singh cheated on her. Honey Singh is yet to release a statement on the allegations levelled by his wife against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yo-yo-honey-singhs-wife-files-domestic-violence-case-292568
04-08-2021||Karam Prakash||No record of jabbed pregnant women in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 3A special drive to jab pregnant women seems to have faltered because the state government, even after a month of the launch of the drive, has no record of the vaccinated women.The Health Department said it had not been able to collect data from the ground. Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said there was no provision on the online portal to fetch data of expectant mothers. He said, “It is difficult to ask beneficiaries if they are pregnant.”Dr Bhasker said they had been trying to get details about pregnant women from the respective senior medical officers, but had not been successful so far. Around 58 pregnant women have already lost lives across the state owing to Covid-induced complications since the outbreak. Besides, many newborn babies delivered by Covid-positive women have died.It is learnt that pregnant women are reluctant to get the jab, especially in rural areas. “Though the government has allowed vaccination of pregnant women, there is no study on the possible side-effects on newborns,” a woman said.Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said, “There has always been some hesitancy at the initial stage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-record-of-jabbed-pregnant-women-in-punjab-292569
04-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege cases: Minister writes to Punjab CM over police ‘callousness’||Flagging callous attitude of the police department in handling important cases, Jails and Cooperatives Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa has written to the CM, seeking appraisal of the Home Department and the police.“In view of the prevailing situation of mistrust and pathetic handling of recent cases, Bargari and Kotkapura, by the police, there was a need for appraisal of the Home Department and police for which we face a lot of flak every day,” said the minister, who along with minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa and MLAs Harminder Gill, Kulbir Zira and Kushaldeep Kiki Dhillon has been summoned by parallel acting Jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand for clarifying their stance on misguiding organisers leading to the end of the Bargari morcha over the 2015 sacrilege and police firing incidents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-cases-minister-writes-to-punjab-cm-over-police-callousness-292570
04-08-2021||---||CBSE Class X Results: 6 students top Punjab with 99.80%||Bathinda, August 3The results of Class X, prepared on the basis of marks obtained by students in tests and exams conducted throughout the academic year due to the Covid pandemic, were announced by the CBSE today.Six students, namely Gurnoor Singh of Delhi Public School, Bathinda; Srishti Gaur of St Xavier’s School, Bathinda; Hargun Preet Singh of Senior Study II, Amritsar; Navleen Kaur, Neha and Simranjot Kaur Brar of Dashmesh Public School, Kotkapura, have scored the highest 99.80 per cent marks in Class X.Hargun Preet scored 100/100 in four of the five core subjects, with 99/100 in English. “He had a tough year, battling depression due to being in a lockdown and interruption in academics. But he remained strong and his success in the Class X is a fruit of his perseverance,” said Amritpreet Singh, Hargun’s father.Gurnoor Singh’s parents Jaswant Singh and Parminder Kaur are English teachers in government schools. Gurnoor said, “Studying for around four hours daily and investing equal time for all subjects proved to be handy. I want to pursue a career in software engineering.”A government employee’s daughter, Srishti Gaur gives the credit of her good marks to the mock tests she took before the exams. She wants to clear CLAT and pursue a career in law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbse-class-x-results-6-students-top-punjab-with-99-80-292571
04-08-2021||---||Case pendency nears 7 lakh in Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, August 3The problem of plenty is getting worse in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, with the pendency of cases almost touching the 7-lakh mark, up by more than 60,000 since the beginning of the year.The National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency of cases — indicates the pendency of 6,99,268 cases in the High Court, as against 6,37,188 in January and 5,28,340 in January 2020.The only other HC with pendency more than the Punjab and Haryana High Court is Allahabad with 7,98,976 matters await adjudication. Of the total pending cases in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, 3,04,447 are criminal matters, predominantly involving life and liberty.As many as 1,58,570 (22.68 per cent) of the total pending cases are up to a year old; 2,31,637 (33.13 per cent) are between one and three years old; 92,551 (13.24 per cent) are pending between 10 and 20 years, and 10,519 (1.5 per cent) cases are awaiting adjudication for last 20 to 30 years.To make matters worse, the HC is expected to witness a flood of litigation once it reopens for normal “physical” operations. Available information suggests a substantial number of cases, filed but yet to be numbered, are lying in the HC Registry to be taken up upon the resumption of physical hearing.The situation is expected to further worsen because of the impending retirement of judges. The HC is currently functioning at almost half the sanctioned strength with just 46 judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. No less than two judges are retiring this year, including one in August. Another five judges are retiring next year.The last time the Collegium made recommendations for elevation was in August 2020. The names of five advocates — Jasjit Singh Bedi, Pankaj Jain, Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil and Vinod Bhardwaj — were finalised and forwarded. These were further forwarded by the Centre to the Supreme Court in April this year and are believed to be pending. On the other hand, the last time the Collegium recommended the names of judicial officers for elevation as High Court judges was more than two years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/case-pendency-nears-7-lakh-in-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-292572
04-08-2021||Faridkot||Two dera men get bail in sacrilege case||The court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMIC), Faridkot, on Tuesday ordered the release of two followers of Dera Sacha Sauda in a sacrilege case on bail.Accused Nishan Singh and Pardeep Kumar had been in the jail since May 16 after they were arrested by the new Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the sacrilege and police firing cases.Granting the bail, the court observed that the accused had remained in custody for long and there was no point in keeping them behind the bars till the conclusion of the trial. It added in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the trial was not going to conclude anytime soon, thus the accused were allowed to be released on bail.Earlier, the accused were declined bail by the court on June 21 on the ground that they were required in respect of the investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-dera-men-get-bail-in-sacrilege-case-292573
04-08-2021||---||SAD promises free power, quota in varsities for govt schoolkids||Chandigarh, August 3Getting into populist mode ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, the SAD today made a set of 13 announcements for a cross-section of society, hoping to return to power riding on these poll promises.Announcing free power up to 400 units to all residential consumers, 33 per cent quota in colleges and universities for government school students and a 500-bed hospital in each district, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said most of these would be fulfilled within one year of the SAD-BSP forming the government next year.Notably, no Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader was present at the press conference organised by the SAD at a hotel, instead of the party office. Sukhbir was the only leader on stage with the party slogan — “Jo keha oh keeta, jo kehange, oh karaange” — in the backdrop.BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi said party leaders could not attend the event due to a pre-scheduled programme. “The promises made by Sukhbir were finalised in consultation with us at a joint meeting on Monday. We fully support the promises,” he asserted. Assuring prompt implementation of the promises, Sukhbir said: “The process would start from initial Cabinet meetings and unlike the Congress government, the SAD-BSP will do its best to honour the promises within a year.” He said he would announce a separate policy for sand and liquor businesses soon.Sukhbir promised Rs 2,000 per month to all women heads of families holding the ‘blue card’, besides cutting the price of diesel for agriculture consumers by Rs 10 per litre, providing power @ Rs 5 per unit for industry and an interest-free loan of Rs 10 lakh for students to pay college and coaching fee.The party further promised a health insurance scheme of Rs 10 lakh per annum, covering treatment, medicines, diagnostic tests, surgeries and medical equipment in all public and private hospitals.Announcing initiatives for the agriculture sector, Sukhbir said legislation would be passed in the Assembly to ensure the three agriculture laws were not implemented in Punjab. He said the government would introduce minimum support price (MSP) on fruits and vegetables and the differential would be paid in case of reduction in prices to farmers.One lakh new jobs would be created in the government sector and 10 lakh in the private sector, he said, adding at least 75 per cent jobs would be reserved for Punjabi youth in the private sector.Sukhbir further promised a minimum of 50 per cent reservation for women in all government jobs, besides regularising all contract staff, including safai workers. All government services for citizens would be digitised and “sewa kendras” that were shut by the Congress government would be revived.Large companies would be encouraged to switch over to solar energy by waiving transmission charges in the state, and new textile and IT hubs would be created, he added.Key assurances||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-promises-free-power-quota-in-varsities-for-govt-schoolkids-292558
04-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna
||Not naming CM face may hurt AAP in Punjab||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 3 The Aam Aadmi Party will find the going tough during the Assembly elections scheduled early next year, without declaring its chief ministerial candidate soon. Even though the party has gained strength from the last Parliamentary elections of 2019, with many prominent Congress and Akali Dal leaders joining them, it will definitely need the charisma of a known Punjabi leader as the party’s face to help it sail through. Party chief Arvind Kejriwal has already announced that a Sikh face will be the party’s CM candidate. The question now being asked is who that face will be. Many in the party believe that one of the main reasons for the “much-below expectations” results of the party in the 2017 polls was that the CM candidate had not been announced. What is also baffling several MLAs and other leaders in the party is the continued “overlooking of the already established and known party leaders” by the party high command. This is not just in reference to Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, who is also in charge of the state unit, but also for the halqa in charges of various constituencies. Recently, a number of newly inducted leaders in the party have been made halqa in charges, which has created some heartburn among them. Mann was the only AAP MP elected in 2019 elections. Even as he remains the most popular face who connects with the masses, the party has given a clear hint that they are on the lookout for a CM face. A party MLA, requesting anonymity, said Mann’s candidature has not been rejected, but the CM candidate will be announced in the coming days. “We had raised the issue at the meeting with the party high command in Delhi on Sunday, and he assured that this will be done well in time before the next election,” he said. The MLAs were also briefed about multiple surveys, which have pointed out that the party faces the best electoral prospects in Malwa region. The party has also started putting its weight behind MLAs who have maintained a clean image. Many in the party also feel that the direct control of Delhi on all local affairs is proving to be a disadvantage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-naming-cm-face-may-hurt-aap-in-punjab-292559
04-08-2021||New Delhi||Centre Govt blames Pak for not allowing travel via Kartarpur corridor||The government today informed the Lok Sabha that Pakistan has not been allowing travel through the Kartarpur corridor due to a rise in Covid-19 cases in India in April.Replying to a question by Congress MP from Amritsar Gurjeet Singh Aujala, Minister of State (MoS) for Home Nityanand Rai said: “The movement of pilgrims through the Kartarpur corridor was suspended in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.”“Furthermore, Pakistan’s National Command and Operations Centre (NCOC) has banned all travel from India, citing surge in Covid-19 cases in India since April 2021,” the minister added.India had signed a pact with Pakistan on October 24, 2019. Under the pact, Indian pilgrims are allowed to undertake round-the-year visa-free travel through the corridor to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-govt-blames-pak-for-not-allowing-travel-via-kartarpur-corridor-292560
04-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||2 pilots missing as Army helicopter crashes in Pathankot||Tribune News ServicePathankot, August 3The pilot and the co-pilot of an Army helicopter went missing after it crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake around 10.30 am today.The missing pilots were identified as Capt Jayant Joshi and Lt Col SS Bhatt. Joshi’s mother Jeewan Dhara Joshi is a serving lieutenant colonel in the Military Nursing Service (MNS).The search operation was launched around 11 am under the supervision of Army officers. More than 20 divers were deployed to locate the pilots. A large part of the chopper wreckage could be seen floating in the lake. The dam is situated around 30 km from Pathankot.The ill-fated Dhruv helicopter belonging to the 254 Army Aviation Squadron had taken off from Mamun cantonment. The exact cause of the crash is being ascertained by Army experts. An NDRF team also reached the spot.Search operationSearch is on to locate the missing pilots Capt Jayant Joshi and Lt Col SS Bhatt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-pilots-missing-as-army-helicopter-crashes-in-pathankot-292610
04-08-2021||Pathankot||Army helicopter crashes into Ranjit Sagar Dam in Pathankot; both pilots missing||An Army helicopter crashed in the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake in Pathankot at 10.35 am on Tuesday.The pilot and the co-pilot are missing. Divers of the dam have been pressed into action to look for them.The chopper belonged to the 254  Army Aviation Squadron and had taken off from Mamun cantonment 10 minutes before it came down. Officials say it was carrying out low-level sorties when it lost control. The exact cause of the crash is being ascertained by experts from the Army. Officials claim prima facie it appeared that the chopper developed a technical snag while flying over the lake following which the engine seized. “The chopper came down and crashed into the water with a loud thud,” said a tourist.Deputy Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said he was apprised about the situation.  Scores of tourists who were visiting the dam saw the wobbly chopper coming down into the lake.DC Aggarwal said that he had dispatched a team of senior administrative officials led by the District Revenue Officer (DRO) to the spot.Dam Chief Engineer Ram Darshan said his officials were working with the Army to know the exact cause of the crash.SSP Surendra Lamba was among the first to reach the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-helicopter-crashes-into-ranjit-sagar-dam-in-pathankot-both-pilots-missing-292307
