05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 40 fresh Covid cases||The Covid-19 infection tally in Punjab on Thursday rose to 5,99,304 with 40 fresh cases, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related death was reported on Thursday.The death toll, which stands at 16,301, includes two fatalities which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases stands at 464, it said.Fazilka, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana reported five cases each, followed by four each in Amritsar and Mohali.With 45 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured people reached 5,82,539, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-40-fresh-covid-cases-293535
05-08-2021||New Delhi||1,132 rural habitations in Punjab reported to have quality issues in drinking water sources||Of the 47,873 rural habitations reported to have quality issues in drinking water sources, as many as 1,132 are in Punjab and just one in neighbouring Haryana, according to the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) which generates groundwater quality data on a regional scale as part of its groundwater quality monitoring programme and scientific studies.The studies indicate the occurrence of contaminants, including Arsenic and heavy metals, beyond permissible limits (as per BIS) for human consumption in isolated pockets in various states/UTs, according to a written reply of Minister of State of Jal Shakti Prahlad Singh Patel to a question on contamination of groundwater by Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal in the Lok Sabha.  Patel said as reported by states/UTs as on July 23, Community Water Purification Plants (CWPPs) had been installed in 107 of these habitations in Punjab while 1,025 are still remaining.In the country on the whole, of the 47,873 affected habitations, only 3076 have been covered by the CWPPsAccording to CGWB data, in Punjab, Arsenic concentration in groundwater beyond permissible limit has been reported from 10 districts, Lead from 6 districts, Cadmium from 8 districts, Chromium from 10 districts and Uranium from 16 districts.In Malwa belt, Arsenic concentration in groundwater beyond the permissible limit has been reported from Mansa, Faridkot and Sangrur, Lead from Bathinda, Ferozepur and Muktsar, Cadmium from Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, Patiala and Sangrur, Chromium from Bathinda, Mansa, and Sangrur districts, and Uranium from nine districts, Bathinda, Moga, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Ludhiana, Muktsar, Patiala and Sangrur, Patel told the Lok Sabha.Regarding the Central government’s efforts, Patel said Jal Shakti Abhiyan (JSA) launched in 2019 is a time bound campaign with a mission mode approach intended to improve water availability including groundwater conditions in the water stressed blocks of 256 districts, including Punjab.In addition, ‘Jal Shakti Abhiyan – Catch the Rain’ campaign was also launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March 2021.Patel said Punjab has launched a “long-term and short-term mitigation strategy to tackle the water quality problems in the state”.First preference is given to surface water projects, wherever it is techno-economically feasible.Accordingly, Punjab is covering 642 quality affected habitations as per feasibility for which work is under progress.Short term measures include CWPPs. “However, installing CWPPs in very small habitations is generally not economical and sustainable. Therefore, after successful demonstration of household purifiers in one village, concept is being replicated in Arsenic affected habitations for providing household purifiers.With as many as 20,956 rural habitations with quality issues in drinking water sources, Assam tops the list followed by Rajasthan (12,160), Bihar (3,966), Odisha (3,465) West Bengal (3,092) and Tripura (1,335).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-132-rural-habitations-in-punjab-reported-to-have-quality-issues-in-drinking-water-sources-293501
05-08-2021||Nawanshahr||Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni lands up in controversy||As Charuni walked up a staircase to reach out the statue of the architect of the Indian Constitution, he chose to remove garland from around his own neck and put it on the statue. He was accompanied by ex-BSP state chief Rachhpal Raju during the ceremony.As videos of the ceremony got circulated, the BSP leaders led by Dr Nachhatar Pal Singh condemned the action and lodged a complaint with SSP Alka Meena alleging dishonour of the revered national hero.Eventually, on Wednesday, Charuni chose to get out of the controversy by putting up his video on social media seeking an apology from all those who got hurt, especially those belonging to the dalit community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leader-gurnam-singh-charuni-lands-up-in-controversy-293442
05-08-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Prashant Kishor’s resignation as Principal Adviser to Punjab CM sets pitch for political drama to unfold in Punjab Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 5Resignation by political strategist Prashant Kishor as Principal Adviser to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has set the pitch for the political drama to unfold in crisis-ridden Punjab Congress.Kishor’s resignation from the position comes days after the party high command elevated Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new PPCC chief.The development comes not only as a setback to the CM, who had engaged the political strategist for projecting him as the CM face in the 2022 Assembly election, but has left political analysts curious about Kishor’s next move for the Punjab Congress.Sources said Kishor’s resignation has come at a time when he is reported to be engaged in parleys with the party high command for revival of the grand old party ahead of the Assembly elections. Planning the strategy for the Punjab Congress with Sidhu positioned as PPCC chief is not being ruled out.Ever since the crisis in Punjab Congress started over three months ago, the political strategist has been indicating to some state leaders that he is not keen on working on the given position in Punjab. He is also learnt to have called up some of the main leaders who are in the forefront of the “save Congress” campaign.It is learnt that the political strategist has been assisting the party’s top leadership on elevation of Sidhu as PPCC chief and change of seats of some MLAs and dropping some others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prashant-kishors-resignation-as-principal-adviser-to-punjab-cm-sets-pitch-for-political-drama-to-unfold-in-punjab-congress-293426
05-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Number plate recognition device to keep eye on crime||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 4The Jalandhar rural police installed a hi-tech system in Phillaur to help it keep a tab on all incoming and outgoing vehicles past the Jalandhar-Ludhiana route across Sutlej to check crime.SSP Rural Naveen Singla, sitting at district headquarters in Jalandhar city, 40 kms from the site, has started personally monitoring the movement at the crucial entry and exit points of the city. Explaining the purpose, he said, “We have installed a number plate recognition (NPR) device with which we are keeping a track on all vehicles entering and leaving the city. The automatic system scans the number plates of all vehicles, including cars, two wheelers and trucks and stores the data of the same along with the exact timing of its passage at the naka.”The SSP added, “Through the system, we can also check as to how many times a particular vehicle crossed the naka in a week or so. The biggest advantage is that if a particular vehicle owner, after committing a crime, passes through the naka, a siren will be blown at the site and our police teams there can immediately chase the vehicle and nab the offender.”Singla also added that pan and zoom cameras had also been installed at the site which can rotate 360 degree and zoom the videos for more clarity and noting any details. “Our cameras have a good night vision too and will work and report for 24 hours. Besides, we can also zoom in and capture images of the persons there in the suspected vehicles,” said the SSP, who has installed a big screen, high-quality server, PCs and high speed internet in his office here.Singla said such devices would also soon be installed at other strategic sites in the Jalandhar Rural police area. “Our next point would be installing this device at Gidderpindi near Shahkot, which too is a common point for the criminals to escape and is remotely located from the headquarters. Next, we may use the same technology at Kartarpur on Amritsar highway”, he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/number-plate-recognition-device-to-keep-eye-on-crime-293349
05-08-2021||---||Man goes to meet girlfriend in Verka, her brothers strangle him to death||Amritsar, August 4A 32-year-old man went to meet his girlfriend at her house in Verka, but was reportedly killed by the girl’s family members on Tuesday night.The deceased has been identified as Jagtar Singh, alias Jagga, of Navi Abadi Verka. The police have booked the woman and her two brothers in this regard.According to a police source, Jagga had an affair with a girl near Shankar di Chaki in Verka. Last night, Jagga went to meet her at her house. He was reportedly thrashed by the girl’s brothers. The body of Jagtar was recovered from her house. The family members of the woman were absconding.The police officials, who visited the spot on Wednesday morning, said during preliminary investigation, they found that he was strangled to death. The Station House Officer, Verka Police station, said a small cord was recovered from the spot and it is being observed that Jagga was strangled to death with the cord by the girl’s brothers.The police have booked Jagga’s girlfriend and her brothers — Ashwani Kumar and Dharminder Kumar — for murder.“The cause of death will be cleared after the autopsy,” the SHO said.According to the information, Jagga was married and had two daughters while the woman was unmarried. Following this, the girl’s family was unhappy with this relationship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-goes-to-meet-girlfriend-in-verka-her-brothers-strangle-him-to-death-293048
05-08-2021||---||Punjab Naatshala to train aspiring artistes for free||Amritsar, August 4Punjab Naatshala, which provided a platform to many renowned artistes, including Bharti Singh, Kapil Sharma and more — from Amritsar, has announced to impart free training to aspiring actors. Jatinder Brar, owner of Naatshala and noted playwright, said a three-month free training course will be given to aspiring actors from aged 12-16 years. The Naatshala will be recruiting professional theatre artistes as mentors and a batch of 25-30 students will be conducted in one go.“The pandemic has suspended all theatre activity in city and so, theatre has been hit really hard and so have been the artistes. To encourage and motivate aspiring theatre artistes to take up theatre as a profession, we have decided to impart free training. During the training, children will be made to learn basics of theatre and production to nuances of stage design and other aspects involved in making of a play,” informed Brar.Meanwhile, Natshala is gearing up to revive live performances as per safety guidelines issued by the government. The admission of the free theatre training programme will be done through auditions, with a panel of theatre artistes as judges. The training programme will commence from August 20 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-naatshala-to-train-aspiring-artistes-for-free-293054
05-08-2021||Mahesh Sharma||NRIs to provide funds to aspiring sportspersons||Mandi Ahmedgarh, August 4The inability of Indian athletes to raise the medal tally during the ongoing Tokyo Olympics has drawn attention of NRIs from the region, who have joined hands to ensure that financial constraints do not weigh down the performance of aspiring sportspersons in the future.These NRIs have decided to sponsor selected athletes for at least next two years and explore chances of their intensive training in foreign countries, including the USA.The NRIs, led by of PAU, Ludhiana, alumnus Sanjiv Ahluwalia, claimed that they have already started supporting some athletes and sportspersons by facilitating their training and practice, besides providing items required from time to time. “For instance, we have decided to sponsor Kamalpreet Kaur (who finished sixth in women’s discus throw) for at least the next two years. We have earmarked a fund for sending Rs 25,000 per month to her,” he said. Hoping that Kamalpreet would one day bring glory to India, Ahluwalia said she was among those whose intensive training would be arranged in the USA or any other suitable country.Earlier, the NRIs had recognised Manshi Dalal, a boxer from Haryana, Tejinder Singh Toor, shot putter, and Gurvinder Singh, a sprinter.“We had sent a draft worth $2,575 to Manshi, a boxer of repute who had won medals at national and international boxing meets, after coming to know that she was living in poverty due to the alleged apathy of the government,” Ahluwalia said, maintaining that Kamalpreet Kaur and Tejinder Singh Toor were also sent kits as token of recognition of their outstanding performances.The NRIs have been sponsoring Gurindervir Singh, another sprinter from the region, for the past two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nris-to-provide-funds-to-aspiring-sportspersons-293312
05-08-2021||New Delhi||Follow ethics in DSGMC poll: Forum||The Sikh Forum, a non-political organisation, has asked for reforms in elections to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and criticised the mudslinging, blame games and use of unparliamentarily language by candidates during deliberations or on social media.The forum has stressed following Sikh ethics while bringing forward the agenda and development plans for improving the gurdwara management, education system of schools and other institutions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/follow-ethics-in-dsgmc-poll-forum-293230
05-08-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar: List of 240  ‘drug  peddlers’ goes viral||A list of 240 suspected drug peddlers and addicts has gone viral on social media, sending the police into a tizzy. The list includes names, police station jurisdiction and the drug they sell or are addicted to.“We will investigate who made the list and how it went viral. We have registered 258 cases under the NDPS Act in the district this year so far against 158 lodged last year,” said Kulwant Rai, SP (PBI), Muktsar. Some anti-drug crusaders said the purpose of the compiling the list is defeated when such documents go viral. “Those named in the list will be careful now. Some of them will even go underground,” said an anti-drug crusader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-list-of-240-drug-peddlers-goes-viral-293229
05-08-2021||Amritsar||Gangster Rana Kandowalia dies, four booked||Gangster Rana Kandowalia, who was shot at here yesterday, succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital this morning, said Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill.Kandowalia was admitted in a critical state to the ICU of the hospital, where he was fired upon by armed assailants. The city police have booked four persons, including Jagroshan and Mani Rayya, both accomplices of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, besides two unidentified persons in this connection.Meanwhile, a Facebook post in Bhagwanpuria’s name claimed he and gangster Goldy Brar were behind the attack. In the post, it was claimed Mandep Tuffan, a gangster from Batala, killed Kandowalia at Bhagwanpuria’s behest.Kandowalia had supported slain gangsters Vicky Gounder and Davinder Bambiha in the past, the post claimed. “He helped Bambiha kidnap Dilbag Singh ‘Lamma Patti’. We had warned them not to go against us. They have killed our brother Gurlal Brar without any reason,” it said, while threatening other potential targets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-rana-kandowalia-dies-four-booked-293228
05-08-2021||Amritsar||Sikh Sadbhawna Dal activists’ bid to stop SGPC project foiled||An attempt to disrupt the ongoing SGPC project for devotees’ convenience in the Golden Temple complex was thwarted by the police today.Amidst heavy police force deployed at Dharam Singh Market on Heritage Street, an 11-member unarmed ‘jatha’ of Sikh activists, led by Sikh Sadbhawna Dal president Baldev Singh Wadala, tried to dodge the police and proceeded towards the Golden Temple complex. As they were passing through a narrow lane to reach the spot, the police intercepted them on the way. They said the SGPC was being insensitive towards Sikh ‘heritage structures’.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said every possible effort was being made in consultation with Panthic scholars and historians to preserve the buildings of historical significance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-sadbhawna-dal-activists-bid-to-stop-sgpc-project-foiled-293227
05-08-2021||---||35 cattle die of FMD at Moga village||Moga, August 4At least 35 head of milch cattle have died of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) at Dina Sahib village in Nihal Singh Wala subdivision of the district over the past one month, raising a question mark over the efficacy of the vaccination programme being carried out by the Punjab Government.Calve deaths have not been accounted for by the Animal Husbandry Department, indicating the count may be much higher. Local officials said 50 animals were in a critical state and under medical supervision. A medical team had been deputed to examine the animals at Dina Sahib and adjoining villages.Vaccination was being carried out and medicines were being provided to the affected animals, a local official of the district administration said.A regional disease diagnostic laboratory of the Animal Husbandry Department had confirmed the presence of the FMD. However, samples would be sent to the International Centre for Foot and Mouth Disease (ICFMD), Bhubaneswar, for confirmation.Meanwhile, locals have questioned the efficacy of the state government’s vaccination programme. The state government spends crores of rupees every year to prevent the disease.Officials claimed they had administered doses of anti-FMD vaccination to at least 1.5 lakh animals under the National Animal Disease Control Programme in the district.The vaccination drive was halted midway by the state government after random samples of a Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer failed quality tests. The state government has so far not notified the outbreak of the FMD as it was not widespread and limited to a specific area/village.Foot-&-mouth disease vax drive under lens||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/35-cattle-die-of-fmd-at-moga-village-293226
05-08-2021||Abohar||25 illicit distilleries destroyed in Abohar||Cops from Abohar and Sriganganagar, in a joint operation today, destroyed over 25 illicit distilleries and ‘lahan’ stock near the Gang canal in the Hindumalkot area. No arrests were made.Earth-moving machines were used to find 10,000 litre of ‘lahan’ hidden in pits near the canal and destroyed.Illegal desiltation has reportedly caused huge losses to licensed liquor contractors as well as the state exchequer.Meanwhile, an illegal fake liquor factory was busted last evening when a team of the Excise and Taxation Department raided a complex in Sadhuwali located near the Abohar-Sriganganagar border. One person was arrested.Large quantities of empty plastic bottles, bags, lids, cartoons, packing, tape rolls, sippers and packing machines were confiscated. A case has been registered under the Excise Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/25-illicit-distilleries-destroyed-in-abohar-293223
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Team to visit Muktsar over Dalit ‘atrocities’||The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes has constituted a two-member team to look into incidents involving Dalits in Muktsar district.The commission Chairperson Tejinder Kaur said they had been receiving complaints regarding alleged atrocities against the Dalits for the past few days from Muktsar. The commission has decided to send a two-member team to look into the matter. The team members, Gian Chand and Prabhadial, will hear the grievances at the Circuit House, Muktsar, on August 6. The two-member committee would look into the incidents of Khude Halal village and complaints of Karamjit Kaur and Bohar Singh, sarpanch, Dabewali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/team-to-visit-muktsar-over-dalit-atrocities-293221
05-08-2021||---||At 109, Ludhiana sees most black fungus cases||Chandigarh, August 4Half of the cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) come from just five districts of the state. The state has so far reported 679 cases, including 73 from other states, of black fungus. Out of these, half of the cases have been reported from just five districts — Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda, Jalandhar and Muktsar.In district-wise breakup, Ludhiana topped the chart with 109 cases, followed by Amritsar (64), Bathinda and Jalandhar (54 each), and Muktsar (34). Out of these cases, 317 cases are still under treatment and 236 have cured fully. The deadly fungus has killed 51 persons in the state.Going by the official data of the health department, the state has reported 300 cases of black fungus in the last two months. According to state health officials, with decline in Covid wave, the number of black fungus cases is also declining. “On an average, the state gets two new cases every day,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid.In May, the state had notified black fungus under the Epidemic Disease Act, which made it mandatory for all hospitals to report the suspected and confirmed cases.Earlier, a study till first week of June had revealed that in age-wise breakup of the cases, 25 per cent of cases were in the age group 18-45, 38 per cent in 45-60 and 36 per cent above 60 years.Out of patients who died, 88 per cent had contracted Covid, 86 per cent had history of steroid intake and 80 per cent were diabetic. Experts had revealed that diabetes was a major risk factor for patients getting infected with black fungus. In Punjab, 87 per cent cases of mucormycosis had diabetes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-109-ludhiana-sees-most-black-fungus-cases-293220
05-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pilots of crashed Army chopper feared dead||Tribune News ServicePathankot, August 4Around 30 hours after various agencies launched a massive search operation to trace the two pilots commandeering an Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) Dhruv till it developed a snag, Army officials fear that the duo may not have survived the crash.The chopper was on a routine low-flying sortie over the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake when it lost control and crashed into the waters. The missing pilots were identified as Capt Jayant Joshi and Lt Col SS Bhatt.The Army took over the search operations today morning. A chopper carrying a dozen Navy divers had landed near the lake late yesterday evening, while yet another one carrying an identical number of divers arrived at midnight.Trying our bestNavy divers have demarcated the area where the chopper may have fallen. We fear the worst as already 30 hours have passed. The survival chances are indeed low. However, we have not lost hope and are trying our best. — A police officerThough there is no official word on the pilots, a senior officer said “they were fighting a losing battle and chances of the pilots surviving were abysmally low”.SSP Surendra Lamba and a team of senior administration and civil officers camped at the site throughout the day. A posse of the J&K Police also remained stationed at the site today. The search is being conducted over the entire area of the lake, which is 86 sq km.Local divers who had been pressed into service yesterday could not go below a depth of 50 metre. Keeping this in mind, the Army requisitioned the services of divers from the Navy.The Navy divers, sources say, have demarcated the area where the chopper may have fallen. “They are focusing on that area. We fear the worst as already 30 hours have elapsed ever since the helicopter crashed. Hence the survival chances are indeed low. However, we have not lost hope and are trying our best,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pilots-of-crashed-army-chopper-feared-dead-293219
05-08-2021||Patiala||Media houses punished for reporting truth: P Sainath||Noted journalist, writer and thinker P Sainath on Tuesday likened the raids on offices of newspapers to ordinances of the East India Company before the Independence. Speaking at Punjabi University’s Dr Ravinder Singh Ravi Memorial Lecture, he said Indian journalism was affected due to its corporate ownerships which gave merely 0.67 per cent coverage to rural India.Sainath said the Indian press was a product of the freedom struggle. “Today, it is politically free but imprisoned by profit; and now, self-imprisoned in the prism of profit,” he said.Pointing towards the raids on the offices of a newspaper group, he said it was being ‘punished’ because it reported on the bodies left on the shores of the Ganga and Saryu rivers. “The advertisements of a newspaper also came down after it reported on the Rafale deal,” he said.Sainath also spoke on the lack of acknowledgement of women as farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/media-houses-punished-for-reporting-truth-p-sainath-293218
05-08-2021||---||Punjab Government: Rs 105.9 cr loan given to 10K Dalit youth||Chandigarh, August 4The Punjab Government has provided loans to the tune of Rs 105.9 crore to 10,069 youth of Schedule Castes and Backward Classes during the past four years besides waiving debt worth Rs 52 crore outstanding towards 15,890 SC/BC youth.Minister for Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Sadhu Singh Dharmsot said the Congress government had so far provided loans of Rs 82 crore to 8,662 eligible SC youngsters, while loans of Rs 23.9 crore were given to 1,407 youth applicants from Backward Classes.The minister said the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Land Development and Finance Corporation, and Punjab State Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation had waived Rs 50,000 loan each of SC/BC beneficiaries. He said 14,260 beneficiaries of SC communities got the benefit of Rs 45.41 crore, while 1,630 BC youths got a debt waiver of Rs 6.59 crore.Dharmsot said the state government had given the authority to district managers of SC/BC corporations to sanction loans of up to Rs 1 lakh. Similarly, the district-level screening committee had been reconstituted under the chairmanship of the Social Justice, Empowerment and Minority Officer to provide loans to the beneficiaries at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-rs-105-9-cr-loan-given-to-10k-dalit-youth-293216
05-08-2021||Patiala||Punsup vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu sacked||Days after Patiala-based Congress leader and Punsup vice-chairman Krishan Chand Budhu publicly accused senior party leaders of corruption, the state government has relieved him from the position. The public statements had brought fissures in the Patiala Congress out in the open.Budhu had levelled allegations of involvement of party leaders in the sale of liquor and drugs. He had met new PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over the matter and claimed he had contacted senior party leaders over these issues earlier too, but was not given an ear.In response, the District Congress Committee had held a press conference on Tuesday where some leaders levied counter-allegations against Budhu. “I have been punished for speaking the truth,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punsup-vice-chairman-krishan-chand-budhu-sacked-293202
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will protest if Punjab Governor loses power over Chandigarh: SAD||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today described the proposal to appoint a full-fledged administrator for Chandingarh by divesting the Governor of this charge as another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city.“Chandigarh is an inseparable part of Punjab and should be transferred to the parent state. We will launch an agitation to ensure this move does not fructify”. He also requested the Chief Minister to pursue the case vigorously with the Centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-protest-if-punjab-governor-loses-power-over-chandigarh-sad-293196
05-08-2021||Faridkot||Kotkapura firing: SIT records statement of SP, DSP, 3 other cops||Probing the six-year-old incident of police firing on Sikh protesters at Kotkapura, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police on Wednesday recorded statements of five police officials. While the SIT members refused to share the details, sources revealed an SP, DSP and two police inspectors were among the persons who appeared before the SIT at its Faridkot-based camp office today.Last week, 10 other police officers had appeared before the SIT to give their statement. In view of a political war over the sacrilege and police firing incidents of 2015, the SIT probing the case is in top gear these days. While it plans to complete its probe in the Kotkapura firing incident in the next two weeks, the fate of the SIT’s inquiry into the Behbal Kalan police firing case is still hanging in balance.While many persons were injured in the Kotkapura incident on October 14, 2015, in the aftermath of sacrilege incidents, two persons were killed in the Behbal Kalan incident on the same day.While the High Court had set aside the investigation into the Kotkapura incident and a new SIT was constituted, the fate of the earlier investigation in the Behbal Kalan case is yet to be decided by the High Court.Though the government has already named a new head of the SIT for the Behbal Kalan case after Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh resigned, there is no progress in the Behbal Kalan case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-sit-records-statement-of-sp-dsp-3-other-cops-293188
05-08-2021||Ludhiana||Banners bid to defame farmers' stir: Balbir Singh Rajewal||After banners asking “Do you want Balbir Singh Rajewal (BKU Rajewal chief) as the next CM” came up in Khanna, Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal today dissociated himself from having any link with these and called it an act of “mischief” to defame the leadership.Rajewal claimed pro-Khalistan slogans had earlier been found written outside his place of stay. He said government agencies were hatching the conspiracy to defame the leadership. “I have no role in the banners that were displayed in Khanna,” he added.Terming the banners fake, union members shared messages on the social media asking people to be wary of rumours “being spread by Centre’s IT cell”.Niranjan Singh of the BKU (Rajewal) said those who had put up the banners never sought their permission. “The union has no role. Our attention is only on the ongoing kisan andolan,” he added. Interestingly, information about the sponsor or publisher was missing on the banners.Meanwhile, some shopkeepers in Khanna have claimed that they had put up the banners. “We have seen leaders of various parties. Now, it is our own wish to see Rajewal as the CM. He is an honest leader, that’s why banners were displayed,” said a shopkeeper. — TNSSKM flays Chd Police’s notice to farmersChandigarh: The SKM’s legal panel has condemned the Chandigarh Police for issuing notices for appearance before investigating officer in the cases registered against farmers on June 26, when they marched to hold a dharna at the Raj Bhawan. Three FIRs have been registered against 13 farmer leaders. SKM has said no farmer will appear for investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/banners-bid-to-defame-farmers-stir-balbir-singh-rajewal-293125
05-08-2021||---||Summoned by parallel acting jathedar of Akal Takht, ministers put ball in Punjab CM’s court||Chandigarh, August 4Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa, and MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Singh Kiki Dhillon have clarified they had merely conveyed Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s assurance, which had led to the lifting of the Bargari morcha (stir) over the 2015 sacrilege and police firing incidents.The statement by the lawmakers comes in the wake of parallel acting jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand summoning the two ministers and three Members of Legislative Assemblies to clarify their stand on the assurance.In a letter to the parallel acting jathedar of Akal Takht, they said since the Chief Minister held the Home Department and Police portfolio, which handled the probe into the sacrilege and police firing incidents, the information as sought by him could be provided by Capt Amarinder.Referring to statements given by Baljeet Singh Daduwal, they pointed out he was in touch with the Chief Minister through certain police and civil administration officials.They said since the appointment as parallel acting jathedar had not been recognised by various elected Sikhs bodies, talks with them be held anywhere in Punjab but Akal Takht in Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/summoned-by-parallel-acting-jathedar-of-akal-takht-ministers-put-ball-in-punjab-cms-court-293124
05-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||2 goals in 2 matches, Ajnala’s Gurjit Kaur shines at Olympics||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 4The Indian women’s hockey team gave a tough fight to Argentina before losing 1-2 in the semifinals at the Tokyo Olympics, but Gurjit Kaur’s two goals in two matches have given her family and friends hope for a bronze medal.Gurjit’s sister Pardeep Kaur, a former player who is now a coach, said: “Destiny did not favour India. Argentina are a very talented bunch. Gurjit and her teammates put in their best but luck was not with them.”The whole family — including father Satnam Singh, mother Harjinder Kaur and brother Gurbhej — were glued to the TV the whole afternoon at their house in Miadi Kalan village, which falls in the Ajnala sub-division. “I told Gurjit to advise the team not to lose heart and continue to work hard, and they would find success in the next match,” said Satnam Singh.In Jalandhar, after Gurjit’s goal, the phone of Navjot Kaur, principal of the Khalsa College for Women, has just not stopped ringing.It was during her time at this college as a BA student, from 2013 to 2015, that Gurjit’s international career took off. She first played for India in 2014, but even before that her coaches — Olympian Varinder Singh, Parminder Kaur and Kulvinder Singh Saini — had seen the makings of a star in her.“We knew she was special. During college days, she practised for hours in the field during peak afternoon!” said Saini. “We would ask her not to overdo it and she would say: ‘I’m having proper diet, I will handle it’.”“She was fluid on the ground. She has stayed in touch all through her sporting journey,” Varinder Singh said. “We won the state championships for three consecutive years when she was a student,” said Parminder Kaur. “She was so shy and soft-spoken, she used to hide behind others during interactions!”“During her college days, when a teacher was absent, Gurjit would go missing. She would be eventually found in the ground, practicing,” said Navjot Kaur.(With Aparna Banerji in Jalandhar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-goals-in-2-matches-ajnalas-gurjit-kaur-shines-at-olympics-293121
05-08-2021||Chandigarh||6 lakh hectares under direct seeding of rice in Punjab, highest so far||Punjab farmers have shown keen interest in direct seeding of rice (DSR) during the current paddy season, bringing 6.01 lakh hectares (15.02 lakh acres) under the innovative technology.This coverage is the highest ever in the state to date, as per a report of the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana. Nearly, 20 per cent of the total area under paddy has been brought under this water-saving technology this year.Farmers of Bathinda district lead across the state in the adoption of DSR with 52,760 hectares under this novel technique, followed by Muktsar (46,820 hectares) and Fazilka (45,850 hectares).Director, Agriculture, Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said last year about 5 lakh hectares was under DSR technology, with maximum 46,510 hectares in Muktsar district. In the current season, state farmers have enthusiastically switched to DSR and the area increased to 6.01 lakh hectares. He stressed DSR brought down water consumption by 10-15 per cent. On the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, he said the Agriculture Department had launched a special drive in association with Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, to encourage farmers to adopt direct sowing of paddy, and the efforts were showing results across the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-lakh-hectares-under-direct-seeding-of-rice-in-punjab-highest-so-far-293120
05-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Check on goods’ movement, tax mop-up zooms in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Data-mining on suspected shell companies and a stringent check on the movement of goods that are not accounted for has led the Punjab Government to increase its tax collection manifold in the first four months of the ongoing financial year.The state’s revenue collection in the first four months of the year has nearly doubled to Rs 7,728.78 crore, an increase of Rs 3,589.76 crore since the corresponding period last year.The Goods and Services Tax (GST) is the main contributor to the total revenue collection, and these collections have gone up by over Rs 2,200 crore from the corresponding period last year. The GST collection between April-July this year stoodat Rs 4,897.45 crore.Official sources in the Taxation Department told The Tribune by using various tools for data mining, the department had been able to detect a number of “shell firms” — those evading the GST and issuing bogus invoices to wrongfully avail input tax credit (ITC).The state tax sleuths, using the inputs of a data mining cell created under the department, have also detected two big shell companies in Ludhiana that were unduly claiming ITC worth lakhs of rupees.“We are also getting inputs from the data wing of the GST at the Centre about such companies and immediate action is being initiated,” said Financial Commissioner Taxation A Venu Prasad. Besides, on-road detection of tax evaders during this fiscal has increased manifold, with 1,650 vehicles carrying unaccounted for goods being detected by the tax sleuths, and a penalty of Rs 35 crore being charged.Neelkanth Avhad, Taxation Commissioner, Punjab, said: “We decided to go after tax evaders in a big way this year to bring more firms under the tax net,” adding this was the reason for the month-on-month increase in GST this year — from 31 percent in April to 62.49 per cent in July. Other than the GST, the value added tax (VAT) collection of the state has also seen a jump of over 88 per cent since last year — an increase of Rs 1,288.26 crore, with collections reaching Rs 2,746.29 crore.The increase in VAT is mainly on account of frequent increase in prices of retail fuel, with both petrol and diesel prices increasing by Rs 30 per litre since last July. Officials say every Re 1 per litre increase in price of retail fuel adds Rs 0.30 per litre in their kitty as additional taxes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/check-on-goods-movement-tax-mop-up-zooms-in-punjab-293119
05-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab Police found implicating innocents in drug cases: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4The implication of innocents in drug cases has been a matter of surmises since long. But an order passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court has categorically placed the Punjab Police in the dock for framing people. The Bench has asserted that false implication of innocents in a number of cases registered by the Punjab Police, especially in Amritsar district, had come to the notice of the court.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the High Court also brought to fore the widespread prevalence of drug trafficking in the state by making it clear that 80 per cent of the cases before the Benches were from Punjab. “It is worth noticing that on an average out of every 10 cases listed before the criminal Benches of this court, eight are from the state of Punjab and one case is either from UT Chandigarh or the state of Haryana,” Justice Sangwan asserted.Rising drug trafficking casesIt is worth noticing that on an average, eight out of every 10 cases (of drug trafficking) listed before the criminal Benches of this court are from Punjab and one is either from Chandigarh or Haryana. High CourtAs the issue of implication of innocents in drug cases came up for resumed hearing, Justice Sangwan referred to a report carried in these columns on two police officials being booked under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Justice Sangwan observed it was reported that Amritsar (Rural) police, on High Court directions, booked a sub-inspector and an assistant sub-inspector of the Punjab Police for unnecessarily searching, detaining and arresting a person in two different police stations in Amritsar. “Therefore, in a number of cases registered by the Punjab Police, especially of Amritsar district, this court has noticed false implication of innocent persons,” Justice Sangwan asserted. In his detailed order, Justice Sangwan also referred to orders passed by the High Court in similar matters.Further castigating the Punjab Police for not going deep into the drug cases to catch the big fish, Justice Sangwan observed there were increasing numbers of cases in the state of Punjab where primarily the carriers of drugs were arrested by the police under provisions of the NDPS Act. But the suppliers or the source of acquiring drugs in a majority cases did not come to fore. It eventually led to acquittal in many cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-found-implicating-innocents-in-drug-cases-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-293114
05-08-2021||---||Ravneet Singh Bittu, Harsimrat Kaur Badal spar over agricultural laws outside Parliament||New Delhi, August 4Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu and SAD Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal today got into a verbal spat outside Parliament over the three farm laws.The face-off ensued when Harsimrat along with BSP MPs was protesting in solidarity with the farmers, flashing placards and demanding repeal of the controversial laws. Bittu arrived at the spot and accused her of cheating the farmers.Bittu said, “You were part of the Union Cabinet.You helped in getting the Bills cleared and now you are engaging in dramatics on the issue.”The Bathinda MP hit back and asked where Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were when the Bills were being passed?“The entire Congress walked out of the House, helping the easy passage of the Bills,” she said.Bittu then questioned Sukhbir’s absence. “He is holding press conferences elsewhere and not coming to Parliament to raise the farmers’ issues,” he said.Punjab MPs belonging to the Congress, SAD and AAP have been demanding repeal of the farm laws and also moving adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha to discuss the farmers’ issues.Meanwhile, in Chandigarh, the SAD condemned Bittu over his behaviour towards the SAD MP. It said the need of the hour was to show unity with the agitating farmers, but Bittu through his actions had hurt their cause.Verbal duel‘Unbecoming of him’Rowdy behaviour towards a fellow MP of Punjab is unbecoming of Bittu. Punjabis across party lines are feeling aggrieved by his actions.Daljit Singh Cheema, SAD spokesperson||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ravneet-singh-bittu-harsimrat-kaur-badal-spar-over-agricultural-laws-outside-parliament-293110
05-08-2021||Aman Sood||Navjot Singh Sidhu, 2 ministers back Jalalpur’s candidature from Ghanaur||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 4Almost a week after facing allegations of illegal mining and patronage given to liquor mafia from over a dozen Congress leaders from his constituency, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu along with two Cabinet Ministers today threw his weight behind Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur. The Ghanaur MLA had been facing rebellion from within the Congress ever since he had openly sided with Sidhu.Sidhu, who visited Jalalpur’s residence along with Cabinet Ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi, said Jalalpur’s election was his own election and he would ensure his win.Jalalpur was one of the first MLAs from the Chief Minister’s home town of Patiala to openly welcome Navjot Singh Sidhu following his elevation as PPCC Chief, following which he had to face a revolt by Congressmen in his own constituency. Sources within the Congress said following Jalalpur’s open outburst against his own government, he was facing mutiny from within the party in Ghanaur and today’s show of strength was a clear signal to the state government.Talking to mediapersons, Sidhu said he had already given the pending issues that need immediate implementation to the Punjab Chief Minister. “I assure you that they will be dealt with soon”, he said. “The Congress is committed to the cause of farmers …will not let the three farm laws to be implemented in Punjab”, he said.On the issue of a possible Cabinet reshuffle, Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa replied: “We would not let anyone backstab the party. Not only this, we will press for strict action against officers who signed wrong power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private power companies”.Last week senior leaders, including former and incumbent sarpanches, and zila parishad and block samiti members, of over 100 villages at a meeting in Ghanaur had announced to oppose Jalalpur. They had demanded an independent probe into illegal liquor and mining cases in Ghanaur.“The sole purpose to elect him as an MLA was to ensure development of the constituency, which has been completely lost,” they claimed. Jalalpur said he has been working hard for the party and which is why Ghanaur remains free of illegal mining and liquor trade.“I have always stood for honesty and transparency and will continue to do so. I fully back Navjot Singh Sidhu who is the future of the party in Punjab”, the Ghanaur MLA said. Honest leader, will ensure his victoryJalalpur’s election from the Ghanaur constituency is now my election. He is an honest leader and I will ensure his win. Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefCapt’s aide Saifdipur joins SADChandigarh: In a setback to the Congress in the home district of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, his close associate and senior party leader Balwinder Singh Saifdipur joined the SAD on Wednesday. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal welcomed Saifdipur and his supporters into the party fold. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-2-ministers-back-jalalpurs-candidature-from-ghanaur-293108
05-08-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Navjot Singh Sidhu camp resents ‘targeting’ of certain MLAs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Disquiet is not yet over in the Punjab Congress. Even as Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has clarified there are no two power centres and that he and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu have to work as a team, party leaders in the Sidhu camp are peeved at certain MLAs being “singled out” for their alleged complicity in illegal activities.Recently, Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur and Bhagapurana legislator Darshan Singh Brar’s son were in the news for their alleged role in illegal activities. It is being argued by party leaders that instead of going against the MLAs who have rallied behind Sidhu, action should be taken across the board.Sidhu’s visit to Jalalpur’s house today along with ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Channi, besides MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira, Devinder Ghubaya and Pritam Kotbhai, is being seen as a clear message to detractors not to trouble party MLAs. Sidhu, during his Moga visit on Thrusday, is expected to pat the back of MLA Brar.Randhawa in a veiled reference to those targeting MLAs backing the Sidhu camp, said the “black sheep” in the party would not be tolerated, adding no one would be allowed to divide the party.Only recently, Randhawa had written to the CM seeking a review of the functioning of the Home and Police departments. The Home Department is with the CM.Referring to the departments, the minister had talked about the prevailing situation of “mistrust and poor handling of Bargari and Kotkapura, by the police”.On allegations of complicity of some MLAs in sand mining, Channi said he had repeatedly been seeking de-control of sand mining. “Two years ago, I had raised the issue at a Cabinet meeting,” he maintained.Another party leader claimed there was a delay in release of Rs 10 crore grant to MLAs openly supporting Sidhu. The issue could figure at a meeting between the CM and Sidhu, if it happens.Singled out over illegal activitiesNo issues between Sidhu, Capt: Ashwani KumarGurdaspur: Former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar on Wednesday said the Congress would be jointly led by PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and CM Capt Amarinder Singh in the Assembly polls. “There are no personal issues between Sidhu and Capt Amarinder,” he said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-camp-resents-targeting-of-certain-mlas-293106
05-08-2021||Aman Sood||Responsibility not fixed, Power Purchase Agreements may not be revoked soon: Experts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 4Without fixing the responsibility of the “erring” officers who allegedly “drafted and added lopsided terms” to the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with independent power producers (IPPs) during the previous SAD-BJP government, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has initiated steps to ascertain ways to revise/ cancel these PPAs.The recent government directions only talk of cancelling “faulty” PPAs financially bleeding Punjab without fixing responsibility of officers who led to losses. Already many within the Congress have questioned the delay by their own government on “making public the White Paper on power sector”.A senior official said rather than scrapping all PPAs, the government can revoke the ones causing maximum losses, but a set of officers “would not let that happen”. “Since the agreements were drafted and signed in favour of private firms, it will be tough to cancel those anytime soon. Rather, the government must act against officers who drafted such PPAs that ensured that Punjab continues to pay hundreds of crores without any guarantee of power even during peak season,” he added.A Congress MLA, who was earlier vocal on power reforms, said the “same lobby of officers that was at the helm of affairs” during the last government, had blocked the “White Paper on power”. “Usually, the government suspends officers in scandals worth a few thousands or lakhs, but here we are talking about financial loss by hundreds of crores,” he added.Experts claim the White Paper is necessary to bring to the fore the lopsided PPAs and “to fix responsibility” of those who led Punjab to a financial mess. Last year, the government had announced to come out with White Paper on power scenario but is yet to make it public, so experts suspect if the PPAs will ever be revoked.Senior PSPCL officials had earlier this year justified that “IPPs are needed for the state”, in a reply to a letter by the Finance Department, which had flagged issues of fixed costs paid to private plants, power theft and higher tariff.However, a former PSPCL chief engineer said: “PSPCL’s reply stating PPAs are a dire need lest Punjab shall be put into darkness citing insufficient available transmission capacity (ATC) was totally misleading as ATC enhances proportionally with outage of any plant/unit within the state pumping power at 400 KV. Recently, ATC had increased Punjab capacity from 6,800 MW to 7,300 MW with the same transmission infrastructure on outage of one unit of Talwandi supplying 600 MW.”“Also, PSPCL got cheaper power from national exchange at the average rate of Rs 3.25 per unit during June/July against Rs 5 from private thermals,” he said, adding that Punjab can manage better with renegotiated PPAs and ensure that it gets cheaper power from the same IPPs when the demand is high.On if PSPCL was working on revoking PPAs, PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said they were “already on the job”. “The issue of White Paper is with the government,” he said.Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa said the government should take action against officers responsible for the “faulty” PPAs. “We do not support such officers and it is high time the government holds them responsible,” he said.Power bought at record low pricePSPCL misleading on capacityPSPCL’s stance that without PPAs Punjab wouldn’t have sufficient available transmission capacity (ATC) is misleading. ATC enhances proportionally with outage of any plant/ unit pumping power at 400 KV. Recently, ATC had increased state capacity from 6,800 MW to 7,300 MW. — Ex-chief engineer, PSPCL||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/responsibility-not-fixed-power-purchase-agreements-may-not-be-revoked-soon-experts-293103
05-08-2021||Bathinda||Doctors lock OPDs, Civil Surgeon’s office in Bathinda||Stepping up their protest against the cut in the Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA), striking doctors have now locked their OPD clinics and the Civil Surgeon’s office at the Bathinda Civil Hospital.Miffed at the “indifferent” attitude of the state government, doctors who have been protesting for the past over 40 days now, have stopped examining patients at the parallel OPDs, which they have been doing earlier at the protest venue. Meanwhile, poor patients visiting from rural areas have been suffering as they cannot afford expensive treatment/ medical tests at private hospitals/ labs in the city.While critical patients requiring immediate medical intervention are being treated at the emergency unit of the hospital, those visiting for regular check-up are returning after taking medicines from chemist shops. Barely left with any alternative, patients who need to be operated upon are coerced to visit private hospitals that are in turn charging them heavily. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-lock-opds-civil-surgeons-office-in-bathinda-293101
05-08-2021||---||To end impasse, Punjab government offers 15% hike to protesting staff||Chandigarh, August 4An end to the impasse over the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report for employees is in sight with the Ministers’ Committee, headed by Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, giving a final proposal to the employees’ unions. The leaders have sought time to study the offer.As per the proposal, employees will get an additional increase of Rs 1,000 crore in salaries and allowances over and above Rs 4,692 crore recommended for them by the Sixth Pay Commission headed by Jai Singh Gill. With this, the state exchequer will take an additional hit of Rs 5,692 crore this year, as the commission report will be implemented from July 1 onwards. There are 2.85 lakh employees and 3.07 lakh pensioners in the state.After a series of meetings between the unions and the committee, comprising Manpreet Singh Badal, OP Soni, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, besides Mohindra, the latter assured the protesting employees that the minimum hike in salary that each employee would get is 15 per cent and all allowances given to them would be restored at revised rates. The government said this would mean allowances would double in absolute terms. The unions have sought time till August 8 to study and discuss the proposal.Talking to The Tribune, Brahm Mohindra said the employees had got a “very good deal” and all their justified demands have been met. Newly appointed working president of Punjab Congress Kuljit Nagra was also part of the deliberations. Representatives of as many as 16 unions of various employees participated in the final deliberations today.Though the representatives of the PCMS Association were not present at the meeting, the ministers’ committee has met the demand of the striking government doctors and restored their Non-Practicing Allowance at 20 per cent and this has been linked to their basic pay. Dr Gagandeep Singh, president of the association, said a meeting of the association would be held later tonight to discuss the proposal and their subsequent action.Panel proposalThey have got a very good dealThe employees have got a very good deal and all their justified demands have been met. — Brahm Mohindra, Local Government Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-end-impasse-punjab-government-offers-15-hike-to-protesting-staff-293100
