06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 57 new Covid cases, 3 more deaths||Punjab on Friday reported 57 new cases of coronavirus, taking the infection tally to 5,99,365, while three more deaths took the toll to 16,312, according to a medical bulletin.The deaths were reported from Faridkot, Ludhiana and Pathankot. The toll includes eight fatalities which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.There are 473 active cases in the state.Of the new cases, Ludhiana reported 13, followed by Mohali (8), and Jalandhar (7).With 41 recoveries, the number of cured people in the state reached 5,82,580, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported three new cases of Covid-19, taking the total count to 61,970, according to the medical bulletin.The count also includes one case which was not reported earlier.While the toll stands at 811, the number of active cases in the city is 27, the bulletin said. The number of cured people stands at 61,132. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-57-new-covid-cases-3-more-deaths-293995
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to name roads and schools after Olympic medal winners||Punjab School Education and Public Works Department Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday said the state government has decided to name roads and schools after Olympic medal winning players.Congratulating the Indian men’s hockey team for clinching an Olympic (bronze) medal after 41 years, he said these players have made the country proud, and naming roads and schools after them would be a small token of appreciation.In an official statement, Singla said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has given his approval to the proposal and officials have been directed to initiate the process at the earliest.He said the road connecting the residence and school of the area of the respective medal winning player will be named after them to inspire the youngsters.Singla said there was a golden contribution of Punjab in the field of Indian sports.The state has sent a contingent of 20 sportspersons to this Olympics, he said.In the men’s hockey squad, 11 players were from Punjab which included skipper Manpreet Singh and his deputy Harmanpreet Singh.The women’s team has also performed well in the Tokyo Olympics, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-name-roads-and-schools-after-olympic-medal-winners-293984
06-08-2021||---||1.87 lakh prisoners get Covid 19 doses: UP, Maharashtra lead; Punjab lags||New Delhi, August 6State governments have so far administered 1,87,453 Covid 19 vaccination doses to prisoners lodged in jails across India.Uttar Pradesh with the administration of 27,019 doses leads the charts followed by Maharashtra at 23,051, Bihar 18,358, Odisha 18,329 and Madhya Pradesh 15,806.Among major states, Punjab is a laggard on the indicator having inoculated 2,524 prisoners, while the number of doses administered by Haryana is 9,978, Himachal Pradesh 847, Jammu and Kashmir 2,461 and Uttrakhand 4,652.Delhi government has administered just two Covid 19 doses while Chandigarh has administered none, as per the reply given by the Ministry of Health to Lok Sabha today.The ministry said Covid-19 vaccination of prisoners is included and recorded under the vaccination of ‘Persons without Prescribed Identity Cards’ which includes nomads, prison inmates, inmates in Mental Health Institutions, citizens in Old Age Homes, road side beggars, people residing in rehabilitation centres/camps and any other identified eligible persons, aged 18 years or more, and not having any of the nine prescribed individual Photo ID Cards.“The Government of India has shared a Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) regarding Covid-19 Vaccination of Persons without Prescribed Identity Cards through Co-WIN with all States/UTs in May 2021. It is expected that eligible beneficiaries aged 18 years and above, including prisoners, will be vaccinated by December 2021,” the ministry said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-87-lakh-prisoners-get-covid-19-doses-up-maharashtra-lead-punjab-lags-293948
06-08-2021||Islamabad||Pakistan Air Force aircraft crashes during training exercise in Punjab||A Pakistan Air Force (PAF) trainer aircraft crashed on Friday during a routine training exercise near Attock area of Punjab province."Both pilots have ejected successfully. No loss of life or property has been reported so far on the ground," the PAF said in a statement.It said a Board of Inquiry has been ordered to investigate the cause of the accident.This is the third such crash reported by the PAF in the last 18 months.Last year, in September, a PAF aircraft crashed near Attock in Punjab province during training drills.Similarly, in February the same year, a Mirage jet crashed near Shorkot in Punjab. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-air-force-aircraft-crashes-during-training-exercise-in-punjab-293933
06-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Hockey star performer Gurjit Kaur's sister rues lack of sports facilities at their village||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6The future of women's hockey in India is bright and Gurjit has emerged as its shining star, beams a proud coach Varinder Singh (75), an Olympian who sat through the nail-biting battle for bronze between India and Germany in Tokyo on Friday.Gurjit's sister Pardeep Kaur, a coach at Sansarpur, watched the match at a hockey ground where she coaches girls. "I'm proud of my sister. She has worked really hard to reach here," she said.Pardeep rued lack of facilities for sports training at their village. "There is no playground or sporting facilities at our village. Gurjit practised in scorching heat to maintain her fitness levels whenever back home. At our village people arent every aware about women's sports. So there you can't even step out except in a suit. I hope after Gurjit's stellar performance, the state government encourages women hockey."Hailing from Miadi Kalan village in Ajnala, Gurjit studied for three years at Lyallpur Khalsa College in Jalandhar, acheiving heights in hockey during the same period.Gurjit's two goals in four minutes remained a highlight of the match, played for bronze medal. Throughout the Olympics, the dragflicker, also called India's goal machine, has hit four goals--two against Germany and one each against Argentina and Australia.  Parminder Kaur, who coached her at the Lyallpur Khalsa College, said, "Wins and losses are part of life, but she has made us proud. There are going to be many Gurjits now. She has set in motion a chain of events that will lead to revival of women hockey. Several girls will take motivation from her. India has put up an exceptional peformance and Gurjit was at the centre of it."Pardeep Kaur said Gurjit has seen many hardships and overcome all obstacles to reach here. "We might have lost the bronze, but she has left her mark. Her journey will inspire many," said.Coach Varinder Singh said Gurjit has made the nation proud. "I'm amazed to observe how much she must have practised. She scored four Olympic goals and her future is only going to be brighter from here. We can expect a stronger India team in the 2024 Olympics," he ssid.As Gurjit's family at Miadi Kalan saw her match on generator-powered electricity in the midst of a power cut, Pardeep quipped, "Tuhanu pata hi hai, pindan vich kinni light andi hai (long power cuts are a routine in village)."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hockey-star-performer-gurjit-kaurs-sister-rues-lack-of-sports-facilities-at-their-village-293890
06-08-2021||Ashok Kaura||Heavy discount on dresses lands Phagwara shopkeeper in trouble||Phagwara, August 5The police on Wednesday booked a person, who runs a cloth shop, on the complaints of customers who felt cheated and disappointed as the shopkeeper had offered a heavy discount on women dresses but instead of keeping his promise he closed his shop, which is situated on the Banga Road here.A huge crowd of customers from parts of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, Chandigarh and various other districts were shocked as the shopkeeper downed the shutters of the shop in the early morning. The customers were infuriated and held a protest and raised slogans.The lureAccording to information received, the owner (shopkeeper) of Ashu’s Hatti had announced on social media that a suit priced above Rs 5,000 would be sold for just Rs 395 for two hours in the morning — from 3am to 5am.The lure drew a large number of women along with their families, who started reaching the place from the previous night. Around 700 tokens were issued by the shopkeeper, but, as everyone was in hurry to avail the offer first, it led to chaos in the shop and he had to drive them out of the shop and close it. The customers staged a dharna in front of the shop, leading to traffic disruption on the Phagwara-Chandigarh road. At dawn, a huge crowd gathered there, which left people living nearby wondering what was happening there.As soon as the incident was reported, SHO (City) Surjit Singh and PCR in-charge Shuminder Singh Bhatti along with a large number of police force rushed to the spot and tried to calm down the customers. But the people who came from far-off places were not ready to calm down, so the police had to deploy a force in front of the shop to avoid any damage to it.While confirming the incident, SSP Harkamalpreet Singh told this correspondent here that the police got the shop open and registered a case against the shop owner, Ashu Duggal, alias Armesh Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Prabhakar, Hadiabad, and more than half a dozen persons for violating the government instructions in view of the pandemic under Section 188, IPC, and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in this regard. Earlier, a case was also registered against the shopkeeper for violating the rules during the Covid-19 health crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heavy-discount-on-dresses-lands-phagwara-shopkeeper-in-trouble-293872
06-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Here's how Sunny Deol celebrated 38 years of debut film Betaab's completion||Actor-turned-politician Sunny Deol took a trip down memory lane by sharing a picture from his 38-year-old debut film 'Betaab'. The 'Border' star took to Instagram and shared the throwback picture.   "Betaab 1983 4th aug," he captioned the post.See Sunny's post here:A post shared by Sunny Deol (@iamsunnydeol)  The film was released on August 5, 1983. It featured Sunny and his fellow debutante Amrita Singh. Sunny received a Filmfare Best Actor Award nomination for his performance.The film was a box-office success and its songs 'Jab Hum Jawan Honge', 'Tumne Dee Awaaz' and Badal 'Yun Garajta Hai' were chartbusters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heres-how-sunny-deol-celebrated-38-years-of-debut-film-betaabs-completion-293880
06-08-2021||Gurbaxpuri||When Hockey stick did the talking||Tarn Taran, August 5As Indian hockey team scripted history in the Olympics on Thursday, tears of joy flowed from almost every Indian’s eyes, as everyone waited for this momentous day. The men in blue finished at the third spot by winning a bronze for the country.Baba Sewa Singh, patron of the Kar Sewa sect and Nishan-e-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib, who also runs Baba Uttam Singh National Hockey Academy, was also instrumental in providing a training ground to budding players, some of whom are in the current squad. Star hockey players — Varun Kumar, Mandeep Singh and Dilpreet Singh — started training quite young at the academy.Inspector Harmeek Singh, who coached Varun and Mandeep from 2006 to 2008, said Varun was very shy, but skilful, while Mandeep was an all-rounder besides a good scorer. Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh from Butala is the chief coach at the academy. While talking about his son, he said he started practising when he was just seven and never missed seeing Olympics matches. He said: “Dilpreet always used to say that he must participate in the Olympics to win a medal one day and so they did. As I was a coach at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy, Amritsar, from 2008 to 2011, Dilpreet, too, started practising. He was hardly eight and always insisted on staying with me to practise the game. I told him that you can’t even tie your hair (jura) on your own, how will you play? Within no time, he learnt to tie his hair after practising it a number of times.” While remembering Varun and Mandeep, Baba Baldev Singh said they had firm determination and were well-disciplined and never missed coming to the ground.He said Mandeep used different techniques right from the beginning and was hardly 8-years-old when he started captaining. He would always be declared as the best player in almost all tournaments. “These are moments of another upswing for Indian hockey and we wish the team will strengthen itself to gain further glory. It did not happen overnight, it is a fruit of toilsome efforts of hockey lovers and institutions like Hockey India,” he said. Secretary, Nishan-e-Sikhi, Avtar Singh Bajwa; director of Baba Uttam Singh Hockey Academy Sandeep Singh; Baba Baldev Singh, hockey coach Jaspal Singh and Principal Beerinder Singh also sent congratulations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/when-hockey-stick-did-the-talking-293858
06-08-2021||---||AAP leader Dinesh Mehta attacked, part of the hand chopped off in Rajpura||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 5Unknown men allegedly attacked and chopped off a part of the hand of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, Dinesh Mehta, in Rajpura late on Wednesday night. He had to be shifted to Chandigarh for treatment.The police have registered a case under Section 307 (Attempt to murder) against suspects, who are yet to be arrested.Dinesh was attacked, when he along with his supporters, was holding a late night meeting to tackle stray cattle menace in Rajpura. “Suddenly few men reached the spot and attacked him with sword and sticks,” said AAP supporters.Meanwhile, the Rajpura AAP unit has given an ultimatum claiming that if suspects are not arrested in two days, they would hold a protest dharna in Rajpura.“Goons of the Congress and Akali are the ones, who attacked our leader. The police should identify and arrest them at the earliest,” said AAP workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-leader-dinesh-mehta-attacked-part-of-the-hand-chopped-off-in-rajpura-293775
06-08-2021||---||Punjabi University VC releases Punjabipedia Android mobile app||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 5Punjabi University released Punjabipedia Android mobile app here today. The app has been developed by Punjabipedia Centre, Punjabi University.The application was released by the Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor (VC), Dr Arvind, in the presence of Dr Pargat Singh, Leader Mathematics Group (retired), London Metropolitan University, UK. He joined the occasion through online mode. Vikram Jeet Duggal, DIG, Patiala range, was also present on the occasion.Talking about the development of Punjabi language the VC said, “Technological support is necessary for every language today. Punjabipedia will help in development of Punjabi language,” the VC added.Dr Pargat Singh, who was the chief guest on the occasion, said Punjabis all over the world would benefit from this app.The Punjabipedia Centre Coordinator, Dr Vishal Goyal, and the co-coordinator, Dr Rajwinder Singh, said the mobile phone app was in much more demand than the website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-vc-releases-punjabipedia-android-mobile-app-293774
06-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Two held for duping farmer of Rs 4.5 lakh in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 5The police have arrested Kulveer Kaur and her father-in-law Parminder Singh, both residents of Badwala village in Ropar district, in a case registered against three persons for allegedly duping a farmer of Rs 4.25 lakh on the pretext of getting the posts of driver for his sons in the High Court. The woman’s husband, Gurdeep Singh, has absconded.The police said Gurpreet Singh of Sanipur village had filed a complaint in 2018 to the then SSP alleging that the three suspects had approached him and assured him of arranging permanent jobs as driver in the High Court for both his sons. The suspects told him that Gurdeep worked as the driver of a High Court Judge. They demanded Rs 4.50 lakh each for arranging two posts of driver for his sons.Gurpreet paid them Rs4.5 lakh. However, whenever he asked the suspects to fulfil their promise of getting jobs for his sons, they would make excuses.Gurpreet and his relative went to Gurdeep’s house and demanded the money back but the latter gave him a check for Rs3 lakh which was dishonoured by the bank for unavailability of funds.The district police had investigated the matter and registered a case under Section 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-for-duping-farmer-of-rs-4-5-lakh-in-fatehgarh-sahib-293755
06-08-2021||---||Realtors’ unfulfilled promises: Capt Amarinder Singh asks Principal Secretary, Housing, to hold investigation||Mohali, August 5Taking a serious notice of real estate developers not providing facilities promised to buyers in Mohali, Kharar, Kurali and New Chandigarh, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has handed over the investigation in the matter to the Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban Development Department.In a letter to the CM, Lok Sabha MP from Anandpur Sahib and former Union Minister Manish Tewari had recently raised the issue of developer not fulfilling their obligations after selling plots and flats to people who invested their hard-earned savings.In his reply to the MP, Capt Amarinder Singh said, “I have directed the Principal Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development, to look into the matter and submit a report in a fortnight.”It is pertinent to mention here that residents of Mohali, Kharar, Kurali and New Chandigarh had apprised the MP of the problems they were facing at the hands of real estate developers, including lack of basic amenities.Ten days after registering cases against 48 builders for raising illegal colonies in Kharar and Balongi areas, Mohali SSP Satinder Singh had on July 27 constituted a special investigating team (SIT) under SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal to look into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/realtors-unfulfilled-promises-capt-amarinder-singh-asks-principal-secretary-housing-to-hold-investigation-293720
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Former Congress MLA Ashwani Sekhri is Punjab Health System Corporation chairman||YAD protests police ‘inaction’Abohar: Workers of the Youth Akali Dal staged a dharna before the City-2 police station on Thursday. They slammed the authorities for not naming anyone in an FIR registered on August 1 in connection with the suicide of a Chandigarh SAD activist Parwinder Singh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-congress-mla-ashwani-sekhri-is-punjab-health-system-corporation-chairman-293542
06-08-2021||---||Government gets notice over case against ex-DGP Sumedh Saini, 6 others||Mohali, August 5The Mohali district and sessions court has issued a notice to the state government on the anticipatory bail filed by ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, along with six others, in a case filed by the Vigilance Bureau under the Prevention of Corruption Act.The Additional District and Sessions Judge directed the government to present the complete record with regard to the FIR tomorrow. Saini’s counsel advocate HS Dhanoa has filed the anticipatory bail plea.The Vigilance Bureau had on August 2 registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act against Saini and six others. The agency is probing Saini’s role in a fraudulent deal involving fake documents and questionable financial transactions linked to a house in Sector 20, Chandigarh.The FIR lodged by Vigilance Additional Director Varinder Singh Brar was based on a Vigilance inquiry, which established that Saini had paid Rs 2.5 lakh rent for the first floor of the house to an excise officer’s family besides paying Rs 6.40 crore since October 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-gets-notice-over-case-against-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-6-others-293543
06-08-2021||Ropar||US Sikh cop Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal’s ashes immersed at Kiratpur Sahib||Relatives of Sikh police officer Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal, gunned down in the line of duty during a routine traffic stop in Houston, US, in 2019, immersed his ashes at Kiratpur Sahib, near here, today. His father Pyara Singh along with relatives reached Gurdwara Patalpuri Sahib in morning, where head granthi of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Bhai Phoola Singh offered ‘ardas’. Dhaliwal, in his early 40s, was the first police officer in Texas to serve while keeping his Sikh articles of faith, including a turban and beard.On September 27, 2019, Dhaliwal stopped a vehicle with a man and woman inside. One of them got out and shot him “ambush-style” twice.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-sikh-cop-sandeep-singh-dhaliwals-ashes-immersed-at-kiratpur-sahib-293544
06-08-2021||Abohar||Anganwari workers protest at Balluana Congress MLA Nathu Ram’s office||Members of Abohar-1 and Khuyiansarwer blocks of the All-Punjab Anganwari Workers’ Union today staged a dharna and raised slogans in front of Balluana Congress MLA Nathu Ram’s office in the new grain market here.The protesting women used their blood to sign a memorandum of demands that was addressed to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Heavy police force was deployed in the area. As the MLA was not present, his representative accepted the memorandum.Block Khuyiansarwer president Inderjit Kaur said 28 lakh workers in the state had been serving on a nominal salary for the past several years. They deserved due respect and smartphones on the pattern of Haryana. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anganwari-workers-protest-at-balluana-congress-mla-nathu-rams-office-293546
06-08-2021||---||‘Fake’ panchayat in Punjab: HC sets deadline for fund siphoning probe||Chandigarh, August 5A “ghost” gram panchayat in Punjab that exists only on paper has come under judicial scrutiny. Taking up a petition alleging a fake gram panchayat was created to siphon off funds, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear to the Punjab Government an inquiry in the matter was required to be concluded by the second week of September.The matter was brought to the notice of Justice Anil Kshetarpal’s Bench by Puran Singh and another petitioner, who moved the High Court against the state of Punjab and other respondents.Appearing on the petitioners’ behalf, senior advocate Baltej Singh Sidhu with counsel Divij Dutt submitted a fake gram panchayat, Divya Gram village, was created in order to siphon off funds granted by the 14th Finance Commission, the Local Area Development Fund and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005. The panchayat also received grant from the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board.Responding to the contentions raised in the petition, Punjab Additional Advocate-General PS Bajwa submitted an inquiry into the matter was being held. It was likely to be concluded in the near future. He also prayed for a short accommodation to place on record the report’s copy.“PS Bajwa, Additional AG, Punjab, has been impressed upon to get the inquiry concluded well before the next date of hearing and place its report on the file of the court,” Justice Kshetarpal asserted before adjourning the hearing of the case to September for final disposal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-panchayat-in-punjab-hc-sets-deadline-for-fund-siphoning-probe-293547
06-08-2021||Moga||NGO World Cancer Care to rescue of disease-hit cattle||Acting on a report, ‘35 cattle die of FMD in a Moga village’, that appeared these columns, a representative of the World Cancer Care, an NGO, provided a consignment of medicines for the treatment of animals to Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans on Thursday.Due to the spread of the foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) at Dina Sahib village, at least 35 head of milch cattle have died and many others fallen ill over the past few weeks.The DC expressed gratitude to UK-based social worker Kulwant Singh Dhaliwal, who runs the NGO, for the help.The DC claimed the district administration had taken immediate steps to assess the deaths at the village. He said efforts were initiated to provide medical care to the infected animals. He also reviewed the arrangements for treatment of the animals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngo-world-cancer-care-to-rescue-of-disease-hit-cattle-293548
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure adherence to SOPs in schools, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu tells Civil Surgeons||Keeping in view the reopening of schools after the second wave of SARS-CoV-2, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today directed all Civil Surgeons to ensure Covid-19 surveillance in schools as per SOPs recommended by the committee of experts.He said to prevent any major outbreak of Covid-19 among children in schools, instructions had been issued to all Civil Surgeons to prepare a micro-plan that provided data of suspected cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-adherence-to-sops-in-schools-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-tells-civil-surgeons-293549
06-08-2021||The Patiala police on Thursday used mild force to stop members of Powercom and Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Committee who blocked the road near the CM residence.||Contract staff lathicharged in Patiala||The committee members were staging a demonstration against the Punjab Government in support of their long-pending demand of regular jobs.The protesters started throwing bricks at the cops after which the police had to lathicharge them. Many cops and protesters sustained minor injuries. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contract-staff-lathicharged-in-patiala-293552
06-08-2021||Moga||Navjot Singh Sidhu faces farmers’ ire over ‘thirsty’ remark||Hundreds of farmers, including activists of employees’ unions, staged a protest and raised slogans against Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu when he arrived at Moga to preside over a party workers’ meeting today.When protesters tried to break the barricades of security forces to reach the meeting venue, the police resorted to mild cane-charge, forcing them to stay back under an overbridge on the national highway. Farmers had started protesting against Sidhu after he reportedly said “the thirsty walks to the well, not the otherwise”. He said this while expressing his desire to meet leaders of the farm unions.This is not for the first time that Sidhu, who started a campaign to hold party meetings at the district headquarters today, faced protests after assuming charge as the PCC chief. On July 20, his arrival was opposed at Khatkar Kalan where he had gone to pay tributes at the Bhagat Singh’s memorial. On July 22, he changed his route to reach Mehmoodpur village in Tarn Taran due to a protest by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. On July 24, when he went to Chamkaur Sahib in Ropar district, he faced yet another protest by farmers. Harjit Singh, a farmer, said they were protesting against Sidhu and the Congress for not fulfilling the poll promises made during the last Assembly elections.“Sidhu can’t take us for granted. He can’t garner votes by just cracking jokes,” he said. The agitating farmers alleged that “non-serious” politicians were trying to divert people’s attention from core issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-faces-farmers-ire-over-thirsty-remark-293540
06-08-2021||---||Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu vows to end ‘mafia raj’ at unity show  in Moga||Moga, August 5Without naming Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh or any of his Cabinet colleagues, newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu today vowed to end “mafia raj” in the state.Addressing a party workers’ meeting here, he claimed that the “mafia raj” was established during the previous SAD-BJP regime and continued under the current government. “We need to end it to pave the way for a clean and transparent government,” he said.In a sign of unity, all local leaders, three MLAs — Dr Harjot Kamal, Darshan Brar and Sukhjit Singh Lohgarh — former minister Dr Malti Thapar, former MLA Vijay Sathi, district party chief Maheshinder Singh and others were present on the dais with Sidhu. “I know the Akalis and some leaders among us are hand in glove, bought lands together and run businesses jointly. We have to show them the door,” he said.PCC chief backing ‘tainted’ leaders: SADTargeting SAD chief Sukhbir Badal and local Akali stalwart Jathedar Tota Singh, he said: “Moge te tota behan ni dena, jija-saala rehan ni dena”. He alleged the Badal family was responsible for total financial mess in the state. “Sukhbir is making false promises of giving 400 units of free power at a time when the state is under Rs 3 lakh crore debt. From where will he bear the expenses of such populist announcements?” he said.“The Congress is committed to providing cheaper power to consumers and also continue free power to farmers,” he said, announcing that his government would cancel all “faulty” PPAs with private companies. “We will also bring Bills to annul the three farm laws so that those cannot be implemented in the state,” he said.‘Justice in sacrilege cases top priority’Faridkot: During his first visit to Faridkot after being appointed as the PCC president, Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday said the state was on track to implement its 18-point programme.Punishing the guilty in sacrilege incidents of 2015 in Faridkot and putting all those responsible for the unprovoked police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan was on top of the list, he said.Sidhu was addressing party workers and leaders of the district. Almost all Congress leaders reached Faridkot to attend Sidhu’s meeting, barring a few, including a politically ambitious OSD to the CM.Accompanied by Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Dhillon and other party leaders from Kotkapura and Jaito, Sidhu said the party had already started work to review power purchase agreements which were prepared to benefit some individuals in the state. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-president-navjot-sidhu-vows-to-end-mafia-raj-at-unity-show-in-moga-293541
06-08-2021||Balwant Garg||Will draw young players to sport, Rupinder Pal Singh tells parents||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 5The men hockey team’s historic bronze medal on Thursday spread cheer across the town. Rupinder Pal Singh’s family was on cloud nine as the 30-year-old dragflicker was one among the four goal scorers for the country against Germany. “My son was adamant on not getting married until he won a medal for the country,” said teary-eyed Sukhwinder Kaur, Rupinder’s mother, hugging all those who visited her home here to greet the family.“Two days ago, when the team lost to Belgium, I was disappointed, but Rupinder’s father (Harinder Singh) had a firm belief in Waheguru and confidence in my son to turn our long-cherished dream of securing a medal for the country into reality,” said Sukhwinder Kaur.Minutes after clinching the medal, Rupinder was on a video call with his family members, with callers from both sides emotionally charged in the sea of celebration. “It is not only about winning the bronze, but also about infusing new confidence and vigour in the sport,” Rupinder said to his family members and friends, adding that it was a great and historic achievement for us.“Despite losing to Belgium, my son was confident and firm in his resolution of securing a bronze medal for the country, and he proved it,” said Harinder Singh.With a younger brother, ailing father and mother, Rupinder lived in a one-room rented accommodation in Dogar Basti in Faridkot, days before he hit the limelight and emerged as another promising talent after his performance in Sultan Azlan Shah Cup a decade ago.After completing his Class 12 in Faridkot, Rupinder joined a Chandigarh-based hockey academy to hone his skills withe the hockey stick.His seven-year training period in Chandigarh was a big financial burden on his poor family, but his mother never allowed her ‘straight-jacketed’ financial condition to become a stumbling block in her son’s promising hockey career.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-draw-young-players-to-sport-rupinder-pal-singh-tells-parents-293537
06-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Debut to remember: Hockey player Mandeep Singh’s kin||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5“A medal in his first Olympics, we are elated!” Nothing else can sum up the mood at Mandeep Singh’s house better. Dhol beats haven’t stopped reverberating in his house since early morning. Everyone has tried their hand at Bhangra, even the most solemn of village men.“Can’t tell you how happy we are. We have tears of joy,” says an elated father Ravinder Singh.As a steady stream of mediapersons flood their home, parents flit from one house to another — getting hugs and nibbling on a never-ending supply of laddoos.Ravinder says: “My cousins and I are so happy. My son has become an Olympian. He has brought a medal in his first Olympics.” For mother Davinderjit Kaur, all her dreams have come true.Mandeep’s brother Harminder, 32, who casually lounges with player Talwinder Singh, has played hockey in his youth.His uncle Surinder Pal Singh Ghugga, 72, played for East Bengal, while his son Balwinder Singh is a village hockey coach. Between the family, there are 10 people, including elders and cousins, who have pursued hockey at point in their lives.Ravinder plans to go to Amritsar to receive Mandeep and pay obeisance at the Darbar Sahib. “After he returns, all relatives will gather. He will go to the village ground, from where he started his hockey journey, to pay tribute. He was extremely emotional during our conversation today. Could barely talk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debut-to-remember-hockey-player-mandeep-singhs-kin-293538
06-08-2021||---||Jalandhar coach Avtar Singh who trained Indian hockey team captain Manpreet Singh elated||Jalandhar, August 5“When Indian hockey team captain Manpreet Singh first came here to take training, he just wanted to play to get a job, now he has won a medal in the Olympics. I always told him to think big. Now he, along with other players, has made me proud,” says Avtar Singh, who joined as a coach at Surjit Hockey Stadium in 2008.Singh was a Master Chief Electrical Radio in the Navy for 20 years. He was also a member of the Navy hockey team.“Manpreet’s family was going through financial challenges at that time. But I wanted him to continue playing and represent the nation at the international level. I also told Manpreet’s mother that he was a great player in the making and should continue playing. Today, under his captaincy, the team has won bronze,” says Singh.Saw dragflicker in harmanpreetAfter the 2016 Junior World Cup, I asked Harmanpreet to keep himself focused as the nation didn’t have many dragflickers at that time. —Avtar Singh, Coach, Surjit hockey stadiumTalking more about Manpreet, Singh says he always had leadership quality and fighting spirit in him. “He was physically very tough and always worked towards winning every game.”First tournament that Manpreet played under coach Singh was the Nehru Hockey Tournament and the team won. After that, the team won Junior National Hockey Championship in Lucknow and Haryana. After that, there was no looking back.About Harmanpreet Singh, who scored a goal for India today, the proud coach said: “After the 2016 Junior World Cup, I asked Harman to keep himself focused as the nation didn’t have many dragflickers. I told him that he could be a part of the Olympics one day if he remains dedicated and keeps himself fit.” Varun, Hardik Singh and Mandeep Singh, have also taken training at Surjit Hockey Stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-coach-avtar-singh-who-trained-indian-hockey-team-captain-manpreet-singh-elated-293539
06-08-2021||---||SGPC announces Rs 1 crore for Indian men’s hockey team||Patiala, August 5The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has announced to award the Indian men’s hockey team with Rs 1 crore for winning the bronze medal in the Olympics.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, who was in Patiala to inaugurate a ‘sarai’ and employee quarters at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, made the announcement. She said other players who are participating individually in the Olympics will also be awarded Rs 5 lakh each.“The medal in hockey has come after a gap of 41 years. We are proud of the Indian team,” she said and added that the team would soon pay obeisance atHarmandir Sahib when they will be presented the award. She said the Shiromani Committee would soon hold under-17 games, including hockey, basketball and athletics.“We will open academies for training youngsters for civil services exams,” said the SGPC president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-announces-rs-1-crore-for-indian-mens-hockey-team-293554
06-08-2021||GS Paul||Obscure villages now on global map as five players from Majha region in Indian hockey team||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5The five players from the Majha region in the Indian team have made their presence felt in Tokyo. The feat has put their obscure native villages on the global map.Simranjeet Singh belongs to Gurdaspur’s Chahal Kalan village whereas the four from Amritsar district are Gurjant Singh of Khaliara village, Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village, Dilpreet Singh of Butala and Shamsher Singh of Attari. Simranjeet (25) and Gurjant (26), both cousins, played together in the team.It was Simranjeet who opened the account of the team with a field goal and interestingly, sealed the victory with the winning goal against Germany. His paternal uncle Rashpal Singh Chahal said: “At a very young age, he was dedicated to hockey. I got him admitted to Shahbad Hockey Academy, followed by Surjit academy in Jalandhar.”Gurjant’s father Baldev Singh said both the players got inspiration from their uncle Hardev Singh Chahal who was also a national hockey player (1985-1990). “Both cousins played many tourneys, including the 2016 junior World Cup, together. We are proud of their achievement,” he said.At Timmewal village, Harmanpreet's father Sarbjeet Singh said his inspiration was former dragflicker Jugraj Singh, who taught him tricks of the trade. "Harmanpreet gained the attention of the school coach at the age of nine. His coach inspired me to let him take professional training. I managed to spare money for his training through my meagre resources,” he said.At Butala village, Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh said : “We are loaded with congratulatory messages and frequent visits by relatives. We are all proud of Team India,” he said. However, the atmosphere at Shamsher's home at Attari was sombre due the sudden demise of a member in the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/obscure-villages-now-on-global-map-as-five-players-from-majha-region-in-indian-hockey-team-293561
06-08-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Post Navjot Sidhu’s elevation, poll strategist Prashant Kishor quits as Punjab CM’s adviser||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 5In a setback to Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh, poll strategist Prashant Kishor today quit as his principal adviser, days after the elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief. Captain had engaged Kishor for projecting him as the CM face in the 2022 Assembly elections.Ever since the crisis in the state Congress unit and the peace formula thereafter, Kishor had reportedly made it clear to some leaders in the forefront of the “save Congress” campaign that he intended to quit.Temporary break from public lifeIn view of my decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your principal adviser. —Prashant Kishor, Poll strategistSources see Kishor’s resignation as a prelude to a political drama that is likely to unfold in the Punjab Congress in days to come. They claim he had been only waiting for the AICC leadershipto elevate Sidhu before giving up his post.The development comes at a time when Kishor is said to be engaged in parleys with the party high command on a strategy to revive the party ahead of the crucial Punjab elections. It is learnt that Kishor, who had a key role in Sidhu’s elevation, wanted some MLAs dropped and the seats of certain MLAs changed.The poll strategist claimed to be on a “temporary break” from politics. “In view of my decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your principal adviser. Since I am yet to decide on my future course of action, I request you to kindly relieve me from this responsibility,” he wrote to the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-navjot-sidhus-elevation-poll-strategist-prashant-kishor-quits-as-punjab-cms-adviser-293562
06-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Ferozepur: Feat fills budding players with hope||Ferozepur, August 5Hundreds of budding players along with veterans today congregated at the Shahid Bhagat Singh Stadium to celebrate the performance of the Indian hockey team at the Olympics. While the youngsters were shaking their legs to the beats of the dhol, senior players and Hockey Ferozepur officials were seen distributing sweets to sportsmen to celebrate the success.Jubilation and excitement was writ large on their faces. Former hockey player Harnarayan Singh Laddi said the medal had energised and the young players and filled them with hope to play for the nation. He said he was hopeful to see more players from Ferozepur making a mark at the national level. Former DSO Sunil Sharma said this border district used to be cradle of hockey players, however during the past few years, not many players could reach the international level but now he was hopeful for revival of this game.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-feat-fills-budding-players-with-hope-293564
06-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||With bronze in hockey, Jalandhar's Mithapur village erupts in celebration||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5Mithapur village, which has sent three players to the men’s hockey team, erupted in joy as India won a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday.Also read: Flick it like Mithapur: Mithapur hockey nursery has produced six Olympians so farSkipper Manpreet Singh’s mother Manjit Kaur, who had two days ago said the team shouldn’t take Germany lightly, was ecstatic at India’s sensational victory. “I will hold ‘akhand path’ now. We will celebrate this historic win. I have no words to express my happiness,” she said.Recalling Manpreet’s childhood days, when he would devote most of his time to hockey, she said she wondered then what he would do once he grew up. “But those training him would tell me I would one day watch him play on the TV. The day is here and I watched him win an Olympic medal. What else could I have asked for!” Hardik Singh, another star player who scored a goal against Germany, rang up his brother after the match, asking him to imprint an Olympic logo on his car. “When he got selected for the Olympics, his younger brother asked him if he could get Olympics rings imprinted on the car. Hardik told him to wait for an appropriate time. The time has come,” said an elated mother of Hardik, who belongs to Jalandhar. “I have got a gold ring made for my son in the shape of Olympic rings,” she said, adding their prayers had come true.As mediapersons thronged another team member Varun Kumar’s home, his father Brahma Nand recalled the old days of struggle.“I have seen Varun work hard. It has finally paid off. This a big day,” he said. “There is dhol, and we are dancing. I had never expected such a day would ever come,” said Nand, who once worked as a truck driver and had faced financial hardship back in the day.“I am the luckiest person today. My son has made India happy,” he said, wishing the team would win a gold in Commonwealth Games in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-bronze-in-hockey-jalandhars-mithapur-village-erupts-in-celebration-293567
06-08-2021||---||Prime common land in Mohali leased to Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu for a pittance||Chandigarh, August 5A gaushala registered at Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s Mohali address is in the eye of a storm for getting over 10 acres of prime land in a Mohali village.While Balbir Sidhu has denied any wrongdoing, social activists are alleging foul play. According to information, the land belonging to the Balongi village panchayat has been allotted on lease for 33 years to Bal Gopal Gau Welfare Society, which is registered at Sidhu’s Phase 7 house. It is alleged that the land has been leased at the rate of Rs 25,000 per acre annually, while the market rate is much higher.Rs 100-cr land usurped, order CBI probe: SADRTI activist Parvinder Singh Kittna has written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and demanded a vigilance probe into the matter. Kittna said it was a clearcase of grabbing village panchayat land.Another activist Satnam Daun said it was not the issue of only one village, but land sharks were eying prime land of several villages in Mohali. He alleged the panchayats were being forced to pass resolutions to hand over the land to private individuals.Have done nothing wrongI had promised in my election manifesto to make Mohali stray cattle-free. Have I built a house there? I am spending from my own pocket to feed the cows. —Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health MinisterThe state Health Minister denied any wrongdoing and said he had been working for the welfare of people. “I had promised in my election manifesto to make Mohali stray cattle-free. Have I built a house there? I am spending from my own pocket to feed the cows,” he said.When asked that while there was already a government-run cattle shed in the district, why he felt the need to get another one registered in his name, Balbir Sidhu said the cowshed had failed and a large number animals had died of hunger there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prime-common-land-in-mohali-leased-to-punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhu-for-a-pittance-293545
06-08-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Navjot Sidhu vows to end ‘mafia raj’ in state||Tribune News ServiceMoga, August 5Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday vowed to end “mafia raj” in the state.He was addressing a party workers’ meeting here that turned into a rally.All local leaders – MLAs Harjot Kamal, Darshan Brar, Sukhjit Singh Lohgarh, former minister Malti Thapar, former MLA Vijay Sathi, and district president Maheshinder Singh were present on the dais. Claiming that the “mafia raj” was established during the previous SAD-BJP government, Sidhu said it continued to propagate afterwards, which needed to end in order to pave the way for a clean and transparent government.“I know the Akalis and some leaders among us are hand-in-glove with each other, bought lands together and run businesses jointly. We have to show them the door,” he said to a cheering crowd.Commenting on Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and local Akali leader Jathedar Tota Singh, he said, “Moge te tota behan ni dena, jija-saala rehan ni dena,” which received a round of applause from the audience.He alleged that the Badal family was responsible for the fiscal mess in the state. “Sukhbir Badal is a liar who is making false promises of giving 400 units of free power to consumers at a time when the state is under a debt of Rs 3 lakh crore. I would like to ask Sukhbir from where he will bear the expenses of such populist announcements,” he asked.“The Congress is committed to providing cheaper power to the consumers and also continuing free power to the farmers,” he said while announcing that his government would cancel all power purchase agreements with private power manufacturing companies in the coming Vidhan Sabha session, which would pave the way for supply of cheaper power to the consumers.“We will also bring Bills in the Vidhan Sabha to annul the three controversial farm laws so that they cannot be implemented in the state,” he said, adding that the Congress stood by the farmers to meet their demands.While stressing the need to increase revenue of the state government, Sidhu said he would ask his government to review the mining,  excise and cable network policies so that the revenue could be increased for granting benefits to government employees, MNREGA workers, anganwari workers and all contractual employees, besides creating job avenues for the unemployed youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-vows-to-end-mafia-raj-in-state-293461
06-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar village that sent 3 hockey players erupts in celebration; couldn't have asked for more, says captain Manpreet Singh's mother||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5Mithapur village in Jalandhar, which has three players in the Indian hockey men's team, erupted in celebrations after India won bronze at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday.Also read: A real 'Chak De' moment for Indian hockey: Men's team wins Olympic medal after 41 yearsPunjab announces Rs 1 crore each for men’s hockey team players from stateThe captain of the team, Manpreet, too hails from the village.Two days ago, Manpreet's mother Manjit Kaur, while talking to The Tribune, had said that the team shouldn't take Germany lightly, but her joy knew no bounds after India's sensational victory."I will hold 'Akhand Sahib path' now. We will celebrate to the fullest. I have no words to express my happiness," she said, tears of joy flowing onto her cheeks.She said when her son in childhood would devote most of his time to hockey, she kept wondering what Manpreet would do once he grew up."But those training him then would always tell me that from the village playground, my son will move to international venues and I will watch him play hockey on TV some day. The day is here and I watched him win an Olympic medal. What else could I have asked for!"Hardik Singh, another star player who scored a goal against Germany, phoned his brother after the match, asking him to imprint Olympic logo on his car."When he got selected for the Olympics, his younger brother asked him if he could get Olympics ring imprinted on the car. Hardik replied he will tell him at an appropriate time. The time has come," said an elated mother of Hardik, who belongs to Jalandhar."I have got a gold ring made for my son in the shape of Olympic rings," she said, adding their prayers had come true.Also, huge rush of camerapersons was present at Varun's house. He too belongs to Mithapur village. As video bytes of Varun's father were being recorded and interviews were being taken, old struggle days came as a quick flashback in his mind."I am celebrating with mediapersons. There is a dhol, and we are dancing.  I had never expected such a day in my life. I have seen Varun doing hardwork day and night. Today the hardwork has paid off. On this big day, I suddenly got a flashback of every struggle and pain I have gone through in life," Brahma Nand, Varun's father said.Brahma Nand was a truck driver and because of financial constraints, he had to see a lot of problems in his life."I am the luckiest one today. My son has made India happy, is there are other feeling that can beat this one?," The father asked.Having a calm demeanour, Brahma Nand said that he thanked the almighty and asked him to keep his blessings on the boys forever.He said that now he wishes the players to win a gold in Commonwealth games in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-village-that-sent-3-hockey-players-erupts-in-celebration-couldnt-have-asked-for-more-says-captain-manpreet-singhs-mother-293411
06-08-2021||---||Punjab announces Rs 1 crore each for men’s hockey team players from state||Chandigarh, August 5Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Sodhi announced a cash award of Rs 1 crore each for the players from the state in the Indian men’s hockey team.India won the bronze medal after a thrilling 5-4 victory over Germany at the Tokyo Games on Thursday, giving the country its first Olympic hockey medal in more than forty years.Germany took an early lead in the goal-rich match through a second-minute goal by Timur Oruz, and posed a threat to eight-time Olympic hockey champions India in the first quarter.After Simranjeet Singh equalised with a backhand shot for India, Germany kept their cool, scoring two goals to take a 3-1 lead in the second quarter.But India pulled level late in that quarter thanks to goals by Hardik Singh and Harmanpreet Singh, making it 3-3 at the halftime break.India then took a 5-3 lead after Rupinder Pal Singh notched in a penalty stroke and Simranjeet Singh scored his second of the match not long into the second half.Germany came back a goal but was unable to force the equaliser, even after taking out its goalie to bring in an extra field player late in the game.India's bronze was its first Olympic hockey medal since winning gold at the 1980 Moscow Games.SGPC announces Rs 1 crores award for team, Rs 5 lakh to participants from PunjabShiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) President Bibi Jagir Kaur has announced to award Rs 1 crore to the Indian hockey team. She said the SGPC will also award Rs 5 lakh each to all players of Punjab who are participating in Olympic.She said the team will soon pay obeisance at Harmandir Sahib when they will be presented the award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-announces-rs-1-crore-each-for-mens-hockey-team-players-from-state-293408
06-08-2021||---||Prashant Kishor resigns as Punjab CM’s adviser||New Delhi, August 5Poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday resigned as principal adviser to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh saying he had taken temporary break from politics and was yet to decide his future course of action.“As you are aware, in view of my decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your Principal Adviser. Since I am yet to decide on my future course of action, I write to request you to kindly relieve me from this responsibility,” Kishor said in a letter to CM.He thanked the CM for considering him for this position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prashant-kishor-resigns-as-punjab-cms-adviser-293406
