07-08-2021||---||Taliban restores Nishan sahib at Afghan gurdwara, claim activists||New Delhi, August 7The outcry and condemnation led to the Taliban restoring the Nishan Sahib on the roof of the Gurdwara Thala Sahib in Paktia which its local commanders had got removed a day earlier, according to reports quoting Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Puneet Forum.Chandok said he was personally informed by the local caretaker Rahman Chamkani that the Nishan Sahib has been restored “with its proper dignity’’ at the roof of the gurdwara on Friday night, said the reports.Taliban officials, including their commanders, visited Thala Sahib on Friday evening “and conveyed their assent for functioning of the Gurdwara as per its customs and also directed that the Nishan Sahib be restored immediately in their presence,” he said.With the blessings of Guru Sahibs, Nishan Sahib on Gurdwara Thala Sahib has been restored. The international pressure has resulted in this. We thank the Sangat for supporting our voice for the religious freedom and safety of Sikhs in Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/lN4StjuGrC  “I and the diaspora deeply appreciate the efforts of the Government of India and the International Community for ensuring that the rights of minorities are well protected in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan,’’ said Chandok.“There is a lot of fear and uncertainty in Afghanistan and the caretaker was intimidated by a Taliban announcement about flags. He removed the Nishan Sahib himself as he feared retribution from the Taliban,” claimed Gurvinder Singh of United Sikhs.But Charan Singh, a local resident, had claimed the Taliban fighters had initially threatened the caretaker and later forced him to take it down from its rightful place. The armed men, he said, forced the caretaker to remove the Nishan Sahib from its assigned place and tied it to a tree so that it cannot be viewed as a distinct symbol from afar.The Gurdwara, located in Chamkani area of Paktia, was once visited by Guru Nanak.It has Guru Sahib’s Prakash and is maintained by a dozen Sikhs families that remain in the region.The Gurdwara was in the news in July year when Nidan Singh Sachdeva, a leader of the Hindu and Sikh community in Afghanistan, was abducted from its premises. The wider region called “Loya Paktia” has been a Mujahideen and then Taliban\Haqqani Group stronghold since the early 1980s. India had then blamed the Haqqani Group and the Lashkar-e-Toiba for the massacre.India had condemned the forcible removal of the Nishan Sahib atop the roof of Gurdwara Thala Sahib and hoped that “Afghanistan’s future must be one where interest of all sections of Afghan society including minorities and women are protected”.Sachdeva’s kidnapping had followed a massacre of 30 Sikhs in Gurdwara Guru Har Rai in Kabul in May last year. At that time, India had offered all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh community of Afghanistan.The frequent targeting of the Sikh community has seen the one-lakh-strong Sikh and Hindu community reduced to just a few thousands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/taliban-restores-nishan-sahib-at-afghan-gurdwara-claim-activists-294461
07-08-2021||Washington||US President Joe Biden pays homage to victims of gurdwara shooting||Mourning the loss of lives in a mass shooting by a white supremacist at a gurdwara in Wisconsin nine years ago, US President Joe Biden has admitted that there has been a rise in hate crimes against Asian-Americans amid the pandemic and promised to work with the community members to combat the scourge.On August 5, 2012, a white supremacist opened fire inside the Oak Creek gurdwara in Wisconsin, killing seven persons. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-president-joe-biden-pays-homage-to-victims-of-gurdwara-shooting-294317
07-08-2021||Patiala||Webinar dwells on scholar Piara Singh Padam’s contribution to Sikh history||During an international webinar organised to mark the birth centenary of Piara Singh Padam, a Sikh scholar, experts discussed his contribution to Sikh history and Punjabi language and literature at Punjabi University here today.Prof JS Grewal, former Vice-Chancellor, GNDU, Amritsar, Prof Gurinder Singh Mann, former Professor at University of California, Dr Surjit Patar and others participated in the webinar. Prof Grewal discussed the relevance of Padam’s interpretation of the ‘Zafarnama’ (Guru Gobind Singh’s letter to Aurangzeb).Prof Louis E Fenech contextualised Padam’s ‘Guru Gobind Singh de Darbari Ratan’. He explained its influence on the way Padam understood Guru’s Darbar, its literary products and the tenth Sikh Master’s mission.Prof Surjit Patar discussed Padam’s persona and his work. Dr Harinder Kaur, daughter of Piara Singh Padam, shared her personal reminiscences about her father’s zeal for work. Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof Arvind said, “History, language and literature, which make man human are important.” Expressing concern over connecting next generation with the history he said there was a need to preserve zeal and commitment, which Piara Singh Padam showed.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/webinar-dwells-on-scholar-piara-singh-padams-contribution-to-sikh-history-294342
07-08-2021|| Amritsar||Golden Temple becomes more disabled-friendly||For the convenience of elderly and specially-abled devotees visiting to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, the World Cancer Care donated 11 wheelchairs. While receiving the wheelchairs sent by Dr Kulwant Singh Dhaliwal, chairman of the World Cancer Care, SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur said that the devotees express their devotion at the Golden Temple by contributing with various services.She said the World Cancer Care organisation had earlier also served with wheelchairs at various Takhts for the convenience of the elderly and the specially-abled devotees. On this occasion, the representative of World Cancer Care Dr Dharminder Singh Dhillon, SGPC member Gurmail Singh Sangatpura, Amrik Singh Vichhoa and Amarjit Singh Bhalaipur, OSDs to SGPC president Dr Amrik Singh Latifpur and many others were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/golden-temple-becomes-more-disabled-friendly-294277
07-08-2021||---||Rana Kandowalia murder: Ten rounded up for facilitating gangsters||Amritsar, August 6As different agencies of Punjab Police have launched a hunt to nab the killers of notorious gangster Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, over a dozen persons facilitating the perpetrators were rounded up by the police for finding some clues regarding the whereabouts of the suspects.Rana Kandowalia was gunned down outside a private hospital three days ago by four persons. Notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria had taken the responsibility for the murder.Meanwhile, the police brought Mandeep Singh, alias Deep Dhillon who was lodged in Amritsar Central Jail, on production warrant. He was produced before the court which remanded him in three-day police custody. Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who was lodged in Tihar jail in Delhi, would also be brought on production warrant in the case.Deep Dhillon had attacked Kandowalia in 2018. Later, he killed a sarpanch. He was also arrested by the State Special Operation Cell in connection with the seizure of 48 foreign-made pistols smuggled from Pakistan through drones recently. An official privy to investigation said over 10 persons were rounded up by the police who used to facilitate these gangsters.“Police teams have been raiding different places to arrest the suspects. They have been on the run since the incident,” said the official wishing not to be named. Kandowalia had gone to meet a girl of his village who was admitted to the ICU of a private hospital when the accused shot at him. He suffered bullet injuries that led to his death. His accomplice was also injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rana-kandowalia-murder-ten-rounded-up-for-facilitating-gangsters-294260
07-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||80K quintals of wheat stock worth Rs 20 crore goes missing in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 6A total of 80,000 quintals of wheat worth Rs 20 crore was allegedly misappropriated by an Inspector-rank official of of the District Food and Civil Supply Department who was in charge of eight godowns.The incident came to light when different teams of the department swooped down for physical verification at the godowns located in Jandiala Guru, Gehri Mandi and Dhire Kot villages on Saturday.It’s learnt that Dr Rakesh Singla, vigilance committee’s head of the department, sent these teams to conduct physical verification after getting complaints regarding suspected bungling of huge quantity of wheat.Officials got a hint after Inspector Jasdev Singh allegedly went into hiding around a week ago without informing the department. He also took away all the records pertaining to these godowns from his office.Assistant Food and Civil Supply Officer (AFSO) Arshdeep Singh, who was heading a vigilance team, said Jasdev never handed over the records pertaining to these godowns even after repeated written orders. Therefore, a complaint was lodged with the higher authorities in this connection. “As Jasdev took away the record with him, we can find the exact amount of bungling only after completion of physical verification of these godowns,” he added.Gurlal Singh, AFSO, who was heading another team inspecting a godown at Gehri Mandi village said there’s definitely some shortage in jute bags. The sources in the department revealed that the inspection team found around 80,000 quintals of wheat missing from these godowns. District Food and Civil Supply Controller Rishi Mehra said, besides departmental action, legal action would also be initiated against the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/80k-quintals-of-wheat-stock-worth-rs-20-crore-goes-missing-in-amritsar-district-294246
07-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga & Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Punjab village proud of hockey player Gurjit Kaur’s stellar performance at Tokyo||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar/Jalandhar, August 6“Tu jitti hain, haari nahi,” said a proud Satnam Singh while speaking to his daughter Gurjit Kaur on the phone after the Indian women hockey team lost to Great Britain in the bronze medal match and finished fourth at the Tokyo Olympics. “You gave an unforgettable performance. The entire nation is very proud of you,” he said.Unforgettable momentTu jitti hain, haari nahi (You have won, not lost). You gave an unforgettable performance. The entire country is proud of you and other girls of the team. — Satnam Singh, Gurjit’s FatherThere will be many Gurjits nowGurjit’s feat will now inspire many young girls to pick up a hockey stick. There are going to be many Gurjits now. Women hockey is in for a revival. — Parminder Kaur, Gurjit’s College CoachLater, talking to The Tribune, Satnam Singh, said: “I felt sad to see tears in the eyes of our girls. Had Gurjit not scored goals in the Olympics, we would have felt bad. She, along with other girls, gave her best.”Though residents of star dragflicker’s Miadia Kalan village in Ajnala tehsil were heartbroken after the team’s defeat, they felt proud of their daughter for making the obscure village famous and hogging the limelight at the international level.Gurcharan Singh, a village nambardar, said: “If it was goalkeeper Savita who was the protagonist of the team in the first quarter, saving two penalty corners and three goal attempts, it was dragflicker Gurjit Kaur in the second quarter who converted two penalty corners into goals.”Gurjit’s sister Pardeep Kaur, a coach at Sansarpur, said: “I am proud of my sister. She has worked very hard to make it up to here. The girls played their hearts out and gave us a perfect display of quality hockey”.Parminder Kaur, who coached her at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, said, “Gurjit’s feat will now inspire many young girls to pick up a hockey stick. There are going to be many Gurjits now. Women hockey is in for a revival with Gurjit at the centre of it.”Meanwhile, Congress leader Dilraj Singh Sarkaria today inaugurated a stadium named after Gurjit Kaur in the village.(With inputs from Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-village-proud-of-hockey-player-gurjit-kaurs-stellar-performance-at-tokyo-294106
07-08-2021||---||Olympics bronze: Faridkot administration honours Rupinder Pal Singh’s kin; local players relive memories||Faridkot, August 6A day after Rupinder Pal Singh brought laurel to the country by clinching the Olympics bronze, his family was honoured by the district administration at a hockey ground here today.Dragflicker Was denied award in 2014 In a programme jointly organised by the Sports Department and the district administration, Faridkot Deputy Commissioner Vimal Setia honoured Rupinder’s father Harinder Singh and his two elder brothers. During the event, many sportspersons of the area relived their memories of Rupinder to boost the morale of young players in the district.Rupinder’s friends recalled how in November 2014 the dragflicker was denied Rs 26 lakh award money and honour by the State Sports Department despite his team’s exhilarating win against Pakistan. He was the vice-captain of the team, which had clinched the hockey gold at the Asian Games in 2014 in a nerve-wracking shoot-out against Pakistan to end its 16-year gold medal drought in the tournament that time.Rupinder had scored maximum six goals against Pakistan in 2014, but he was not among the 28 players who were honoured by Punjab.The Sports Department had said Rupinder was an employee in a bank in Tamil Nadu and the Tamil Nadu Government should honour him. Utlimately, he didn’t figure in any state’s list of awardees.The six-plus-footer dragflicker, the youngest in the family, took up hockey at the age of 11. His father was running a small sports goods shop in Faridkot. Rupinder made his international debut in May 2010 in Sultan Azlan Shah Cup. He hit the headlines by being the top scorer in the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/olympics-bronze-faridkot-administration-honours-rupinder-pal-singhs-kin-local-players-relive-memories-294112
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab roads to be named after medallists: Vijay Inder Singla||School Education and PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday said the state government had decided to rename roads and schools after the Olympic medallists in their respective areas.The minister said this initiative was a token of gratitude to honour their achievement. He said the Chief Minister had given an approval to rename the roads and schools and the officials concerned had been directed to initiate the process in this regard at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-roads-to-be-named-after-medallists-vijay-inder-singla-294116
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Give Rs 3 cr each to bronze winning Punjab hockey players, DSP job to  players: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to give a cash reward of Rs 3 crore to all hockey players of Punjab who were part of the bronze medal-winning men’s team at the Tokyo Olympics.He also asked the government to offer a job of a DSP to all hockey players of Punjab who represented the country. He said Rs 1 crore should be given to all representatives from the state who were part of the Indian contingent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-rs-3-cr-each-to-bronze-winning-punjab-hockey-players-dsp-job-to-players-sad-294119
07-08-2021||Manav Mander||Mucormycosis patients returning to hospitals with new symptoms||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 6Doctors are now getting patients complaining of pain and numbness over cheeks, dental ache, swelling around eyes, headache, etc, and this is being termed as ‘sequelae’ of mucormycosis.Needs follow-up for a yearThe disease needs follow-up of up to a year. Generally, patients went for CT scan or MRI to confirm that there was no presence of fungus after treatment for a few months. But both these tests are defective in detecting mucormycosis. — Dr Manish Munjal, DMCH, LudhianaUpon surgery, doctors are discovering a hidden mucor, the treatment of which had been left midway by patients. The patients are coming back to doctors after a year and such cases are being reported from Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh.Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, is getting one to two such patients every day. Mucormycosis was a real challenge during the second Covid wave and 599 patients in Punjab were diagnosed with the fungal infection but patients not going for regular follow ups and leaving the treatment midway are now facing the aftermath.“The disease needs long follow-up of up to a year and patients who left the treatment midway are nowin trouble. Generally, patients went for CT scan or MRI to confirm that there was no presence of fungus after treatment for a few months. But both these tests are defective in detecting mucormycosis and only a nasal examination by an ENT expert can confirm it,” said Dr Manish Munjal, head of department of otorhinolaryngology at DMCH.He said most of the patients who were having a ‘sequelae’ of mucormycosis were those who went to private hospitals and did not complete the treatment due to high cost or due to incompetence of the doctor. “Many cases were referred by private hospitals to DMCH, PGI and other government hospitals as mucormycosis is a complex disease and needs regular follow up,” said Dr Munjal.A dentist from the region said he recently got a patient who was complaining of toothache, so the tooth was extracted but after that it came to light that it was infected with mucormycosis.“People are unaware of the fact that treatment of mucormycosis is done free of cost at government hospitals and all the medicine is also given free. The government is providing anti-fungal medicines at the remotest of healthcare centres and surgical interventions at all tertiary care facilities,” added Dr Munjal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mucormycosis-patients-returning-to-hospitals-with-new-symptoms-294143
07-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Dead Patiala resident on MGNREGA roll||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 6In a lapse on part of officials, a 61-year-old resident of Dakunda village in Patiala district, who died in February 2020, remained registered under the MGNREGA scheme till this May.‘Clerical error’Dr Preeti Yadav, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, said a a detailed inquiry was conducted and it was found that two persons with the same name were residing in the village. The error was a clerical mistake, she said.Bhim Singh was kept alive in official records for over a year. The records reveal he worked on the repair and maintenance of the Tohra minor under the scheme for 27 days.He was paid Rs 6,838 as per the official records accessed by The Tribune after his death. Ironically, the payment under MGNREGA is made only after the assessment of thework by an officer.Pritam Kaur, Bhim Singh’s wife, on the other hand, claimed she never received any money. “He worked under the MGNREGA for a while in 2009 but never after that,” said Pritam. The block development panchayat officer, Nabha, said, “We have already changed the mate (the person who marks attendance of beneficiaries on the muster roll). I am yet to check how this anomaly took place.” Sumeet Jarangal, joint development commissioner, Punjab, said, “We will conduct an inquiryand take action if we receive any complaint.”Dr Preeti Yadav, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, said an inquiry was conducted and it was found that two persons with the same name were residing in the village. “While Bhim Singh, son of Tara Singh, is dead, Bhim Singh, son of Labh Singh, has worked under the MGNREGA. However, due to a clerical mistake, his father’s name was written as Tara Singh instead of Labh Singh. The actual payment has been made to Bhim Singh, son of Labh Singh,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dead-patiala-resident-on-mgnrega-roll-294144
07-08-2021||Mohali||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu refutes land-grab charges||Rejecting the allegation of grabbing ‘shamlat’ land in Balongi under the garb of a trust, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said the land was for a ‘gaushala’ and the local panchayat had given it willingly.Also read: Prime common land in Mohali leased to Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu for a pittanceNot used for any commercial purposeThe land was dedicated for the well-being of abandoned bovine and not for commercial purposes. If anyone wants to know the purpose, he may visit the site to see the work being done here. — Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health MinisterAddressing the media at Bal Gopal Gaushala Welfare Society, Sidhu said some people were trying to politicise the social work, and added the allegation levelled against him was baseless politically motivated. He said the land was dedicated for the well-being of abandoned bovine and not for commercial purposes. “If anyone wants to know the purpose, he may visit the site to see the work being done here,” he said.Putting a question mark on allegations of his political rivals, Sidhu said, “Have we made any mistake to construct a ‘gaushala’? I made a commitment to the people of Mohali that I will make this city stray animal-free so that road mishaps can be prevented and precious lives can be saved.” He said the land was lying unused and being encroached upon by people but now, the panchayat was getting income from lease deeds.Anurag Aggarwal, trustee of the society, said to date, more than Rs 1 crore had been invested to construct the cowshed. The money had been donated by trustees or raised from people through voluntary donations.Meanwhile, former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh today urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to immediately order a CBI probe into the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-refutes-land-grab-charges-294145
07-08-2021||Moga||Sukhbir Badal making false promises, says Congress leader Dr Malti Thapar||Former minister and senior Congress leader Dr Malti Thapar has accused SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal of making false promises to people in the run-up to the Assembly elections.She claimed, “Sukhbir is trying to fool the people of Punjab to get votes and grab power.” Alleging that the Akalis used public money for vested political interests, she said, “Punjab has a total debt of Rs 3-lakh crore and under this situation how can Sukhbir give 400 units of power free to the domestic consumers?”She claimed that the Congress government was committed to raising the state revenue and pass on benefits to the people.“We are committed to cancelling the agreements of power purchase made by the previous SAD-BJP government with private companies, which will automatically pave the way for cheaper power,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-making-false-promises-says-congress-leader-dr-malti-thapar-294146
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will act against corrupt legislators if elected: AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema||Senior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema today alleged that Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu was colluding with ministers and MLAs who have been accused by people of running a mafia. He said if the AAP government came to power, legal action would be taken against ministers and MLAs who had looted the exchequer of the state.Addressing the media here, Cheema claimed Sidhu had double standards. He alleged first Sidhu talked about eradicating the sand, liquor, transport, land and other mafias, but was now meeting the MLAs and ministers who were accused of having links with mafias.The Leader of Opposition further alleged at the time of deaths due to illicit liquor in the Majha region, Sidhu used to talk of providing justice to the victims but ever since he was elevated to the PCC president’s post, he had gone silent on the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-act-against-corrupt-legislators-if-elected-aap-leader-harpal-singh-cheema-294147
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice on plea for opening sealed reports in drugs case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the Union of India and others on notice on an application praying that the Bench “may open” a report lying in a sealed cover in the drugs case.The application was placed before the Special Division Bench of Justices Rajan Gupta and Ajay Tewari by advocate Navkiran Singh on the behalf of Lawyers for Human Rights International.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, Navkiran Singh contended the matter relates to drug mafia operating in Punjab and was having international tentacles. It was required to be dealt with on an urgent basis as it affected the lives of the youth.“The sealed reports, which have been filed by Niranjan Singh, (the then) Deputy Director, Enforcement Directorate, and the Special Task Force, as well as the State of Punjab, need to be opened and considered by this court,” Navkiran submitted. The application also referred to “allegations against MLA Bikramjit Singh Majithia.”The Bench also issued notice on another application seeking status reports from the Union of India through the Ministry of External Affairs, regarding the status of pending request for the extradition of 13 of the fugitives involved in international drug mafia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-on-plea-for-opening-sealed-reports-in-drugs-case-294148
07-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pathankot all set to become silk farming hub||Tribune News ServicePathankot, August 6Dhar block of this district is all set to become a sericulture hub with the Forest Department and the Central Silk Board (CSB) joining hands to initiate a project wherein forest officials have earmarked five villages where silk farming will commence in a big way.Sericulture is an agro-based cottage industry that rears silkworms for silk manufacturing. The process of sericulture involves cultivation of mulberry trees as a feed to caterpillars.Sanjeev Tiwari, Conservator (North circle), Hoshiarpur, under whose ambit the project falls, said the total cost came to around Rs 3.6 crore. The venture got the green signal from the CSB, Bengaluru, Ministry of Textile, on July 26."As many as 37,500 saplings of mulberry will be planted in the villages of Durang Khad, Phangtoli, Bhadan, Jungath and Bhabhar of Dhar block. This will infuse new life into silk farming. Earlier what proved to be a hindrance in silk cultivation was the poor quality of the mulberry leaf. Now this will no longer be the case," said Tiwari.VB Kumar, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Punjab, said this was a pilot project. "We intend to bring under mulberry cultivation vast areas of Northern India where forest land will be integrated with sericulture activities. This will also pave the way for farmers to have an additional income. In Dhar, we will create village forest committees. These will work in tandem with self-help groups. We are also working on bringing in digital technology into sericulture," he said.Farmers claimed this type of farming would help them diversify from the wheat-paddy cycle. "In India, the love for silk fabric is eternal. Right from ancient times, and even in the future, we need to acknowledge the fact that silk manufacturing is a flourishing business. This, in effect, means growing of mulberry trees, too, is a profitable business as it is the primary condition for producing silk," Dinesh Singh, a Dhar based agriculturist.Tiwari maintained that due to technological advancements, sericulture can also be carried out as a large-scale business activity. "Silk production has increased employment opportunities among women. The gestation period is low but profits are on the higher side. Once the Dhar project starts working, we will expand it to other areas as well," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathankot-all-set-to-become-silk-farming-hub-294149
07-08-2021||---||Two kidnappers nabbed, Mansa worker rescued in 12 hrs||Tribune News ServiceMansa, August 6The police have rescued an abducted worker and arrested the accused within 12 hours of the incident in the Budhlada area of Mansa district. The accused have been identified as Jiwan Singh of Abohar and Kuldeep Singh of Bathinda. The police have seized a 12-bore pistol with two rounds, a toy pistol, Rs 10,000 cash and a car from the accused.Mansa SSP Dr Narinder Bhargav said, “Kunal Jalan of Budhlada had lodged a complaint that some unidentified men entered his shop and demanded Rs 1 lakh from him by pointing a gun at him.”When Jalan told them he did not have the money, they abducted his worker Bhola Singh at gunpoint. Later, they called him and demanded the money for setting Bhola Singh free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-kidnappers-nabbed-mansa-worker-rescued-in-12-hrs-294150
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cane growers get Rs 45-cr dues||An amount of Rs 45 crore pending dues towards sugarcane growers for 2020-21 has been released by the cooperative sugar mills.Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the amount would be credited into the accounts of the growers on Friday itself. He further said the state government had released the said amount at its own level despite the Union Government still not releasing the export subsidy for 2019-20 and buffer stock subsidy worth Rs 10.56 crore of the cooperative sugar mills. Regular contact is being maintained with the Union Government to ensure its early release so as to enable the state government to release the entire pending amount, he said.A budgetary outlay of Rs 300 crore has been made in the 2021-22 Budget for complete payment of the balance amount, said Randhawa.He said the state government was undertaking necessary steps to increase the income of cane growers and the cooperative sugar mills would provide 20 lakh high-yield variety seeds (prepared with the assistance of the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, and the Karnal centre of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research) to the growers before the sowing seasonof September-October.Work on Rs 30 crore bio-CNG project at Batala Cooperative Sugar Mill also commenced today, whereas a similar project at the Bhogpur Cooperative Sugar Mill would begin this month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cane-growers-get-rs-45-cr-dues-294151
07-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Why no decision against Patiala's judicial officer for misconduct||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6Hemant Gopal, Additional District and Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge, CBI, Patiala, has been “found guilty of grave misconduct” by an inquiry officer-cum-District and Sessions Judge, Panchkula. Yet, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has allegedly not taken a final decision in the matter, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan’s Bench was today told.Taking up the matter, Justice Sangwan asked the Registrar-General to file a status report. He has been asked to explain why final decision has not been taken against the judicial officer on the basis of the inquiry report. The direction came after senior advocate SK Garg Narwana told Justice Sangwan’s Bench on behalf of a convict that Gopal was found guilty vide an inquiry report dated March 31, 2018. Despite a lapse of three years, the High Court had not taken a final decision on the inquiry pending against him.Justice Sangwan was hearing the second application filed by Mangat Rai for staying the operation of judgment of conviction dated April 20, 2013. Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, Narwana submitted that the first application was dismissed on October 22, 2013. But the applicant-appellant moved the present application due to changed circumstances.Elaborating, Narwana submitted Gopal had passed the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence in the applicant’s matter. Under suspension with headquarters at Faridkot, the officer was found guilty on Rai’s complaintNarwana also referred to another inquiry, vide which Sushil Kumar, law officer, Department of Legal and Legislative Affairs, was also chargesheeted as “a conduit, who facilitated the payment of illegal gratification”. He was found guilty in a departmental inquiry and stood dismissed from service. Narwana added it was an established fact that Gopal had accepted illegal gratification of Rs 40 lakh from co-accused Parminder through Sushil Kumar and demanded Rs 1 crore from the present applicant-appellant and others. “Parminder Singh was acquitted because he paid gratification of Rs 40 lakh, whereas the applicant-appellant and other accused were convicted as they did not pay any amount to him”.Before parting, Justice Sangwan issued notice on the application, which was accepted on CBI’s behalf by advocate Shubhra Singh. “In the meantime, the Registrar-General of this court is directed to submit a status report as to why no final decision has been taken against the said officer on the basis of the inquiry report dated March 31, 2018,” Justice Sangwan concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-why-no-decision-against-patialas-judicial-officer-for-misconduct-294152
07-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||Recovery pending, scam accused Punjabi University staffer seeks retirement||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 6An employee working with Punjabi University, Patiala, who has been named along with three others in a report of the Vigilance Department for recovery of Rs 2 crore in an alleged scam committed on the campus years ago, has sought voluntary retirement. University officials on Friday said the request had not yet been approved. Interestingly, sources said he was set to fly abroad, but the administration was unaware of it.Registrar Prof Varinder Kaushik said, “The employee has submitted an application for voluntary retirement from service.” Asked whether the university would accept it pending the recovery, he said the university would follow the rule of law and conduct a proper screening of his record.Meanwhile, the university is yet to apportion the recovery amount among those named in the report. Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind had on Monday said the university was yet to decide upon division of the amount. He said, “One of those named in the report has died. We have sought legal advice on how to deal with the situation. We have also demanded advice on division of the amount among other employees.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recovery-pending-scam-accused-punjabi-university-staffer-seeks-retirement-294153
07-08-2021||Patiala||Sack Punjab Forest Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over scholarship scam: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders held a protest and accused Forest Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot of SC/ST post-matric scholarship scam in Nabha here today. They said the minister should be removed from the post.Party state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat said: “The minister with his involvement in the scholarship scam has ruined the future of many students, but the Chief Minister is not taking any action against him.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sack-punjab-forest-minister-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-over-scholarship-scam-aap-294154
07-08-2021||Bathinda||Anganwari workers to gherao Punjab ministers’ homes||After a meeting between state representatives of the All-Punjab Anganwari Workers’ Union and Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary remained “inconclusive” on Thursday, the former announced to gherao residences of state ministers in the coming days.The meeting was also attended by PCC working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and director of the department Vipul Ujjwal. The union members have been demanding regularisation, increased honorarium and nursery schoolteacher status, among other demands.Union president Hargobind Kaur said: “We have decided to gherao Congress ministers’ residences from August 7 onwards. We will also stage a dharna outside their residences and observe hunger strikes.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anganwari-workers-to-gherao-punjab-ministers-homes-294155
07-08-2021||Amritsar||Allow easy access to Nankana Sahib: SGPC||The SGPC has demanded that along with opening the corridor of Gurdwara Sri Kartarpur Sahib, the Governments of India and Pakistan should also discuss identical provision for devotees intending to visit Gurdwara Sri Nankana Sahib, the birth place of Guru Nanak.Addressing a press conference, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said since the Covid-19 restrictions had been curtailed, the Kartarpur corridor should be made operational in some way.“On the pattern of the Kartarpur corridor, India and Pakistan should frame a policy under which the devotees be allowed one-day access to pay obeisance at Sri Nankana Sahib and return the same day,” she said. She also condemned the alleged removal of Nishan Sahib from a gurdwara by the Taliban in Afghanistan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-easy-access-to-nankana-sahib-sgpc-294156
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||2,900 projects attract Rs 91K cr investment in Punjab||The Punjab Government has fetched investments worth Rs 91,000 crore in over 2,900 project proposals received during the past four years. Nearly 50 per cent of the projects have already begun commercial production in different parts of the state.During a meeting with a delegation of JK Paper Ltd, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said a hi-tech valley in Ludhiana had already attracted prominent industry players. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-900-projects-attract-rs-91k-cr-investment-in-punjab-294157
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD team to visit MP over problems faced by Sikligars community||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today deputed a five-member party delegation to visit Madhya Pradesh to assist the Sikligar community which is claiming it is being unduly harassed and victimised by the MP Police, forcing them to leave their homes and take shelter in forests.He said Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa would head the delegation which would meet Sikligars. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-team-to-visit-mp-over-problems-faced-by-sikligars-community-294158
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Marginal, landless farmers to get proprietary rights||Former CM Bhattal’s term in planning board extendedChandigarh: CM Capt Amarinder Singh has extended the term of the veteran Congress leader and former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal as vice-chairperson of the State Planning Board for another three years. Her term ended in July. She would continue to get the entitlement of government accommodation and other benefits entitled to a Cabinet-rank minister. TNS17-yr-old murdered in MogaMoga: A 17-year-old boy was allegedly murdered while trying to save his aunt, who was being thrashed by three youths, at Mangewala village here. Prabhjit Singh was taken to DMCH, Ludhiana, where he succumbed to injuries. TNSWoman, paramour get life termAbohar: The court of Additional District Session Judge at Sriganganagar has sentenced a woman and her paramour to life imprisonment for strangling her husband to death and attempting to damage evidence. The police said Nanak Singh’s body was fished out from a reservoir and the role of Mamta, wife of the deceased, came under suspicion during the probe. OCActivists stopped near shrineAmritsar: For the third day in a row, an 11-member jatha of the Sikh Sadbhavana Dal was prevented access to the Golden Temple complex by the police. Activists of the organisation staged a sit-in on the Heritage Street leading to the shrine in protest. The activists demanded stopping of the work of ‘new jora ghar’ project. TNSNab culprits: Army man’s kinMuktsar: The kin of an Army jawan from Tharajwaala village, who was allegedly killed by one of his friends near Gidderbaha town, on Friday blocked the Malout-Bathinda national highway, demanding police action against the culprits. TNS16 challans under dengue driveMoga: As suspected cases of dengue continue to arrive at various hospitals, the department has constituted a team to conduct a survey. As many as 2,030 places have been checked and dengue larva was found at 179 places. The team has issued 16 challans. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/marginal-landless-farmers-to-get-proprietary-rights-294160
07-08-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court issues notice to Punjab||Chandigarh, August 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to the state of Punjab on a petition seeking directions to hold an inquiry into the role and conduct of the school authorities, allegedly leading to the murder of a resident student of a “meritorious school of Punjab”.Petitioner Tarsem Singh, through senior advocate RS Bains with advocate Loveneet Thakur, contended this was not the only incident of death of a meritorious student in a residential accommodation. Directions were also sought for setting up a committee to inquire into the causes and suggesting remedies to prevent such incidents at meritorious schools.The Bench was told 10 meritorious schools were set up in 2014 under a government project to make quality education available to bright students scoring 80 per cent and above. The aim of these schools was to address financial issues of meritorious students. Intelligent students from the weaker section were provided accommodation, education, food and other facilities free of cost.The petitioner’s son secured admission to senior secondary residential meritorious school in Mohali. In March 2020, he died under mysterious circumstances. It was told by the school administration that he had committed suicide. When the petitioner reached the hospital and saw the body, he found injuries.It was found during the investigation that two classmates were bullying him. They physically assaulted the victim. When he fell unconscious, they made it look like a case of suicide. The body was located by a student. But the school administration did not immediately take him to a hospital. Rather, they took him to an ordinary medical store from where he was again brought back to the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-issues-notice-to-punjab-294060
07-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Navjot Singh Sidhu visits Doaba deras ahead of polls||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 6Punjab Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today visited Dera Sachkhand Ballan and Dera Baba Jaura, both with a sizeable following among the Dalits. Accompanied by ministers Charanjit Singh Channi and Aruna Chaudhary, among others, Sidhu paid obeisance at the two deras ahead of the Assembly polls.At Dera Ballan, he met Sant Niranjan Dass and sought his blessings to create a "new Punjab". Channi sought 101 acres of land for the dera. The issue of due representation to the Dalit community in the civil administration and the police was discussed too. At Dera Baba Jaura, the Congress team met Sant Nirmal Dass. As Dalits comprise 32% of Punjab's population, leaders of almost all parties make it a point to meet the dera heads prior to the elections to enlist their support. Sidhu's dera visit today is significant as both the BJP and the SAD have announced top Cabinet positions for Dalits.Also read: Farmers protest against new PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu at Ballan village||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-visits-doaba-deras-ahead-of-polls-294162
07-08-2021||---||India condemns removal of Nishan Sahib from Gurdwara Thala Sahib in Afghanistan||New Delhi, August 6India has condemned the forcible removal of Nishan Sahib atop the roof of historic Gurdwara Thala Sahib in Afghanistan’s Paktia province and hoped that “Afghanistan’s future must be one where interest of all sections of Afghan society, including minorities and women, are protected.’’Charan Singh, a local resident, confirmed the flag removal incident. He claimed Taliban commanders had initially threatened the caretaker and later forced him to take it down from its rightful place.The armed men, he said, forced the caretaker to remove the Nishan Sahib from its assigned place and tied it to a tree so that it cannot be viewed as a distinct symbol from afar.The gurdwara, located in Chamkani area of Paktia, was once visited by Guru Nanak.It has Guru Sahib’s Prakash and is maintained by a dozen Sikhs families that remain in the region.The gurdwara was in the news in July 2020 when Nidan Singh Sachdeva, a leader of the Hindu and Sikh community in Afghanistan was abducted from the gurdwara. The wider region called “Loya Paktia” has been a Mujahideen and then a Taliban\Haqqani Group stronghold since the early 1980s. India had then blamed the Haqqani Group and the Lashkar-e-Toiba for the massacre.Sachdeva’s kidnapping had followed a massacre of 30 Sikhs in Gurudwara Guru Har Rai in Kabul in May last year. At that time, India had offered all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh community of Afghanistan.The frequent targeting of the Sikh community has seen the one-lakh-strong Sikh and Hindu communities reduced to just a few thousands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-condemns-removal-of-nishan-sahib-from-gurdwara-thala-sahib-in-afghanistan-293962
07-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Honey Singh's wife Shalini's cryptic posts on 'domestic, emotional' abuse go viral||Rapper and music composer Yo Yo Honey Singh's wife Shalini has recently filed a domestic violence case against him. The two got married in 2011, but it was only in 2014 that they made their marital status official. In her complaint, Shalini accused Honey of 'beating her mercilessly, and being subjected to cruelty like a farm animal'. She has sought a Rs 10 crore compensation from Honey, and Rs 5 lakh as rent to be paid every month for her fully furnished home in Delhi.  However, days before this controversy, Shalini had been sharing Instagram posts that indicated that she was not well in her paradise with Honey. Several social media users questioned the reason behind these cryptic posts. They also enquired about her relationship with Honey. "No matter which category of society we belong. rich or poor educated or uneducated .whether you are famous or not the plight of a women is the same in the face of atrocities. #harshreality #narcrssesticabuse," read one of the post's captions, alongside, she shared a photo of a woman crying.The text on her post could loosely be translated to, "a woman is sanskari till the time she bears with things. She becomes ill-mattered when she starts to speak". She also shared a post on emotional abuse and how it can demolish someones' identity. She called emotional abuse the abuse of one's psychological and emotional self. In her caption, she used hashtags like #reality #cruelty. Check out the post: In another post, she had shared, "never excuse someone's blatant lying. It only proves their lack of character, integrity, deceitfulness, and evil mindset" and she called this one of the lessons learned in life. The 'Brown Rang' singer is yet to make an official statement on this subject matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/honey-singhs-wife-shalinis-cryptic-posts-on-domestic-emotional-abuse-go-viral-293847
