08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 56 new cases in Punjab||Three more Covid-related fatalities were reported in Punjab which took the death toll to 16,316 on Sunday, while 56 new cases pushed the infection tally to 5,99,482, according to a medical bulletin. The three deaths were reported from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran, it said, adding the number of active cases stands at 456.Of the new cases, Mohali reported 11, followed by seven each in Bathinda and Jalandhar and six in Ludhiana, according to the bulletin.With 56 recoveries, the number of those cured of the infection reached 5,82,710, the bulletin said.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-56-new-cases-in-punjab-294892
08-08-2021||Amritsar||One arrested in notorious gangster Rana Kandowalia's murder case||Days after the sensational killing of notorious gangster Ranbir Singh, also known as Rana Kandowalia, at private hospital premises, the city police on Sunday made their first arrest.Nanit Sharma, also known as Saurav—a resident of Shakarpura village located on Dera Baba Nanak Road in Batala—was arrested for allegedly sheltering the perpetrators, and making arrangements for the treatment of an injured accused Sharma.With his arrest, the police had identified all the suspects, barring a Haryanavi speaking youth.His interrogation revealed, that besides Haryanvi-speaking youth, Jagroshan Hundal of Tarn Taran and Mani Rayya, Mandeep Singh also known as Toofan of Batala and Happy Shah, also known as Sharma, had allegedly committed the murder of Rana Kandowalia.The police have also nominated six persons for sheltering and harbouring them.Besides Nanit, others were Laddi Dairy wala, Sukhraj Malli, Jagtar Singh, Prabhjot Chatha and Lalli Dairy wala, all residents of Batala.“They were booked under section 212, 216 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code,” said Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Investigations.Nanit was being produced in the court and the police have sought his police remand for further interrogation.His preliminary interrogation revealed that he and Sukhraj Malli were old friends of Mandeep Toofan who worked for notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria.He said, though he was on the run for the past four years, they were in contact with him. He said Mandeep his accomplice Jagroshan Hundal and Mani Rayya used to meet at his fruit shop.He said on Tuesday evening he got a call from Toofan that they had killed Rana Kandowalia, but one of his accomplices Happy Shah was also injured in the retaliatory fire. He asked him and Sukhraj to make arrangements for his treatment.He said Malli called Laddi Dairywala, Prabhjot Chatha and Jagtar Singh who were known to of Mandeep Toofan for this.He said they later met them at Batala bypass. Happy Shah and Jagroshan Hundal sat with Prabhjot while Mandeep sat in the car with Nanit and Sukhraj Malli.The Haryanvi boy and Laddi Dairywala and Jagtar Singh took their Creta car to some undisclosed place. He said they took injured Happy Shah to a private hospital for treatment. Later, they helped him safely going out of the city.Bhullar said they were also contemplating action against the hospital authorities, which failed to inform the police before treating the injured gangster.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-arrested-in-notorious-gangster-rana-kandowalias-murder-case-294837
08-08-2021||---||Rana Kandowalia & Satnam Singh Sattu murder: Police find a link||Amritsar, August 7Adding a twist to the brutal murder of notorious gangster Ranbir Singh alias Rana Kandowalia, the Punjab Police have found close links in a case related to the murder of a property dealer Satnam Singh alias Sattu, who was gunned down by bike-borne persons on July 30, in Fatehgarh Churian. The duo was killed by the same group.Gang war in districtSattu, a close ally of Kandowalia, was sitting in his SUV when he was shot dead. The Batala police had booked unknown persons at that time and later nominated Mandeep Singh alias Toofan in the case.It was Toofan along with Jagroshan Hundal and Mani Rayya, who had killed Kandowalia on August 4 at a private hospital.A police official, privy to the investigations confirmed that both the murders could be connected. It has been learnt that following Sattu’s murder, the accused hid in Rajasansi and conducted a recee of Kandowalia. A car with sticker of an advocate was reportedly used for this purpose.The sources said Kandowalia had information about the attack on Sattu and he had even attended his cremation as well.Rayya was injured in retaliatory firing by Tejbir Singh, an associate of Kandowalia. Tejbir was also injured in the attack.The police have learnt that Rayya was treated at a private hospital located on Batala-Jalandhar link road. Rayya had suffered two bullet injuries. It’s learnt Jaggu Bhagwanpuria financed his treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rana-kandowalia-satnam-singh-sattu-murder-police-find-a-link-294759
08-08-2021||---||Amritsar: Weavers of durries, khes wait for biz to pick up||Amritsar, August 7Manjit Kaur, 40, had been weaving durries all her life, learning the art from her mother. Little did she know that she could earn a living by making these colorful, beautiful traditional dosuti looms that have been a part of Punjab’s textile heritage.‘Need to save the inherent craftsmanship’“I used to make traditional khes and durries during weddings in the village and make a few for my family. But six years ago, I joined the training workshop programme of Cocoon Foundation, through which I started earning for myself by making durries,” she shared. Just like Manjit, Sarbjit Kaur along with other women in her village in Sangrur, joined the initiative by Cocoon Foundation to revive and rehabilitate the weavers and traditional handloom artisans. The foundation has been running several empowerment initiatives for local artisans and weavers across the country to enable them to make a livelihood.Khes is traditional loom made in geometrical pattern, using colourful thread on a pit loom. From the famous majnu khes popular in the pre-Partition era to the modern weaves, the khes has been part of bridal trousseau for generations. Similarly, durries or woven rugs have been part of every rural household in Punjab. Earlier, every household in the village used to have a panja loom to weave durries.Resurgence of these handlooms ensure that the village economy stays afloat. Manjit and many women in her village have made the journey towards self-reliance through selling these traditional weaves. She said she used to earn enough to give good education and manage household before the outbreak of the pandemic two years ago, which wreaked havoc on their livelihood.“I used to get orders of 10 durries, sometimes, even more. They sell at Rs 300 per piece to even Rs 10,000 for intricate and elaborate designs that take a month to weave. The demand was good and income consistent before the arrival of Covid-19. With no orders coming in and work still on at a very slow pace, it will take a lot of time to pick up the business like before,” she said. Her husband is a daily wager.Harsharan Singh, a weaver for the past 45 years, from Chherherta, too said the pandemic hit on the livelihood of weavers and the handloom industry hard. “There has always been huge demand for traditional Punjabi handlooms, especially in overseas market. I run my own loom, where I train women and youth in traditional crafts like durries, phulkari, etc. There is dearth of orders and we used to export 60 per cent of our products. But with the pandemic, 50 per cent of business has been affected.”Hailing from a family of weavers, Harsharan said he had trained around 350-400 women and village youth in traditional weaves. “I also upgraded by looms from manually-operated to power looms. We have been working in association with different government agencies to market our products. We hope that international demand picks up soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-weavers-of-durries-khes-wait-for-biz-to-pick-up-294762
08-08-2021||New Delhi||Nishan Sahib restored at Gurdwara Thala Sahib in Afghanistan: Activists||The outcry and condemnation led to the Taliban restoring the Nishan Sahib on the roof of the Gurdwara Thala Sahib in Paktia, which its local commanders had got removed a day earlier, according to reports quoting Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum.Chandhok said he was informed by the local caretaker Rahman Chamkani that the Nishan Sahib had been restored “with its proper dignity” on the roof of the gurdwara on Friday night, said the reports. Taliban officials, including their commanders, visited Thala Sahib on Friday evening “and conveyed their assent for functioning of the gurdwara as per its customs and also directed that the Nishan Sahib be restored immediately in their presence”, he said.“We appreciate the efforts of the Government of India and the international community for ensuring that the rights of minorities are well protected,” said Chandhok. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nishan-sahib-restored-at-gurdwara-thala-sahib-in-afghanistan-activists-294556
08-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Woman killed in Amloh mishap||Spl chance sought for transferSangrur: Members of the Sanyukt Adhyak Front Punjab have written to the Education Department demanding a special chance for transfer of teachers. “The government should give a special chance for transfer to teachers who have been posted 200 to 250 km from their homes for the past over five years,” said Data Singh, district press secretary. TNSWarm welcome for KamalpreetMuktsar: Olympian Kamalpreet Kaur, who hails from Kabarwala village, got a warm welcome on reaching her home district Muktsar on Saturday. DC MK Aravind Kumar announced her as district brand ambassador of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ campaign. TNS24 financiers bookedAbohar: The police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against 24 private financiers on the statement of Amardeep Singh, husband of Anganwari worker Gurpreet Kaur (40), who ended her life by consuming poison on Friday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-killed-in-amloh-mishap-294504
08-08-2021||Amritsar||Will stop SGPC project at Golden Temple Complex: Sikh Sadbhawna Dal||An 11-member jatha of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal, led by Capt Joginder Singh, was stopped by police personnel from reaching near the under-construction site for the new ‘joda ghar’ and two-wheeler parking stand at Golden Temple Complex on Saturday.The protesters are demanding a halt to all kinds of construction work near the site where the basement of an 18th century heritage building was discovered a couple of weeks ago.Dal president Baldev Singh Wadala said the ultimatum to the district administration ended today. Accusing the district administration of ignoring their pleas, he announced that the agitation would be intensified from tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-stop-sgpc-project-at-golden-temple-complex-sikh-sadbhawna-dal-294505
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab tops index for sustainable cities||Punjab has ranked number one among the states in the country in sustainable development goals (SDGs) India index-2020-21 for sustainable cities and communities, besides making into the frontrunner list with a score of 68.This was disclosed by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, after reviewing department-wise progress of the state as per the SDGs India index-2020-21, here on Thursday.Chairing a meeting with the administrative secretaries of implementing departments, the Chief Secretary said there were 22 indicators where the performance of the state/index score was 100. These included major indicators such as percentage of individual household toilets constructed against target (SBM-G), pupil-teacher ratio at secondary level (Class IX-X), percentage of households electrified, districts verified to be ODF (SBM-G) and individual household toilets constructed against targets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-tops-index-for-sustainable-cities-294486
08-08-2021||Archit Watts||Vikramjit Singh developed political links in short span||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 7Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky Middukhera, alias Bikra, who was shot in Mohali today, had cultivated political links within a short span in Punjab, Haryana and other neighbouring states. He once had close links with gangsters Lawrence Bishnoi and Shera Khubban.Vicky Middukhera’s friendCarried weaponI saw the CCTV footage of the incident. Vicky was not carrying his licensed weapon on him. He usually never forgot to carry his weapon even to the washroom. Having passion for politics even during his school days in Chandigarh, Middukhera was known for getting students’ issues resolved promptly. However, he was also involved in occasional brawls.During his college days, he joined the Student Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), before becoming its president.He later joined SAD’s student wing Student Organisation of India (SOI). Considering his popularity, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal elevated him to the post of SOI’s Chandigarh unit president. During the last SAD-BJP government, Middukhera was appointed director of the Youth Development Board.Middukhera remained close to key politicians of Punjab, Haryana and other states. Besides, some Punjabi singers were his close friends.He had actively campaigned for SAD candidates in the Assembly and parliamentary elections. During Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s Lok Sabha election from Bathinda in 2019, Middukhera held the charge of the youth brigade.His father Gurdial Singh is a former sarpanch of Middukhera village in Lambi Assembly segment here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vikramjit-singh-developed-political-links-in-short-span-294476
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Gangsters having free run, no one safe in Punjab, says SAD||The SAD today condemned the murder of former Student Organisation of India (SOI) president Vicky Middukhera alleging it was the result of a free run being given to gangsters by the Congress government.Harpal Cheema, AAP LeaderState govt in deep slumberIt’s not the first murder. Earlier, many innocents were killed, but the government remained in deep slumber. The party demanded an independent probe into the killing to unmask the conspiracy. In a statement, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said the Mohali shooting, close to the state capital, proved no one was safe in Punjab.“The law and situation has deteriorated to the extent that kidnappings, extortions and shootings have become commonplace. The government has become powerless as gangsters are operating at will.”Majithia said the SAD had raised the issue of patronage to gangsters in jails. “We exposed how gangsters were treated as VVIPs in jails. Everyone knows the manner in which UP don Mukhtar Ansari was provided shelter in a Punjab jail.”Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Romana also condemned the killing.Meanwhile, former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra on Saturday visited the residence of Vicky Middukhera and expressed condolences with the bereaved family. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangsters-having-free-run-no-one-safe-in-punjab-says-sad-294477
08-08-2021||Ajay Joshi & Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar-made hockey sticks behind India’s Tokyo magic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 7As men and women hockey squads created history with their sterling performances at the Tokyo Olympics, two Jalandhar-based firms were key to their success as the players wielded hockey sticks manufactured by these.Sanjay Kohli, Owner of Rakshak SportsIn business for 41 yearsIt’s been 41 years since my company at Wariana Industrial Complex has been making hockey sticks. We also sponsor players.Sanjay Kohli (56), owner of Rakshak Sports, is the man behind the powerful weapons of the leading players of the women’s contingent. It’s been over 10 years since the captain of women’s team, Rani Rampal, is relying on ‘Rakshak’ hockey sticks to deliver her best performances in the game.Nitin Jain, Owner of Pooja Enterprises Proud association with teamFeels so proud to be associated with the team. I’ve known Mandeep since he was 10 years old. There was always something special about these kids.In the Tokyo Olympics, Niki Pradhan and Sharmila Rani also preferred to defeat their opponents with the hockey sticks made in Jalandhar. “It’s been 41 years since my company at Wariana Industrial Complex has been manufacturing hockey sticks. With an aspiration to see women hockey players on the top of their game, we also sponsored players in the 1982 Asian games, followed by 1992 Barcelona Olympics. While my daughter Aakansha Kohli (30) now gives special attention to women players, son Sarthak Kohli (25) ensures the best hockey sticks are supplied to the men’s team,” Kohli said.Aakansha says before leaving for the Olympics, Rani Rampal had specially asked her to engrave a map of India on her hockey stick. She wanted to come back with a medal. A composite hockey stick used by any player takes 14-15 days to get ready.The suave poster in which Indian Hockey team captain Manpreet Singh is seen screaming into the void with a Hockey stick in hand has become an iconic image of our times. The Alfa hockey stick which Manpreet and 16 other players of the Tokyo Olympics’ men’s and women’s squad are seen carrying comes from a Jalandhar-based firm.Nitin and Jatin Mahajan, owners of Pooja Enterprises and manufacturers of the Alfa hockey sticks, are beaming with happiness.In the gloom brought by Covid, the bronze medal win of the Indian men’s team after 41 years has acted as a fillip for the local hockey industry. There is much to celebrate at the Basti Nau manufacturing unit of the firm.The firm’s office proudly displays a hockey stick signed by all women team members. Priced between Rs 1,000 and 28,000, the firm’s sticks in neon, white and gold adorn countless Olympic posters and photos.Launched in 1963 by Sukhdev Raj Mahajan under the name Sukhdev Impex Pvt Ltd, the firm changed its name to Pooja Enterprises in 1991. The company provides sticks to various Indian states as well as Europe and sponsors 80 Indian players across national teams and academies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-made-hockey-sticks-behind-indias-tokyo-magic-294481
08-08-2021||---||Crop infected with parawilt in Mansa||Mansa, August 7Cotton crop in the Malwa belt has been attacked by parasitic diseases in some places. A sudden change in temperature after rains is believed to have caused parawilt disease in crops in many villages of Mansa district.The disease is caused due to rains when the temperature is high. As per agricultural experts, parawilt is also caused when the crop is sown in saline water. Cotton crops in villages like Jatana Kalan, Naharan, Karandi, Khaira Khurd, Khaira Kalan, Jhanda Khurd, Jhanda Kalan in Mansa district have shown signs of parawilt.The Agriculture Department has asked farmers not to panic over the attack as it could be controlled by spraying insecticides which are distributed free of cost by the government.Mansa Chief Agriculture Officer Manjeet Singh said teams of agronomists had been sent to survey the farms after incidents of the attack came to light. He appealed to cotton growers to survey the crop every day and if any cotton leaves were seen withering, they should realise that the crop was in the grip of parawilt.All block officers of the department have been asked to distribute parawilt medicine free of cost to farmers. An official said one gram of the drug should be dissolved in 100-litre water and sprayed on weedy plants. He said one spray of cobalt chloride was considered sufficient for the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-infected-with-parawilt-in-mansa-294480
08-08-2021||Sameer Singh||Farmers oppose land record upload order in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceMansa, August 7Farmer unions have taken objection to state government’s directions to market committees to ensure land record (‘fard’) details of all farmers be uploaded on the portal before the paddy procurement season begins in October this year.Baldev Singh Sandoha, BKU Ekta Sidhupur ChiefRevoke or face stirThe Revenue Department and mandi board already have required details. It is nothing but a way to pester farmers. If not revoked, we will launch a stir at the district level. Condemning the decision, union leaders said the state government was towing Centre’s line and imposing decisions on farmers, which would have “repercussions” in the Assembly elections. In a letter issued by the Punjab Mandi Board, it has directed all market committee heads to initiate the process for compliance of the order.Ram Singh Bhaini Bhagha, BKU Ekta Ugrahan Mansa unit president, said: “We oppose this dictatorial order. By asking for ‘fard’ details of farmers, the government is walking the same path of corporate-favouring Centre. Instead of encouraging farmer and cultivators — those who sow crop by taking land on lease to grow and sell their produce as per their convenience — the government wants to harass them by such orders which would barely serve any purpose.”As per the Centre’s mandate to integrate the land record details with crop procurement before the start of the paddy procurement season, the state government has directed the Revenue Department and Punjab Mandi Board to expedite the process apparently to avoid disruptions during the season.“There are two possibilities that the government is seeking out by imposing such an order. First, it wants to reduce its share of procurement of produce by government-authorised agencies on the MSP and thereby giving a free hand to private players, and second, it wants to bring farmers leasing out their land for tilling under the tax ambit,” said Baldev Singh Sandoha, BKU Ekta Sidhupur president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-oppose-land-record-upload-order-in-punjab-294487
08-08-2021||---||Mohali court rejects ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s bail plea in corruption case||Mohali, August 7A special court in Mohali has rejected former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s anticipatory bail application in a corruption case filed against him by the Vigilance Bureau.Additional District and Sessions Judge Parminder Singh Grewal, while rejecting Saini’s plea, said the case was registered after a detailed inquiry conducted by the VB on the complaint of the Vigilance Joint Director and was based on certain documents.The court has observed that Saini had asserted in his petition that he was not known to Nimratdeep Singh and his father and had met them during the signing of the rent agreement and the agreement to sell. However, Saini’s own accounts show that he had already paid Rs 45 lakh to Nimratdeep and his father much before signing the rent deed. Then money in crores was paid before signing the agreement to sell and even, thereafter, without any receipt. Non deduction of TDS on payments made by Saini lent credence to the case of the vigilance that the documents had been framed as a cover-up.Saini had filed the bail plea through his counsels HS Dhanoya and APS Deol on Thursday. Saini is among seven persons booked by the VB under Sections 109, 120-B of the IPC and 13(1) (B) and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act recently. Saini is accused of helping Punjab XEN Nimratdeep Singh in amassing assets much beyond his known sources of income. The Vigilance team had also raided Saini’s residence in Sector 20 here to arrest him and it continued searching his house for several hours.APS Deol argued that the case was the outcome of political vendetta and in line with the three earlier cases registered against Saini. He further asserted that it was a case of his having first taken house no 3048, Sector 20-D, Chandigarh, on rent and then having entered into an agreement to purchase the same with the owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-court-rejects-ex-dgp-sumedh-singh-sainis-bail-plea-in-corruption-case-294483
08-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||File affidavits on pending bank fraud cases, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells DGPs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The Punjab and Haryana HC has asked Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh DGPs to file affidavits on the number of bank fraud cases pending investigation as on June 30. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi has also asked for a year-wise break-up.Justice Tyagi called for number of bank fraud cases in which the accused were acquitted or convicted by the trial court during the past 10 years. The DGPs were also asked to specify whether any study was conducted by state-established committees on the reasons for acquittal and whether remedial measures had been suggested. Justice Tyagi observed the tone, tenure and purport of its previous order on preparation and circulation of SOPs for probing such cases had not been understood in the right perspective by the special committee constituted by the Punjab DGP.Rejecting the SOPs prepared by Punjab, Justice Tyagi observed apparently, the 300-page SOPs were prepared by compiling and adding to contents copied from various reports/documents available on the Internet. The information was definitely valuable. But it was difficult to understand how an investigating officer deputed to probe financial and bank frauds would remember the salient procedural aspects of the SOPs.“The SOPs for investigation of designated category of criminal cases prepared earlier do not run into such length of pages. So the SOPs prepared by the special committee constituted by the DGP, Punjab, will not be a guiding tool for investigating officers,” Justice Tyagi said.‘Give data of past 10 years’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/file-affidavits-on-pending-bank-fraud-cases-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-dgps-294484
08-08-2021||Vishav Bharti||Clean chit to minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot while probe was still on?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Though the three-member committee of IAS officers constituted by the Chief Minister had given a “clean chit” to minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the alleged multi-crore SC Post-Matric Scholarship scam, the government has now reportedly taken a contrary position before the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC).Vijay Sampla, NCSC ChairmanPart of proceedings nowThe officers concerned have claimed that the probe report can’t be shared as the process of the inquiry is still on… This (officers’ claim) is part of the proceedings of the commission.Earlier, the NCSC had issued a notice to the state government on the issue. During the last appearance, the NCSC had sought the inquiry report of the committee on the basis of which the minister was given a clean chit. NCSC Chairman Vijay Sampla said the officers concerned, however, claimed that the report could not be shared as the process of the inquiry was still on. “This is part of the proceedings of the commission,” Sampla said.Addressing a group of journalists at the UT Guest House here, he said now the government had sought 15 days to furnish a reply to the notice issued by the commission. Taking cognisance of the protests by Schedule Caste students alleging non-issuance of roll numbers by colleges, the NCSC had in May issued a notice to the state government, asking them to ensure immediate release of the roll numbers.Last year, it was alleged that funds meant for SC students under the scheme were embezzled at the instance of Dharamsot. Significantly, a separate CBI inquiry into the Rs 63-crore scholarship “scam” is also on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clean-chit-to-minister-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-while-probe-was-still-on-294485
08-08-2021||---||Youth Akali leader Vikramjit Singh shot in broad daylight at Mohali||Mohali, August 7Four unidentified assailants gunned down Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky Middukhera, in broad daylight at Mataur here today. The assailants fled the spot after the killing, which took place around 11.30 am.Satinder Singh, SSPGangster in Armenian jail key suspectLucky Khuda Lahora, a gangster lodged in an Armenian jail, is one of the suspects in the case. The police and CIA have formed teams to nab suspects.Hours later, in a Facebook post, gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group claimed responsibility for the killing. It said Middukhera had been working against the Lawrence Bishnoi gang despite several warnings.Middukhera, 32, was targeted by two masked men, in their thirties, as he came out of a real estate agency’s office in the Sector 72 market. They opened fire as soon as he sat in his SUV in the parking lot.Middukhera ran for safety towards a nearby park by scaling the boundary wall, but the assailants chased him down and pumped in nine bullets before fleeing the spot.The CCTV footage showed four men in a car, bearing Punjab registration number, waiting in the parking lot before the incident. As Middukhera emerged from the office half an hour later, two men ran towards him and opened fire, suggesting it was a pre-planned attack.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said: “Nine rounds were fired at him. No arrest has been made so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-akali-leader-vikramjit-singh-shot-in-broad-daylight-at-mohali-294478
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab announce cash awards for Olympic gold medallist Chopra||Cash rewards to the tune of Rs 9 crore poured in for star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who on Saturday won India’s first ever track-and-field Olympic medal with a gold-medal winning feat at Tokyo Games.After Chopra secured India’s second individual gold in Olympic history with a sensational performance, chief minister of Haryana and Punjab M L Khattar and Amarinder Singh announced cash rewards of Rs 6 crore and Rs 2 crore, respectively.The BCCI also announced that Rs 1 crore has been reserved for Chopra, who produced a second round throw of 87.58m in the finals to stun the athletics world and end India’s 100-year wait for a track and field medal in the Olympics.Khattar also announced that Chopra will be made head of upcoming Centre for Excellence in Athletics in Panchkula.“As per our sports policy, Neeraj Chopra will get a cash reward of Rs six crore, a Class-I job and a piece of plot of land at concessional rates,” said Khattar.Singh also recognised the stupendous achievement of Chopra and announced a special cash reward of Rs 2 crore in an official statement.On Saturday, Chopra, who hails from Khandra village in Panepat district, won the country’s seventh medal, barely an hour after wrestler Bajrang Punia from Sonepat had won a bronze medal.Earlier, wrestler Ravi Dahiya had also made the country and Haryana proud by winning an Olympic silver medal.Congratulating Chopra and other medal winners, Khattar said: “Today is a golden day in the chapter of our sports history. It is a big achievement for the country our athletes have made us proud. People of Haryana and the country are happy today at the feat of our sportspersons,” Khattar said.The Chief Minister said that a grand felicitation function will be held in Panchkula On August 13, in which the players from the state who took part in Tokyo Olympics will be honoured.“Haryana’s contribution in medal tally is significant. We have 30 players from Haryana in the country’s Olympics contingent.” He spoke to the parents of Chopra and Punia on Saturday and congratulated them.In Panchkula, Khattar said the state government is setting up a  Centre for Excellence for Athletics and Chopra will be made its head.“Panipat is his native place and Panchkula is the city where he honed his skills,” he said.Earlier, he had announced an indoor wrestling stadiums in native village of wrestlers Ravi Dahiya and Bajrang Punia in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts, respectively.“We have made several announcements to encourage other talented players. We want to make Haryana the biggest sports hub,” said Khattar.For his bronze medal winning effort, as per the state’s sports policy, Punia will get a cash reward of Rs 2.5 crore, a piece of plot at concessional rates and a state government job.Earlier, Khattar had praised Dahiya for his effort after he became only the second Indian wrestler to win a silver medal at the Olympics.Dahiya will get Rs 4 crore prize money, Class-I job and a piece of land of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran at concessional rates as per state government’s policy for winning silver at the Olympics.The Haryana government will also honour the nine history-making women’s hockey players of the state with cash reward of Rs 50 lakh each, while an equal amount would be given to each sportsperson of the state who stood at the fourth position in any event in the Olympics. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-punjab-announce-cash-awards-for-olympic-gold-medallist-chopra-294474
08-08-2021||Ambala||Charuni threatens to boycott SKM meetings, claims selective discrimination||Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has threatened to boycott all further meetings of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha after he accused other leaders of the joint farmers’ front of selective discrimination against him and some of his supporters.The discord appears to have occurred at the meeting held on Saturday. Charuni, who faced a week’s suspension from the joint front in July after he issued statements about “Mission Punjab”, walked out of Saturday’s meeting over what he later claimed was the mistreatment meted out to him by the front, particularly some unions from Punjab.Samyukt Kisan Morcha suspends Gurnam Singh Charuni for 1 weekIn a video message he uploaded on Facebook, he said that the front chose to act against him but let similar violations from other members slide by. He was seemingly referring to the ban he had to face over what was viewed as political statements.“They’ve been discriminating against me from the start. There have been several incidents when they tried to rout me out from the Samyuka Morcha, but no action was taken against the other people for doing similar things. They have taken action against me twice but no action has been taken against Kakka (Shiv Kumra Kakka) for his remarks against me. In another case, Yogendra Yadav’s supporters contested the Uttar Pradesh’s Zila Parishad election and even used posters claiming to be SKM supported candidates but no action was taken.” “Four ‘Jathebandiyas’ from Punjab were kicked out by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha from a meeting just because they associated with me and I led their march. This is dictatorship. We’ve been putting up with it because we didn’t want the movement affected.”“The Punjab leaders have some issues with me. I have boycotted their meetings. I have decided not to attend the general body and nine-member committee meetings to mark our protest against their injustice. They try to demean us,” Charuni, surrounded by his supporters, said into the camera.He clarified, however, that he would continue to abide by the decisions taken at the meeting to avoid “weakening the movement”.Charuni, a prominent face of the farmers’ movement in Haryana and one of nine prominent members of the SKM, faced a week’s ban from the union’s activities on July 15 over statements about the launch of what he said was “Mission Punjab”. His statements drew condemnation from a front that has so far claimed to maintain political neutrality, saying that their movement was only aimed at farmers’ welfare.     Punjab heads into assembly elections next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charuni-threatens-to-boycott-skm-meetings-claims-selective-discrimination-294457
08-08-2021||Patiala||Couldn't sleep well before Olympic finals, says discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur||Discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur—who finished sixth in the ongoing Tokyo Olympics on Saturday—revealed that she "could not handle the pressure of playing in finals of the world’s biggest sporting event".Kamal—who was at the National Institute of Sports (NIS), Patiala—said that she would work on how to keep herself psychologically strong to withstand the pressures of big events such as the Olympics.It is pertinent to mention that Kamal — despite having been a first-timer —had finished second in the qualification round with a throw of 64 m.However, she stood sixth in the finals hurling the throw 63.70 m.She said: “The night before the finals, I couldn’t sleep well — owing to the stress. I was quite nervous before I went to the field.”Kamal added that playing at the Olympics was quite different from playing any other international tournament.“In Olympics, even world champions are not able to handle the pressure of high expectations. I think those who handle it well, win the medals at the Olympics. I couldn’t,” said Kamal.Kamal added that the rain during the final had added to her nervousness because the circle was very slippery.“After the first throw, it rained heavily. The circle was slippery. I couldn’t get the grip as good as I should have been,” she continued.When asked about her coach not being able to accompany her for the Olympics, she replied: “I was a bit disappointed because she could have helped me by being on the field with me at the Olympics. However, she tried her best to help me over the phone.”Finally, she said that she was going to her native village – Kabarwala – in Muktsar district to spend some time with family before returning to training.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/couldnt-sleep-well-before-olympic-finals-says-discus-thrower-kamalpreet-kaur-294395
08-08-2021||Mohali/Muktsar||Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera shot dead in Mohali||Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Mohali on Saturday.Four armed men fired around 10 bullets at the young leader in the Mataur market at around 10.30 am before fleeing the spot.He tried to run away from the spot when two youths started firing at him, but the assailants fired more bullets at him.SSP Satinder Singh and the DSP rushed to the spot.Middukhera had come to meet his friend in an SUV near a property consultant’s office at a market in Mataur.He was taken to hospital in a PCR van from the spot. Empty shells have been recovered from the spot. Police are scanning the CCTV footage from the area.A rival gang, Davinder Bambhia's group, claimed the murder through a Facebook post later on Saturday evening. The post cited "personal rivalry" for the killing, and said Middukhera was working against the Lawrence Bishnoi gang despite several warnings. Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh said police are still working on the case.''No arrest has been made so far. Lucky Khuda Lahora, a gangster held up in a jail in Armenia, is one of the suspects in the case,'' he said.Middukhera was a student leader and was once president of the Student  Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), Panjab University, Chandigarh. Later, he joined the SAD's student wing Student Organisation of India (SOI).Following his mass appeal among the youth, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had made him president of SOI's Chandigarh unit. He actively campaigned for the SAD in the Assembly and parliamentary elections in Punjab.From his college days, he was known for amicably resolving disputes among students and youth in the tricity.He had got married two years ago and was close to a number of MLAs in Punjab and Haryana besides to some Punjabi singers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-akali-dal-leader-vicky-middukhera-shot-dead-in-mohali-294390
08-08-2021||---||Mohali court denies bail to Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini in corruption case||Mohali, August 7In a setback to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, a special court here on Saturday rejected the anticipatory bail application in a corruption case filed against him by the Vigilance Bureau, Punjab.Additional District and Sessions Judge Parminder Singh Grewal, while rejecting the anticipatory bail, observed that the case was registered after a detailed inquiry by the VB, on the complaint of the Joint Director Vigilance, and was based on documents. The court has observed that Saini had asserted in his petition that he was not known to Nimratdeep Singh and his father and had met them during signing the rent agreement and the agreement to sell. However, Saini’s own accounts show that he had paid Rs 45 lakh to Nimratdeep and his father prior to signing the rent deed.Saini had filed the plea for seeking anticipatory bail through his counsel HS Dhanoya and APS Deol in the court of the Additional Sessions Judge on Thursday.Saini and six others were booked by the Vigilance Bureau under Sections 109, 120-B of the IPC and the PC Act recently. Saini is accused of helping Punjab XEN Nimratdeep Singh in amassing assets beyond his known sources of income.The Vigilance team had also raided Saini’s residence in Sector 20 here to arrest him and it continued searching his house for hours.Deol, counsel for Saini, argued that the case was the outcome of political vendetta and in line with the three earlier cases registered against Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-court-denies-bail-to-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-in-corruption-case-294376
