09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 31 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1 death||Punjab on Monday reported 31 fresh Covid cases, taking the overall number of infection to 5,99,514, while one death pushed the fatality figure to 16,320, according to a medical bulletin.The lone death was reported from Patiala.The overall toll includes three deaths which were not reported earlier, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases in the states now stands a 441.Barnala and Pathankot reported four cases each, followed by three each from Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala.With 43 recoveries from the infection, the number of recoveries reached 5,82,753, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-31-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-295286
09-08-2021||Mohali||Soon, Punjab to introduce online payment of water supply bills in villages||Punjab Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Razia Sultana on Monday announced that an online payment of water supply bills will soon be introduced in all villages across the state in a phased manner.While launching an online billing and revenue monitoring system (RMS) for online payment of water supply bills in the villages of Mohali district, after successful completion of a pilot project for seven months, she said that this online billing system would be introduced in all districts of Punjab soon.Rural consumers would get their water supply bills through SMS on their registered mobile numbers and online bill payment option will be provided through a link in the SMS. Active account updates and alerts will also be provided through SMS.Apart from this, the department’s revenue collectors will also carry POS machines to the doorsteps of consumers and they would be able to make payment via card or cash on the spot and get the receipt.Consumers get multiple bill payments options like net banking, credit/ debit card, mobile wallets, UPI etc. The system is user friendly and totally secure against online frauds.She said that under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Department of Water Supply and Sanitation is touching new heights and this new initiative will not only make water supply bill payments easy for rural consumers but also will boost revenue collection of the department thereby helping in efficient management of water supply schemes and ensuring uninterrupted supply of potable water to rural consumers.This system has been implemented in collaboration with HDFC Bank which has provided a technological and banking platform.This system has further brought transparency in operation and maintenance of water supply schemes through live online MIS reporting and dashboards at all levels for monitoring of bill collection and payments done on maintenance of water supply schemes.This system will be very helpful in making the water supply schemes self-sustainable, improves revenue collection and reduces the financial burden of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-punjab-to-introduce-online-payment-of-water-supply-bills-in-villages-295254
09-08-2021||---||Venkaiah Naidu lauds Punjab and Haryana for providing infrastructure to sportspersons||New Delhi, August 9While complimenting the Indian contingent for their “commendable performance” in the Tokyo Olympics, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday lauded Punjab and Haryana for providing right kind of infrastructure for sportspersons.“Forty per cent of the members of the Indian contingent were from Punjab and Haryana,” Naidu said, adding that “other states should emulate Punjab and Haryana” in creating infrastructure for sportspersons.Earlier, Naidu paid homage to the martyrs of the Quit India movement saying Gandhiji had given a call for the movement this day (August 9) in 1942. Members of the House observed a two-minute silence in memory of the freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for liberating country from the British rule.Later, senior Congress member Anand Sharma said Naidu should have mentioned that the resolution to give call for the Quit India movement was first passed in the Congress session in Mumbai.Naidu said all these were facts of history and urged the members to cooperate for the smooth conduct of the House. He also announced that he had received notices from “seven/eight members” under Rule 267. Some of these notices were for discussion on Pegasus, some were for discussing farmers’ issue while some were for discussing floods caused by heavy rains in certain parts of the country.Naidu said that he had admitted notices under Rule 267 for discussing farmers’ issue and had already informed the government regarding his decision. This led to repeated cries from opposition members, saying, “Pegasus, Pegasus…”Naidu then adjourned the House till noon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/venkaiah-naidu-lauds-punjab-and-haryana-for-providing-infrastructure-to-sportspersons-295202
09-08-2021||Mohali||Middukhera murder: Leads point to gang war, says Mohali SSP||A day after the daylight murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera, the Lawrence Bishnoi group vowed to avenge the death soon, affirming the police suspicion of a gang war.The Davinder Bambiha group, in a Facebook post, claimed the responsibility for the murder, stating that Middukhera was working as an “informer of the Bishnoi group”. Middukhera was also “helping Bishnoi in extortion” by passing on phone numbers of Punjabi singers and businessmen, the group added. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “It looks like a case of gang war, Bishnoi’s Facebook post in support of Middukhera points towards it. We are working on the case. Maybe, we are able to make a headway in the case tomorrow.”Under pressure to solve the case as early as possible, the police have been conducting raids and rounding up suspects to get crucial leads, but have been left empty-handed till now.The police have recovered empty shells from the spot and the CCTV footage of the area is being scanned.Sources said the dump data of the area and the call list in the deceased’s phone were being scrutinised to know who all were in contact with him.The Mohali top cop said a property consultant, who was a friend of the deceased, had disclosed that Middukhera came to meet him and buy a property. The duo talked for around 30 minutes but the deal did not materialise and he left the office, said the SSP. The CCTV footage shows that during the firing, one of the assailants was holding the gun in his left hand and the police are looking for further clues to solve the case. The police said at the time of the incident, the deceased too had a licensed pistol in his SUV. However, he did not get the time to take it out and instead chose to run for cover. “The pistol and the SUV have been taken in possession by the police after the incident,” said an official who is part of the investigation. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/middukhera-murder-leads-point-to-gang-war-says-mohali-ssp-295136
09-08-2021||Sameer Singh||8,200 Punjab villages without patwaris, work in limbo||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 8The acute shortage of staff in the Revenue Department has been adversely affecting work in the state. ‘Overburdened’, patwaris have disengaged themselves from the charge being given to them for additional circles since June 21.As a result, residents are at the receiving end. As per the data accessed by The Tribune, 8,200 villages in the state are without patwaris currently and of the total 4,716 patwar circles, 2,894 are lying vacant. To make up for the shortage of staff, the department had given additional charge of three to four patwar circles on an average to one patwari.The data also suggests the work in Nawanshahr district is the worst affected with only 33 patwaris working against 179 sanctioned posts while 146 posts are lying vacant. Overburdened with additional charge, 33 patwaris were catering to residents of 400 villages in the district. Similarly, 24 patwaris have been catering to 362 villages in Pathankot district while of the 99 sanctioned posts, 75 are lying vacant.1.5K to be recruitedWe are going to fill 1,500 vacant posts of patwari. The process of recruitment has already been initiated. —Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Revenue MinisterIn the Doaba region, only 15 to 25 per cent patwaris are working against the sanctioned posts. In Jalandhar, as many as 111 patwaris have been catering to residents of 699 villages. Harbir Singh Dhindsa, president of the Revenue Patwar Union, Punjab, said, “The number of districts has increased from 13 in the 1990s to 23 in the state but the number of sanctioned posts of patwari has remained fixed at 4,716 for decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-200-punjab-villages-without-patwaris-work-in-limbo-294905
09-08-2021||Amritsar||SGPC shelves plan to demolish oldest inn Guru Ram Das Niwas||The standoff between Sikh activists and the SGPC has come to an end after the latter withdrew its plan to raze the oldest inn located in the Golden Temple complex and agreed to preserve the century-old structure that was discovered during the excavation process.Activists under the banner of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal were up in arms against the SGPC projects for the past four days.Today, after the intervention of administrative officials, a meeting was scheduled between the three representatives of the dal led by Baldev Singh Wadala and SGPC representatives led by chief secretary HS Dhami. Following the meeting, the activists lifted the morcha from Heritage Street.Dhami said 90-year-old Guru Ram Das Niwas in the Golden Temple was in poor shape. “We have withheld the proposal for the time being. A sub-committee has been constituted to monitor the situation. Anything will be done only on the basis of their report.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-shelves-plan-to-demolish-oldest-inn-guru-ram-das-niwas-294912
09-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s wings clipped with Ashwani Sekhri’s elevation||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 8Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who ruled Batala for four and a half years, stands to lose his influence as the Capt Amarinder Singh faction has extended unconditional support to his political rival and three-time MLA Ashwani Sekhri.The Minister, who is the sitting legislator from Fatehgarh Churian, was eying the Batala Assembly seat. As a prelude to this, he had also appointed his loyalist Sukh Teja as the Mayor.The message that was sent to Bajwa was loud and clear after Sekhri presided over a meeting today in which Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, SSP Rachpal Singh and senior officials were present. On his part, Sekhri has even gone to the extent of “warning” the minister not to enter Batala without any valid reason. Notably, the minister till yet had been exercising unbridled powers in the civil and police administration. However, Sekhri’s elevation now means that he can no longer call the shots.Batala Power playApart from backing him to the hilt, the CM has also appointed Sekhri as the Chairman of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation. Not long ago, the minister was one of the three handpicked men of the CM to oversee the party and governmental affairs in Majha. The other two were Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria. The signs were ominous for Bajwa last week when DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur was shifted to a relatively insignificant post. Sekhri replaced her with his loyalist Lalit Kumar.Ever since his elevation, Sekhri has been holding meetings. Meanwhile, Mayor Teja has castigated Sekhri for “cancelling developmental works worth Rs 10 crore.” Sekhri, however, said he had nothing to do with these works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tript-rajinder-singh-bajwas-wings-clipped-with-ashwani-sekhris-elevation-294898
09-08-2021||Barnala||Government sanctions Rs 1.11 cr for free ration in Barnala||In good news for around 12,000 children in the age group of 0-6 and 4,200 pregnant and lactating women of Barnala, the state government has sanctioned Rs 1.11 crore to the district authorities to provide a nutrient-rich diet to them.District Programme Officer Kulwinder Singh said as per government instructions, residents were getting ration for 15 days. Due to Covid, the cooking of food had been stopped till further orders, but ration was being provided at homes by officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-sanctions-rs-1-11-cr-for-free-ration-in-barnala-294899
09-08-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Bid to smuggle Rs 1.3-cr liquor to Gujarat foiled, 4 held||The Rajasthan Police have foiled an attempt to smuggle two liquor consignments worth Rs 1.3 crore to Gujarat.In Salasar area, the police stopped an oil tanker and found boxes of liquor were stacked in it. Team in charge Sandeep Bishnoi said boxes marked “For sale in Haryana” and beer cans in huge quantities were seized. In another case, 563 boxes of liquor were seized from a truck parked near the Hindore toll plaza on NH-62. Drivers and conductors of the tanker and the truck were arrested. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-smuggle-rs-1-3-cr-liquor-to-gujarat-foiled-4-held-294908
09-08-2021||---||Gangster Rana Kandowalia’s murder: 5 days on, Batala youth held for ‘sheltering’ suspects||Amritsar, August 8Five days after the killing of gangster Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, on the premises of a private hospital, the police today made their first arrest.Nanit Sharma, alias Saurav, a resident of Shakarpura village on the Dera Baba Nanak Road in Batala, was arrested for sheltering the suspects and facilitating treatment of an injured suspect, Happy Shah, alias Sharma.Barring a Haryanvi speaking youth, the police have identified Jagroshan Hundal of Tarn Taran; Mani Rayya and Mandeep Singh, alias Toofan, of Batala; and Shah as the suspects in the case. The police have also nominated six persons for sheltering and harbouring them. Besides Nanit, the others were Laddi Dairywala, Sukhraj Malli, Jagtar Singh, Prabhjot Chatha and Lalli Dairywala, all residents of Batala.“They were booked under Sections 212, 216 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code,” said Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, DCP (Investigations). Nanit would be produced in court where the police would seek his remand for further interrogation. Preliminary interrogation revealed Nanit and Sukhraj Malli were old friends of Toofan, who worked for gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria. Though Bhagwanpuria had been on the run for the past four years, they were in touch with him, he told the police.He claimed Toofan and his accomplices Hundal and Rayya used to meet at his fruit shop. On Tuesday evening, he got a call from Toofan that they had killed Kandowalia, but one of their accomplices Shah was injured in retaliatory fire.He asked him and Malli to make arrangements for his treatment. Malli then contacted Laddi, Chatha and Jagtar, who were known to Toofan, for help. He said they later met them at the Batala bypass, where Shah and Hundal got into the car of Prabhjot, while Toofan sat in the car with Nanit and Malli.The Haryanvi youth, Laddi and Jagtar drove to an undisclosed destination, while they took injured Shah to a private hospital. Later, they helped him safely leave the city, Nanit told the police. The DCP said they were contemplating action against the hospital authorities for failing to inform the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-rana-kandowalias-murder-5-days-on-batala-youth-held-for-sheltering-suspects-294909
09-08-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda stadium in shambles, athletes travel 180 km for practice||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 8The mud track and grass field at the multipurpose stadium in Bathinda lie in a shambles. Pebbles and stagnating rainwater on the uneven track paints a picture of gross neglect towards maintaining the sporting infrastructure.The project for converting the mud track into a synthetic one under the Khelo India initiative hasn’t yet seen the light of the day. Athletes from Bathinda and other villages were forced to travel up to 80 km to a sports school at Ghudda village before the authorities there denied the permission to practise. Subsequently, now athletes travel more than 180 km from Bathinda to Sangrur to practise on a synthetic track at War Heroes Stadium there.Officials indifferentDespite repeated requests, we couldn't obtain permission from the district administration to practise at a sports school. We are now forced to travel 180 km to Sangrur to use the track there. —Harnek Singh, Coach, Sports departmentNew track soonThere was a proposal to build a synthetic track, but it was shelved as the multipurpose stadium's land is on lease. We are now planning to introduce a cinder track soon for athletes. —Parminder Singh, District sports officer, bathindaHarnek Singh, athletics coach, Sports Department, said: “There is no synthetic track in Bathinda city. I used to take athletes to a sports school at Ghudda by traveling 80 km from Bhai Rupa village in the district. We were asked for permission, which despite repeated requests couldn’t be obtained from the district administration. Left with no alternative, we are now forced to travel all the way to Sangrur for the practice.”Players practicing on mud tracks find it difficult to acclimatise and perform on a synthetic track at national and international events.Sources said many players had sustained injuries due to running on the dilapidated track at the multipurpose stadium, but the Sports Department failed to learn any lesson.A long-distance runner from the city said: “The shock absorption while running on a synthetic track is way better than that on a regular ground or grass. It ensures a stable and faster tread. Even a mild rain disrupts the practice sessions. Athletes can practise on the synthetic track even though it gets wet.”Harnek Singh said: Neeraj Chopra could win the first gold medal in athletics at Tokyo as he had been training in Russia with advanced sporting infrastructure and technology for past couple of years.”“Despite the lack of infrastructure, athletes trained in Bathinda have won 25 medals at national level and more than 200 medals at state-level sporting events in past 10 years. And there are national records by athletes from Bathinda in track events. It’s the responsibility of the government to provide infrastructure, training and proper diet to athletes if we expect them to do better,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-stadium-in-shambles-athletes-travel-180-km-for-practice-294910
09-08-2021||Abohar||Punjab Agricultural University investigates withering of fruit plants||The Punjab Agricultural University has started an investigation into the sudden withering of fruit plants and is making efforts to save such plants.Horticulture Deputy Director Tejinder Singh said this at a seminar on citrus fruit cultivation organised on the occasion of the inauguration of a department sub-office in Seetogunno village.In the south-western districts of Punjab and adjoining areas of Rajasthan and Haryana, a problem of sudden drying of healthy Kinnow plants is being faced since the last year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-agricultural-university-investigates-withering-of-fruit-plants-294914
09-08-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Cop held for vehicle theft||Married woman rapedFazilka: A 50-year-old married woman has allegedly been raped in a Fazilka village. The victim alleged that she was alone at home as her husband and other family members had gone outside for some work. She alleged that one Sandeep Singh of Mahatam Nagar village entered her house and raped her. The accused has been booked. oc16K benefit from schemeSangrur: A total of 16,409 Barnala residents have benefited from the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana till date from August 20 last year. “Our hospitals in Barnala and Tapa are on second rank in the state in providing services under the SSBY,” said Barnala Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Aulakh. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cop-held-for-vehicle-theft-294915
09-08-2021||Abohar||Abohar’s ‘golden girl’ Shreya claims gold in national championship in Sangrur||Hockey star on AAP postersFaridkot: Three days after Indian Hockey player Rupinder Pal Singh of Faridkot hogged the limelight with his thrilling performance at Tokyo Olympics, winning Bronze, the AAP Sports Wing has come out with his posters and banners, calling him the ‘Pride of Faridkot’. Gurdit Singh Sekhon, AAP halqa in charge in Faridkot, was also a national-level basketball player.College Covid warriors laudedAbohar: Services rendered by the DAV College of Education, Abohar, during the Covid pandemic have been appreciated by the Ministry of Education, Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education. The institution played an active role in the “Beat Covid Campaign” under the Vocational Education Nai Talim Experiential Learning programme. Principal Dr Urmil Sethi said under the campaign, five teams of student volunteers were constituted. They educated masses to help and support Covid patients and suspects, both mentally and physically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohars-golden-girl-shreya-claims-gold-in-national-championship-in-sangrur-294921
09-08-2021||---||Preserve excavated Bunga Giania in Golden Temple complex for posterity: Damdami Taksal||Amritsar, August 8Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal claimed that the arc-shaped structure Bunga Giania accidentally discovered in the Golden Temple complex during the excavation at the site of new ‘joda ghar’last month showcased the Taksal’s history.Giani Harnam Singh Khalsa, President, Damdami TaksalThree heads of Damdami Taksal — Giani Sundar Singh, who was baptised by Guru Gobind Singh, his son Giani Gurdas Singh & Giani Sant Singh — were associated with Bunga Giania. The antiquity of the Bunga must be maintained.Giani Harnam Singh Khalsa, president, Damdami Taksal, said three heads of Damdami Taksal were associated with Bunga Giania. They were Giani Sundar Singh, who was baptised by Guru Gobind Singh Ji, his son Giani Gurdas Singh and Giani Sant Singh. He suggested that the antiquity of the discovered Bunga must be maintained for posterity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/preserve-excavated-bunga-giania-in-golden-temple-complex-for-posterity-damdami-taksal-294946
09-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||51 Pakistan nationals in Amritsar running from pillar to post for return||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 8After their visas expired, 51 nationals from Pakistan, including 11 women and 26 children, are running from pillar to post to return to their country and unite with their families.They came here from Rajasthan on Saturday and were made to put up at Bibi Dhanwant Kaur Dharamshala on the Durgiana Temple complex. Durgiana committee is footing the expenses of their boarding and lodging after Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira approached them.A majority of them hail from Sindh province of Pakistan and came here with their families between 2018 and 2020. However, due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, they got stuck here.The DC said these Pakistan nationals gathered outside his residence on Saturday and he asked the Durgiana committee to provide them shelter and their documents would be completed to help them cross over to Pakistan from the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost.He said the Ministry of Home Affairs would be approached to provide them the exit permit and enable them to return to their native places, as they overstayed from the validity of their visas.Baru Mal with his wife Jasmo and sons Akash and Raja had come here on pilgrimage to Haridwar in March 2020. “After a fortnight’s stay in Haridwar, we moved to Jodhpur to stay with a distant relative as the lockdown was declared.” Back home, his father expired and he could not even go to attend the cremation.Similarly, Kiran Mal and his seven members arrived here in 2018, while Wazir came with seven members of his family in 2019. The number of family members of Wazir increased to eight as his wife gave birth to a child during their stay in India. They requested both Indian and Pakistan governments to help them to return to their native places, so that they could lead a normal life with their families.Ramesh Sharma, president of Durgiana committee, said the committee would provide them free lodging, boarding and food and expressed apprehension that many of them may face difficulty in going back as several children were born during their stay here.Indo-Pak ties discussed at Virsa ViharAmritsar: The Folklore Research Academy, Hind-Pak Dosti Manch and South Asian Free Media Association (SAFMA), organised a seminar on ‘Regional political situation and India-Pakistan relations’ at Virsa Vihar on Sunday. The function was presided over by the president of the academy Ramesh Yadav. The event began with observing two-minute silence to remember those who died during the Partition and farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation against farm laws and Covid victims. Sukhdev Singh Sirsa, national general secretary, Progressive Writers’ Union, said there was a big difference between the words and deeds of the rulers of both countries. “Politicians in both countries try to divert the attention of their residents by terming a threat to national interests.” Poonam Singh, editor, Preetlari magazine, said the two countries can be brought closer with the help of their common language. Journalist Satnam Manak said barriers of physical movement for the residents of two countries should be removed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/51-pakistan-nationals-in-amritsar-running-from-pillar-to-post-for-return-294953
09-08-2021||---||Health cover for 3.5L Punjab farmers||Chandigarh, August 8After extending health insurance cover to 5.01 lakh farmers last year, the government has decided to bring another 3.5 lakh farmers and their families under its ambit in line with the “Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana” for 2021-22.All farmers having “J-forms” and “sugarcane weighment slips” would be eligible for this health scheme. To help farmers apply for the scheme, the Mandi Board has launched a dedicated portal for the first time. Now, farmers need not visit market committee office to apply manually, as was the case earlier. They can apply on the Mandi Board’s portal https://emandikaran-pb.in.Punjab Mandi Board Chairman Lal Singh said the Mandi Board would pay the entire premium for the insurance cover of all farmers, who will get cashless treatment facility up to Rs 5 lakh per annum. He further said all these farmers and their families would now be covered with effect from August 20.He said 5.01 lakh farmers were covered under the health insurance scheme last year. Now, the number has reached nearly 8.5 lakh — 7.91 lakh farmers having “J-forms” registered with the Mandi Board and 55,000 cane growers.The Chairman also said these 5.01 lakh farmers, who had already been registered under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana last year, need not reapply on the portal as they would be extended the benefit for next year based on past documents, but remaining nearly 3.5 lakh farmers registered as “J-form” holders and “sugarcane weighment slips” after October 1, 2020, would have to apply on the portal to avail of the insurance.Mandi Board Secretary Ravi Bhagat said the eligible farmers could apply online to avail the health facilities from empanelled hospitals from August 20. He said any further information could be sought from toll free no. 104 or visit www.mandiboard.nic.in.These farmers can approach any of the 642 empanelled private hospitals and 208 government hospitals for treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh for 1,579 diseases, includingmajor surgical treatments such as heart surgery, cancer treatment, joint replacement and accident cases, under the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-cover-for-3-5l-punjab-farmers-294897
09-08-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar boy tops Punjab in JEE Main||Jalandhar’s Vaibhav Bajaj has topped the state in JEE Main exams, securing 99.987 percentile in the third session, results of which were declared today.A student of MGN Public School, Urban Estate, Vaibhav, 18, said the extra time he got during the pandemic came in handy for him to prepare harder. He is a super medical student, which means he was pursuing biology out of curiosity, along with his chosen non-medical subjects. Vaibhav says during the pandemic he attended classes as early as 2 am to 4 am.Speaking to The Tribune, Vaibhav said: “The extra time saved during the pandemic came in handy. I managed the extra hours in a constructive way. I credit my parents for the success and thank teachers for guiding me.” His father Rakesh Bajaj is a banker and mother Soni Bajaj is an officer with the central government. He wants to pursue computer science engineering or research. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-boy-tops-punjab-in-jee-main-294913
09-08-2021||Balwant Garg||10K antigen tests in Punjab schools daily, govt sets target for DEOs||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 8Asking schools to maintain strict surveillance on Covid-19 cases, the School Education Department has issued directions to conduct minimum 10,000 rapid antigen tests in schools across the state every day.Directing the heads of all schools, the department has fixed district-wise minimum targets of random testing. Ludhiana has to randomly test 1,000 students and school staff members, followed by Amritsar (790), Patiala (700), Jalandhar (647), Sangrur (570), Gurdaspur (565), Fazilka (562), Hoshiarpur (560), Bathinda (552), Tarn Taran (480), Ferozepur (420), Mohali (420), Muktsar (390), Moga (390), Mansa (350), Kapurthala (260), Faridkot (250), Roopnagar (240), Fatehgarh Sahib (220), SBS Nagar (220), Barnala (210) and Pathankot (205).Upload details onlineThe district education officers (DEOs) have been asked to meet this minimum target of testing in their respective districts, covering all government and private schools. The schools have to upload the details of tests and the results on a portal of the department on a daily basis. “Among every 100 students and staff members, there should be one compulsory random testing,” read the directions.To ensure proper distance in classrooms, all students of non-board classes (6th, 7th, 9th and 11th) will attend classes two days a week — Monday and Thursday. Students of board classes (8th, 10th and 12th) will attend school four days a week — Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday.Keeping in view the impending threat of third wave, schools have been told to ensure everyone on the campus wore masks. Also, there will be no morning assembly and students will be served mid-day meal class-wise.On days when students are not attending classes, they will be served the mid-day meal in their schools. All students of Classes 6th to 8th will reach the school every day for the purpose of taking their mid-day meal. Teachers will arrange online classes for students on their offline days. All schools in the state were reopened from August 2 after a gap of more than four months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10k-antigen-tests-in-punjab-schools-daily-govt-sets-target-for-deos-294906
09-08-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Punjab Covid deaths: 2nd wave orphans  20 kids in April-May||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8As many as 20 children were orphaned in Punjab during the ongoing Covid wave in April-May this year, Minister of Women and Child Development Smriti Zubin Irani replied to a question filed by MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi during the ongoing LS session.In HP, the wave saw as many as 13 children losing both their parents during the same period. Haryana and Chandigarh did not record even a single case where a child was rendered orphan. Seeking details, the MP in her question quoted “reports” that put the number of children who lost at least one parent to the deadly infection at 9,346 and those who lost both parents at more than 1,700.It has been pointed out that under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, the ministry is implementing the Child Protection Services (CPS) in partnership with the state governments. A maintenance grant of Rs 2,000 per child per month is given for non-institutional care of children along with the provision maintenance grant of Rs 2,160 per child per month for children living in childcare institutions.The reply also mentioned that those who lost both parents, the PM Cares scheme for children provided support for education and health and a corpus of Rs 10 lakh for each child when he/she turned 18. This corpus would be used to give a monthly financial support/ stipend from 18 years of age for the next five years. On turning 23, the child would get the lump sum corpus amount for personal and professional use. A portal to help these children was introduced on July 15 and is accessible on an online portal pmcaresforchildren.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-covid-deaths-2nd-wave-orphans-20-kids-in-april-may-294907
09-08-2021||Vishav Bharti||On average, protesting Punjab farmers who died in Delhi had 2.59 acres||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8Amid charge by the ruling BJP at the Centre of “rich status” of farmers protesting at the Delhi border, it has come to light that a majority of around 600 protesters who have died there had small landholdings.A study of the socio-economic profile of 460 farmers, who died while protesting at Delhi, by Dr Baldev Singh Shergill of Punjab University’s South Campus in Talwandi Sabo and former professor Lakhwinder Singh suggests their average landholding was less than three acres.“We studied various aspects of the present farmers’ movement. However, while studying the socio-economic background of the deceased farmers, we found their average landholding was 2.59 acres. Most of them were landless and marginal farmers, who owned less than 2.5 acres,” said Dr Shergill. A study of region-wise breakup suggests an average landholding of 2.71 acres among farmers from Malwa; 2.63 acres from Doaba and just 2.43 acres from Majha regions.Around 80 per cent of the deceased farmers belonged to the Malwa region, which is reeling under a severe agrarian crisis, followed by 13 per cent from Majha and 7 per cent from Doaba. The average age of the deceased farmers during the protest was 56 years.The protest, which started on November 26 last year, has been going on for the past 253 days and so far, 563 farmers and labourers have died.In the recent past, several BJP leaders, including Union ministers, had alleged farmers sitting at the Delhi border were “rich, having a luxurious lifestyle”.Farmer leader Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala said the political leadership must “see the ground reality before commenting or they will be shown the reality by people in the elections”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-average-protesting-punjab-farmers-who-died-in-delhi-had-2-59-acres-294900
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar grain scam: SAD, AAP seek fair inquiry, guilty punished||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have sought a probe into the alleged grain scam in Amritsar.AAP has demanded a time-bound CBI probe into the scam monitored by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Party MLAs Aman Arora and Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said siphoning of grain worth Rs 16-20 crore in Pungrain godowns in Amritsar district alone, couldn’t be carried out by a single inspector or officer, and without the connivance of officials and politicians.“Therefore, there should be a timely CBI probe into the scam under the supervision of the High Court,” said the leaders. Arora said this was not the first grain scam in the state. He said foodgrain worth crores of rupees had been embezzled in the past but no action was taken.Arora said the state government through its procurement agencies was storing foodgrain for the central granaries through FCI. “In this way, they bring the state into disrepute at the national level,” he added.Meanwhile, in Fatehgarh Sahib, senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to probe the scam and bring to book the big fish, who diverted the grain meant for distribution among the poor of 15 villages of Amritsar district.He warned the SAD would come on the streets if the government tried to hush up the wheat scam like the illicit distillery and sand scams. He said the Congress government and its president were fooling people. He also criticised the government over the law and order. He said it was unfortunate that promising youths of state are being murdered due to enmity, with the police unable to do anything. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-grain-scam-sad-aap-seek-fair-inquiry-guilty-punished-294901
09-08-2021||---||2 suspended for wheat shortage in Amritsar; vigilance probe marked||Chandigarh, August 8Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has ordered strict action against the officials responsible for the shortage of wheat stocks at Jandiala Guru centre in Amritsar. The Assistant Food Supply Officer (AFSO) and DFSO concerned have been placed under suspension and the case has been referred to Vigilance Department.Ashu said the Department of Food and Supplies immediately deputed the Central Vigilance Committee (CVC) from head office to undertake a special verification of Pungrain wheat stocks at Jandiala Guru, after it came to notice that the Inspector concerned, Jasdev Singh, was absconding.He said as per the preliminary report, 1,84,344 bags pertaining to crop year 2018-19, 2020-21 & 2021-22 had been found to be short, the cost of which is approximately Rs 20 crore. The minister said he has taken a serious note of the same and ordered to initiate Departmental proceedings for major penalty against all the staff responsible for the shortage.CVC fears bogus purchase, embezzlement DFSO Amarinder Singh and AFSO Arshdeep Singh at Jandiala Guru have been placed under suspension and departmental proceedings have been ordered. Departmental proceedings have also been initiated against Raj Rishi Mehra, District Food and Supply Controller (DFSC), Amritsar, and his predecessor Jasjit Kaur for lapse and chargesheets are to be issued to both the officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-suspended-for-wheat-shortage-in-amritsar-vigilance-probe-marked-294902
09-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Ahead of paddy procurement, Centre plans stricter regulations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8Just before the paddy procurement season commences, the Centre is planning to go ahead with new and stringent specifications for accepting rice from millers.The government has reduced the specifications in moisture content, broken and damaged grain and extent of discoloured grain, for accepting rice. These specifications are expected to come into force from September, just before the paddy procurement starts in the state.Millers in Punjab say this is being done only to harass the protesting farmers indirectly, as it will lead to their cost of production rising by a high margin. They will not be able to take paddy from farmers if it does not meet the new specifications.Refraction in rice to be accepted from the millers has been reduced to 20 per cent from earlier 25 per cent in raw and to 12 per cent from 16 per cent in parboiled rice. The limit of damaged grain has been reduced by one per cent, which means that rice which has more than 2 per cent (in raw and 3 per cent in parboiled) damaged grain will not be accepted. The red grain will no longer be allowed (earlier it was 3 per cent) and grain having moisture content of over 14 per cent (till now it was 15 per cent) will not be allowed. In paddy, crop having over 16 per cent moisture cannot be purchased (till now this limit is 17 per cent). These new quality specifications were recommended by a committee of officials headed by the FCI Chairman early this year.Though the Centre had said in March these were just proposals and would not be implemented immediately, a meeting to discuss the implementation of these new specifications for rice procurement was scheduled for yesterday, which has now been postponed.“Unofficially, we have been told that these will be implemented in the coming season. If this is done, it will lead to financial ruin of rice milling industry, and most small units will be forced to close down,” said Prem Goel, a rice miller from Sunam.Ranjit Singh Josan, a miller from Ferozepur, said if the mills were to give the rice to the FCI at the new specifications, his production cost would go up by Rs 100 per quintal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-paddy-procurement-centre-plans-stricter-regulations-294903
09-08-2021||---||SGPC fumes, claims ‘Amritdhari’ Sikh aspirants for Patwari post ‘harassed’ in Chandigarh||Amritsar, August 8The SGPC has taken stern notice of ‘Amritdhari’ Sikh candidates being forced to remove ‘kirpan’ before taking the examination for patwari post at a college in Sector 32, Chandigarh, on Sunday.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur demanded strict action from the Chandigarh administrator against the officials concerned and also asked the Chief Minister to intervene as such a decision “could never be tolerated in the Punjab capital”.“India is a multi-religious country whose Constitution allows everyone to live according to their own faith. In such a situation, forcing Sikh candidates to remove ‘kirpan’ to sit for the exam has hurt the sentiments of the community,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur.The SGPC president alleged it seemed all this had been done intentionally as after protest by candidates, they were allowed to sit for the test by putting tapes on their ‘kirpans’ to cover them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-fumes-claims-amritdhari-sikh-aspirants-for-patwari-post-harassed-in-chandigarh-294904
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Despite peace formula, Capt Amarinder Singh, Navjot Singh Sidhu not on same page||Despite the party high command’s peace formula, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu don’t appear to be on the same page. While the CM and the PPCC chief have made public statements about working as a team, Sidhu’s stand on Punjab issues and the action on ground by the government don’t match.Party leaders point out that while the CM was not directly countering Sidhu’s statements, the PPCC chief had been raising the pitch on key issues such as arresting the ‘big fish’ in drug trafficking, punishment for perpetrators of sacrilege and police firing cases, annulling the power purchase agreements (PPAs) and rejecting the Central farm laws in the upcoming session of Punjab Vidhan Sabha. On the contrary, the Advocate General (AG), in his report, has pointed out that it was legally not tenable to annul the PPAs. The government has also said the matter regarding the STF report on the involvement of ‘big fish’in drug trafficking was submitted to the court.The PPCC chief, at a recent rally in Moga, had announced to give power at Rs 3 per unit and wipe out mafias having links with Akalis and some Congress leaders. Leaders say while announcing the power at unrealistic Rs 3 per unit, Sidhu has not taken the government on board. “When Sidhu speaks against the mafia, he should look at leaders who share stage with him,” said a leader close to the CM. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-peace-formula-capt-amarinder-singh-navjot-singh-sidhu-not-on-same-page-294966
09-08-2021||---||Gangs ‘vow’ to avenge Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh’s murder||Chandigarh, August 8A day after Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader  alias Vicky Middukhera was gunned down in Mohali, various gangs took to social media vowing to ‘avenge his death’.Also read: Middukhera murder: Leads point to gang war, says Mohali SSPStudent leaderControversial figureWe are committed to ensuring peace. We are thoroughly looking into all cases. — Dinkar Gupta, DGPThe Davinder Bambiha gang had claimed responsibility for the murder yesterday. Today, its rival — the Lawrence Bishnoi group — posted on the Facebook: “Vicky Middukhera had no association with us, but those responsible for his murder should be prepared to pay for it.” Another post by gangster Sampat Nehra read, “We will avenge your death.”A senior police officer pointed out that gangs couldn’t survive without political patronage. “This is why the Punjab Control of Organised Crime Act (PCOCA) is on the back-burner,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangs-vow-to-avenge-youth-akali-dal-leader-vikramjit-singhs-murder-294970
09-08-2021||Manjit S Kang||Agriculture National Database: Digital divide can make exercise self-defeating||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar recently informed Parliament that the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare (DoAFW) was going to create a National Farmers Database or ‘Agristack’, a collection of technologies and digital databases focusing on India’s farmers and the agricultural sector. The database, which will include farmers’ digitised land records, is purported to help offer proactive and personalised services to farmers, increase their income and improve the efficiency of the agriculture sector. The Central Government had formed the Committee on Doubling Farmers’ Income in 2016; it submitted its 14-volume report in 2018. The creation of a dynamic farmers’ database is mentioned in one of the volumes.The DoAFW had floated the India Digital Ecosystem of Agriculture (IDEA), which was to seek feedback from parties concerned. Now, ‘Proofs of Concept’ (PoCs) based on data from the federated farmers’ database for certain chosen areas have been invited. If any of the PoCs (pilot) turns out to be beneficial for the farmers, the database is expected to be scaled up to the national level.Farmers and some farm organisations have raised objections to IDEA, as there is lack of farmer representation in the existing task force. They are equating this process to the way the three farm laws were introduced last year, with farmers not being consulted. A proactive approach is always better than a reactive one.Another objection is regarding the linking of the financing of the states by the Central Government to the implementation of the project. There are other concerns as well; for example, privacy of the farmers’ personal details in the database.The DoAFW should consider the digital divide between rural and urban areas. According to a survey conducted by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO), between July 2017 and June 2018, just 4.4% rural households had a computer against 14.4% in an urban area. Only 14.9% rural households had access to the Internet against 42% households in urban areas. Not all farmers have a smartphone. Thus, if launched, most farmers will not be able to enjoy the purported benefits of the national database.Since one of the purposes of the proposed database is to double farmers’ income, I wish to comment on the report prepared by the Committee on Doubling Farmers’ Income (DFI).Ashok Dilwai, chairman of the committee, introducing the report, wrote on the website of the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare: “Dear Citizens, I am happy to share with you the Report of the “Committee on Doubling on (sic) Farmer’s Income” prepared in 14 Volumes… The above volumes may be downloaded for review by all interested stakeholders.With great optimisation of an Income Revolution for India’s farmers...”Volume 8 has four sub-volumes. The smallest volume is No. 10 (‘Risk Management in Agriculture’; 124 pages) and the largest is No. 8D (‘Production Enhancement through Productivity Gains’; 333 pages). Altogether, the 14 volumes have 3,156 single-spaced pages. The biggest stakeholders are the farmers. How can anyone expect farmers to read and digest information from 3,156 pages full of bureaucratic jargon? Let alone farmers, I doubt if many agricultural scientists and policy-makers have read all these volumes.In Volume 12 (‘Science for Doubling Farmers’ Income’), the committee stated, “At the national level, the priority areas to target doubling of farmers’ income, though Science and Technology could be:a. Farmers’ database — as recommended in Volume 13, to build a dynamic database and ensure targeted and efficient delivery of support to farmers, and to assist specialised extension services.b. Credit availability — to provide greater coverage under Kisan Credit Cards, including crops, fishers and livestock farmers, and universal access to post-harvest pledge loans.c. Market efficiency — to provide market intelligence through demand & price forecasting.d. Extension system — to standardise information, integration of effort among stakeholders and maximise coverage to reach all farmers.e. Resource use efficiency — specifically to improve soil and water management.f. Sustainability and productivity gains — to improve yields and broad-base the production while suiting regional ecological strengths.”The intriguing phrase in the above statement is “could be,” indicating that the committee was not certain whether the six priority areas they listed would do the miracle of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. How can such a programme succeed when the committee was so tentative in proposing the six priority areas?The committee listed the following five as essential ‘pillars’ for doubling farmers’ income and sustaining a steady income growth in the long run: increasing productivity as a route to higher production; reduced cost of production/cultivation; optimal monetisation of the produce; sustainable production technology; risk negotiation all along the agricultural value chain. You don’t need a committee to come up with such obvious interventions.Agricultural scientists have continually pointed out that crop productivity has reached a plateau for various reasons, especially in the food-bowl states of Punjab, Haryana and western UP, where, encouraged by governmental policies, the rice-wheat monoculture has been prevalent for the past 50 years. While costs of agricultural inputs have been increasing significantly year after year, farmers have been getting only incremental increases in the minimum support price (MSP) for the two crops. The Swaminathan Commission made a modest recommendation of providing MSP of 50% over and above the total input costs incurred by the farmer. This has not been done. In addition, sorely needed crop diversification has remained elusive despite the fact that the water aquifers in the food-bowl states are running dry because of the rice-wheat monoculture.Merely the creation of a national database is not going to double or enhance farmers’ income. Here are some suggestions to enhance their income:The author is former VC, PAU, Ludhiana, and Adjunct Professor, Kansas State UniversitySend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agriculture-national-database-digital-divide-can-make-exercise-self-defeating-294983
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to cover 8.5 lakh farming families under health insurance scheme||The Punjab government has decided to bring nearly 8.5 lakh farmers and their families under the ambit of the health insurance cover for the year 2021-22.All the farmers having ‘J’ forms and ‘sugarcane weighment slips’ would be eligible for this health scheme.‘J’ forms are needed for availing finance, subsidy claims and tax waivers.To facilitate the farmers to apply for this scheme in the easiest way, the Punjab Mandi Board has launched a dedicated portal for first time from this year.Now, the farmers need not to visit market committee office to apply manually as was the case earlier. The interested farmers can simply apply on Mandi Board’s portal, www.emandikaran-pb.in, uploading related documents, said an official statement on Sunday quoting Punjab Mandi Board Chairman Lal Singh.Singh added that the Board would pay the entire premium for the insurance cover of all the farmers, who will get cashless treatment facility up to Rs 5 lakh per annum.He further said all these farmers and their families will now be covered with effect from August 20, 2021.He also informed that the number of farmers covered under the health insurance scheme during the last year of the scheme stood at around 5.01 lakh based on ‘J’ forms and ‘sugarcane weighment slips’.Now, the number of farmers has reached nearly 8.5 lakh, with 7.91 lakh farmers having ‘J’ forms registered with the Mandi Board and 55,000 cane growers, he added.Singh also said these 5.01 lakh farmers, who have already been registered under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana last year, need not re-apply on portal. They will be extended the benefit for the next year based on earlier documents, but remaining nearly 3.5 lakh farmers registered as ‘J’ form holders and ‘sugarcane weighment slips’ after October 1, 2020, would have to apply on portal for availing health Insurance.The Market Committees have also been directed to facilitate every farmer, in case he needs any help to avail this cashless treatment facility in a seamless manner, he said.Meanwhile, Mandi Board Secretary Ravi Bhagat said the eligible farmers can apply online on portal to avail the health facilities from empaneled hospitals from August 20 this year.He further said that apart from the family head, husband/wife, father/mother, unmarried children, divorced daughter and her minor children, widowed daughter-in-law and her minor children would also be considered eligible to derive benefit under the scheme.These farmers can approach any of the 642 empanelled private hospitals and 208 government hospitals for treatment facility of up to Rs 5 lakh for 1,579 diseases.Under the health insurance scheme, medical conditions including major surgical treatments such as heart surgery, cancer treatment, joint replacement and accident cases, among others, are covered. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-cover-8-5-lakh-farming-families-under-health-insurance-scheme-294873
09-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Rs 20-crore wheat ‘missing’ from 8 Amritsar godowns||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Over 87,100 quintals of wheat, worth Rs 20 crore, have reportedly gone missing from eight godowns in Jandiala Guru block of Amritsar.Besides, thousands of tonnes of wheat meant for distribution among poor in 15 villages there for the past year and a half, too, has allegedly not reached the intended beneficiaries and is believed to have been embezzled.Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Food & Supplies MinisterAction will be takenI have ordered the strictest possible action against all accused. I have also recommended their dismissal and suspension based on their role.An FIR was registered against Jasdev Singh, an Inspector in the Food and Supply Department, late last night at Jandiala Guru. Now absconding, he is believed to have left the country last week. Jasdev was given the charge of eight godowns in Jandiala Guru, against the norm of an Inspector being in charge of one (and in rare cases two) godowns. He was also not posted out in the past four and a half years. “Surprisingly, his supervisors — the Assistant Food Supplies Officer, District Food Supplies Officer, District Food Supplies Controller and the Deputy Director (Jalandhar Division) — too did not conduct any physical verification of wheat stocks in the eight godowns under Jasdev’s supervision,” confirmed a senior officer. “The role of these officers, for their lack of supervision, will also be examined and action taken against them,” he added.Jasdev’s role came under scanner when he exited the official WhatsApp group and suddenly disappeared on July 31, after a rake of wheat from a godown under his supervision was to be filled and sent to another beneficiary state.“Immediately, teams of officials headed by the chief vigilance officer of the department were constituted and they decided to verify the stocks. It was found that 1,93,343 bags of wheat were missing. We have to inquire whether he sold the missing bags in the open market or he connived with certain commission agents and indulged in bogus billing of wheat (showing stocks were purchased on paper, when no stocks were physically purchased, and money to be given under MSP was siphoned),” a top official investigating the case told The Tribune. Residents of 15 villages in Jandiala Guru had repeatedly complained to Amritsar district officials, alleging that eligible beneficiaries had not received the free wheat under the National Food Security Act, which was also under Jasdev’s supervision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-20-crore-wheat-missing-from-8-amritsar-godowns-294479
