10-08-2021||New Delhi||Amarinder hosts dinner in Delhi for select Punjab MPs||A day after senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal hosted dinner for leaders cutting across party lines, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday held a similar event for party MPs and leaders from Punjab.Those present at Amarinder Singh’s dinner include former Union Minister Manish Tewari, who is part of ‘G-23’ bloc of party leaders who have sought wide-ranging reforms in the Congress, former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar, MPs Santokh Chaudhry, and Preneet Kaur (the Chief Minister’s wife), and few ministers from Punjab.Read alsoHowever, Rajya Sabha members Pratap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo were not present as both are considered from the opposite camp.On the significance of the dinner, party sources say that Amarinder Singh is trying to fortify himself ahead of crucial state elections and muster support for himself.The dinner came hours after Amarinder Singh met party interim chief Sonia Gandhi, in their first meeting after Navjot Singh Sidhu was appointed the Congress chief in Punjab despite the Chief Minister’s opposition.Their meeting lasted an hour, and sources said the two leaders discussed the Assembly elections scheduled next year, besides talking about a minor reshuffle in the state cabinet.The Punjab Chief Minister then met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, from whom he demanded more Central forces be deployed in the state ahead of Independence Day. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-hosts-dinner-in-delhi-for-select-punjab-mps-295783
10-08-2021||---||Punjab CM seeks 25 CAPF companies, anti-drone gadgets for BSF from Amit Shah||New Delhi, August 10Amid escalating threat to the state’s security from across the border, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday asked Union Home Minister Amit Shah to urgently provide 25 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and anti-drone gadgets for the Border Security Force (BSF) for protection from Pak-backed terror forces.Citing the recent heavy influx of weapons, hand-grenades and IEDs into the state, with Pakistan’s ISI also raising the ante ahead of the Independence Day and in the run-up to the Punjab Assembly polls, the Chief Minister told Shah at a meeting here this evening that the security situation was grave and needed the Centre’s immediate intervention.Capt Amarinder sought from the Union Home Minister CAPF deployment for Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali, Patiala, Bathinda, Phagwara and Moga, as well as anti-drone technology for the BSF deployed at the borders. He pointed to the potent threat to the security of vital infrastructure/installations and public meetings/events being attended by highly threatened individuals.Citing inputs from central and state agencies, corroborated by disclosures made by arrested terrorists, Capt Amarinder said potential individual and mass indiscriminate targets include trains, buses and Hindu temples, prominent Kisan leaders (specific inputs about 5 such farmer leaders had been received but they had refused to take security offered by Punjab and Haryana police), RSS Shakhas/Offices, RSS/BJP/Shiv Sena leaders based in Punjab, Deras, Nirankari Bhawans and Samagams.The Chief Minister apprised Shah about the recent efforts by Pakistan’s ISI and the country’s establishment to push large quantities of weapons, hand-grenades, RDX explosive, detonators, timer devices, sophisticated laboratory made tiffin bombs into Punjab for carrying out terrorist acts. “With the Punjab Assembly elections scheduled for February-March 2022, many militant and radical operatives are being pressurized by the ISI to carry out terrorist actions. These are very serious and worrisome developments having huge security implications for the border state and its people,” he warned.He reminded the Home Minister about the earlier targeted killings masterminded by the ISI, including that of RSS/Shiv Sena/Dera leaders and RSS Shakhas, in 2016, ahead of the last Assembly polls. Also, the Maur bomb blast on January 31 2017 was carried out just three days prior to the polling day on February 4, 2017, he noted.The Chief Minister told Shah that between July 4 and August 8, 2021, foreign based pro-Khalistani entities, working in close collaboration with the ISI, had managed to induct over 30 pistols, one MP4 Rifle, one AK-47 Rifle, around 35 hand-grenades, sophisticated laboratory made tiffin bombs, over 6 Kg RDX and assorted hardware for fabrication of IEDs (9 detonators, 1 multiple timer device and fuse-wire). He further informed Shah that inthe last 35 days, more than 17 deliveries of weapons, hand-grenades, explosives and assorted IED fabrication hardware had come to the notice of the Punjab Police and the central agencies, which meant that consignments of weapons/hand-grenades/IEDs were delivered to Punjab based terror operatives on every 2nd day in July with the trend continuing in August.The Chief Minister further observed that the fencing at the Indo-Pak border in Punjab had been rendered ineffective as a result of the tremendous capacity and expertise developed by the ISI and Pakistan based Khalistani terrorist outfits, which allows them to use drones for delivery of terrorist hardware and drugs over the border fence into Punjab with ease. This, he stressed, had emerged as a serious national security concern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-seeks-25-capf-companies-anti-drone-gadgets-for-bsf-from-amit-shah-295771
10-08-2021||---||Punjab CM presses Amit Shah to repeal farm laws and break prolonged imbroglio||New Delhi, August 10 Citing social, economic and security implications of the prolonged farmers’ agitation, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday pressed Union Home Minister Amit Shah for immediate repeal of the Farm Laws, which had caused great resentment amongst farmers from Punjab and other states.Expressing concern over the fear of inimical powers from across the border trying to exploit the resentment and disgruntlement against the Government, the Chief Minister sought and enduring and expeditious solution to the farmers’ concerns.The Chief Minister said protests have been going on in Punjab ever since the Union Government issued the ordinances in June 2020. “While these protests have so far been largely peaceful, one can sense rising tempers, especially as the State moves towards elections in early 2022,” he warned.The prolonged agitation is not only impacting economic activities in Punjab but also has the potential to affect its social fabric, especially when political parties and groups take strong positions, he added.Citing reports, the Chief Minister said more than 400 farmers and farm workers had laid their lives in their fight for their rights since the agitation shifted to the Delhi borders.He recalled that that he had even earlier sought appointment from Shah to meet with an All-Party delegation from Punjab.Amarinder also flagged the urgent need to compensate farmers for the management of paddy straw at the rate of Rs 100 per quintal and to address the growing fear of shortage of DAP, which would further aggravate the problems of farmers.He urged Shah to immediately advise the officials of the Fertilizers department for enhanced allocation of DAP stocks to Punjab as per the revised demand by the State and to further direct the suppliers to ensure that adequate supplies are given as per schedule.Pointing to the recent increase in the cost of phosphatic fertilizers subsumed by the Government of India into the subsidy only till October 31, 2021, the Chief Minister said that the firming up of DAP prices in the international market and the uncertainty about the extent of subsidy were contributing immensely to an apprehension of a likely shortfall of DAP in the ensuing Rabi season. The lack of response from the DAP suppliers to the tenders floated by MARKFED for the purchase of DAP for pre-positioning has further aggravated these apprehensions, he added.As a result of difficulties being faced by MARKFED to arrange DAP supplies through tendering, the State Government has requested the Department of Fertilizers to make an additional allocation of at least 3.5 lac MTs of DAP on a priority basis till October, and another 1.5 lac MTs of DAP up to 15th November, 2021, so as to ensure timely availability of DAP for sowing of wheat in the state, the Chief Minister informed Shah. He said that the state government had already requested an additional allocation of 0.75 LMT in August and 1.5 LMT in September, over and above its original Kharif demand of 0.80 LMT and 0.75 LMT during August and September 2021 respectively. The enhanced allocation for August had not been approved so far, he added.The timely availability of DAP would greatly help in reducing panic buying and black marketing, which would bring a bad name to both the State and the Central Governments, Captain Amarinder further said.Pertinently, Punjab requires 5.5 Lakh MT of DAP for the forthcoming Rabi season. About 50% of the total requirement is supplied through cooperative societies in the state. Since the consumption of DAP is mostly limited to a short period from the last week of October to the third week of November, when about 80% of the area under wheat is sown, it is necessary to preposition DAP in different parts of the State by the middle of October to avoid any last-minute shortage and resultant delay in sowing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-presses-amit-shah-to-repeal-farm-laws-and-break-prolonged-imbroglio-295768
10-08-2021||PK Jaiswar ||J-K couple dies in road mishap on Amritsar-Pathankot road||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, August 10A couple from Jammu and Kashmir died while their two children were injured in a road mishap near Sohian village on Amritsar-Pathankot road on Tuesday morning.The incident occurred when a school bus jumped over a divider on the highway and went on the other side hitting the car in which the victims were travelling.The victims were returning home after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple here.The deceased were identified as Narinder Pal Singh (45) and wife Gurpreet Kaur (42).SI Naresh Kumar, in-charge of Sohian police chowki, said investigation was under progress. He said the family of the deceased had been sounded. The two children of the couple also sustained injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/j-k-couple-dies-in-road-mishap-on-amritsar-pathankot-road-295719
10-08-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda woman consumes poison with her son, daughter; case filed||A one-year-old boy on Tuesday died after his mother allegedly poisoned him. After this, she poisoned her three-year-old daughter, and then took the toxic substance herself at Mandi Kalan Village at Bathinda district.The three-year-old girl is struggling for her life.Even the condition of the mother is "serious, and she along with her daughter are undergoing treatment at a private hospital here".Ballianwali police have registered a case of murder against the mother.The one-year-old deceased boy has been identified as Gurpreet Singh. "An investigation is underway. The reason behind this remains unknown," the police said.Jagtar Singh—a resident of Mandi Kalan Village—told the police that he was married to Manpreet Kaur four years ago. Now, he has two children. When he returned from work two days ago, his wife was beating his daughter. She was also "threatening to kill the children bygiving them poison".On Sunday, his wife went through with it. She poisoned both the children and "swallowed the poison herself".As soon as he came to know, he reached home and rushed all three to the Civil Hospital, Rampura, where the doctors referred them to Bathinda. His one-year-old son Gurpreet Singh died on the way, while three-year-old daughter Husanpreet Kaur and his wife Manpreet Kaur are under treatment at the hospital.Meanwhile, Investigating Officer ASI Kuldeep Singh said that based on the statement of Jagtar Singh, a case of murder has been registered against Manpreet Kaur and the next action has been started.The woman will be arrested on release from the hospital. A case under sections 302, 207 and 309 of IPC has been registered against the accused mother Manpreet Kaur at Ballianwali police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-woman-consumes-poison-with-her-son-daughter-case-filed-295708
10-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Badshah drops 'Bachpan Ka Pyaar' teaser, featuring 10-year-old internet sensation Sahdev Dirdo: 'Ab poora suno'||Rapper Badshah dropped the teaser of his latest song 'Bachpan Ka Pyaar', featuring the internet sensation Sahdev Dirdo.Badshah took to Instagram and shared a short clip of the song. He announced the release date of August 11, 2021.The collaboration features Sahdev Dirdo, and Badshah, along with singer Aastha Gill and musician Rico.“Ab poora suno”, the rapper captioned the post.A post shared by BADSHAH (@badboyshah)  For the unversed, Sahdev Dirdo is the young boy who became an overnight session on social media after a video of him singing ‘Bachpan ka Pyar’ went viral.Hailing from Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district, the 10-year-old boy has also been felicitated by Chattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badshah-drops-bachpan-ka-pyaar-teaser-featuring-10-year-old-internet-sensation-sahdev-dirdo-ab-poora-suno-295698
10-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill, Sidharth Shukla spotted having coffee in matching pink t-shirts during Lonavala trip; Sidnaaz fans put 'kala teeka' on them||Rumoured couple Shehnaaz Gill and Sidharth Shukla were spotted in Lonavala. The former Bigg Boss stars were seen wearing matching pink shirts while they grabbed large cups of coffee.As their fans adorably address them, Sidnaaz were seen taking a walk outside a coffee shop and later, without their masks on, hanging out by a car.Neither of them have shared any pictures from their Lonavala trip on their social media accounts.Fans of the rumoured couple posted pictures of them on the microblogging website. A few fans also mentioned that they saw them with his family at the holiday spot."She's with his family. She's with their family. They are a family. One single happy unit the Shuklas are. This hit right in the feels," wrote one."These two pics made my day and night," wrote another, sharing an artistic recreation of the couple's photos.From matching clothes on WKW to matching clothes while going out together, we have honestly come a long way!🤧These two beautiful persons who showed me the beauty of love are happy together & I can't be happier!❤️🥺#SidNaaz pic.twitter.com/jbzBz2ndvS  "Must put kala teekas for hamare bass hamare #SidNaaz (Must save our SidNaaz from evil eye)," wrote another. "From matching clothes on WKW (weekend ka war) to matching clothes while going out together, we have honestly come a long way! These two beautiful persons who showed me the beauty of love are happy together and I can't be happier," wrote another.Coffe dekho unke hath mn😭Hot coffe for Sidharth and Cold Coffee for Shehnaaz#SidNaaz pic.twitter.com/AJh9zupWNp||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shehnaaz-gill-sidharth-shukla-spotted-having-coffee-in-matching-pink-t-shirts-during-lonavala-trip-sidnaaz-fans-put-kala-teeka-on-them-295686
10-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kapil Sharma reveals Akshay Kumar 'touched his feet' for blessings; 'Bellbottom' star has the best comeback||The announcement of 'The Kapil Sharma Show' returning has taken the internet by the storm. Now, the promo clip has surfaced, revealing the guest star of the premiere episode of the second season.It is none other than Bollywood star Akshay Kumar.Akshay will be seen promoting his upcoming film 'Bellbottom'. The movie is set to release on August 19 in theatres.Taking to Instagram, Kapil shared a photo of Akshay from the sets of the comedy talk show.The picture shows, Akshay reaching for Kapil's feet.Sharing the picture, Kapil hilariously wrote in Hindi, which translates to: “Popular movie actor Akshay Kumar taking blessings for his upcoming film BellBottom.”See Kapil's post here:A post shared by Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma)  Responding to this, Akshay brutally trolls the comedian by writing in Hindi, “And after taking the blessing, this is Mr Akshay Kumar searching for Mr Kapil Sharma’s brain in his knees.”The makers recently launched the first promo of The Kapil Sharma Show, and it saw the presence of Krushna Abhishek, Kiku Sharda, Bharti Singh, Chandan Prabhakar, Sudesh Lehri and Archana Puran Singh.Jaise pata chala show par aa raha hoon, best wishes bheji uske pehle nahi. Milkar teri khabar leta hoon. https://t.co/60nI55ET4C||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapil-sharma-reveals-akshay-kumar-touched-his-feet-for-blessings-bellbottom-star-has-the-best-comeback-295683
10-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana man shoots at wife, mother-in-law||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 10A man shot at his wife and mother-in-law here on Tuesday morning.Neighbours admitted the two to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where their condition is said to be critical.The accused fled the spot after committing the crime.According to information, Jaswinder Singh lived with wife Jaspreet Kaur at Patel Nagar. The two had a fight on Monday night over some issue. Following this, at 6 am on Tuesday he shot at his wife. Then he went to Pratap Nagar and shot at his mother-in-law, Vandana.Hearing the sound of gun shots, neighbours admitted Jaspreet to hospital. Cops patrolling near the place where the mother-in-law was shot at heard the gun shots and rushed Vandana to hospital.According to the police in-charge of the Haibowal, the accused is absconding.Police said it is not clear whether the accused used his licensed weapon. What triggered these events could be known once the injured regained consciousness, they added.The accused is said to be an ex-lecturer at a college, who was currently unemployed.After shooting at his wife and mother-in-law, Jaswinder allegedly went to Nurmahal in Jalandhar where he "shot dead" the alleged paramour of his wife. He had a scuffle with his wife over this issue on Monday night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-man-shoots-at-wife-mother-in-law-295682
10-08-2021||Ottawa||Canada to extend ban on arriving passenger flights from India||Canada will extend its ban on arriving passenger flights from India to September 21 because of the risks posed by Covid-19, the federal transport ministry said in a statement on Monday.The ban was first imposed on April 22 and has already been rolled over several times. The measure does not apply to cargo flights or medical transfers. — Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canada-to-extend-ban-on-arriving-passenger-flights-from-india-295681
10-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar: Hearing-impaired boy fights all odds, scores 92% in Class X||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9Even though learning from home during the pandemic was difficult for almost all students, it came out to be a huge trouble for Ananya Anand, a hearing challenged boy who has just passed out Class X from CBSE-affiliated Cambridge International Co-Ed School. But he beat all odds to score 92 per cent and scoring cent per cent in two subjects - Food Technology and Painting.Since Ananya uses cochlear implants and tries to comprehend a lot from the lip movement of the speaker, attending online classes on using audio mode became very difficult for him. Attending a normal school since the beginning, it was an entirely different situation for him that too at a point when his studies were at a crucial juncture.It was at this moment that he needed a lot of help from his mother and mentor Priti Anand. She sat with him for all his online school and tuition classes so that she could clearly grasp what was being said and later explain it all to her son. “My son is very intelligent as far as mathematics calculations and logical understanding are involved. He scored 98 per cent in IT and 91 in mathematics. His only problem is language and its expression. He scored less in English. We got him exemption from taking the second language, science and social studies and hence we had to get his subjects changed”, says Priti, who resides at Vijay Nagar here.She shared how the last few days were very worrisome for her. “On August 3, when the CBSE declared the Class X results, we too had some anxious moments. We knew that the result would be good and we opened the portal with much excitement. We tried to re-open it several times but his result was not showing. We approached the school authorities and they asked us to contact the CBSE office. They told us that there could be a problem in proper uploading of his marks from the school side and that we should get it all clarified from the school. The school then sent the CBSE office a mail. It all took some days and finally we got Ananya’s result day before.”Priti says that Ananya has already taken admission in Class XII in humanities stream with web development as a subject. “My son is very fond of using gadgets and is very good at it. He wants to pursue web development and painting as his passions. But he ultimately wants to join his father Lalit Anand’s business in sports goods trading. He says that whenever he will get into it, he will re-organise it in a better way and make it grow further,” she said pointing to her son’s immaculately arranged study table and book shelf. “He is himself very organised and disciplined and cannot see anyone else creating mess around,” she points out.Priti says that she is able to devote her full day to Ananya owing to a huge support of his grandparents Baldev Raj Anand and Vinod Rani Anand. “Ananya was 10 months old when we got to know of his hearing problem. We had to take him around to doctors and get the cochlear implants done. Ever since they both have taken a very good care of him and even ensured that there is a full-time helper at home so that I can spend all my time with my son. We had decided that we will send him to a normal school. Cambridge School, which has special educators and arrangement for taking special one-to-one classes also for the children, also came as a big boost,” she acknowledged the efforts of the authorities. Ananya has a sister, Mannat, who is a year younger to him. Both share a special bonding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-hearing-impaired-boy-fights-all-odds-scores-92-in-class-x-295665
10-08-2021||Amritsar||Patwari Exam: SGPC forms committee to investigate harassment of Gursikh candidates||The SGPC has formed a committee to investigate the issue of forcing Gursikh candidates to remove the kakaars (Sikh religious symbols) before taking the exam of patwari recruitment held by the Punjab Government at a college in Sector 32, Chandigarh, recently.The committee under the leadership of SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka, included SGPC executive committee members.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said it was unfortunate that the sentiments of Gursikh candidates were hurt. “The perpetrators of this objectionable act should be severely punished. The SGPC committee will contact the victims and submit a report of the entire episode,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patwari-exam-sgpc-forms-committee-to-investigate-harassment-of-gursikh-candidates-295324
10-08-2021||---||Kisan morcha forms panel to bury hatchet with Gurnam Singh Charuni||Sonepat, August 9The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint forum of protesting farmer unions on the Delhi borders, has constituted a five-member committee comprising farmer leaders of five states to resolve the differences cropped up Gurnam Singh Charuni.Charuni, a farmer leader, had threatened to boycott the meetings after he accused other leaders of the forum of ignoring him and his supporters on Saturday.Sources said the issue arose after leaders of four farmer groups from Punjab, who were attending a general body meeting of the SKM, were asked to leave it by leaders of 32 groups from Punjab, claiming that they were not part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.In protest, Charuni also left the meeting and released a video, which also went viral on social media, they said.The kisan morcha constituted a committee of five members — Ranjeet Singh ‘Raju’ of Rajasthan, Balbir Singh Rajewal of Punjab, Inderjeet Singh of Haryana, Atamjeet Singh, Ghazipur border and Virender Dagar of Delhi - to start dialogues with Charuni.A senior farmer leader said informal dialogues had also been started by a sub-committee of Haryana farmer groups with him and the five-member committee would start talks soon.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had suspended Gurnam Singh Charuni for seven days in July over his statements to launch the ‘Mission Punjab’.The trigger||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kisan-morcha-forms-panel-to-bury-hatchet-with-gurnam-singh-charuni-295631
10-08-2021||Dipender Manta||Chandigarh-Manali highway full of potholes, hoteliers upset||Tribune News ServiceMandi, August 9Hoteliers of Kullu and Manali are upset with the poor condition of the Chandigarh-Manali national highway, which has affected their business in the past few years.The highway is full of potholes between Sundernagar and Pandoh in Mandi district due to the ongoing work of the Kiratpur-Manali road widening project. The road stretch between Mandi and Pandoh has become prone to landslides due to deep cutting of hills in the area.The highway has remained blocked due to frequent landslides during this rainy season. The damaged highway has become a death trap for motorcyclists, especially those travelling during night, as they fail to negotiate potholes.Rajender Mohan, a councillor of the Municipal Corporation Mandi, has also raised the issue with the district administration. He has urged the Deputy Commissioner to ask the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to repair and maintain the road to avoid fatal accidents.Tourists facing inconvenienceThere is urgent need to accomplish the construction work of the highway in the stipulated time. Due to the poor condition of the highway, tourists travelling to Kullu and Manali are being inconvenienced. —Hem Raj Sharma, HotelierHem Raj Sharma, a hotelier in Manali town, says, “There is urgent need to accomplish the construction work of the highway in the stipulated time. Due to the poor condition of the highway, tourists travelling to Kullu and Manali are being inconvenienced. It takes them long hours to reach Manali, making the journey cumbersome”.Anup Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association Manali, says, “The state and Central governments should ask the authorities concerned to speed up the construction work on the highway and complete it in a time-bound manner. Due to the delay in the completion of the road project, the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali is suffering”.“Kullu and Manali lack good air connectivity because of the delay in the expansion of the Bhuntar airport. As a result, the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali is facing difficulties in attracting high-end tourists. This road project is the lifeline of the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali and we are waiting desperately for its completion,” he adds.Naveen Mishra, Director of the NHAI in Mandi, says that efforts are being made to complete the project in time. “We are hopeful that the highway stretch between Sundernagar and Nerchowk will be completed by November this year, while the stretch between Nerchowk and Pandoh will take at least one year because of the tough terrain”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chandigarh-manali-highway-full-of-potholes-hoteliers-upset-295367
10-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar: Bhangra, gala feast await Mithapur hockey stars||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9“We will welcome our sons with bhangra.” This is how parents plan to receive the hockey heroes upon their arrival at Mithapur village here on Wednesday. The men’s hockey team landed in New Delhi today after winning the bronze medal in the Tokyo Olympics.The team received a grand welcome as a huge rush of admirers cheered for the players. Skipper Manpreet Singh called up mother Manjit Kaur and told her he was going straightaway to the hotel as there was a huge crowd. “I felt so proud to see admirers gather just to have a glimpse of the players,” she said.Manpreet, Varun Kumar and Mandeep Singh hail from the village, where the families have planned a grand celebration upon their arrival.A common celebration will be held where the players will be welcomed into the village amid drum beats and dancing. A lavish feast awaits them later.The parents will first head to Amritsar to receive the players. An event to facilitate the players has been planned at the PAP. In the evening, they will reach Mithpaur and then the celebrations will begin.Asked whether she had some special food planned for Manpreet, Manjit Kaur said: “I will prepare whatever he likes.” Varun’s family, on the other hand, has already decided on the menu. “There will be curry and paranthas. He has never been fussy about eating. But he loves these, so my wife will make his favourite food,” said his father Brahma Nand.Mandeep’s father Ravinder Singh said his son rang him up to enquire if they would be there to receive him at the airport. “Why not, we are all ready, I told him,” said Ravinder, adding his relatives would reach the village in the morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-bhangra-gala-feast-await-mithapur-hockey-stars-295334
10-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Five hockey stars of Amritsar to offer prayers at Golden Temple before heading home||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Five hockey stars of Amritsar, who were part of men’s and women’s national teams, will be given a warm welcome upon their arrival. They are likely to land at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport on August 11.Homes decked upThe five players are Shamsher Singh of Attari village, Dilpreet Singh of Butala village, Gurjant Singh of Khaliara village, Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village and Gurjit Kaur, drag flicker from Miadi Kalan village in Ajnala tehsil.Gurjant’s father Baldev Singh said after landing at the airport, the players would head to the Golden Temple to pay obeisance. The SGPC will felicitate them with ‘siropas’ and then they would proceed to their homes.The family members and villagers are gearing up to extend a rousing welcome. The family of Gurjit has got printed invitation cards for near and dear ones to welcome her when she arrives in the village. Dilpreet’s house at Butala village is beautifully decorated with lights to extend a heroic welcome upon the return of their son. Similar preparations are being made at the houses of Shamsher, Harmanpreet and Gurjant.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said a warm welcome would be extended to the local hockey players upon their arrival and the Sports Department was engaged in chalking out the plan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-hockey-stars-of-amritsar-to-offer-prayers-at-golden-temple-before-heading-home-295336
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Honour all, not just medallists: Sukhbir Badal||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today urged the Centre and state governments “to fully acknowledge and honour the contribution of each and every player in addition to the medal winners at the Tokyo Olympics”.He said the governments must not make the mistake of playing to the gallery by focusing on medallists alone. “We must not overlook the contribution of players who fought bravely,” the SAD president said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/honour-all-not-just-medallists-sukhbir-badal-295337
10-08-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh to meet Sonia Gandhi today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9Amid PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and his close associates stepping up pressure on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over implementing the party’s 18-point agenda, the latter will be meeting party president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday.Sidhu camp seeks time tooMinisters and legislators in PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s camp are also seeking time from the party high command to tell their side of the storyAll eyes on Cabinet rejigState party leaders are waiting curiously to know the high command's view on the Cabinet rejig. Capt Amarinder’s camp is hopeful of the CM getting a free hand in the rejigThis would be the first meeting of the Chief Minister with the Sonia after Sidhu’s elevation. Tuesday’s meeting has also kicked off political activities, with the hopefuls of Cabinet berths putting in their best efforts. “All eyes are now on Cabinet reshuffle ahead of the Assembly elections due early next year. It will clear the line of action, the party high command adopts,” said a senior party leader.Though both Capt Amarinder and Sidhu have talked of working as a team, palpable unease between the two exists. The Chief Minister is likely to brief the party president on the progress made on the 18-point agenda. Sources did not rule out the Chief Minister pointing out to the party president about the way things are being handled by Sidhu. On the other hand, ministers and MLAs in Sidhu camp are also seeking time from the party high command.Sources did not rule out changes of political strategist Prahant Kishor, who recently resigned as Principal Advisor to Chief Minister, playing a role in shaping up the team for the 2022 Assembly elections with Sidhu positioned as PCC chief.Over the past few days, Sidhu camp has adopted an aggressive posturing. Be it visiting the house of MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur or ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa and three MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Singh Kiki Dhillon distancing themselves from the assurance given by the Chief Minister that led to lifting of Bargari morcha (stir) over the 2015 sacrilege and police firing incidents. On the other hand, the Chief Minister is giving weightage to the detractors of the leaders in Sidhu camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-to-meet-sonia-gandhi-today-295339
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs case: Navjot Sidhu questions govt action on STF report submitted by ADGP Hapreet Sidhu before HC||PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu took to Twitter on Monday, questioning his government and the Punjab Police on the action taken over the STF report on drug trafficking submitted by ADGP Hapreet Sidhu before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Punish guiltyGovt must move a plea for preponing the opening of sealed reports to take the case to a logical conclusion and punish the guilty. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefWithout naming anyone, Sidhu in a series of tweets said: “Punishing culprits behind drug trade is Congress’s priority under 18-point agenda. What is the action taken on Majithia? While the government seeks extradition of NRIs linked to the same case. If further delayed, will bring resolution in Vidhan Sabha for making the reports public.”In February 2018, the STF headed by ADGP Sidhu had filed a “status report” in the High Court. “I held a press conference, asking the government to immediately act upon the information shared by the STF with court, after investigating incriminating evidence produced before the court by the ED,” he said, adding the court had asked the Punjab Government to proceed as per law on the STF report.On May 23, 2018, the government filed before court opinion-cum-status report, which still awaits the light of day, in a sealed envelope. Sidhu said no order had been passed by the court in two and a half years on that matter that impacted the lives of Punjab’s youth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-case-navjot-sidhu-questions-govt-action-on-stf-report-submitted-by-adgp-hapreet-sidhu-before-hc-295341
10-08-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s NGO had plan to build ‘banquet hall’ on gaushala land in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9Though Health Minister Balbir Sidhu has been claiming that there will be no other activity except keeping stray cattle on the 10-acre panchayat land allotted for a gaushala to his NGO, it has come to light that there was a plan to build a banquet hall on it.Never knew thisThe only proposal cited by the NGO for taking land from us was gaushala. There was no mention of either a banquet hall or a temple. Bahadur Singh, Balongi SarpanchMeant for poorThe plan to build a banquet hall was not for commercial activities, but functions to be held by the poor people. — Naresh Kansal, NGO General SecretaryLast week, the Health Minister had come in the eye of the storm when over 10 acres of prime land of Balongi panchayat in Mohali was allocated to Bal Gopal Gau Basera Welfare Society, an NGO registered at his Mohali residence address. The minister is also president of the NGO.The minister had claimed that the land would solely be used to take care of stray cattle and there will be no other commercial activity on the premises. However, as per the documents in possession of The Tribune, there was a plan to build a banquet hall on the land. As per a resolution of the NGO prepared in October last year and signed by its general secretary Naresh Kansal, besides gaushala, mandir and diagnostic centre, building of a banquet hall was also part of the plan.Besides, it has been mentioned that trustees would bear the expenses of the building. Kansal claimed the banquet hall was to be built not for commercial activities, but the poor people so that they can hold their functions.However, neither the panchayat nor villagers are convinced with anything other than the gaushala. Balongi Sarpanch Bahadur Singh said the only proposal cited for taking the land from them was gaushala. “There was no mention of either banquet hall or a temple,” he said.Under the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act 1961 there is no provision to build any religious establishment on the panchayat land. All attempts to contact the Health Minister remained futile as his staff refused to connect to him. The land in Balongi was allotted on 33 years lease to the society at Rs 25,000 per acre annually, much lower than the prevailing market rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhus-ngo-had-plan-to-build-banquet-hall-on-gaushala-land-in-mohali-295343
10-08-2021||---||High alert as ‘tiffin bomb’ found in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9A week ahead of the Independence Day celebrations, a high alert has been sounded in Punjab following the recovery of an improvised explosive device (IED) concealed in a tiffin box along with five hand grenades and 100 rounds of 9mm pistol from Daleke village in Lopoke, Amritsar.‘Dropped’ by droneReport suspicious activityPeople must remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity or article lying in trains, buses, eateries, etc. to the police helpline numbers 112 or 181. — Dinkar Gupta, Director General of policeChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who is slated to hoist the Tricolour in Amritsar, has been flagging the designs of cross-border agencies to foment trouble in the state.DGP Dinkar Gupta, addressing a press conference here today, said following inputs regarding drone activity in the area of border villages, including Daleke, Bachiwind and Shohra, a massive combing operation, led by Amritsar SSP Rural Gulneet Singh, was launched on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The police team recovered a bag from the fields carrying a double-decker children’s lunch box and other ammunition packed meticulously in soft foam. Preliminary investigations indicated the bag was dropped through a drone, which crossed the border into India, he said. The target of the bomb was yet to be ascertained, said the DGP.Police teams secured the bag and a team of the National Security Guards (NSG) was called in. It confirmed the presence of 2-3 kg of RDX in the tiffin box, which had been fabricated into an IED.“The RDX was placed in the tiffin box in such a sophisticated manner that it has three different mechanisms — switch, magnet and spring — for operational flexibility,” said the DGP, adding further investigations were on.The DGP said a high alert had been sounded across the state. He cautioned people to remain vigilant and report any suspicious article or activity to the police. “Police can be reached at 112 or 181 helpline numbers,” he added.An FIR had been registered under Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, and 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act at the Lopoke police station in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-alert-as-tiffin-bomb-found-in-amritsar-295344
10-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Tiffin bomb: Hunt on for co-plotters; combing ops under way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Following the seizure of a tiffin bomb, hand grenades and RDX from a bag dropped using drones from across the International Border at Bachiwind village, the police were trying to identify the forward links of Pakistan-based anti-national elements for whom the explosives were meant.The police launched a combing operation, led by DSP Gurinderpal Singh Nagara and DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota besides other officials, after information regarding movement of drones in the border village was received, leading to the recovery of explosives from the riverine area of Daleke- Beharwal village.SSP Gulneet Khuranna said they got a tip off from a former sarpanch of Bachiwind village about the movement of drones. “The dropping was made near the village, located 1.5 km from the border. It seems someone retrieved the bag and later abandoned it in the Daleke-Beharwal village area 2 km from spot,” he said, adding the operation was on to find if more such bags were dropped.The police was investigating the intended target of the explosives as Independence Day celebrations were round the corner. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was slated to unfurl the Tricolour in Amritsar on August 15.“We cannot pinpoint target at the moment. There are a number of military installations in the area. It was a chance recovery. Anybody could be the target,” said the SSP, adding security had been beefed up.Jagga Singh of Bachiwind village first noticed the drone movement and informed the former sarpanch. “I had gone to the fields to switch on the tubewell, when I noticed the drone,” he told. This is perhaps the first time that an improvised explosive device has been found to have been smuggled from across the border.Meanwhile, the NSG defused the IED while Punjab Police took the hand grenades, which would be defused by the bomb disposal squad of Punjab Armed Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tiffin-bomb-hunt-on-for-co-plotters-combing-ops-under-way-295345
10-08-2021||Pathankot||6 days on, no trace of pilots who went missing after helicopter crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam lake||Six days after the pilot and co-pilot of a Dhruv helicopter, belonging to the Mamun cantonment-based Army aviation unit, went missing after it crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake, Navy divers have yet to come up with any substantial findings relating to the missing persons or wreckage.The Army has taken the search operation in its hands and is not allowing anybody near the lake. The media, too, has been kept out of bounds. Even employees of the dam are not being allowed in the vicinity of the lake. Lt Col SS Bhatt and Capt Jayant Joshi have been missing since August 3, even as joint teams of the Army and Navy continue to look for the pilots and wreckage area.DC Sanyam Aggarwal and SSP Surendra Lamba said they were offering all assistance to the Army and Navy.Sources say the divers were facing an insurmountable task due to the depth of the lake. “It is spread over 85 sq km and at some places it is 125 metres deep. The divers have demarcated the area where the helicopter might have crashed. The chances of the machine getting trapped in slush and mud at the bottom of the lake are not being discounted,” said an officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-days-on-no-trace-of-pilots-who-went-missing-after-helicopter-crashed-into-ranjit-sagar-dam-lake-295346
10-08-2021||Aman Sood||Power pacts: Despite CM’s order, no White Paper yet||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 9Despite an assurance by CM Capt Amarinder Singh in the Vidhan Sabha in January 2020, a ‘White Paper’ on the ‘cost of power and power purchase agreements’ (PPAs) is still a mystery.Capt planned to present it in 2020Stop loot of exchequerUntil the power deals are cancelled, private power companies will continue to loot the treasury and the people of Punjab. — Harpal Cheema, Leader of oppositionSources within the government confirm that despite repeated attempts even by the government and Cabinet ministers, “a complete White Paper elaborating the faulty PPAs and the officers behind signing those” are yet to be submitted.“Without White Paper being made public, scrapping or revisiting PPAs serves no purpose. Till the same set of officers continues to stonewall the complete White Paper, nothing on scrapping of PPAs is possible,” they revealed.An official letter, in possession of The Tribune, by the CM on January 17, 2020, confirms that he had asked the then Additional Chief Secretary (Power) to ensure that the White Paper was ready to be presented in the Budget session of 2020. “I would like the White Paper to be presented in the next session, preferably in the next Budget session. The exercise may be initiated forthwith with the required diligence,” read an official note from the CM dispatched on January 20, 2020, from his office.A top minister said constant delays ensured that “no White Paper on power could be submitted or approved by the Cabinet for over a year after statement by the government in the Vidhan Sabha”. “Even the CM’s letter to the ACS could not ensure that the White Paper is ready to be presented in the House,” he said.A senior minister privy to the developments confirmed that almost a year later, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the CM, attended by four Cabinet ministers, Chief Secretary and the PSPCL CMD on March 23, 2021, to “discuss draft White Paper on power sector in Punjab”. However, the White Paper is yet to be made public. “Even after a year, the one under discussion was raw draft and did not have the names of anyofficer to be heldaccountable,” he added.A former chief engineer with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited said on the one hand the government admitted that the PPAs were faulty and needed to be revisited, but on the other, it was yet to “issue a White Paper with complete details of officers who were at the helm of affairswhen those were signed”.“As a result, consumers continue to pay high power tariff and every year private companies continue to win court battles and tribunal hearings due to faulty PPAs,” he said.There was no reply on the issue of White Paper from the CM’s office, while PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said it waswith the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-pacts-despite-cms-order-no-white-paper-yet-295348
10-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Dead gangsters ‘alive’ on FB||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 9Though many dreaded gangsters have been killed by the police in the past, groups and accounts in their name continue to run actively on Facebook.Operated from abroadWe’ve written to persons concerned to deactivate these accounts, most of which are operated from abroad... Selling weapons through social media is a serious issue. We’ll keep a check on it. — Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk, Bathinda SSPGangsters Lawrence Bishnoi Group and Sampat Nehra on their social media platforms have announced to take revenge of Vicky Middukhera murder. An account in the name of Nehra has posted: “Will take revenge of his murder by killing four for one.”Bishnoi group has posted: “Vicky Middukhera had no link with our criminal activities and whosoever is responsible for his killing, be prepared for his death.” A few days ago, a profile in the name of Vicky Gounder brothers had posted: “Brother Rana Kandowalia has been murdered. Whoever did this should get ready as we will take revenge.”A police official said: “Bishnoi and Nehra are popular among youngsters and to keep themselves relevant, they use social media to attract youth, who fall in the trap for easy money and fame.” Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk said most of the accounts in their names were being operated from abroad. “But we keep a track on such activities and have also written to persons concerned to deactivate these accounts. It’s a tedious task and the jurisdiction also plays a major role as most of the times these pages are operated from multiple locations,” he said.In violation of rules, some even brandish weapons on Facebook. In some of the posts on these gangsters’ profiles, several people have provided their contact numbers to sell weapons. The SSP said selling or supplying weapons through social media was a serious issue. “We will keep a check on this as well,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dead-gangsters-alive-on-fb-295350
10-08-2021||Archit Watts||Middukhera Murder: Revenge posts surface, Punjab cops fear gang war; vigil up||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 9The intelligence wing and organised crime control unit of the state police are on high alert as the chances of a gang war are reportedly high after the broad daylight murder of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky Middukhera, in Mohali on Saturday.It’s a personal loss: SukhbirCM must call all-party meet: AAPA few hours after Vicky’s death was confirmed, a post on the Facebook page in the name of gangster Davinder Bambiha had taken responsibility of the murder. On Sunday, two posts in the names of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and gangster Sampat Nehra vowed to avenge Vicky’s murder.Notably, the state government is already under fire over the present law and order situation and the state election are also due early next year. Further, these posts doing rounds on the social media have triggered panic among commoners.A farmer today requested the district administration to increase his quota to carry cartridges from 25 to 50, citing the present situation in the state. “Those living in the outskirts of villages are most vulnerable. So, we should be permitted to carry double the amount of cartridges for security reasons,” he said.A retired police officer, who closely watched such activities during his service, said: “Almost every month, one such horrific incident is taking place in the state. Most of these youngsters, who are involved in criminal activities, were once friends during their student life. Later, they split into separate groups and now running after each other. Most of them are fitness freak, well-connected and belong to well-off families. Just a few of them did not grow from student politics and directly entered the world of crime. Every time a gang acts, the other tries to react and the police try to thwart such incidents.”A senior police officer said: “Vicky had mass appeal among youngsters and friends in all political parties, who are sulking now. It is our duty to keep a watch on all developments. We have seen some Facebook posts related to Vicky’s murder as well.” Sources said the police had prepared a dossier of all those involved in major brawls recently and keeping a tab on their activities. “Independence Day is approaching and if a similar incident happens at this juncture, it will bring a bad name to the police. We have been told to increase vigil,” said sources in the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/middukhera-murder-revenge-posts-surface-punjab-cops-fear-gang-war-vigil-up-295352
10-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala teachers sans jab told to stay home||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 9Unvaccinated teachers will have to submit a negative Covid-19 report to enter the school, as per the directives issued by the Patiala District Education Officer (DEO) on Monday.All school heads have already been issued a letter in this regard by the DEO, instructing them to mark teachers absent if they showed up without the Covid-19 vaccination certificate. However, the Education Department said the step was aimed at curbing the spread of infection in schools.Alleging harassment, teachers said in the face of a mandatory three-month gap between two doses, some teachers had to wait for the second dose. Besides, a teacher who had recently tested positive for Covid-19 was not allowed to get the jab before three months, they said.Vikram Dev, state president, Democratic Teachers Front, said: “The orders should immediately be withdrawn as it amounts to harassment. The DEO is threatening us by saying we will be marked absent if we fail to submit a certificate.”Classes in government schools resumed last week after a long gap of Covid-induced closure.Harinder Kaur, District Education Officer, said: “The orders are for those who have not received even a single dose. We have to keep our students safe from the virus. Therefore, teachers should get vaccinated. Either they should get a report from Chief Medical Officer, stating reasons for not receiving vaccines or should not enter the school. They should take medical leave and sit home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-teachers-sans-jab-told-to-stay-home-295354
10-08-2021||GS Paul||10L lost jobs in tourism sector in Punjab due to Covid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Hit hard by the unprecedented circumstances due to Covid pandemic, the tourism industry is still struggling to survive.No recovery till traffic resumesThe industry will not recover till the air, road and rail connectivity resumes fully. — Gursharan Singh, Amritsar tourism officerAs per a study on “India and the Coronavirus Pandemic: Economic Losses for Households Engaged in Tourism and Policies for Recovery” conducted by the Ministry of Tourism, the tourist footfall in India is estimated to have plummeted by as much as 93.3 per cent in the first quarter (Q1) of 2020-21 as compared to the same quarter of the previous year. Though it picked up slightly, a fall of 79.5 per cent in second quarter (Q2) and 64.3 per cent in third quarter (Q3) has still been registered.Consequently, a significant number of jobs were lost in the tourism sector. In 2019-20, tourism had generated around 34.8 million jobs. Of these, 14.5 million jobs during Q1, 5.2 million during Q2 and 1.8 million jobs during Q3 were curtailed when lockdown was imposed.Assistant Professor Harpreet Singh of the Department of Hotel Management and Tourism, GNDU, said in another study conducted for Punjab tourism, an estimated one million jobs, directly or indirectly associated with allied hospitality services, had been lost due to travel restrictions and closure of dining and entertainment places.In Punjab, there are around 5,000 registered hotels and 3,000 unregistered hotels.Punjab Hotel Association president Satish Arora said 20-25 hotels in all districts had closed operations and 70 per cent had lost jobs. He said due to Covid-19, the hospitality industry suffered a monthly loss of around Rs 900 crore and the government, too, suffered a monthly loss of Rs 150 crore in the form of GST revenue.He said following the Covid-19 relaxation, 40 per cent jobs were created between June 15 and July 16, when marriage season was at peak. “At present, when marriage season has ended, only 25 per cent staff can be absorbed and the rest is laid off,” he said.District tourism officer Gursharan Singh said the industry would not recover till the air, road and rail connectivity resumed fully. Barring the Golden Temple, Durgiana Mandir or Ram Tirath, the average footfall at tourist places like Sadda Pind, Punjab War Heroes Memorial, Gobindgarh Fort and Partition Museum, the footfall has dropped significantly. Attari-Wagah Retreat ceremony is barred for spectators since March 2020 and Jallianwala Bagh, too, is closed since February 2020.APS Chatha, president of Amritsar Hotels and Restaurants Association, said there were around 850 hotels, guesthouses and lodges in Amritsar. “Occupancy increased near Golden Temple, but not in civil lines hotels. With hotels getting bankrupt, around 1.5 lakh have lost jobs as per our survey conducted on occupancy and staff strength,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10l-lost-jobs-in-tourism-sector-in-punjab-due-to-covid-pandemic-295355
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Caught in JCT land row, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation cancels pact with bidder, liquidator||Days after the auction of 31 acres of prime land of liquidated JCT Electronics in Mohali for Rs 90.56 crore to a private realtor triggered a controversy, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) has cancelled its tripartite agreement with the bidder and the official liquidator of the said property.Setback for AroraThe move is being seen as a setback for Industries Minister Sunder Shyam Arora, who had been justifying the auction despite facing flak from leaders within the party. The Opposition has been demanding his resignation over the issue.PSIEC had been asked to initiate the process to cancel the lease deed with the bidder and resume the plot, confirmed a senior government functionary. However, the government has not spelled out the action being initiated against the erring PSIEC officials.The PSIEC’s role has come under scanner for not staking Rs 161-crore claim as the unearned profit to be paid on the sale of property. It instead agreed to claim Rs 45.28 crore as 50 per cent of the sale value.The decision was taken in a meeting of the PSIEC Board of Directors, without referring the matter to the Finance Department or the Advocate General (AG) for the second opinion. The Finance Department, in its communication to the Managing Director, PSIEC, has made known its objection to the decision.Acting on of the advice of the Finance Department, which had sought legal opinion from the AG on the issue, the PSIEC has been asked to annul the tripartite agreement, cancel the lease deed and resume the property. The AG in his report submitted in June stated the state government had incurred a loss of nearly Rs 125 crore in the deal due to a casual approach by officials.Officials said the land was auctioned for Rs 90.58 crore to GRG Developers and Promoters. “Against a current market price of Rs 21,500 per sq yd quoted by the corporation in its claim, plots were being offered by the bidder at Rs 30,000 per sq yd. This means the land cost comes to over Rs 350 crore, whereas it has been auctioned for Rs 90.58 crore,” they pointed out. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caught-in-jct-land-row-punjab-small-industries-and-export-corporation-cancels-pact-with-bidder-liquidator-295356
10-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Probe possible role of bigwigs in missing wheat case: CVC Justice Mehtab Singh Gill||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9Two days after a report was carried in these columns on the alleged misappropriation of 80,000 quintals of wheat by an Inspector-rank official, Punjab Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) Justice Mehtab Singh Gill today made it clear to the state Vigilance Bureau that big fish should not escape the net of law.Don’t spare guiltyThe probe should go deeper to see if senior officers of the Food and Civil Supplies Department are also involved. No one should be spared. — Justice Mehtab Singh Gill, CVCIn a communication to the Vigilance Bureau Chief Director on “embezzlement of wheat from a godown in Jandiala Guru, Amritsar”, Justice Gill has asserted that the probe initiated in the matter should not revolve around Inspector Jasdev Singh alone and should go deeper.Going into the background of the matter, Justice Gill asserted the matter had been marked for probe to the bureau by the department. The embezzled wheat was worth approximately Rs 20 crore and was meant for distribution among the needy under the National Food Security Act and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana.Justice Gill also directed the forwarding of the order’s copy to Amritsar SSP, Vigilance Bureau, for information and necessary action. The communication assumes significance as the escape of the bigwigs in cases probed by the bureau has since long been a matter of surmises. Justice Gill, by shooting off the communiqué to the Vigilance chief, has made it clear that the matter needs to be probed thoroughly to find out any possible involvement of heavyweights.Justice Gill has already sought explanation from 189 “designated” government officers on action taken during the last one year to keep their departments corruption free. Justice Gill has also made it clear that any complaint by the public henceforth would be sent to his office for further action.The issue of granting sanction for prosecution of government officers has also been taken up by Justice Gill. It has been made clear that “if these cases collapse at the stage of framing of charges in the trial court, the Vigilance Bureau will not be responsible”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-possible-role-of-bigwigs-in-missing-wheat-case-cvc-justice-mehtab-singh-gill-295357
10-08-2021||---||Evacuate Sikhs, Hindus from Afghanistan: Congress||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 9Congress leader and spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill on Monday wrote to the Centre demanding immediate evacuation of Sikhs and Hindus stranded in Afghanistan and said special visas be granted to them.Bajwa writes to PMCongress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, flagging the recent forcible removal of the Nishan Sahib from Gurdwara Tahla Sahib in Afghanistan’s Paktia province and urged the government to protect minoritiesIn a letter to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar today, Shergill, who hails from Jalandhar, condemned recent attacks on a gurdwara in Afghanistan and said, “As you are more than aware, the Taliban offensive has escalated in Afghanistan post the US withdrawal of troops and they are fighting at gunpoint to turn the country once again into a hub for transnational terrorism. The current catastrophic trajectory of violence has caused a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, thus risking the lives of people, including those from India. As per information in public domain, around 650 Sikhs and 50 Hindus are stuck in Afghanistan and have become sitting targets for the Taliban adamant to kill minorities belonging to Indian origin. There have been numerous episodes of attacks on minorities of Indian origin.” Meanwhile, Shergill later issued a statement saying his letter was not an endorsement of the CAA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/evacuate-sikhs-hindus-from-afghanistan-congress-295358
10-08-2021||Ferozepur||New SIT starts probe into Pearls Group ponzi scam||The newly constituted special investigation team (SIT) led by Ferozepur Range IG Jatinder Singh Aulakh has started its probe into the ponzi ‘scam’ involving Pearls Group owner Nirmal Singh Bhangoo, his relatives, company officials and other accused.Hearing adjournedThe regular bail plea hearing of main accused Nirmal Singh Bhangoo’s son-in-law Harsatinder Singh was adjourned till August 13, while the anticipatory bail application of Pearls Group chief’s wife Prem Kaur was withdrawn in a Ferozepur court on MondayThe new SIT comprising Ranjit Singh, Commandant, 36 Battalion, Rattan Singh Brar, SP (Investigation), and Gurmeet Singh, DSP (Headquarters), posted at Ferozepur, will be investigating the alleged illegal transactions of the group’s assets that took place notwithstanding the ban by the Supreme Court in 2016.Sources said despite the SC ban, the Pearls Group allegedly disposed of and transferred its assets worth Rs 1,200 crore in an illegitimate manner till the FIR was registered by the previous SIT in 2020 under Sections 406, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC.SIT officials said a chargesheet as per Section 173(2) of the CrPC had already been submitted in the local court qua Harsatinder Singh Hayer, Bhangoo’s son-in-law, after the investigation was completed in his case, thoughthe charges were yetto be framed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-sit-starts-probe-into-pearls-group-ponzi-scam-295359
10-08-2021||Sangrur||Felling trees in Sangrur: NGT orders inquiry under  court supervision||After Forest Department authorities failed to conduct a proper inquiry into the “illegal” axing of trees on the road between Fawara Chowk and Kali Mata Temple here despite an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), residents again filed an execution application. In its latest order, the NGT has ordered that the civil court concerned would supervise the execution of its order for an inquiry.On May 19, the NGT had directed department authorities to look into the cutting of trees and ensure remedial action against “illegal” cutting. Locals allege first the department started the inquiry around June 20 and then slowed down the process. In its order, the NGT has stated, “Though an inquiry was initiated and the stand of the PWD was that cutting of trees was as per rules, the same was an eyewash.”“The PWD officials are acting as if the city is their personal property. Around 27 trees were axed illegally by them. Neither the PWD took any permission for axing of trees nor it gave any valid justification,” said activist Jasinder Sekhon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/felling-trees-in-sangrur-ngt-orders-inquiry-under-court-supervision-295360
10-08-2021||Ludhiana||Traders’ party picks Gurnam Singh Charuni as CM face||A newly launched political outfit of traders — Bharatiya Aarthik Party (BAP) — today extended support to farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, asking him to lead the party in the upcoming Assembly elections under “Mission Punjab 2022”. The traders said Charuni would be their CM face.At a meeting, a group of traders, led by party president Tarun Jain Bawa, said the party would support Charuni in the elections. Charuni, however, said they had not formed a political party yet, but were moving in that direction.He said: “Under ‘Mission Punjab 2022’, we want to introduce honest people in politics by rejecting political parties that have been looting and introducing wrong policies. The traders today extended their support to me for the mission.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/traders-party-picks-gurnam-singh-charuni-as-cm-face-295361
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Walmart's petition: Make earnest efforts to remove blockage, says Punjab and Haryana HC||Acting on a petition filed by Walmart India Private Limited (Best Price Modern Wholesale), the Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for earnest efforts to ensure the petitioner is able to remove the goods, the shelf-life of which has expired or was going to expire within three months. Justice Lisa Gill also called for “necessary steps for removal of blockage”.As the petition filed through senior counsel RS Rai came up for hearing, reply by way of an affidavit was filed, stating the administration and police had been successful in persuading the local kisan union leaders to talk to their state-level leaders stationed at Delhi to come forward with proposals to end the deadlock.Rai submitted the removal of expired/about-to-expire goods was also required to be facilitated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/walmarts-petition-make-earnest-efforts-to-remove-blockage-says-punjab-and-haryana-hc-295362
10-08-2021||Mohali||Now, pay Mohali water bills online||Punjab will soon introduce online payment of water supply bills in all villages across the state in a phased manner.Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Razia Sultana announced this while launching an online billing and revenue monitoring system for payment of water supply bills in villages of Mohali district. After successful completion of a pilot project for seven months, the online system would be introduced in all districts of Punjab soon, she added. Sultana said rural consumers would get their bills through SMS. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-pay-mohali-water-bills-online-295363
10-08-2021||Amritsar||Govt's bid to take over SGPC: Akal Takht Jathedar||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh today said an attempt was being made by the government to overpower the management of the SGPC.The jathedar said on the lines of Takht Hazur Sahib, the government, through its agencies, intended to put the SGPC under a ‘board’ to get its control. Tactics were being adopted to take control of Takht Patna Sahib too, he said. Referring to another issue pertaining to some non-Sikh members wearing ‘kirpan’ in Kurukshetra, the jathedar sought the intervention of the Haryana Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govts-bid-to-take-over-sgpc-akal-takht-jathedar-295364
10-08-2021||Moga||Minor girl kidnapped from Moga village||Drug peddler arrestedMoga: The police have arrested a drug peddler, Paramjit Singh of Maseetan village, from the city and recovered 150-gm opium from him. A case under Sections 18, 61 and 85, IPC, has been registered against him at the Moga City-II police station. tns3 of family die in mishapFatehgarh Sahib: Sandeep Khanna of Chandigarh, his sister Rakhi of Mohali and her daughter Sanaya (7) died after a speeding car coming from the wrong side collided with their scooter on Sirhind-Chandigarh Road late Sunday night. The car and its driver Vishwas Kohli of Mandi Gobindgarh, who was drunk, is in custody. ocLawyers strike workFazilka: Members of the District Bar Association abstained from work on Monday to protest the registration of a criminal case against three advocates, including the president, secretary and a member of the Abohar Bar Association on August 1. The strike shall continue on Tuesday as well. ocBSF cycle rally heads to AttariAbohar: To commemorate the golden jubilee of the BSF artillery unit set up in October 1971, 80 jawans, set out on a 2,500-km cycle rally, will celebrate Independence Day by reaching the Attari-Wagah checkpost on August 15. The BSF has started 2 cycle rallies one each from Srinagar and Bhuj. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-girl-kidnapped-from-moga-village-295365
10-08-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Punjab Home Guards Commandant General KS Ghuman quits, alleges harassment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9KS Ghuman, Commandant General of the Punjab Home Guards, resigned today, alleging that he was being spied on and had suffered vilification and harassment at the hands of the state Home Department.In a related development, the Finance Department’s letter to the Home Department that the Home Guards Department was being wound up triggered panic among the nearly 12,000 Home Guards in the state.In his resignation letter to the Chief Minister, Ghuman alleged that some bureaucrats, especially of the Home Department, had been planning to destroy the Home Guards cadre. He said as he was the first officer from the cadre to be elevated to the top post of Commandant General, the bureaucrats’ lobby was harassing him for the past one year on one issue or the other. He said he was personally hurt at the way the Home Department spied on his activities and foreign visits.He said they sought details from the Union Home Ministry on his recent foreign visit as if he was a criminal. He said he was even chargesheeted without a show-cause notice for “travelling abroad without taking permission of the Home Ministry”. “This is absurd as no government official can travel abroad without the approval of the department concerned. But I am sick of fighting these officers, who only want to undermine my cadre and personally damage me. I am thus putting in my papers for my mental peace and health,” he wrote in the letter, seeking pre-mature retirement. Separately, the Finance Department’s letter that the Home Guards department would wind up soon triggered panic today. The letter dated July 23 was in response to a request for posting of a law officer by the Home Guards Department. The Finance Department said no new posting could be done as the Home Guards Department was winding up.The bureaucratic circles were abuzz today with the two issues. Officials in the Home Guards Department could not be contacted. A senior government official insisted that “Home Guards were a dying cadre” but to say the government was winding it up was wrong. “Dying cadre means there would be no fresh recruitment,” he said. The home guards are not permanent employees of the government but they work full time with the police. Each police station has 6-10 home guards attached with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-home-guards-commandant-general-ks-ghuman-quits-alleges-harassment-295477
10-08-2021||Arun Sharma||No vaccine certificate, Himachal turns away Naina Devi pilgrims from Punjab||Tribune News ServiceRopar, August 9A large number of devotees from various parts of Punjab, who were on their way to pay obeisance at Naina Devi temple today, were turned away from the Himachal Pradesh border near here for not having RT-PCR negative report or Covid vaccination certificate.This led to a chaos as the devotees demanded the removal of restrictions. They squatted on the highway and raised slogans against the Himachal government, causing a traffic jam. Following a fresh surge in cases, HP recently re-imposed curbs on the entry of outsiders. Probably unaware of the restrictions, hundreds of devotees reached Kolan Wala Toba, the entry point from Punjab, in the morning. As the hill state’s police refused entry to those not carrying either a negative report or a vaccination certificate, the crowd swelled at the checkpoint. A few devotees said the government should have announced its decision at least a fortnight ago as several people visited the shrine on foot, a journey that had to be started days in advance. Ropar SP Ajinder Singh and Anandpur Sahib DSP Raminder Singh Kahlon coordinated with the civil administration to arrange on-the-spot testing facility to pacify the devotees. Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said more such facilities would be set up en route to Naina Devi tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-vaccine-certificate-himachal-turns-away-naina-devi-pilgrims-from-punjab-295471
10-08-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Tiffin carrying IED, apparently dropped from drone from Pakistan, found in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9A tiffin carrying an IED explosive was found at Daleke village of Amritsar on Sunday evening.This was stated by Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta. He said it could have been delivered via a drone from Pakistan. Five hand grenades were also found in a bag that contained the tiffin box.The DGP said that on the intervening night of August 7 and 8, drones were heard in the area. Then the police got an input that a bag was found abandoned in suspicious circumstances. Upon opening it, the police found seven pouches in the bag that contained plastic tiffin, five hand grenades and 100 cartridges. An explosive substance weighing 2 kg, a switch and a remote control device were also found.The sarpanch had called up the police about the sound of the drones.“We have called the NSG. They are looking into the matter. The team came on Sunday night and gave the preliminary report that it was a sophisticated bomb. It has about 2-3 kg of RDX, has a switch mechanism. It can provide a timed explosion. There is a spring mechanism also. There is also a magnetic mechanism with two U-shaped magnets,” the DGP said.“There is a printed circuit board also that can help in remote signal. Three detonators have also been found and also a power energiser of 9 volts. It was assembled very meticulously. It could have been used against any target,” the DGP said, adding that for now they did not know where it was to be targeted.There had been increased activity from across the border in the past two to three months, the DGP said.“This is a very sinister and worrisome development,” said the DGP.“We want to make the public aware of these developments. The IED was fitted in a children’s tiffin box. It looked attractive having a sticker of a scooter. It was targeted at innocent people like children,” he said.He said they had brought the issue to the notice of the CM so that the government could make people aware.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tiffin-carrying-ied-apparently-dropped-from-drone-from-pakistan-found-in-amritsar-295198
10-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Need Rs 1K cr sports budget for Punjab: Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8Punjab needs at least Rs 1,000 crore budget for sports. To promote the existing talent, setting up quality infrastructure is the need of the hour. This was stated by MLA Pargat Singh here today.The bronze win of the Indian hockey team has suddenly brought the spotlight on Pargat Singh, currently MLA, Jalandhar Cantt, and former Director, Sports, Punjab, who has been credited with building a grass-roots mechanism to encourage hockey and other sports in the state. The three-time Olympian, who hails from Mithapur village, started the first batch at a derelict stadium and hired hockey coaches. “To become a player of national level, it requires 15 to 20 years of practice. At that time, there were only two-three players in the national team. The streamlining of hockey infrastructure started in 2005-06. We identified pockets which were original talent hubs. Coaches and selectors had certain kind of mentality to choose boys. Recommendations were favoured. We ensured our coaches and selectors did not let that happen,” he said.Better infra requiredNations that lead in sports allocate 10-15% of total budget on human resource to shape the youth. We also need well-equipped training centres. —Pargat Singh, MLA“We need at least Rs 1,000 crore budget for the state. The leading sporting nations allocate 10 to 15 per cent of their total budget on human resource to shape the younger generation. We also need well-equipped training centres and stadiums,” he said. “We have to plan for 2032 and 2036. We have to reach a bigger base. Every village has to have a coach,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-rs-1k-cr-sports-budget-for-punjab-pargat-singh-294911
