13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 89 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally reaches 5,99,846||Punjab on Friday reported 89 new cases of the coronavirus, taking the infection count to 5,99,846, according to a medical bulletin.With no Covid-related death reported on Friday, the toll stood at 16,334.The number of active cases rose to 568 as against 533 on Thursday.Amritsar reported 19 new Covid-19 cases, followed by 12 in Kapurthala and 10 in Mohali.With 53 recoveries from the infection, the recovery count reached 5,82,944, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported seven fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the infection tally to 62,024, according to the medical bulletin.The count also includes eight cases which were not reported earlier.The death toll from the pandemic stands at 811 in Chandigarh.The number of active cases in the city is 42 while the overall recovery figure has now reached 61,171. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-89-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-5-99-846-297172
13-08-2021||---||Justice Daya Chaudhary appointed Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission president||Chandigarh, August 13The first woman advocate to be elevated as a Punjab and Haryana High Court judge, Justice Daya Chaudhary, on Friday became the first woman to be appointed as the president of Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (PSCDRC). So far, neither Haryana nor Chandigarh has seen a woman appointed as a commission president.  Justice Chaudhary was elevated as High Court Judge in December 2007 and retired upon attaining the age of superannuation on January 9. She was enrolled as an advocate with the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana in 1987.Justice Chaudhary entered legal the profession when women hardly accounted for 1 per cent of the legal profession in the state. At 40, she earned the distinction of being the first woman president to be ever elected not only in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, but the entire country. Justice Chaudhary's tenure as a High Court Judge saw path-breaking judgments and orders, including directions in the HUDA multiple plots allotment case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-daya-chaudhary-appointed-punjab-state-consumer-disputes-redressal-commission-president-297163
13-08-2021|| Chandigarh||Covid-19: Ajnala school shuts down for 2 weeks after 8 students test positive||Eight students of a government school in Ajnala tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, forcing authorities to shut it down for two weeks, officials said.  Authorities said some 200 students of Ajnala’s Government Girls Senior Secondary School will be tested for the infection as a result of the development. Punjab reopened its schools fully on August 2 but said parents have to provide written consent to send their wards to school. Online classes however continue for those not attending school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-ajnala-school-shuts-down-for-2-weeks-after-8-students-test-positive-297155
13-08-2021||Patiala||Doctors at Rajindra Hospital protest; demand functional washrooms||Doctors of Government Rajindra Hospital held a protest outside the office of the Public Works Department (PWD) of the hospital, here on Friday.Flash point of the protest is said to be the alleged threat and misbehaviour with medicos by a Junior Engineer (JE) of the PWD wing for complaining about non-functional washrooms at doctors’ hostel.The doctors claimed that the misdemeanours of the JE were recorded on camera. However, the JE claimed that the incident took place in the heat of the moment.The doctors said that they had gone to the JE to complain after a portion of the roof of a toilet which fell off, on Friday morning.However, the situation turned ugly when the JE, allegedly, said that he would beat doctors with sticks.Senior officials, including XEN, of the PWD wing reached and tried to pacify the situation.However, doctors alleged that the JE threatened that he wouldn’t let the doctors complete their post-graduation.Agitated doctors locked the office of the PWD wing; one doctor got agitated and removed his clothes to mark his protest.Meanwhile, Surjeet Singh, Junior Engineer, said, “The incident happened in the heat of the moment. We have already sorted out the issue.”He admitted that washrooms were in poor shape, therefore, they would soon start the repair work.Nitin Chhabra, president, Resident Doctors Association, said, “When we ask for basic amenities like washrooms, they threaten us.”Doctors alleged that the entire hospital and Government Medical College was being renovated but their toilets and washrooms were lying non-functional. They demanded a vigilance probe into the funds of renovation.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, said, “It was a minor issue and it has been already solved. The washrooms will be repaired – soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-at-rajindra-hospital-protest-demand-functional-washrooms-297121
13-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Hand grenade-like object in garbage pile leads to panic in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 13Panic gripped the posh Ranjit Avenue area here on Friday after a safai karamchari found a hand grenade-like thing in a pile of dry leaves outside a house.Police were sounded and had taken it into possession. A bomb disposal squad also reached the spot. Punjab Police have already been on high alert following recovery of a tiffin bomb and hand grenades in a border village a few days ago. As the state-level Independence Day celebration is also scheduled to be held in Amritsar, police have been carrying out searches in the area.Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal said the state-level Independence Day function is being held in Amritsar and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh would unfurl the flag at Guru Nanak Stadium here. He said the CM would also inaugurate the Jallianwala Bagh memorial constructed at Amrit Anand Park in Ranjit Avenue. These places were being cleaned by the MC employees while police were carrying out search operations in the locality, he said.The safari karamchari informed them about a hand grenade-like thing in a pile of dry leaves and police reached the spot and a bomb disposal squad was also called after covering the pile with sandbags, he said. It was still being verified by the bomb disposal squad whether it was a hand grenade or not, Bhandal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hand-grenade-like-object-in-garbage-pile-leads-to-panic-in-amritsar-297111
13-08-2021||New Delhi||It feels like a dream, says Gurdaspur’s Princepal Singh on his NBA journey||Only the second Indian to debut in the NBA Summer League, young basketball player Princepal Singh says his journey has been nothing short of a "dream" and he is working on his fitness and skills to achieve his next goal of playing in the NBA.Singh, who hails from Gurdaspur, Punjab, followed his Ludhiana basketball academy teammate Satnam Singh in making his debut at the summer league when he turned up for Sacramento Kings against Washington Wizards at Las Vegas on Tuesday night."It's amazing to play in the Summer League. I am very happy with my progress as a player. I played G league first and now am playing in summer league, and I am working towards the NBA. I didn't think I will reach this far. It sometimes feels like a dream," Singh said during a virtual press conference."My next goal is playing at NBA. Satnam Singh was the first Indian to play and I want to play for long time in NBA, so my focus is on taking care of my body and keeping myself fit."Satnam had played in the Summer League in 2016 after being first drafted in the NBA by Dallas Mavericks in 2015.The 20-year-old Singh, whose first professional stint was with the NBA Academy's Ignite team in the G-League, made a brief appearance of just a minute and 22 seconds during the match, which they won 89-75."It is a great experience to play against the top players in Summer League. They are all NBA players, who have been drafted. A lot of learning and my game is improving," said Singh, the first-ever NBA Academy India graduate to feature in a Summer League game."My coach (Bobby Jackson) asked me to play hard, said I should focus on my game and I will get more time. He asked me to focus on strong rebounding and defence and look to score."There is no pressure on me. I have played one game so far. It is just that now getting less game time. So hopefully I will get more time in future. I want to just focus on giving my 100 percent and prove myself."Asked what he learnt from his stint in 'G League Ignite', he said: "I learnt how the pro players conduct themselves off the court, how hard they play, how they help each other."On the basketball scene in India, Singh said: "The sport is growing in India but due to the lockdowns no one has been able to play basketball."But the league that is starting in India, it will be a good opportunity for the Indian players, they will get more chances. The India league offers good money and if they can work hard, they can achieve a lot through the league."Now there will be a 3x3 professional league with Basketball Federation of India. It is a good thing. NBA India was a good initiative, it is spreading the awareness and hopefully the sport will grow like cricket one day."'3BL' is India's only FIBA recognised 3x3 professional basketball league which was recognised by BFI in June. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/it-feels-like-a-dream-says-gurdaspurs-princepal-singh-on-his-nba-journey-297098
13-08-2021||The Guru Nanak Stadium is being decked up for the 75th Independence Day celebrations to be held this Sunday||Prepping up for D-Day: Punjab CM to hoist flag at Amritsar's Guru Nanak Stadium||Rehearsing for the paradeAround 200 police personnel along with 50 band and drum players would conduct a march-past on the occasion. The Chief Minister will inspect the parade and take salute as a tradition to celebrate the ceremony.The Punjab Police personnel have been conducting rehearsals for a perfect I-Day celebration. Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill inspected the rehearsal of the parade on Thursday evening.Foolproof arrangements in placeSecurity has been tightened ahead of the state-level Independence Day function, in which the CM will unfurl the Tricolour. After the recovery of IED explosive in a tiffin from Daleke village of Amritsar, the senior police officials are making foolproof arrangements for the Independence Day function. A high alert had already been sounded across the state. The police personnel and para-military forces are being deployed on every corner.Roads being readiedThe roads leading to the Guru Nanak Stadium and Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park, where Capt Amarinder would inaugurate the memorial, are being recarpeted. The roads of the Ranjit Avenue, Civil Lines area are also being cleaned manually. The trees and shrubs have also being chopped.Tricoloured gloryThe Guru Nanak stadium is being whitewashed ahead of the I-Day celebrations. Workers are painting the walls, poles and iron grills. The barricades, which have been installed inside the ground, are being painted green, saffron and white to create the effect of a national flag. Tricolored tents are being used to add further effect. The central verges of roads are also being whitewashed.Jallianwala Centenary Memorial ParkPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh had laid the foundation stone of the Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park, around 6 km away from the Jallianwala Bagh, in Ranjit Avenue, on January 25 this year. The state government spent Rs3.52-crore on the memorial and claimed to construct it in record time. This memorial is dedicated to the centennial year of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and its martyrs, who lost their lives on Baisakhi — April 13, 1919, at the hands of autocratic British rulers. However, the workers are giving a final touch to the park. The government officials claim that the memorial was ready to be dedicated to the public and the CM would inaugurate it on August 14.Architectural concept: The memorial consists of five white stone pillars rising upwards. These pillars symbolise the spirit of martyrs rising towards the sky. Different heights of the five pillars correspond to various age groups of martyrs: children, teenagers, youth, middle aged and the old. They also signify five fingers of the hand and cohesive power of martyrs, who sacrificed their lives for the nation. White colour of the stone is a symbol of purity of their sacrifice.The central black stone on a circular platform, from where these pillars rise, symbolise the empty space and the void created by the sacrifice of these martyrs. Soil of various villages, to which these martyrs belonged, has been brought to fill up the space below the sacred platform as a befitting tribute to them.Martyrs’ walls: The walls clad in black and grey granite stone surround the platform with the names of martyrs craved on these. The names of martyrs from the official list of 492 martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre have been carved on the walls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prepping-up-for-d-day-punjab-cm-to-hoist-flag-at-amritsars-guru-nanak-stadium-297041
13-08-2021||---||2 held for flashing derogatory message against Punjab CM on highway LED screen||Ludhiana, August 12With the arrest of two men from Ludhiana, the Khanna police claimed to have solved the case in which a derogatory message was posted against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on an LED screen installed on a highway.Manpreet Singh, SP Investigation, Khanna, while addressing a press conference, said the probe and technical evidence collected in the case had led to the arrest of two accused — Kunal Singla, a native of New Model Town, Moga, at present a resident of Gandhi Colony, New Model Town, Ludhiana, and Yogesh Puri, alias Ashu, of Maharana Partap Nagar, Basti Jodhewal, Ludhiana.The SP said the accused hacked a VMS (variable message signboard) of public convenient LED installed on the national highway, in front of Libra village, on the intervening of July 30-31 and flashed some derogatory message against the Chief Minister.A complaint was received from Dharminder Sharma, in-charge of control room, NHAI Ambala, and a case under Section 67 of the IT Act-2000 and Section 500 of the IPC was registered.During investigation, Kunal, who runs a shop of LED signboards at Jammu Colony, Ludhiana, disclosed that on the said night, he, along with Yogesh Puri, was returning to Ludhiana after installing a letter board at a cafe in Kasauli. They halted at Apna Vaishnu Dhaba, Libra, for dinner. Before leaving, they planned the mischief and hacked the VMS to flash the derogatory message against the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-flashing-derogatory-message-against-punjab-cm-on-highway-led-screen-296980
13-08-2021||New Delhi||Decades after 1984 riots, UP cops examine crime scene||Decades after two men in Kanpur were allegedly murdered and their bodies set on fire during the 1984 riots, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Uttar Pradesh Police re-visited the crime scene last week.Critical evidence, including blood samples, was collected from a locked house in Kanpur’s Govind Nagar, SP Balendu Bhushan is reported to have said. The SIT was set up on the SC orders.Teja Singh (45) and his son Satpal Singh (22) were killed on November 1, 1984, and an FIR was registered. Teja Singh’s surviving son Charanjeet Singh (61), who now resides in Delhi, gave his statement to a special magistrate. He disclosed the identities of those “involved” in the murders. The SP said the crime scene was “undisturbed” as the new occupants resided on the first floor and the ground floor rooms were locked. Earlier this year, the SIT had collected blood samples from a house in Kanpur’s Naubasta area. It too had been locked after a similar attack. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decades-after-1984-riots-up-cops-examine-crime-scene-296746
13-08-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, 6 Congress MLAs  in Delhi, showdown likely||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12The Punjab Congress is heading for yet another showdown between the camps of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, as minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and at least six MLAs left for Delhi on Thursday to meet top party leaders.CM calls Cabinet meet on Aug 16 In the backdrop of the disquiet in the state Congress unit, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called a crucial Cabinet meeting on August 16. “Any Cabinet rejig, including the change of Speaker, will happen after state affairs in charge Harish Rawat visits Chandigarh and holds parleys with the Chief Minister and the PCC chief,” said a Congress leaderDays after the Chief Minister met party president Sonia Gandhi and pointed out that Sidhu’s public criticism of the government was not in good taste, leaders in the Sidhu’s camp are trying to meet party leader Rahul Gandhi, Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat.They reportedly want to impress upon the party leadership to consolidate the PCC chief’s position vis-a-vis the Chief Minister in the run up to the Assembly elections.Sources privy to the developments said there had been a general discussion among leaders in the Sidhu’s camp to gather wider consensus among party MLAs so that they could prevail upon the party high command to seek replacement of the Chief Minister. But it depends upon the line of action the party’s top leadership adopts in the coming days. “It is yet to be seen whether Sidhu prevails or the Chief Minister calls the last shots in the game of one-upmanship in the power play,” said a senior party leader.In the backdrop of the disquiet in the state party unit, the Chief Minister has called a crucial Cabinet meeting on August 16 — a day after unfurling the National Flag at Amritsar. “Any Cabinet rejig, including the change of Speaker ahead of the monsoon session in the first week of September, would happen after Rawat visits Chandigarh and holds parleys with the Chief Minister and the PCC chief. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has asked Capt Amarinder and Sidhu to work in tandem and not at cross-purposes,” said the leader.The PCC’s appointment of the two critics of the CM, former DGP Mohammed Mustafa and political analyst Malwinder Singh Mali — as advisers is also being seen as a message to the CM’s camp. Though the former DGP has declined the offer stating that he was not made for the political role, party leaders said his political ambitions to contest in the 2022 Assembly elections was clearly visible. The CM’s annoyance with Mustafa and his wife Razia Sultana for siding with Sidhu is visible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-sukhjinder-randhawa-6-congress-mlas-in-delhi-showdown-likely-296770
13-08-2021||Amritsar||Faulty PPAs will be scrapped in upcoming session: Navjot Singh Sidhu||PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu today reiterated his stand to streamline the electricity supply by cancelling the power purchase agreements (PPAs) that were executed during the term of the SAD-BJP government.Will contest from AmritsarSidhu made it clear he would contest from Amritsar only. He said: “Patiala is my janambhumi, but Amritsar is my karambhumi”To meet urban area MLAs todayHe has called a meeting of legislators, including the ministers, representing the urban Assembly segments, on FridayAfter inaugurating development works worth Rs 42 crore in the Amritsar East constituency, Sidhu said he chose to sit home rather than compromise on the state’s welfare.“I promise that in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha session, the power pacts made during the Akali government will be annulled. The consumers who are paying Rs 10-12 per unit of power, will get it at Rs 3-5 per unit,” he said.Sidhu had earlier also recommended to get rid of the faulty PPAs by bringing a new legislation to fix rates as per the National Power Exchange with no fixed charges.On the newly enacted three farm laws by the Centre, Sidhu said these legislations were unconstitutional and illegal and would be nullified in Punjab. “We will form our own law in the Vidhan Sabha so that the federal structure of the state is not affected in the garb of trade and commerce,” he said.Others present on the occasion included MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faulty-ppas-will-be-scrapped-in-upcoming-session-navjot-singh-sidhu-296771
13-08-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Punjab Government honours Olympics heroes with cash awards; Neeraj Chopra skips event||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12The Punjab Government today honoured the state players who brought laurels to the country in the Tokyo Olympics with cash awards amounting to Rs 28.36 crore.Gold medallist Neeraj skips eventTokyo Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra skipped the ceremony. The government had said it would honour Chopra with a cash award of Rs 2.51 crore. “We will surely honour him whenever he comes here,” said CM Capt Amarinder SinghCM says will cook for players, their kinChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced he would host the Olympic players soon and cook their favourite food. “Let me take the liberty to invite you (medal winners) and your family at lunch. I would like to cook food for all of you,” he saidFelicitating the players, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced that the government would offer jobs to medal winners and those already in government service would get a promotion. “I am happy to promote Mandeep Singh as a Superintendent of Police (SP),” he said.State hockey players, who were part of the Olympic bronze medal-winning team, were given Rs 2.51 crore each. Capt Manpreet Singh, vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinder Pal Singh, Simranjit Singh, Mandeep Singh, Gurjant Singh, Shamsher Singh, Varun Kumar, Dilpreet Singh, Hardik Singh and Krishan Pathak were among the awardees.Women’s hockey team members Reena Khokhar and Gurjit Kaur along with discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur were honoured with a cash prize of Rs 50 lakh each.“The Indian contingent put up an exceptional show at the Tokyo Olympics. The 2024 Olympics isn’t far and I am sure we will achieve more,” said Kamalpreet.Pugilist Simranjit Kaur, shooters Anjum Moudgill and Angadveer Singh, athletes Tejinder Pal Singh Toor and Gurpreet Singh and Paralympic badminton player Palak Kohli (who will represent the country at Paralympics), were also awarded Rs 21 lakh each. As a token of gratitude, the women hockey players presented a hockey stick to the Chief Minister with signatures of all team members.The Chief Minister also announced to name the schools and approach roads leading to their native villages after the names of the players. The event was also attended by Governor VP Singh Badnore, Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and state MLAs.However, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu was conspicuous by his absence at the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-honours-olympics-heroes-with-cash-awards-neeraj-chopra-skips-event-296773
13-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Mithapur: Hockey players’ families pay for bash with top officials in attendance||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 12A grand reception to honour bronze medal-winning hockey Olympians from Mithapur village last night was paid for by players’ families themselves!No instructions to host themWe didn’t receive instructions from the government to host a party or event yesterday, as the CM is already honouring them today. — Ghanshyam Thori, DCAs per information, the players’ families spent around Rs 6 lakh for the event at a private palace to which all key officials of the district administration and police were invited.The administration said it had no instructions from the government to host a party for players. Jalandhar had sent four players to the Indian team, three — Manpreet Singh, Varun Kumar and Mandeep Singh — from Mitahpur alone.While Cantt MLA Pargat Singh committed to pay for the venue, the three families pooled in Rs 5.70 lakh for catering and other services at the event. The fourth player — Hardik Singh from Khusropur village — and his family were not part of the event.At the grand welcome of players at Mithapur village yesterday, Pargat was the only district MLA present to receive the team from Amritsar. None of the Jalandhar MLAs or members of the district administration was there to receive them at the village. In the evening, the DC, CP, SSP and other officials attended the party as invitees.Mandeep’s brother Harminder Singh said: “We had planned a party for the three. The event was earlier planned at a local park but factoring in the size of the gathering, the venue was changed. The party was planned a long ago. We are satisfied with what the government is doing for the team and boys.”Manpreet mother Manjit Kaur said: “The three families had decided to throw a bash for the boys. We were asked to change the venue due to inclement weather. We pooled in to host the party. We don’t know who is paying for the venue, but the catering and other services were paid for by us. We did it out of happiness.”Pargat, meanwhile, said: I will bear the cost of the venue.”DC Ghanshyam Thori said: “The SDM-II and District Sports Officer received the players on the way while they were returning home. I had gone to the party yesterday on invitation from the Cantt MLA. When players get free from their hectic schedule, we (administration) plan a dinner for them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mithapur-hockey-players-families-pay-for-bash-with-top-officials-in-attendance-296774
13-08-2021||---||Covid cases jump by 51% in Punjab in a week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12After a continuous decline in Covid-19 infection over the previous weeks, a sudden rise in cases has been witnessed during the past seven days.Matric classes in govt school suspendedMuktsar: Classes for matric students have been suspended for 10 days at the Government School in Panjawa village, in the Lambi Assembly segment, here, after a student tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Taking preventive measures, the Health Department had taken the samples of all matric students in the school on Wednesday. Their test reports were negative. TNSNormal variationThe number of cases and deaths is still very low. So these day-to-day variations are quite normal. — Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, State Nodal officer for covidBetween August 6 and 12, a 51 per cent jump in cases was seen as compared to the previous week. As many as 452 cases were reported against previous week’s 298.For the first time in the past three weeks, the number of cases crossed the 100 mark on Wednesday, registering 105 cases. Also, the number of active cases rose from 440 three days ago to 533.However, health officials say it is a normal variation. “The number of cases and death is still very low. So these day-to-day variations are quite normal. The worrying factor will if there is a sudden increase in active cases,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid. In the past 24 hours, the state reported 78 cases and one death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-cases-jump-by-51-in-punjab-in-a-week-296775
13-08-2021||---||Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini gets interim anticipatory bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court today granted interim anticipatory bail to Punjab’s former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a corruption case, subject to his joining investigation within a week.FIR filed on Aug 2Former DGP SS Saini was seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered on August 2 under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC.“Though there is an apprehension raised that the petitioner was ploughing back the black money, but the allegations are based upon documentary evidence and banking transactions. For joining loose ends, if any, with regard to the documentary evidence or banking transactions, this court is of the opinion that custodial interrogation of the petitioner is not required,” Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted.Saini, through senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and APS Deol, was seeking anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on August 2 under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 109 and 120-B of the IPC at the Vigilance Bureau police station in Mohali.The FIR followed a vigilance inquiry initiated against Nimrat Deep Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD (B&M), and his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal. The basis of the inquiry was amassing of assets disproportionate to known sources of income by Nimrat Deep Singh.Justice Jhingan asserted it would not be appropriate at the current stage to deal with the contentions raised by Saini’s counsel regarding political vendetta.It was not a disputed fact that the vigilance inquiry was initiated against Nimrat Deep Singh. During the inquiry, the rent agreement and agreement to sell house number 3048, Sector 20-D, Chandigarh, surfaced. The nomination of the petitioner in the FIR was on the basis of two agreements and transactions between the petitioner and Jaspal. There was an attempt by the petitioner to explain the sources of payments made to Jaspal. Taking note of the facts of the matter, Saini’s antecedents and his having Z-plus protection, Justice Jhingan observed there was no chance of him absconding. Fixing October 7 as the next date, Justice Jhingan asked the state to file a status report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-gets-interim-anticipatory-bail-296776
13-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders inquiry into tweets against court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered an inquiry into a series of tweets against the court. For the purpose of concluding the probe, Justice Raj Mohan Singh has set a three-week deadline for its Registrar-Vigilance.Screenshots givenThe tweets were brought to the court’s notice by counsel Ritu Punj, who appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing on behalf of the accused in an abetment of suicide case, submitted screenshots of the complainant’s alleged tweets.The counsel for the complainant submitted that order confirming interim anticipatory bail to the accused was not assailed by the complainant in the case. At the same time, he submitted his office gave a no-objection certificate to the complainant owing to the alleged tweets by him, along with photographs, against the court.“In view of nature of tweets allegedly made, it would be just and appropriate to inquire into the genuineness and authenticity of the tweets — whether these tweets have been made by respondent-complaint or not. The Registrar-Vigilance is directed to get the tweets inquired into by the competent authority within three weeks,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted.Justice Raj Mohan Singh added the Registrar-Vigilance would be at liberty to seek assistance of the police or any other expert in the matter. He was also asked to place before the Bench a report in the matter.The court directed the listing of the matter before some other Bench on August 16 after obtaining necessary orders from the Chief Justice.The matter has its genesis in an FIR registered on August 6, 2020, under Section 306, IPC, at Kotwalia police station in Nabha. The co-ordinate Bench of the HC vide, order dated October 29, 2020, issued notice of motion and granted interim anticipatory bail to petitioner-accused, subject to furnishing personal bond and surety bond to the satisfaction of the investigating officer.The state, during the course of subsequent hearing, submitted the accused had joined investigation and was not required for further probe. The complainant’s counsel, on the other hand, opposed the bail on the ground that the police adopted an indifferent attitude against the complainant’s entire family after the grant of interim bail. In view of the state counsel’s stand, the court, however, confirmed the bail order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-inquiry-into-tweets-against-court-296777
13-08-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Foot-&-mouth disease: Dumped carcasses raise stink in Ludhiana, Malerkotla districts||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Payal, Aug 12Toxic gases and pathogens emanating from carcasses of more than 150 milch cattle, which died of foot-and-mouth disease and dumped in the fields and open common passages, are posing a health risk to people of two dozen localities in Ludhiana and Malerkotla districts.Will take preventive stepsBesides taking preventive steps, we will coordinate with Animal Husbandry Department so that bodies do not decompose in the open. Dr Rajesh Gupta, District Health Officer, LudhianaHaving already lost precious livestock, dairy farmers of Payal’s Ber Kalan, Latala, Sihar, Kalahar, Nanakpur Jagera, Ahmedgarh, Chhanna, Jandali Khurad, Jandali Kalan, Saraud and Kanganwal had to bear the extra burden of getting rid of carcasses with contractors’ staff at “hadda roris” (where carcasses are dumped) demanding between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000 to remove each dead animal. Ludhiana District Health Officer Dr Rajesh Gupta acknowledged that decomposition and putrefaction of carcasses in the open could cause explosive proliferation of pathogens, besides FMD virus, which could be hazardous for humans and cattle.Dr Ravinder Sharma, a dairy farmer of Ahmedgarh, said he had to pay extra for getting his five bovine carcasses removed, claiming the contractor was supposed to lift these for free to prevent further spread of virus.“I have lost cattle worth Rs 5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh that I spent on their medication,” said Dr Sharma, adding Animal Husbandry Department officials had failed to come to their rescue.Gurdeep Singh, a dairy farmer of Ber Kalan village, claimed he lost 15 head of cattle and the number could exceeded 150 in the region. “Our village had to collect money from each family to arrange for the disposal of carcasses using JCB machines,” he said, apprehending emission of toxic fumes and pathogens could infect other animals and harm humans. Ludhiana Deputy Director Animal Husbandry Dr Paramdeep Singh Walia said 68 milch cattle had succumbed to the FMD at Ber Kalan alone. “However, we have now controlled the situation as no fresh cases are being reported from any of the villages of the block,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/foot-mouth-disease-dumped-carcasses-raise-stink-in-ludhiana-malerkotla-districts-296779
13-08-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||No registration of sale deeds in illegal colonies in Punjab||Ludhiana, August 12In a significant development which could have an impact on mushrooming of illegal and unlicensed colonies in the state, the Revenue and Rehabilitation Department has given an undertaking in the Punjab and Haryana High Court that prevailing government instructions (issued on December 12, 2019) with regard to registration of sale deeds of properties without a no objection certificate and irrespective of the status of the colony (legal or illegal), would be kept in abeyance for the time being.In other words, the department would forthwith stop registration of sale deeds of plots, houses and commercial properties in illegal colonies till the matter was re-examined and a fresh decision taken in light of issues raised in the CWP PIL (Prem Parkash vs state of Punjab).Disposing of the petition, a Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shankar Jha and Justice Arun Palli said in the orders pronounced on August 3 that in view of the statement made by Assistant Advocate General, Punjab, the petition was disposed of with a direction to the authorities concerned to consider and decide the petitioner’s representation as expeditiously as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-registration-of-sale-deeds-in-illegal-colonies-in-punjab-296780
13-08-2021||Ludhiana||10 hurt in Ludhiana building collapse||At least 10 persons, including two children, were injured when a multi-storey building of RT Woollen Mills on RK Road here collapsed on Thursday morning. Seven persons got serious injuries and were rushed to a local hospital.The debris of the building fell on the quarters of labourers on the adjoining plot, leaving 10 injured. A portion of the structure also fell on adjoining two more buildings, including a godown shed.Some of the injured received head injuries and fractures, said eye-witnesses. Relatives of the injured have urged the government to provide them free treatment.In May last year, the factory building had caught fire and its structure had become weak. Following a complaint, the MC’s Building & Road (B&R) branch had surveyed the structure and declared it unsafe recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-hurt-in-ludhiana-building-collapse-296781
13-08-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Sunam youth drowns in ‘sarovar’||A 22-year-old youth drowned while taking a dip at a ‘sarovar’ (water tank) at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib here today. The deceased has been identified as Gobind, a resident of Sunam in Sangrur district.Gobind, along with a group of 24 people, including his relatives, reached Anandpur Sahib from Naina Devi to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib. They took a dip in the ‘sarovar’ but Gobind went missing. His body was later found in the ‘sarovar’.Anandpur Sahib SHO Rupinder Singh said the body was being sent for a postmortem and inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC had been started in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunam-youth-drowns-in-sarovar-296782
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Land deal: Bir Devinder Singh files plaint with Lokpal||Former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh today filed a complaint with the Punjab Lokpal regarding the controversial allotment of 31 acres of JCT land to a realtor.In his complaint, Bir Devinder has sought the setting aside of the sale of property and handing over the probe to the CBI. He further sought an inquiry into the role of officials who “misused” power, causing a huge loss to the state exchequer. The former Deputy Speaker further sought an FIR against the erring officials and Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/land-deal-bir-devinder-singh-files-plaint-with-lokpal-296783
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt waives licence fee for NGO projects||Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla today said the state government had waived licence fee for projects run by registered non-governmental organisations or not-for-profit organisations for the welfare of the destitute and specially-abled people. The Cabinet minister said the notification in this regard had also been issued and benefits would be extended to all eligible beneficiaries with immediate effect.Singla said the licence fee was levied towards allowing road access to projects or institutions. All constructions, including petrol stations, educational institutions, hotels, etc., needed to apply for a licence to get access to state highways, major districts roads, other district or rural roads.Prior to the notification, the welfare institutions had to submit licence fee ranging from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 6 lakh for a period of five years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-waives-licence-fee-for-ngo-projects-296784
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-DGP Mohammed Mustafa declines Navjot Sidhu's adviser’s post||Former DGP Mohammed Mustafa has declined the offer of adviser to PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu.The PCC president on Wednesday had appointed four advisers — Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh, former DGP Mohammed Mustafa, social activist Dr Payare Lal Garg and political analyst Malwinder Singh Mali.The former DGP, however, said he was made for political roles. Mustafa, whose wife Razia Sultana is a minister, has fallen apart with Capt Amarinder Singh after Dinkar Gupta was made the DGP, superseding him.He said he had already conveyed his feelings to Sidhu for offering the role. The ex-DGP, however, said he would keep working for the betterment of the Congress. He has already stated that it was his dream to see Sidhu as next CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-dgp-mohammed-mustafa-declines-navjot-sidhus-advisers-post-296785
13-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Rakesh Tikait visits Hansali dera at Fatehgarh Sahib||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Rakesh Tikait along with other farmer leaders today visited dera of Sant Baba Ajit Singh Hansali Wale to pray and seek the blessings from Sant Baba Parmjit Singh for the success of the ongoing farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders. As soon as the news spread about Tikait’s visit, a large number of farmers from the nearby area rushed to the dera to have a glimpse of the farmer leaders.Tikait said the success of the farmers’ agitation was imminent as during Parliament session all Opposition parties followed their whip and did not allow the government to run the session as per its wish. He said the Modi government had started feeling the heat and now it was looking for the middle path to withdraw the three contentious agricultural laws. He said the SKM would oppose the BJP in the upcoming Assembly elections in UP and Uttarakhand. He said the agitation would continue till the laws were not repealed. Refusing to comment on Charuni’s Punjab Model, he said the SKM would not contest any election.He said the SKM had urged farmers to put up big tricolour flags on their vehicles and take out peaceful marches in their respective areas without any sloganeering on Independence Day. He alleged the three farm laws would again make them slaves of corporate houses. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rakesh-tikait-visits-hansali-dera-at-fatehgarh-sahib-296786
13-08-2021||Sameer Singh||‘Kisan Chowk’ comes up on Bathinda outskirts||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 12The farm agitation against the three agricultural laws has not only left an indelible imprint on society but has also started altering major landmarks as well. One such instance has come to light in Bathinda city. Located on the outskirts of Bathinda city, a roundabout has been christened as ‘Kisan Chowk’ on the Multania road (Ring Road).A large flex banner with the new name has been put up in the middle of the chowk. A group of young farmers, brainchild behind the initiative, said it was a historical movement and such alterations in landmarks would remind the generations about the struggle the farming community went through to protect their identity, land and livelihood. The chowk has become a centre of attraction for many and those passing by it can be spotted clicking ‘selfies’ at the site.Sukhraj Singh Aulakh, one of the youths behind the move, said, “Farmers have been protesting against the laws for the past over eight months at the Delhi borders. We have actively participated in the agitation. Our land falls in the area where this chowk was built so we decided to rename it as Kisan Chowk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kisan-chowk-comes-up-on-bathinda-outskirts-296787
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (Sanyukt) forges alliance with Azad Samaj Party||The SAD (Sanyukt) led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and the Azad Samaj Party led by Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad today announced a pre-poll alliance for the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab.The SAD (Kirti), HD Deve Gowda’s Janata Dal (Secular) and Indian Union Muslim League (Banatwala) have also joined the alliance.At a press conference, Dhindsa called it a step in the direction of forming a third front in the state. He alleged the Badal family had “done a lot of harm” to the community, so it was the need of the hour to build a “genuine” Akali Dal, which has a history of sacrifices. He said the alliance would replace the “Badal family-owned” Akali Dal. With the formation of the front, they had shown the roadmap for development, said Dhindsa. “The alliance will work towards ensuring right to dignified livelihood to the oppressed,” said Azad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-sanyukt-forges-alliance-with-azad-samaj-party-296788
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 13 cr for Sivia water channel upgrade in Moga district||Acceding to the demand of farmers from 17 villages of the Bagha Purana Assembly constituency, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today sanctioned Rs 13 crore for immediate upgrade and relining of the Sivia water channel in Moga district.A delegation led by Block Samiti chairman Gurcharan Singh Cheeda called on the CM here this afternoon.Taking cognisance of the matter, the Chief Minster directed the Water Resources Department to undertake the work of its upgrade and relining at the earliest to enable the local farmers to get adequate water for their crops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-13-cr-for-sivia-water-channel-upgrade-in-moga-district-296789
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||AAP slams Punjab CM’s statement on farm laws’ withdrawal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has criticised Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for seeking repeal of the central farm laws citing security issues and Pakistan during his meeting with PM Narendra Modi.AAP state president Bhagwant Mann said Capt Amarinder issued a statement outlining the issues he had raised with the PM.Mann asked the CM to clarify whether the agriculture laws should be repealed as these were anti-farmer or because anti-national forces were likely to take undue advantage of the farmers’ movement. He alleged there was a conspiracy to create an atmosphere of terror in the state ahead of the elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-slams-punjab-cms-statement-on-farm-laws-withdrawal-296790
13-08-2021||Mansa||Under debt, farmer ends life in Mansa||A debt-ridden farmer in Bappiana village of Mansa district allegedly ended life by suicide by consuming a poisonous substance. Kuldeep Singh, 34, had taken around Rs 10 lakh debt. He is survived by his two daughters, a son and wife. Krantikari Kisan Union (KKU) leaders have demanded adequate compensation and a government job next to the kin of the deceased.KKU leader Kulwinder Singh Bappiana said: “The deceased was under mental stress as he could not repay his debt. He consumed a poisonous substance. He was taken to a private hospital in Bathinda for treatment where he breathed his last. He owned only 2.5 acres and the financial condition of his family is quite poor. The village panchayat and our union demand that government must waive the entire debt of the deceased and provide Rs 10 lakh as compensation and a government job to a member of his family.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/under-debt-farmer-ends-life-in-mansa-296791
13-08-2021||Kanpur (UP)||Decades after anti-Sikh riots, UP cops examine crime scene again||A special investigation team is re-examining the scene of a crime decades after two men were allegedly murdered and their bodies set on fire in their house here during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.Crucial evidence, including blood samples, has been lifted this week from a locked house in city’s Govind Nagar, attacked by a mob during the anti-Sikh riots that followed the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi.The SIT, formed by the Yogi Adityanath government on the orders of the Supreme Court, entered the locked house with a forensic team on Tuesday, Superintendent of Police (SIT), Balendu Bhushan said.After Delhi, Kanpur was among the worse-hit by the violence. Teja Singh (45) and his son Satpal Singh (22) were killed on November 1, 1984.The SIT has got the statement of Teja Singh’s surviving son, Charanjeet Singh—now 61 and a resident of Delhi—recorded before a special magistrate.The witness narrated the horrific episode and disclosed the identities of those allegedly involved in the murders.The surviving members of Teja Singh’s family had sold off the Kanpur house and moved first to Punjab and then Delhi. A Kanpur sub-inspector filed the FIR.SP Bhushan said the crime scene was undisturbed as the new occupants stayed on the first floor. The ground floor rooms where the murders took place remained locked.The SIT entered the house in the presence of an eyewitness to the attack who lived in the same area.Bhushan said the forensic science laboratory determined that the blood samples collected were of human beings, which confirmed that killings had taken place there.Earlier this year, the SIT had collected blood samples from a house in Kanpur’s Naubasta area. It too had been locked up after a similar attack.The Uttar Pradesh SIT was formed to revisit cases filed after the 1984 riots.The Kanpur SSP provided the SIT with a list of 40 cases of serious nature.  Of them, the Kanpur Police had filed charge sheets in 11 cases and final reports in the remaining 29, which lacked substantial evidence.But the accused were acquitted in all 11 cases with the trial court citing lack of evidence.“We have sought permission from the state government to file an appeal against the judgment of lower courts in five cases,” Bhushan said. “We are still waiting for the government nod.” The SIT also started further investigations in the 29 cases closed by Kanpur Police and hopes to file charge-sheet in some of them. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decades-after-anti-sikh-riots-up-cops-examine-crime-scene-again-296734
