14-08-2021||Chandigarh||4 deaths, 51 fresh virus cases in Punjab||Four more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday as 51 cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection count to 5,99,896, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the infection has killed 16,340 people in the state. Four deaths were reported from Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, and Hoshiarpur.The death toll also included two deaths that were reported earlier.The number of active cases rose to 572 from 568 on Friday. Ludhiana and Mohali reported seven cases each, followed by six each in Hoshiarpur and Pathankot and five in Patiala. With 40 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,82,984, as per the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-deaths-51-fresh-virus-cases-in-punjab-297602
14-08-2021||---||On eve of I-Day, MHA announces names of Punjab Police officials for PMG, PPMDS, PMMS awards||Chandigarh, August 14Recognising the outstanding services of the Punjab Police, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, on the eve of 75th Independence Day, announced the names of the Punjab Police officers/officials, to be awarded with Police Medal of Gallantry (PMG), President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS) and Police Medal for Meritorious Service (PMMS).ASI Gursewak Singh from Special Task Force (STF), Border Range, Amritsar has been awarded with Police Medal for Gallantry, while, ADGP Modernisation Ram Singh and AIG-cum-Staff Officer to DGP Punjab Jasdeep Singh would be conferred with President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service.Similarly, five PPS officers, including SSP Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, ADCP-2 Ludhiana Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, DSP PBI Raj Kumar, DSP CID Unit Bathinda Parminder Singh and DSP Detective Amritsar Rural Gurinderpal Singh are among 13 officers/officials have been selected for the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. Remaining officials include Inspector Kulvir Singh, Inspector Ashok Kumar, Inspector Puran Singh, SI Natha Singh, SI Niranjan Dass, SI Harjit Singh, ASI Onkar Tiwari and ASI Ashok Kumar.Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta, while congratulating the awardees, expressed gratitude to the Ministry of Home Affairs GOI for recognising the services of these officers and boosting the morale of the entire Punjab Police force. He said that such recognition plays a significant role in encouraging the Police force to work with more dedication and devotion, which is very much required in a border state having manifold security challenges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-eve-of-i-day-mha-announces-names-of-punjab-police-officials-for-pmg-ppmds-pmms-awards-297594
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||National Lok Adalat could be virtual if physical hearing not possible||Amidst apprehensions of Covid third wave, the Punjab and Haryana High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC) made it clear on Saturday that the National Lok Adalat (NLA), scheduled to be held on September 11, would be organised through virtual mode if a physical hearing was not possible.The HCLSC, functioning under the patronage of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and chairman Justice Augustine George Masih, also made it clear that the NLA would take up criminal compoundable offences, bounce cheque and money recovery cases, MACT cases, labour and employment dispute, electricity, water bills and other bill payment matters, maintenance cases and matrimonial disputes, except divorce, and land acquisition cases.It would also take up services matters relating to pay, allowances and retirement benefits, revenue cases pending in High Court only and other civil cases such as rent, easmentary rights, injunction suits, specific performance suits etc.The e-bi-monthly Lok Adalat held today also proved to be effective with more than 43 per cent of the cases being disposed of. Available information suggests ten Benches, presided over by the High Court Judges as president, along with senior advocates as member, disposed 206 out of 478 cases listed.A statement issued by the High Court said HCLSC under Justice Masih, was constantly adapting to the new norms and coming up with creative solutions in the face of the unprecedented situation created by the pandemic. The introduction of e-Lok Adalat was one such innovation and may continue in the post-pandemic period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/national-lok-adalat-could-be-virtual-if-physical-hearing-not-possible-297586
14-08-2021||Amritsar||On I-Day eve, Punjab CM inaugurates Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh inaugurated the Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park on the eve of India’s 75th Independence Day in the memory of all those known and unknown people martyred in the massacre of  April 13, 1919.With families of many of the martyrs looking on, the Chief Minister dedicated the memorial to the memory of the people of Punjab, saying this second memorial at the site of the gory massacre was a tribute to all those unknown martyrs who laid down their lives during the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Nobody knows the exact number of lives lost. The DC office has the names of only 448 who fell to the bullets of the British, led by General Dyer, who fired on the orders of the then Governor of Punjab, Michael O’ Dwyer, said Captain Amarinder, adding that with 1250 bullets fired on that day, the number would actually have run in thousands.The memorial has been built over 1.5 acres at a cost of Rs.3.5 crore at Amrit Anand Park, Ranjit Avenue. Soil from villages around the state was brought to the site for the construction of the memorial to fill up the space below the sacred platform as a befitting tribute to them, a press release said. The Chief Minister disclosed that a Special Research Team of historians and research scholars has been constituted by GNDU for carrying out research on martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh and freedom fighters who were imprisoned at Cellular Jail, Port Blair.Once the research is completed, the names of more martyrs might be discovered, he said, adding that sufficient space has been kept on the columns of the memorial to incorporate more names in the future. Currently, the names of the officially known 488 martyrs have been inscribed on the black and grey granite stone walls of the memorial.The Chief Minister had laid the Foundation Stone for the Memorial in January.The newly inaugurated memorial consists of five white stone pillars rising upwards to symbolise the spirit of the martyrs rising towards the sky, the press note said. The different heights of the five pillars correspond to the age groups of martyrs—children, teenagers, youth, middle-aged, and the elderly. They also signify the five fingers of the hand and the cohesive power of the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the nation, the press note said."The white colour of the stone is a symbol of the purity of their sacrifice. The central black stone on a circular platform from where these pillars arise symbolises the empty space and the void created by the sacrifice of these martyrs," the press note said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-i-day-eve-punjab-cm-inaugurates-jallianwala-bagh-centenary-memorial-297564
14-08-2021||Vijay Mohan||Navy’s Submarine Rescue Unit airlifted to search for Army helicopter that crashed in Ranjit Sagar Dam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14The Army has intensified the search operations for the wreckage of its Dhruv helicopter that had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam on August 3 by flying in a Submarine Rescue Unit of Indian Navy to the crash site near Kathua in Jammu region. The bodies of the two pilots, a Lieutenant Colonel and a Captain, are also yet to be retrieved.The unit will explore the digitally located wreckage at the depth of approximately 80-100 meters. The Indian Air Force lifted the heavy equipment for underwater search and rescue from Vishakhapatnam to Air Force Station Pathankot on the intervening night of August 13 and 14. Earlier, a small area of 60 meters by 60 meters had been localised and special sonar equipment flown in from Kochi was employed to enable the search operations to enter the final phase. On August 11, the Army had stated that the wreckage had been identified at a depth of approximately 80 meters from the surface of the reservoir.The Indian Army and all other agencies to include Indian Navy, Indian Air Force, NDRF, Ranjit Sagar Dam Authority, local District Authorities including locals are sparing no efforts for bringing the operations to a final conclusion.  The reservoir is 25-km long, 8-km wide and more than 500-foot deep.“Experts, specialised equipment and divers are being continuously flown in and international assistance is also being sought,” the Army’s Western Command had said. Divers from the Navy and the Army’s Special Forces have been involved in the search operation, along with multi-beam sonars, side scanners, remotely operated vehicles and underwater manipulators which have been flown in from Chandigarh, Delhi, Mumbai and Kochi.The search continued unabated in spite of bad weather and rain. This deep underwater operation is especially challenging due to the near-zero visibility below 50 meters, owing to the colloidal nature of water in this season which adversely impacts accuracy of sonars and other sensors.The Dhruv helicopter from an Army Aviation Corps squadron based at Pathankot had taken off on a routine sortie when it crashed into the reservoir. Only a part of the helicopter’s wreckage was recovered in the initial phase of the search. The Army has not officially released the names of the missing persons.Sources said that this is the second incident involving Dhruv helicopters from the same squadron in the past about six months.Another Dhruv from a different unit, also based at Pathankot, made a forced landing last week after suffering an oil leak, sources added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navys-submarine-rescue-unit-airlifted-to-search-for-army-helicopter-that-crashed-in-ranjit-sagar-dam-297550
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Court imposes  Rs 500 fine on 11 SAD workers||A local court has imposed a fine of Rs 500 each on 11 workers of the SAD for violating the order of the District Magistrate, Chandigarh. The case was sent to the court by the officer-in-charge of Police Station 26, Chandigarh, for trial in connection with the offence punishable under Section 188 of the IPC.According to the prosecution, all leaders being party workers of SAD were found raising slogans against the government on August 9 last year in the area of the road separating Sector 26 and 7 in Chandigarh, thereby violating the order of the District Magistrate issued under section 144, CrPC, on July 9, 2020.An FIR was registered against the accused and on completion of the investigation, a challan was presented. Finding a prima facie case, a notice of accusation under section 188 of the IPC was served on the accused to which they pleaded guilty and did not claim trial. The court in the order says that since the accused persons have confessed their guilt, they are held guilty under section 188 IPC and ordered to pay a fine of Rs 500 each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-imposes-rs-500-fine-on-11-sad-workers-297409
14-08-2021||Abohar||Two men kill self in Abohar||Man shot at, 6 bookedMuktsar: Stopped from relieving himself outside a house, a youngster allegedly opened fire at a man at Harike Kalan village here on Friday night. The victim suffered a bullet injury in the chest and was admitted to a hospital. The Bariwala police have registered a case of attempt to murder against six, including three unidentified persons. TNSRider hit by stray bull, killedMoga: A 55-year-old man was killed and another injured when their motorcycle was hit by a stray bull at Alamwala village in Baghaprana sub-division of Moga district. Jaswant Singh, a resident of Sadhuwala village, who was riding pillion was killed, while Jaswinder Singh suffered injuries. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. TNSRs2,000 challan for vehicles sans high-security platesChandigarh: The transport department directed officials to challan vehicles without high-security registration plates with Rs2,000 for first time and Rs3,000 subsequently. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-men-kill-self-in-abohar-297341
14-08-2021||Bathinda||Not paid, health workers protest in Bathinda||Members of the Paramedical and Health Workers’ Union today staged a protest outside the Civil Surgeon’s office at the Bathinda Civil Hospital over non-payment of salaries for the past over six months.Gagandeep Singh, president, Taalmel Committee, Paramedical and Health Workers’ Union, said: “Covid warriors serving the department haven’t been paid for the past six months. We have submitted a memorandum of demands to senior health officials on several occasions but to no avail. Earlier also, we had lifted the dharna after officials assured us of action, but as we still have not got our salaries, we have resumed the protest.”He said lab technicians, multipurpose health workers and contract workers suspended their services at the government hospital today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-paid-health-workers-protest-in-bathinda-297340
14-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Now, travel from Gheo Mandi near Golden Temple to Rajasansi airport in a Metro bus||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 13Good news for air passengers as a Metro bus will soon take you directly to the airport.The extended route of Metro bus, being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System, is expected to be implemented soon. The Punjab Metro Bus Society has made preparations in this regard and its trial run was also held on Friday.The Metro bus would start operating between Gheo Mandi (near Golden Temple) and Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport route. The BRTS officials claimed that the trial run was successful and the route would be formally inaugurated on Monday. It is being expected that Gurjet Singh Aujla, Member Parliament Amritsar, would flag off the Metro bus on the new route on Monday.The proposal to extend the route was supposed to start in January or February, but following the second Covid-19 wave, it was delayed. Moreover, during lockdown, the number of passengers also reduced to quite an extent.Harpreet Singh Gill, CEO BRTS, said: “The first trial run was conducted with seven buses on Friday. It was successful and now we will formally launch the project on Monday.”MLA (North) Sunil Dutti, who made efforts to extend the route, said a proposal was prepared several months ago, but due to Covid-19, we didn’t implement it. The tourist movement had also dipped. This new route from Gheo Mandi to airport will cater tourists from Golden Temple to the airport.The BRTS authorities has set seven stoppages on the route. The stoppages need a podium to open the central door of the bus. In the absence of the podiums, passengers have to use the front door to board and alight the bus.“We have taken the permit from the authorities concerned to run the Metro bus on the route. The bus will enter the airport premises and take passengers from the parking lot. It would be convenient for air passengers to reach the Golden Temple without any inconvenience,” Gill said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-travel-from-gheo-mandi-near-golden-temple-to-rajasansi-airport-in-a-metro-bus-297173
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Justice Daya Chaudhary appointed as president of Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission||The first woman advocate to be elevated as a Punjab and Haryana High Court judge, Justice Daya Chaudhary, today became the first woman to be appointed as the president of the Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (PSCDRC). So far, neither Haryana nor Chandigarh has seen a woman appointed as a commission president.Justice Chaudhary was elevated as the High Court judge in December 2007 and retired upon attaining the age of superannuation on January 9. Justice Chaudhary was enrolled as an advocate with the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana in 1987. She entered legal profession when women hardly accounted for one per cent in the profession in the state. At 40, she earned the distinction of being the first woman president of the Bar association not only in the Punjab and Haryana HC, but the entire country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/justice-daya-chaudhary-appointed-as-president-of-punjab-state-consumer-disputes-redressal-commission-297339
14-08-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht pronounces ‘tankhah’ to four management members of Uttarakhand's Gurdwara Sri Nanakmatta||Akal Takht officiating jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has pronounced ‘tankhah’ (religious punishment) to four managing committee members of Gurdwara Sri Nanakmatta Sahib in Uttarakhand on charges of violating the Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ (code of conduct). One among them was declared a ‘tankhaiah’ (guilty of religious misconduct) after he entered into an altercation.Also read: Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata panel resigns over ‘violations’ while ‘welcoming’ newly elected Uttarakhand CMAfter discussions at Akal Takht, gurdwara committee president Sewa Singh, general secretary Dhanna Singh and Dera Kar Sewa Wale Baba Tarsem Singh have been directed to listen to early morning ‘katha’, clean up footwear of devotees, wash dishes and mop the floor for 15 days as punishment at the Nanakmatta gurdwara. Another gurdwara committee member Jaswinder Singh Gill was declared a ‘tankhaiah’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-pronounces-tankhah-to-four-management-members-of-uttarakhands-gurdwara-sri-nanakmatta-297338
14-08-2021||Fazilka||Contract staff wave black flags at minister Gupreet Singh Kangar in Fazilka||Revenue and Rehabilitation Minister Gupreet Singh Kangar presided over a meeting of the District Grievances Redressal Committee at the Deputy Commissioner’s office here today. A large number of employees showed black flags to the minister during his visit to Fazilka.Heavy police arrangements were made to prevent any untoward incidence in view of the protest staged by contract and other employees outside the district administrative complex against the implementation of recommendations of the sixth pay commission and in favour of demand of regularisation of services. Employees’ leader Master Boota Singh said the police had virtually raised a wall of its personnel around the employees in a bid to gag their voice.MLAs Davinder Singh Ghubaya and Raminder Singh Awla highlighted the problems of their areas. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contract-staff-wave-black-flags-at-minister-gupreet-singh-kangar-in-fazilka-297337
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||No pay increase, power engineers in Punjab go incommunicado||Members of the PSEB Engineers’ Association, comprising all officers of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited, have removed official SIM cards in protest against the non-fulfillment of their long pending demands. The protesting members, who are from the rank of assistant engineer to engineer-in-chief, are thus unavailable to attend any complaints from public or their management.For the past several months, power engineers have been protesting against the management over the enhancement of assistant engineers’ pay scales and exclusion of the association in the Wage Formulation Committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-pay-increase-power-engineers-in-punjab-go-incommunicado-297336
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Special campaign for revision of voters’ list begins in Punjab||Revision of the voters’ list has been intensified in view of the upcoming Assembly elections. Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, Dr S Karuna Raju said even though the Covid-19 pandemic posed some challenges in conducting elections, the election machinery was geared up to tide over this unprecedented situation.Dr Raju said as per guidelines of the Election Commission of India (ECI), a special campaign for registration, deletion and correction of particulars in the voters’ list with qualifying date as January 1, 2022, has begun. Known as Special Summary Revision, the exercise gives an opportunity to citizens to register themselves as voters and also to verify their details offline/online. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-campaign-for-revision-of-voters-list-begins-in-punjab-297335
14-08-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana gym owner among two held with 5.3-kg heroin||The Special Task Force wing of the Ludhiana police nabbed two persons with 5.3 kg heroin here. The police also seized Rs 2.10 lakh in drug money, a Jeep and a motorcycle from the alleged smugglers.The suspects have been identified as Jagjit Singh Idu, 31, of Sunet and Harminder Singh Pannu, 30, of Aman Nagar. Mandeep, alias Pistoli, of Salem Tabri fled the scene.Mandeep owns a gym supplements shop at the grain market in Salem Tabri, while Jagjit runs a gym at Sunet village. The suspects have been in the drug trade for a long time.STF Inspector (Ludhiana range) Harbans Singh said following a tip-off, the STF raided locations in BRS Nagar leading to the arrests and subsequent seizures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-gym-owner-among-two-held-with-5-3-kg-heroin-297334
14-08-2021||Mansa||2 minors ‘thrashed’ in Mansa village, kin allege police inaction||The Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, Punjab, will hold a rally on August 14 to protest alleged police inaction in a case involving a woman from Nangal Khurd village “thrashing” two minor Dalit girls after locking them up in her house over suspected guava theft from her orchard.The girls’ families claimed they had given a written complaint against the woman to the Mansa SSP, but no action was taken.The girls’ father said: “The woman from a landowner’s family in our village locked up my daughters when they were returning from school. They were beaten up over suspicion that they had stolen guavas from her orchard on August 3. Instead of taking action against the woman, the cops got the consent of not wanting a probe in the matter from the girls’ mother without her knowledge at the hospital where they were undergoing treatment.” SSP Narinder Bhargav refused to comment on the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-minors-thrashed-in-mansa-village-kin-allege-police-inaction-297333
14-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Couple found brutally murdered at their farmhouse in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 13A couple living at a farmhouse in Chamba Khurd village falling under the Goindwal Sahib police station was found brutally murdered here this morning. The incident took place on Thursday night.The couple has been identified as Harbhajan Singh (55) and his wife Paramjit Kaur (50). The incident came to light when Nishan Singh of the same village went to the farmhouse to deliver milk to the couple in the morning.As per information, the bodies were lying in a pool of blood in the open courtyard of the house. The killers attacked the couple with a sharp-edged weapon several times as many parts of their bodies, including private ones, had injury marks.The bodies were lying half naked. The television was on and it seemed that the incident occurred between 10-11 pm. All rooms were untouched by the killers.Inspector Navndeep Singh, SHO, Goindwal Sahib, was the first to reach the spot and collected evidence from the spot.Satinder Kumar Chadda, DSP, Goindwal Sahib, said the number of killers seemed to be more than one. The DSP said some persons living nearby told him that the couple had no personal enmity with anybody and the police were working on several theories.As the son of the couple was residing in Manila and their daughter was married in Mehta (Amritsar) area, so the couple was living alone in the big double-storeyed house.Besides, there was no report of any article missing, so the police were of the view that personal enmity could be the reason behind the murder.Son lives in Manila, daughter married in mehta||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/couple-found-brutally-murdered-at-their-farmhouse-in-tarn-taran-297184
14-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Staff on strike, pension scheme applicants hit in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 13Beneficiaries of various pension schemes are at the receiving end of a pen-down strike by the staff of the Department of Social Security, Women and Child Development.Around 25,000 applications for enrolment in various pension schemes, including for elderly, handicapped and widows, are awaiting approval due to the strike. Consequently, eligible beneficiaries are being deprived of the much-needed financial help. Besides, the ongoing recruitment of the anganwari workers and helpers has also been hit by the protest.25K pleas pendingAround 25,000 applications for enrolment in various pension schemes are awaiting approval due to the strike by Child Development Project Officers and supervisers.Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs) and supervisors of the department have been on strike for weeks now over the pay commission report. They are protesting against the commission for downgrading their pay scale. The protesters said though they were burdened with additional work, their salary had been cut.The employees have now decided to hold protests at the head office of the department in Chandigarh on Monday. Kanwar Shakti Bangar, president, CDPOs’ Democratic Association, said, “We will not end our strike until our demands are met. As to the loss to pension beneficiaries due to our strike, the government is responsible, not us. We will intensify our protest in the coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staff-on-strike-pension-scheme-applicants-hit-in-punjab-297332
14-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Labourer dies in furnace blast in Mandi Gobindgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 13A labourer died and 11 others were injured during a blast in a furnace at the Punjab Steel Forging and Agro Industries in Mandi Gobindgarh on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Arun Majhi (37), a resident of Bihar.The blast occurred when the crane driver put the scrap into the furnace. The melted iron fell on the labourers. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Khanna. After first aid, they were taken to the DMC, Ludhiana. Doctors said a few of them were having 100 per cent burn injuries.Those injured have been identified as Vicky Kumar Mandal, Laljee Tiwari, Rakesh, Bittu, Amarjeet, Vinod, Shailesh Rai, Aman Kumar, Dharminder Patel, Ashok Singh and Sada Brij Kumar.JS Jallah SP (Investigation) said after the death of the worker, they had registered a case under Section 304A against four owners of the firm at the Mandi Gobindgarh police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labourer-dies-in-furnace-blast-in-mandi-gobindgarh-297331
14-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Doctor’s transfer at Punjab MLA’s ‘behest’ stayed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13Interference of legislators in transfers and postings has been a matter of surmises for long. But a petition filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, alleging the transfer of a medical officer on an MLA’s recommendations, has brought the matter under judicial scanner.Taking cognisance of the matter, Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu of the High Court has not only put the state of Punjab, Rajpura MLA and other respondents on notice, but also stayed the operation of the impugned transfer order dated July 29. The stay order will remain in force till September last week, when the case will come up for resumed hearing.In his petition, Dr Sikander Singh through counsel Saurabh Arora contended the petitioner, while doing his duty at the Rajpura Civil Hospital on July 27, reported a matter to the police authorities that a journalist was interfering in his work. The next day, the petitioner was allegedly pressured by four doctors to leave the hospital premises and join at the Nabha high security jail.‘Pressured by docs’In his petition, Dr Sikander Singh through counsel Saurabh Arora contended the petitioner, while doing his duty at the Rajpura Civil Hospital, reported to the police authorities that a journalist was interfering in his work. The next day, the petitioner was allegedly pressured by four doctors to leave the hospital premises and join at the Nabha high security jailAnother journalist allegedly assaulted the petitioner, regarding which a medico-legal report dated July 28 was also prepared.Arora contended the same day, Rajpura MLA Hardial Singh Kamboj wrote to the Punjab Minister for Health and Family Welfare to transfer the petitioner to some far-off place and initiate disciplinary action against him as he had allegedly misbehaved with a reporter. Arora added the petitioner was transferred the next day from Rajpura to the Mansa Civil Hospital. The petitioner was on medical leave following injuries due to the alleged assault by the journalist and he received the relieving order dated August 3 while on leave. Arora added the impugned action was illegal, arbitrary, discriminatory, without jurisdiction, and “absolutely violative” of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. “Till the next date of hearing, operation of the impugned transfer order dated July 29 shall remain stayed,” Justice Sindhu concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-transfer-at-punjab-mlas-behest-stayed-297330
14-08-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court to examine drug case reports||Chandigarh, August 13The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made clear its intent to examine the inquiry reports submitted during the past couple of years in the Punjab drugs menace case before proceeding further in the matter.The special Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Ajay Tewari also directed the High Court Registrar (Judicial) to produce the reports in the chambers before the next date of hearing in August-end.Submitted 2-3 years agoTaking up the matter through videoconferencing, the special Bench observed that it had been recently constituted, while the various inquiry reports were submitted two to three years back and were required to be perused.The directions came during the hearing on an application filed by advocate Navkiran Singh for advancing the date of hearing in the case. Taking up the matter through videoconferencing, the special Bench observed that it had been recently constituted, while the various inquiry reports were submitted two to three years back and were required to be perused.Appearing on the behalf of Lawyers for Human Rights International, counsel Navkiran Singh had earlier prayed that the Bench “may open” a report lying in a sealed cover in the case. He had contended the matter related to drug mafia operating in Punjab and was having international tentacles. It was required to be dealt with on an urgent basis as it affected the lives of Punjabi youth.“The sealed reports, which have been filed by Niranjan Singh, (the then) Deputy Director, Enforcement Directorate, and the Special Task Force, as well as the state, need to be opened and considered by this court,” Navkiran submitted. The application also referred to “allegations against the present MLA, Bikramjit Singh Majithia”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-examine-drug-case-reports-297329
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rape ‘victim’ moves Punjab and Haryana High Court||Alleging police inaction in a rape case registered against MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, the “victim” today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court. She was seeking directions to be made a party in the ongoing case on “monitoring the progress of matters pending against the MP/MLAs”.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, her counsel CM Munjal submitted that a complete list of cases pending against Bains, MLA from Atam Nagar, had not been furnished by the state. This apart, he submitted that the investigation had hardly made progress in any of the cases pending against him.The Bench observed that the victim’s grievance was that the police had not proceeded further with the probe. The FIR was registered after orders were passed by the Magistrate concerned at Ludhiana. The order was challenged before the HC, but the petitioner remained unsuccessful.The Bench added: “As per the counsel, the police are sitting tight over the matter and not conducting any investigation because of influence of the MLA. According to him, the matter falls within the ambit of the supervision of such cases as laid down by the SC in Ashwani Kumar Upadhyay versus the Union of India and another WP(Civil) No. 699 of 2016.” The Bench added the main case was pending for August 19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rape-victim-moves-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-297325
14-08-2021||Amritsar||8 girls test +ve for Covid-19, Ajnala school shut for 2 weeks||Three days after a student from a government school in Meharbanpur tested Covid-19 positive, eight students of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Ajnala today contracted the virus.The health department had taken multiple samples from the school as part of regular testing procedure out of which eight girls tested positive. As per guidelines, the DEO has ordered the school to remain closed for 14 days and offline classes would remain suspended until further orders.Ajnala SMO Dr Om Prakash said students had been quarantined at their homes. “The health department is keeping tabs on infected students. Students who have come in contact with those infected are also being tested. A letter has been sent to the education department,” he said.The health department will now further test 200 students from the school for contact tracing. District Education Department officials said mass testing was being done in all schools. — TNSGuv lauds docs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-girls-test-ve-for-covid-19-ajnala-school-shut-for-2-weeks-297307
14-08-2021||New Delhi||No separate Administrator for Chandigarh: MHA||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) today said the Centre had neither taken any decision on divesting Punjab Governor of the responsibility of the Chandigarh Administrator nor any such proposal was under consideration.A spokesman for the MHA said: “It is clarified that the Centre has not taken any decision of divesting the Punjab Governor of his responsibility of the Chandigarh Administrator; and, neither is any such proposal under contemplation.”The clarification follows a Twitter post of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in which he said: “Met & urged Home Minister Amit Shah to review the Union govt’s decision to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for Chandigarh by divesting Punjab Governor of this charge. It’s another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city which is totally unacceptable (sic).” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-separate-administrator-for-chandigarh-mha-297295
14-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Grain worth Rs 200 cr damaged over 12 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13Foodgrain worth over Rs 200 crore, procured for the Government of India from Punjab, has been damaged and declared unfit for human consumption in the past 12 years.As much as 14,36,776 lakh metric tonnes of grains, stored by the state procurement agencies in Punjab, has been damaged since 2009. This has been revealed in an RTI information sought by a foodgrain trader, Arun Kumar, from the Punjab region office of the Food Corporation of India.Most of the damaged foodgrain, which has been rendered unfit for human consumption, is wheat. Rice is generally stored in the scientific storage, whereas wheat is mostly stored on open plinths, making it more susceptible to vagaries of weather and pest infestation. Also, movement of rice to other recipient states is faster as compared to wheat, which saves it from damage caused by long-duration storage.The RTI reply from the FCI reveals 8,356 metric tonnes of foodgrain was declared unfit for human consumption in 2009-10, and since then the amount continued to increase.Sources in the FCI said since the foodgrain was damaged while in the custody of the state procurement agencies, the responsibility fell with the state government.“We suspect the damage is on account of no proper aeration of food stocks. Generally, the government declares these grains as damaged and then the salvation value is realised by the agency, and no compensation is given to the state government for these damaged grains,” said an official. Government sources are hopeful the enhancement of storage capacity they plan to undertake will ensure more scientific storage and reduce damage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/grain-worth-rs-200-cr-damaged-over-12-years-297294
14-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Safai workers find grenade in trash in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 13Safai karamcharies of the Municipal Corporation found a hand grenade in a pile of dry leaves outside a house in the posh Ranjit Avenue here today.They informed the police, who immediately reached the spot and covered the grenade with sand bags to avoid any major loss if it accidentally exploded. Later, a bomb disposal squad also reached the spot.Senior police officials, including Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, also rushed to the spot after being informed.Police Commissioner Dr Gill said the police had been carrying out search operations in all parts of the city and vital locations, while patrolling was also intensified in view of Independence Day celebrations. “We are not taking any information lightly and all suspicious things are being investigated by experts,” he said.Later in the afternoon, the hand grenade was defused by the bomb disposal squad at an open place in Manawala area. The police investigations were on to identify the person who threw or left it in the garbage pile and the motive behind it.The police are already on high alert following the recovery of a “tiffin bomb” and hand grenades in a border village four days ago. As the state-level Independence Day celebrations are also scheduled to be held in Amritsar, the police have been carrying out search operations in the area.CM Capt Amarinder Singh would hoist the national flag at Guru Nanak Stadium here to mark the occasion. He would also inaugurate Jallianwala Bagh memorial at Amrit Anand Park in Ranjit Avenue here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/safai-workers-find-grenade-in-trash-in-amritsar-297292
14-08-2021||Archit Watts||Third Front? Om Prakash Chautala meets Parkash Singh Badal twice in a fortnight||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 13INLD supremo-cum-former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala, who is likely to announce the third front on September 25, has met SAD patron-cum-former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal twice in the past fortnight at the latter’s Badal village residence here.Chautala accompanied by grandson Karan came to meet Badal late last evening. The two enquired about well-being and discussed the current political scenario, said sources. No other politician was present at the meeting, which was kept under wraps. The Badals have so far maintained silence over the meetings.The SAD and INLD were alliance partners during the Haryana Assembly elections in 2019. Both families have strong bonding. A few days ago, Chautala had met former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav in Delhi to discuss the formation of the third front. Earlier, he had met the Bihar CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/third-front-om-prakash-chautala-meets-parkash-singh-badal-twice-in-a-fortnight-297290
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Fulfil all poll promises: AAP's Raghav Chadha to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state affairs co-in charge Raghav Chadha has written to Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu, demanding immediate fulfillment of all poll promises made by the Congress in 2017.Chadha has also sent the 129-page election manifesto of the Congress along with the letter, stating that the PCC had removed it from its official website.“The high command is with you. You have the support of all Congress MLAs. The confidence of the Congress workers is with you. Now you are the Congress and you are the Punjab Government. Therefore, it is your responsibility to fulfil all 129 unfulfilled 2017 election promises of the Congress,” Chadha stated addressing Sidhu.Chadha further said Sidhu should now stop acting as the Leader of Opposition, as he was the president of the ruling Congress and the entire state government was under him.Chadha said in the past four and a half years of the Congress rule, drug kingpins hadn’t beenput behind bars, nor had justice been deliver in sacrilege cases. Issues of government employees also stood unresolved, he added. — TNS Will expose govt on power pacts: LoPAccusing the state government of misleading people on the issue of cancellation of power purchase agreements, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema on Friday said it would next week make public documentary evidence to expose it||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fulfil-all-poll-promises-aaps-raghav-chadha-to-punjab-congress-chief-navjot-singh-sidhu-297288
14-08-2021||---||Punjab Lokpal summons Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora||Chandigarh, August 13Taking cognisance of a complaint filed by former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder on the alleged bungling in the JCT Electronics’ 31 acres land auction, the Punjab Lokpal has summoned Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora.Bir Devinder had yesterday filed a complaint with the Lokpal, seeking a CBI probe into the controversial land auction. Talking to The Tribune, Bir Devinder said besides the minister, the Managing Director of PSIEC and Infotech, and Chief General Manager SP Singh, the official liquidator and the bidder were also being summoned. The controversy was highlighted in these columns in December last year.Land auction rowIndustries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora is facing heat over theauction of 31 acres of JCT Ltd for Rs90 croreAdvocate General Atul Nanda had said the deal caused a loss of Rs125 crore to the state exchequerBir Devinder, who is the whistleblower in the case, had highlighted as to how 31 acres of prime JCT land was auctioned for Rs 90 crore, out of which Rs 45 crore was deposited. The Infotech has been all along pressing for unearned profit of Rs 125 crore.“The objection and advice of some of the directors of PSIEC was kept aside, while only advice from private lawyer was obtained befitting the interest of the minister and key officials of PSIEC. This all was done when the curfew was imposed in March 2020, when no official activity and movement was allowed,” Bir Devinder claimed.After failing to get scrutiny of the official documents in the land auction case, the Deputy Speaker filed a case with the Punjab Lokpal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-lokpal-summons-industries-minister-sunder-sham-arora-297287
14-08-2021||---||Punjab MLAs question Local Government working||Chandigarh, August 13As the functioning of the Local Government Department and pending public-oriented decisions came in for criticism from some of the legislators at a meeting with PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, his newly appointed adviser Malwinder Singh Mali came under attack from two ministers and some MLAs over his recent comments on the social media against CM Capt Amarinder Singh and the Hindu community. Sidhu had convened the meeting of ministers and MLAs representing urban Assembly segments.Sidhu, who took over as the new chief of the Punjab Congress last month, had picked Mali as one of his four advisers last Wednesday. Representing the Hindu community, the leaders questioned Mali's locus standi in commenting on the community, which had been the backbone of the Congress in the urban areas.Minister absentI was busy meeting protesting employees at the time and had conveyed this to the PCC chief’s office. — Brahm Mohindra, Local Govt MinisterAmong those who spoke on the issue were ministers Sunder Sham Arora and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, besides Ludhiana MLA Vijay Dabar and former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri.Sekhri is learnt to have pointed out that Mali's remarks against the CM had not gone down well with party workers. He also pointed out that Mali should work in tandem with the CM, instead of attacking party men, it is learnt. Ministers Ashu and Arora pointed to frequent remarks made by Mali on the social media regarding the community. After CM's recent meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Mali had in his Facebook post said: "Punjabis beware! Signals from the trio of Capt, Shah and Modi to create communal tension, fear and terror are alarm bells for Punjabis and farmers. CM has handed over his agenda to the Centre."Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, who was at another meeting, and Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni stayed away. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu left after a short while. Food & Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora attended the meeting. During the three-hour deliberations, Sidhu along with working presidents Pawan Goyal and Kuljit Singh Nagra formulated party's strategy to resolve issues related to the urban areas.Core issues touched at the meeting included disconnection of electricity meters, outstanding water bills, regularisation of buildings and plots under one-time settlement for residential and commercial buildings, extending the scheme for regularisation of colonies and easing burden of NOC for registration of property. A party leader said: "Since the issues pertained to the Local Government Department, the minister concerned should have been present to update the MLAs regarding their concerns." Some MLAs demanded 300 units of free power to all domestic consumers, 24-hour supply, besides lowering tariff to Rs 3 per unit for domestic consumers and Rs 5 for commercial and industrial consumers. The MLAs advised Sidhu to take up the issues with the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-mlas-question-local-government-working-297285
14-08-2021||---||Not considering appointing independent administrator for Chandigarh: MHA||Mukesh RanjanTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 13The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday clarified that the Centre has not taken any decision of divesting Punjab Governor of this responsibility of Chandigarh Administrator and also there is neither any such proposal under contemplation.An MHA spokesperson’s clarification has come in view of a Twitter post of SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Badal in which he said: “Met & urged Home minister Amit Shah to review the Union govt’s decision to appoint a full-fledged administrator for Chandigarh by divesting Punjab governor of this charge. It’s another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim to its capital city, which is totally unacceptable”.In another tweet Badal said: “Have conveyed to the HM that there is no reason to appoint a full-fledged administrator for the UT from outside Punjab. Till the UT is not transferred to Pb, the officer should be appointed from the state. Chandigarh is inseparable from Pb & must be transferred to it ASAP”.The MHA spokesperson, while countering the claims made by the SAD leader, said it was clarified that Sukhbir Singh Badal “has not raised this issue with the Union Home Minister “. He went on to add: “The apprehension expressed in Shri Sukhbir Singh Badal’s tweet that he met and urged the Union Home Minister to review the Union Government’s decision to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for Chandigarh by divesting the Governor of Punjab of this charge, is unfounded.”The MHA official further said, “It is clarified that the Union Government has not taken any decision of divesting Punjab Governor of this responsibility of Chandigarh Administrator; and, neither is any such proposal under contemplation”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-considering-appointing-independent-administrator-for-chandigarh-mha-297129
