15-08-2021||Chandigarh||More youths will be given tickets in 2022 Punjab assembly polls: Navjot Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said during the upcoming state assembly polls, youths will be given more tickets than they got during the last one.Sidhu also trained guns at the previous SAD-BJP regime accusing them of patronising mafias in Punjab.Without naming anyone, the cricketer-turned-politician also took potshots at the AAP, claiming that they were after him to join their party.The newly appointed Punjab Pradesh Congress chief was addressing the state Youth Congress workers at the Congress Bhawan here. A march was also taken out by Youth Congress workers on the occasion of Independence Day.Addressing the gathering, Sidhu promised youths that he would honour the merit and added that he wanted youths to get opportunities.Any talent is nothing without any opportunity, he stressed.He further said he has put up a bed at the Punjab Congress Bhavan for addressing the issues of workers, a promise which he made during his installation ceremony last month.He said he had come to change the system which does not acknowledge workers and keep the power confined to a few people.“Youths will get one-and-half times more tickets than what they got earlier,” he announced.The Amritsar East legislator also sought to reply to his political opponents who had accused him of being after the post and power.Asserting that he had left the Rajya Sabha seat and other posts and asked if anybody among those criticising him had ever left even the post of a sarpanch (village head).He further slammed his opponents who questioned him why he did not become power minister, a portfolio which was given to him after he was divested of the Local Government Department in 2019.Attacking the previous Akali regime, Sidhu said the state used to earn only Rs 40 crore per annum from the mining sector while Telangana earned Rs 47 crore in a week from the same sector.He further said he will eliminate the mafia word from Punjab’s map if he ever got “power of people”.He further said Tamil Nadu has been earning Rs 36,000 crore from the liquor business despite 50 per cent of consumption as compared to that of Punjab.“But we have been earning just Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 crore for the last 20 years,” he said.Apparently pointing towards the AAP, Sidhu said they have been accusing him of doing politics for a chair.“You were after Sidhu with chair in their lap. And you came to my house and asked me, Sidhu sahib, what can we do for you?” claimed Sidhu without naming the Aam Aadmi Party.Taking a swipe at the AAP, he added that they would write to him. He said they should send the letter to a “correct address”.On Friday, AAP leader Raghav Chadha had said he had written to Sidhu to remind him about the 2017 poll promises and had asked him to deliver on the same. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-youths-will-be-given-tickets-in-2022-punjab-assembly-polls-navjot-sidhu-297957
15-08-2021||Attari||On 75th Independence Day, BSF DG says India respects ceasefire bilateral agreement, Pak should also follow||The Director General of BSF, SS Deshwal said that India always abided by the bilateral agreement, irrespective of what the other partner (Pakistan) does.Deshwal was at Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post (JCP) to attend the 75th Independence Day celebrations, but in a subdued manner due to Covid-19 restrictions.The border security forces of both the nations exchanged wishes and sweets. From the Indian side, BSF Commandant Jasbir Singh offered sweets to the Pakistan Rangers.Giving a message to Pakistan on the historic occasion, Deswal said, “The neighbour (Pakistan) has to understand itself that they have entered into bilateral agreement of the ceasefire with India. India follows it, they too have to follow it.”While emphasising that India was all prepared to counter the increasing threat and misadventures from across the border, Deswal said, “We always respect and are committed to international conventions. We are acting as per the bilateral agreement, at present,” he said.On repeated instances of smuggling of drugs, arms and RDX through drones from across the border, he said the situation was always under watch and the nation was fully prepared to give protection at the border.Two days ago, a hand grenade was found in Amritsar’s posh area.As the Taliban has encroached upon Afghanistan cities, he said, “When we prepare a security plan for the border, we keep into consideration all situations emerging across the border. With all technology help, we are up to the mark and fully prepared to meet any kind of situation and prevent all these activities from across the border. At every place our forces are being placed and capable of dealing with any situation. We have made good seizures and culprits have been arrested regularly and put to the legal system,” he said.Meanwhile, the cycle rally, started off from Kashmir’s Baramullah and Gujarat’s Bhuj reached Attari border. The rally organised on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of BSF Topkhana had reached Faridkot three days ago. Both the rallyists left for Attari on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-75th%C2%A0independence-day-bsf-dg-says-india-respects-ceasefire-bilateral-agreement-pak-should-also-follow-297918
15-08-2021||Amritsar||Won’t tolerate any aggression, will teach Pak a lesson if it indulges in misadventure, vows Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, on the historic 75th Independence Day of the country, on Sunday vowed to protect the border state against the nefarious designs of Pakistan, even as he pledged to continue fighting with the farmers for the repeal of the Centre’s black farm laws.Calling for extreme vigil against Pakistan, which continued to try to foment trouble even 75 years after independence, the chief minister asserted that while “we want Punjab, but will not tolerate any aggression or attack on our territory”.Addressing the people of Punjab after unfurling the national flag, the chief minister declared “we will teach them (Pakistan) the lesson of their lifetime if they try to be adventurous”.Pointing to the use of drones by the neighbouring country to smuggle arms and drugs into the state, Capt Amarinder warned that Pakistan would not leave any opportunity to take advantage of any vulnerability in Punjab.Stressing the need to ensure peace in the state to promote the development of industry and the progress of its people, the chief minister said his government would not tolerate any threat, including those from gangsters and terrorists.“We will deal with them squarely,” he pledged, adding that “any threat to Punjab would be a danger to our entire nation”.He disclosed that since his government took over, 47 Pakistani terrorist modules and 347 modules of gangsters had been neutralized, including some key gangsters who had been deported from Armenia, UAE and other countries, with more awaiting deportation.Later, interacting informally with some media-persons on the sidelines of the I-day function, the chief minister expressed concern about the continuing agitation of the farmers and said he had raised the issue recently during his meetings with the prime minister and the Union home minister.He said he demanded the repeal of the farm laws, which were anti-farmer and against the spirit of the Constitution. He made it clear that he would continue to fight with the farmers for the revocation of these legislations, and would not let the sacrifices of those who had lost their lives in this struggle go in vain.Capt Amarinder Singh said, “The fight against these black laws is not political. It does not matter who is in power where. We need to stand by what is right and to ensure that our rights under the Constitution are not crushed. Had some of the other political parties heeded my repeated implorations in June last year to unitedly articulate our deep concerns before the Centre, this situation might not have arisen.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-tolerate-any-aggression-will-teach-pak-a-lesson-if-it-indulges-in-misadventure-vows-punjab-cm-297913
15-08-2021||Amritsar||Hind-Pak Dosti festival organised at Attari-Wagah border||Folklore Research Academy on Saturday organised a special seminar under the annual Hind-Pak Dosti festival to mark the Independence Day celebrations.The academy invited several eminent thinkers, artistes, mediapersons from the region to participate and release a declaration for this year’s Hind-Pak Dosti festival.“On the 75th Independence Day of India and Pakistan, we congratulate the people of both the countries and wish peace in the region and a better future for the people. On the historic occasion, we pay tribute to all patriots who sacrificed their lives for independence from the British Empire. At the same time, we pay tribute to the one million people who were killed in communal violence during the Partition,” said Ramesh Yadav, president, Folklore Research Academy.Yadav said, “Attari-Wagah border should be reopened for trade and public transport. Kartarpur Corridor be reopened keeping in view of the sentiments of the people. A peace monument built during the beautification process in the memory of those who died during the Partition,” he said.Late in the evening, a message of peace and friendship was given by lighting candles at Attari Border by the delegation of Folklore Research Academy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hind-pak-dosti-festival-organised-at-attari-wagah-border-297854
15-08-2021||Amritsar||Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, after educationist||Even as CM Capt Amarinder Singh today inaugurated the Sant Prem Singh Murale Wale Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), there are many projects allocated to the university in the past that are running behind schedule.The Chair, set up in the memory of the eminent educationist of his time, will be headed by a professor along with three research assistants.Educationists said even two years after the Union Government allocated the Centre of Interfaith Study to the university, work on it was yet to begin. The Centre had earmarked Rs 493 crore for the facility to commemorate the 550th Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev. On May 3, the CM had formed a panel of VCs to work out examination reforms and review curriculum. It was asked to submit its report within 60 days, but it is yet to do so. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chair-at-guru-nanak-dev-university-amritsar-after-educationist-297641
15-08-2021||Sangrur||State-wide protest by water supply staff today||Reduce probation period to 2 yrs, demand patwarisMansa: Members of the Revenue Patwar Union, Mansa, staged a protest over their ‘long-pending’ demands and said the government must fill 3,000 vacant posts of patwaris in the state and reduce the probation period to two years. They threatened to boycott online work from September 1. tnsASI dies as stray cattle hits motorcycle in MuktsarMuktsar: An Assistant Sub-Inspector died on Saturday after a stray cattle hit him near Khema Khera and Sheranwala village here. The deceased, Surjit Singh, posted at Malout Sadar police station, was on his way to Badal village for duty. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-wide-protest-by-water-supply-staff-today-297642
15-08-2021||Moga||Project to save water in rice cultivation||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) have initiated a collaborative project to promote ‘tar-wattar Direct Seeded Rice (DSR)’ technology in the state.The two-year NABARD-sponsored project focuses on capacity building of farmers on ‘tar-wattar DSR’ technique through trainings and demonstrations in fields across 12 districts. The aim of the project is to upscale the shift towards water-saving techniques for conserving natural resources.MS Bhullar, head, Department of Agronomy, PAU, Ludhiana, said under the project, six training webinars on ‘tar-wattar DSR’ were conducted, in which more than 300 farmers participated.Farmers demonstrated the technique on more than 200 acres in six districts in the current season, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/project-to-save-water-in-rice-cultivation-297637
15-08-2021||Muktsar||2 cops suspended after Dalit’s suicide||After a Dalit man of Chak Tamkot village here allegedly upset over police inaction in tracing his wife ‘kidnapped’ by certain persons died by suicide on Tuesday, the district police have suspended SHO Shimla Rani and ASI Harjinder Singh posted at Lakhewali police station.The additional charge of the Lakhewali police station SHO has been given to SI Baljit Singh. Notably, the police have booked five persons, including two women, in this regard. The deceased, Jagmeet Singh, had left a suicide note, accusing the police of inaction in tracing his wife and blamed some persons for the incident.National Commission for Scheduled Castes Chairman Vijay Sampla had already directed the DC and the SSP to submit the action-taken report within 15 days. The police have even formed a special investigation team (SIT) headed by SP (PBI) Kulwant Rai in this case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-cops-suspended-after-dalits-suicide-297628
15-08-2021||Sangrur||Punjab minister Vijay Inder Singla faces ire of jobless youth in Sangruru village||Unemployed members of the five unions, which had been staging a protest before the local residence of Minister Vijay Inder Singla here since December 31 last year, protested against the minister at an event in Roshanwala, where he had come to inaugurate Government Degree College.“We have been demanding jobs in government department as per our eligibility. But, whenever we come to meet the minister, we are thrashed by the police and taken into custody. Since the state government has failed to fulfil its promise of providing ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’, its ministers are evading to meet us,” said protester Gagandeep Kaur, who was taken into custody by the Bhawanigarh police along with six others, including Aman Sekha, Preet Inder Kaur, Pritpal Kaur, Kulwant Singh Longowal, Manpreet Kaur and Lakhvir Singh.Members of BEd and TET pass along with members of four other unions — All-Punjab 873 DPE Teachers Union, 646 PTI Teachers Union Punjab, Unemployed Art and Craft Union and Unemployed Multipurpose Health Union — under the banner of Joint Front of Unemployed, have been sitting on indefinite protest here before the local residence of Singla since December 31 last year. Earlier, they had organised protest here from September 2019 to April 2020.Bhawanigarh DSP Sukhraj Singh said: “We took them into custody and released them at a distance to avoid any trouble at the public event.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-minister-vijay-inder-singla-faces-ire-of-jobless-youth-in-sangruru-village-297629
15-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Lax jail staff facing action: Minister||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 14Minister for Jails Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today said if drones could enter India from across the border, so could mobiles phones in state jails, but the staff had been seizing these devices and action was being taken against senior officials for negligence.Randhawa was answering a query of mediapersons regarding free movement of gangsters in Punjab and their alleged network in jails after laying the foundation stones of several projects in Amloh, Fatehgarh Sahib and Bassi Pathana.At Chanarthal village, where Randhawa along with MLA and PCC working chief Kuljit Singh Nagra had gone to lay the foundation stone of development works, farmers had gathered to protest his visit. However, the district administration arranged a meeting between the two sides, where they told farmers they had been supporting their cause and that the CM had raised the issue with the PM and Home Minister.On the promises being made by PCC chief Navjot Sidhu regarding Rs 3 per unit electricity, scrapping of PPAs and opening of drug reports during the upcoming Assembly session, he said there were certain legal obstructions but these would be sorted out and all issues would be resolved.On speculation over “two power centres” in the Congress, the minister said both Sidhu and Capt Amarinder Singh were doing their respective duties and there were no differences in the party. In Amloh, Randhawa laid the foundation stone of various projects worth crores, while in Fatehgarh Sahib, the minister accompanied by Nagra inaugurated and laid foundation stones of various development works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lax-jail-staff-facing-action-minister-297630
15-08-2021||Manav Mander||Panel: Avoid remdesivir, use steroid only if O2 dips||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 14Before the third wave hits the state, guidelines have been issued for handling of Covid-19 patients.According to the latest clinical guidelines issued by the committee formed by the state government, unnecessary use of antimicrobials needs to be avoided, remdesivir injection has been discouraged and steroids will now be used only when oxygen saturation of the patient is less.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Hero DMC Heart Institute, who is also a member of Covid-19 task force formed by the government, said: “For patients requiring hospital management where a diagnosis of Covid is not established, and a differential diagnosis of community/hospital acquired pneumonia/or tropical fever is a possibility, after sending appropriate investigations, empiric antimicrobial(s) may be initiated with aim to de escalate as soon as correct diagnosis is established.”Prescriptions to be reviewed every 48 hrsHigh-dose steroids can cause diabetes and black fungus. So, these must be used only when saturation is less. Anti-fungal use should be limited and used for lab-proven infections only. All prescriptions must be reviewed every 48 hours. —Dr Bishav Mohan, Senior cardiologistHe said: “High dose steroids can cause diabetes and black fungus. So, these must be used only when saturation is less. Anti-fungal use should be limited and as far as possible for lab-proven infections only. All prescriptions must be reviewed within the next 48 hours.”Remdesivir does not provide overall mortality benefit and may reduce time of clinical recovery. “Combined use of tocilizumab and baricitinib should be avoided as there is a potential for increased risk of infections,” Dr Mohan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-avoid-remdesivir-use-steroid-only-if-o2-dips-297631
15-08-2021||---||Vaccine 98% effective in preventing death: Punjab Govt's Study||Chandigarh, August 14A study conducted by the state government has revealed that vaccine effectiveness for prevention of death among partially and fully vaccinated people was over 98 per cent.Effectiveness for prevention of mild-to-severe infection ranged from 70.6 per cent to 98.8 per cent. Vaccine coverage data reveals that 61.92 lakh (29%) had received first dose and 9.82 lakh (5%) the second dose by June-end in the state.Citing a detailed state study, which had shown excellent vaccine effectiveness against the virus, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today directed the health department to gear up for full utilisation of the additional vaccine supply, of which he had been personally assured by the Union Health Minister.Noting that more than half of the eligible population of the state had already received one dose of vaccine, the CM said he had, during his meeting with the Health Minister earlier this week, sought immediate supply of 55 lakh doses to inoculate Punjab’s eligible population.He had been assured of increased supplies, said Capt Amarinder. Incidentally, the first dose of Covid vaccine has been administered to around 82 lakh people (40% of state’s eligible population) and second dose to nearly 24 lakh people (11% of eligible beneficiaries), which, said the CM, has the capacity to vaccinate 8 lakh people per day.Stressing that there was no doubt regarding vaccine effectiveness, the CM urged all eligible persons to come forward to get themselves vaccinated. As per a study to monitor Covid-19 vaccine effectiveness conducted by Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of School of Public Health, PGI, it has been found that vaccine has been effective in reducing positivity by 95%, hospitalisation by 96% and deaths by 98%, the meeting was informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccine-98-effective-in-preventing-death-punjab-govts-study-297632
15-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Pandemic triggered anxiety among 80.5% people: Survey||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 14Around 80.5% of population suffered from anxiety and 73.3% from depression during Covid, revealed a survey conducted by the Association of Physicians of India (Malwa branch) headed by its chairman Dr Vitull K Gupta.Meanwhile, Dr Meghna Gupta, Dr Navjot Kaur, Dr Parneet Kaur Hari and Dr Kashish Goyal were the co-authors of the survey titled the “Prevalence of anxiety and depression in India among medicos and non-medicos during Covid”. The study has been accepted for publication by the SSR Institute of International Journal of Life Sciences.The survey included 4,333 persons, of which 2,246 were medicos and 2,087 non-medicos. Also, 2,080 were in the age group of 20 to 40 years, 1,854 in 41 to 60 years and 399 were aged over 60. The sample size included 2,741 males and 1,592 females, while 2,335 subjects belonged to Punjab while 1,998 from out of the state.The survey was conducted between October 1, 2020, to February 20, 2021, to assess the prevalence of anxiety and depression in the Indian population during the Covid pandemic using hard copies and e-copies of completely voluntary anonymous questionnaire. Anxiety and depression symptoms were assessed using generalised anxiety disorder questionnaire-7 (GAD-7) and patient health questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9).The prevalence of anxiety in the total population stood at 80.5%, including 79.3% among medicos and 81.9% among non-medicos, while 73.3%, including 74.7% medicos and 71.7% non-medicos, were found suffering from depression during the pandemic.The survey even revealed that the prevalence of anxiety and depression is more among women than men and is almost same in Punjab as well as out of the state. It also suggested the initiation of urgent measures to address mental health issues and its psychological impacts to contain and curb the adverse effects of mental disorders, including anxiety and depression.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pandemic-triggered-anxiety-among-80-5-people-survey-297633
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||1,498 compliances for trade, industry in Punjab go||The Punjab Government today announced scrapping of 1,498 mandatory compliances for trade and industry in the state. More reduction in compulsory formalities is in the offing.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said this while chairing a meeting to review the status of compliance reduction by various departments here.She directed the departments concerned to complete the process of further reducing the compliances by month-end.Mahajan said the compliances falling under two categories — government to business (G2B) and government to citizen (G2C) — were being reduced to save the cost and time of users. She asked the administrative secretaries to have a relook and identify more such compliances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-498-compliances-for-trade-industry-in-punjab-go-297634
15-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Accused can’t appoint power of attorney: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that an accused cannot appoint a power of attorney to represent him in criminal proceedings. The procedure would not only encourage the accused to seek such permissions to avoid personal presence before the trial or any other court, but also put extra burden upon the courts.Justice Manoj Bajaj also ruled it might further cause delay in conclusion of the criminal proceedings, thereby defeating the aim and object of the penal laws.The ruling by Justice Bajaj came on a proclaimed offender’s petition challenging orders whereby the trial court issued non-bailable warrants to secure his presence before declaring him a proclaimed offender in an FIR registered in April 2010 for cheating at the Civil Lines police station in Amritsar.Justice Bajaj was told the petitioner went abroad during the pendency of the case and the trial court’s efforts to secure his presence proved futile. He moved the HC initially for quashing the FIR, claiming continuation of trial against him would be a waste of court’s precious time as his co-accused had been acquitted. The plea was, however, not entertained.Justice Bajaj asserted proceedings in a criminal trial could not take place in the absence of the accused, except with the court’s permission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/accused-cant-appoint-power-of-attorney-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-297635
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sept 11 Lok Adalat may be held virtually||Amidst apprehensions of an impending third wave of Covid-19, the Punjab and Haryana High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC) today made it clear the National Lok Adalat (NLA), slated for September 11, would be organised through the virtual mode if physical hearing was not possible.The HCLSC, functioning under the patronage of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and chairman Justice Augustine George Masih, also made it clear the NLA would take up criminal compoundable offences, bounce cheque and money recovery cases, MACT cases, labour and employment dispute, electricity, water bills and other bill payment matters, maintenance cases and matrimonial disputes, except divorce, and land acquisition cases.It would also take up services matters relating to pay, allowances and retirement benefits etc. pending in the HC only and other civil cases etc.The e-bimonthly Lok Adalat held today also proved to be effective with more than 43 per cent of the cases being disposed of. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sept-11-lok-adalat-may-be-held-virtually-297636
15-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Capt Amarinder Singh's first visit to holy city in over three years||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 14Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s visit to the holy city comes after nearly three and half years. He was last here was during Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s visit, when he paid obeisance at the Golden Temple on February 21, 2018, say party sources.The CM’s visit also brought to fore the ongoing tussle within the senior Congress leadership, with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has a residence in the city, and Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa staying away from his events.The PCC chief’s absence from the CM’s programmes in the city, from where the former is an MLA, was a point of discussion among party leaders. Capt Amarinder had attended Sidhu’s installation ceremony as PCC chief in Chandigarh recently.Qadian MLA Fateh Jang Singh Bajwa too did not attend any of the events, but took part in the dinner hosted by MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla at his residence.Raja Sansi MLA and Rehabilitation and Disaster Management Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria was present at Guru Nanak Dev University, where the CM inaugurated a number of projects.Amritsar Central MLA and Cabinet minister OP Soni hosted a tea party at his residence in the evening, where councillors of his central constituency and businessmen met the CM.The CM is likely to take part in the breakfast to be hosted by MLA Raj Kumar at his residence after the conclusion of the national flag hoisting ceremony tomorrow.Sidhu skips eventsPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, an MLA from Amritsar, and Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa stayed away from CM’s events||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singhs-first-visit-to-holy-city-in-over-three-years-297638
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cop gets Punjab CM award for saving family from fire||On the recommendations of the state government, the Punjab Governor today announced the Chief Minister’s Rakshak Padak award for Sub-Inspector Jasveer Singh for showing the highest level of courage by rescuing a family after their house, located over a shop in Malerkotla, caught fire.SI Jasveer Singh is currently posted as the SHO, City-2, Malerkotla. The Governor also announced names of 15 officers/officials, including AIG STF Ludhiana Range Snehdeep Sharma, DCP Jalandhar Gurmeet Singh, ADCP-4 Ludhiana Rupinder Kaur Sra, ADCP Investigation Ludhiana Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, DSP Detective Moga Jangjit Singh and DSP Detective Amritsar Rural Gurinderpal Singh to be conferred with the Chief Minister’s Medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty. The remaining officials selected for the medal are Inspector Gurpreet Singh, Inspector Surinder Kaur, Inspector Bithal Hari, SI Lakhbir Singh, ASI Kanwaljeet Singh, ASI Amandeep Singh, ASI Jagdeep Singh, Constable Jagjit Singh and Constable Daljit Kumar.DGP Dinkar Gupta congratulated the awardees and thanked the state government for recognising the services of the police officers/officials. He said such recognitions played a significant role in encouraging the police force to work with greater dedication and devotion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cop-gets-punjab-cm-award-for-saving-family-from-fire-297639
15-08-2021||---||Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore honours 1971 war heroes, kin||Jalandhar, August 14Governor VP Singh Badnore today visited Vajra Corps at Jalandhar Cantt and felicitated veterans and Veer Naaris as part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh anniversary of the 1971 victory over Pakistan.The Governor was received by Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, GỌC Vajra Corps. He paid homage to the valiant soldiers of the Indian Army and laid a wreath at Vajra Shaurya Sthal. This was followed by a visit to the Vajra Museum.At a felicitation ceremony, organised as a tribute to the bravehearts and martyrs, the Governor felicitated 20 war veterans and Veer Naaris.Badnore remembered the heroes who made the supreme sacrifice during the war and praised the invaluable contribution made by the armed forces towards nation building.The ceremony was attended by senior military officials, serving soldiers and civil dignitaries while ensuring all Covid-19 precautions.Extending support to the Green Earth movement, the Governor planted a sapling and encouraged others to do so to reverse climate change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-governor-vp-singh-badnore-honours-1971-war-heroes-kin-297640
15-08-2021||Bathinda||Freedom fighters’ kin refuse to accept honours on I-Day||Members of Freedom Fighters’ Association, Punjab, have refused to accept honours, which were to be conferred upon them on Independence Day, over unfulfilled demands, including free 300 electricity units and increase in quota for government jobs. Families of freedom fighters are honoured by the government on Independence Day every year. Nirbhay Singh Jethuke, district president of the association, said: “The administration reached out to family members of freedom fighters to honour them on Independence Day, but the association members unanimously decided not to accept these honours.”He said the government did not pay heed to their demands and when Independence Day approached, it honoured them every year. “But this year we have decided not to accept these honours. Freedom fighters from villages Jethuke, Sekhpura, Nathana, Bathinda, Pahula, Bazakhana and Kamalu among others have denied the offer. Capt Amarinder Singh had announced that 300 electricity units will be provided to our families but it was never implemented. Moreover, rather than increasing the quota of government jobs for kin of freedom fighters, the government has reduced it. Till our demands are ignored, there is no logic in accepting these honours,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/freedom-fighters-kin-refuse-to-accept-honours-on-i-day-297646
15-08-2021||---||2nd Jallianwala Bagh memorial unveiled||Amritsar, August 14Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today inaugurated the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial, built at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore and spread over 1.5 acres, at Anand Amrit park in Ranjeet Avenue area, where a hand grenade was found yesterday.Kick-starting his two-day visit to Amritsar, the Chief Minister inaugurated a slew of projects and visited Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) and Government Medical College (GMC).On the eve of 75th Independence Day, the Chief Minister inaugurated the Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park in memory of those martyred in the massacre of April 13, 1919.Bears 488 namesOn the need of raising a second memorial to the massacre, Captain Amarinder said earth from villages and localities of 488 martyrs was collected and brought to sanctify the memorial. Although, the then Deputy Commissioner had gone on record to state 1,250 bullets were fired, the CM said, it meant the exact number might have been higher.The Chief Minister said a special team of historians and research scholars had been constituted by the GNDU for carrying out research on martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh and freedom fighters imprisoned at Cellular Jail, Port Blair.Once the research was over, the names of more martyrs might be discovered, he said, adding sufficient space had been kept on the columns of the memorial to incorporate more names in the future.Currently, the names of the officially known 488 martyrs had been inscribed on the black and grey granite stone walls of the memorial.The Chief Minister felicitated 29 family members of the Jallianwala Bagh martyrs and posed for a group photograph with them. He appreciated the mural designed by a Bengali artist, Moloy Ghosh, portraying the massacre.Bears 488 names* A team of historians had been constituted for research on martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh and freedom fighters imprisoned at Port Blair jail* Names of more martyrs, if discovered, would be added to black and grey granite stone walls of the memorial, which currently bear 488 names||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-unveiled-297647
15-08-2021||---||Gallantry medal for Amritsar ASI who took bullet nabbing smuggler||Chandigarh, August 14ASI Gursewak Singh from Special Task Force (STF), Border Range, Amritsar, has been awarded with Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG), while ADGP Modernisation Ram Singh and AIG-cum-Staff Officer to DGP, Punjab, Jasdeep Singh would be conferred with President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS) on the 75th Independence Day.The Ministry of Home Affairs announced the names of the Punjab Police officers/officials to be awarded with PMG, PPMDS and Police Medal for Meritorious Service (PMMS).On Sept 9, 2019,ASI Gursewak Singh had suffered a bullet injury in the chest while trying to catch hold of two drug smugglers at Lopoke in Amritsar. He didn’t let go of one of the smugglers who was later arrested and 1 kg heroin and one pistol was seized from his possession.Similarly, five PPS officers — Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, Ludhiana ADCP-2 Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, PBI DSP Raj Kumar, Bathinda CID unit DSP Parminder Singh and Amritsar Rural DSP (Detective) Gurinderpal Singh are among 13 officers/officials selected for the PMMS. Other awardees are Inspector Kulvir Singh, Inspector Ashok Kumar, Inspector Puran Singh, SI Natha Singh, SI Niranjan Dass, SI Harjit Singh, ASI Onkar Tiwari and ASI Ashok Kumar. DGP Dinkar Gupta, while congratulating the awardees, expressed gratitude to the Ministry of Home Affairs for recognising the services of these officers and boosting the morale of the entire Punjab Police force. He said such recognition encouraged the police force to work with more dedication and devotion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gallantry-medal-for-amritsar-asi-who-took-bullet-nabbing-smuggler-297655
15-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination certificate, RTPCR -ve report must to enter Punjab||Punjab has made a complete vaccination certificate or a negative RTPCR report mandatory for entry into the state from Monday.Chairing a review meeting here today, CM Capt Amarinder Singh said there would be strict monitoring of people coming from Himachal Pradesh and Jammu in view of increased positivity there. He said if a person did not have either of these, a rapid antigen test would be conducted.Eye on travellersBetween August 6 and 12, a 51 per cent jump in cases was seen in the state as compared to the previous week. As many as 452 cases were reported against 298 the previous week. Amid surfacing of Covid cases in schools, the CM directed only fully vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff should physically teach in schools and colleges with online learning option to remain available to all children.Warning that a Cambridge study has predicted that cases are likely to double in the next 64 days, Capt Amarinder ordered at least 10,000 test samples of students and staff from schools to be undertaken every day.Districts/cities where positivity is above 0.2 per cent have been asked to shut down physical teaching for Classes 4 and below until the situation improves.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu suggested reducing the gap between the two doses to prioritise second dose for teachers and other school staff.The CM also ordered Covid testing in the state to be increased to at least 60,000 tests per day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccination-certificate-rtpcr-ve-report-must-to-enter-punjab-297625
15-08-2021||We have never looked back||Partition: ‘We have buried the past & moved on’||We arrived in Ludhiana empty-handed like the rest of the refugees. But we never looked back. My father, who belonged to Kamalia village in Lyallpur, built a house in 1947, convinced that Partition would never happen. I was then seven years old. Most of the family’s savings were spent on the new house. I had just joined Khalsa School in Faisalabad when communal tension started to build up. One night we suddenly boarded a train and arrived in Ludhiana. Starting from a scratch, we became one of the leading bicycle makers in the country.Yogesh Munjal, Hero Group, Ludhiana At peace, memories have faded I was with my friends when we were attacked by rioters. I fled for my life. I was reunited with my family at a camp in Jalandhar three months later. From there, we moved to Karnal. First, we began a business in locks and later in garments.We never gave up. Burying the memories of Partition, we re-established ourselves. Today, I am a happy man. I have taught my four sons never to look back and to meet challenges head on.Satpal Nagpal, KarnalNo point, wounds have healed It has been 75 years. The wounds have healed. We don’t want to remember those dark days in our lives. No government has ever announced any relief for the migrants, and now that we are on our feet due to sheer hard work, the government has announced August 14 as Remembrance Day. This is vote politics. We won’t fall for such symbolism. Also, there is no bitterness. Our Muslim neighbours gave us shelter and saved us. The Muslims too suffered during Partition. I blame politicians as well as anti-social elements for the riots. Harmohinder Singh Mokha, Bathinda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partition-we-have-buried-the-past-moved-on-297620
15-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Stopped for checking, car driver drags cop to a distance in Patiala; watch video||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 14An Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) of Patiala Police was injured when a car driver reportedly tried to run over him on Saturday afternoon.The incident took place in the Leela Bhawan area of the city. The ASI – identified as Suba Singh – was conducting routine checking in the Leela Bhawan area ahead of Independence Day.He had stopped a car for checking, but the driver fled the scene after hitting the ASI. The police officer reportedly received a fracture in his leg. The entire incident was caught on camera. The police said that they had registered a case against the driver of the car and started an investigation to nab the driver. It has been learned that police have filed a case under relevant sections, including 307 of the IPC, against the driver of the car.Meanwhile, taking to Twitter, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said, "Strict action has already been initiated and FIR under section 307 has been registered. Have asked the DGP to imediately identify the culprits and bring them to book."Strict action has already been initiated and FIR under section 307 has been registered. Have asked the @DGPPunjabPolice to imediately identify the culprits and bring them to book. Relieved to know that the ASI Suba Singh is safe. https://t.co/Ik63b7L1Pp  Hemant Sharma, Deputy Superintendent of Police, said, “We have traced the car, and driver will be soon arrested. The ASI has received a fracture in his right leg and is under treatment in a private hospital.”   ASI Suba Singh, talking to Tribune, said, “The driver of the car was playing loud music. I stopped the car for checking. However, the driver of the car tried to ran over me when I tried to stop him.”Two booked for rash driving, writing fancy names on number plates Patiala Police have booked two persons for rash driving and using fancy letters on number plates. Police said that they had already arrested one person while the other was on the run. The accused have been identified as Jobanpreet Singh and Pyara Singh. The police disclosed that they (police) had erected a Naka near Civil Lines roundabout.During the checking at naka, police asked two Scorpio cars to stop, however, one of the cars fled away while the other stopped. The police said that the number plates of both the cars had ‘Naagni’ written on them. Police said that they had registered a case under section 279,283,473 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stopped-for-checking-car-driver-drags-cop-to-a-distance-in-patiala-watch-video-297563
15-08-2021||---||Full vaccination, Covid negative report mandatory for entry into Punjab from Monday||Chandigarh, August 14Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had ordered full Covid vaccination certificate or negative RTPCR report mandatory for all those entering the state from Monday, with strict monitoring particularly of those coming from Himachal Pradesh and Jammu, which are showing increased Covid positivity rate.Amid reports of Covid cases in schools, the Chief Minister has also directed that only fully vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff, or those recently recovered from Covid, should physically teach in schools and colleges, with online learning option to remain available to all children.He ordered prioritisation of teachers and non-teaching staff for vaccination, with special camps to be held to ensure that all are covered with the first dose within this month and those due for the 2nd dose to be also prioritised. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu suggested reducing the gap between the two doses to prioritise second dose for teachers and other school staff.  The directives came at a Covid review meeting chaired by Captain Amarinder Singh, who expressed concern about the positivity in Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country, which has caused positivity in Punjab to also increase marginally to 0.2 per cent in the last week, with RO going up to 1.05 per cent. The Cambridge study has also predicted that cases are likely to double in the next 64 days, he warned, announcing new restrictions in addition to those already in force.The Chief Minister has ordered at least 10,000 test samples of students and staff from schools to be undertaken every day. Districts/cities where positivity is above 0.2 % have been asked to shut down physical education for Classes 4 and below until the situation improves.The rule on full vaccination or negative RTPCR report will apply to all those entering Punjab by road, rail or air, announced the Chief Minister, adding that if a person is found to not have either of these, RAT testing shall be mandatory, unless he/she has recently recovered from Covid.On schools, which have recently reopened for certain classes in the state, the Chief Minister said while there were some reports of high positivity in schools, the fact was that intensive testing had shown that the positivity amongst school students is 0.1 pet cent against overall positivity of 0.2 per cent in the past one week. Since 9th August, 41 students and 1 staff member in government schools have tested positive.Calling for strict vigil, he directed the concerned departments to ensure that only fully vaccinated teaching as well as non-teaching staff shall physically teach in schools and colleges. In case the whole teaching staff is not fully vaccinated, those who are fully vaccinated can attend to the students in the school and virtual classes can be taken by teachers who are not fully vaccinated.  The number of students should be suitably curtailed if enough fully vaccinated teachers are not available, ordered the Chief Minister, directing schools to allow seating of only one child per bench.Captain Amarinder said parents of school going children should also be encouraged to immediately get vaccinated in order to enable the physical learning in schools without any interruptions.Even as he expressed satisfaction over commencement of operations at the Whole Genome Sequencing Lab at GMCH Patiala in association with PATH, with none of the 8 samples tested there so far showing only delta variant, the Chief Minister noted that the month wise whole genome sequencing sent to NCDC has shown that the Delta variant remains predominant.  Beginning today, 92 samples will be every three weeks for genome sequencing. The process for inclusion of VRDL Patiala in INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics) was on, the meeting was informed.The Chief Minister further noted that post Covid care was now available at all GMCHs and District Hospitals. The meeting was informed that Mucormycosis cases have come down substantially and only 1 case was reported last week as opposed to 6 in the previous week. Due disability benefits as per the eligibility are being provided to patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/full-vaccination-covid-negative-report-mandatory-for-entry-into-punjab-from-monday-297527
15-08-2021||The bright lights of Bollywood||Sunny paaji, Gurdaspur is waiting for you||There are numerous projects like the elevation of the 3.6-km narrow gauge rail track running within the municipal limits of the city, which urgently require Centre’s intervention.Agreed, Deol’s absence to some extent can be attributed to the fact that he was recently admitted in a US hospital for treatment of an ailment. However, now that he is back, as is evident from his recent photographs clicked with the Railway Minister and other dignitaries in New Delhi, residents want him to have a tour of his constituency.Residents led by Ashish Vij, brother of MLA Amit Vij, are asking where are the Central Government funds needed to complete the elevated track project. “The Punjab government was to pay 40 per cent of the total cost while the union government was to come up with the remaining 60 per cent. The Punjab Government is ready with the money but where are the funds Deol had promised that he would get from the Centre? I request the MP to stop taking people for a ride,” he quipped.Ashish also claimed that the setting up of a Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) was need of the hour. “But here too Central intervention is needed. The Qadian-Beas rail link, too, has been scrapped. Had the MP taken an interest, the link could have seen the light of the day. Deol is more interested in getting his photos clicked with New Delhi leaders and subsequently getting them published in Punjab-based newspapers,” added Ashish.There are many like Jagjot Singh Sandhu, the young Batala based RTI activist, who claims he has written numerous letters to the MP urging him to take up the KV issue with the Ministry of Defence. “All my letters have gone in vain,” he said dejectedly.Pathankot MLA Amit Vij maintained that the MP should place in public domain the list of developmental works he has initiated till yet. A BJP worker clarified that post the contentious farm bills, it had become difficult for him to visit his constituency. If that is the case then it will be a long time before the actor makes an appearance because the controversy pertaining to the agriculture laws is not likely to go away soon. If at all Deol does come calling, it will be difficult for Tara Singh of ‘Gadhar-Ek Prem Katha’ fame to tackle the rising anger of his constituents.And till he comes his PA Pankaj Joshi will continue to hold fort. No doubt, Joshi is an efficient and cultured man but the problem is that the residents are not ready to settle down for anything less than having the actor in their midst. After all, everybody loves a celebrity. For an actor it is better to play well rather than not to play at all. Come back, Sunny paaji, Gurdaspur is waiting for you. After all, people made you win by a massive margin of 70,000 votes. Voters have high expectations from you. If you do not fulfil their aspirations, they will be in for a huge letdown.Mr Deol have you ever heard about the famous Pygmalion effect, also known as the Rosenthal law? It states: “Higher expectations lead to an increase in performance and low expectations lead to a decrease in performance.”- by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-paaji-gurdaspur-is-waiting-for-you-297506
