18-08-2021||Chandigarh||54 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday reported 54 coronavirus cases, taking the state’s infection count to 6,00,060, according to a medical bulletin.No death was reported on Wednesday due to which the state’s fatality count remained at 16,345.Ferozepur reported 14 cases, followed by six in Jalandhar and five in Amritsar. With 50 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,83,170, as per the bulletin.The state currently has 545 active cases.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/54-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-299045
18-08-2021||Zira||Punjab: Sukhbir Badal begins 100-yatra from Zira||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday began his 100-day yatra to expose “corruption” by the Congress government and take feedback from people about their expectation if the alliance led by his party comes to power in the state.                                         The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has forged an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the next year’s Assembly polls.Badal had on Tuesday unveiled his plan to visit 100 Assembly constituencies during the yatra and expose “corruption “ done by the Congress government in the state besides taking feedback from people as to what they expected from the alliance if voted to power.  On Wednesday, Badal here said his party will implement its 13-point programme in the manner in which it had implemented earlier commitments, according to a statement.Earlier this month, the SAD had launched the 13-point programme, including free power up to 400 units per month for all households, slashing diesel price by Rs 10 a litre for the agriculture sector and reserving 75 per cent jobs for Punjabi youth in the private sector.“Our credibility is our biggest strength,” said the SAD president addressing people before the start of a motorcycle rally, which culminated at a gurdwara where he addressed his first public meeting.Badal, who addressed 12 public gatherings during his tour of the constituency, said the SAD-BSP alliance is committed to giving relief to farmers and decided to make diesel cheaper by Rs 10 per litre for agricultural purposes.“We will also give free power up to 400 units per month to all domestic consumers,” he said, adding that there will be 33 per cent reservation for rural students in professional colleges and the government will pay their fee if they are voted to power.Badal also interacted with people at Makhu and Fatehgarh Sabra besides addressing public gatherings there.People approached him to complain about Congress legislator Kulbir Singh Zira, according to the party statement. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sukhbir-badal-begins-100-yatra-from-zira-299042
18-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||75th year of Partition: Saw worst tragedy of his life when he was just 11||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 17Rajinder Singh Kumar’s (85) father was a cattle trader at Miranshah in Sahiwal district (formerly called Montgomery). His family owned 142 acres there. But losing all wealth and property in Pakistan during the Partition, he and his brothers had to do all sorts of menial jobs to start all over again and feed the family here.Rajinder shared his hair-raising experiences of the Partition during an interaction organised at Virsa Vihar on Tuesday. At the age of 11, he saw the worst tragedy of his life. “We were still in Pakistan when our family witnessed a horrendous incident. I was the youngest of seven brothers. One of my elder brother—Amar Singh— was brutally killed by Muslims after they trapped him. The attackers took the Partition as an opportunity to settle old issues with my brother. My father was passing by and he stopped over to see what had happened. He saw his son lying before him in a pool of blood,” he said.Rajinder gets emotional on recalling a more tragic incident, “Our family reached India by walking all the way for over two weeks. Enroute, we stopped in gurdwaras. During one such stop at a gurdwara in Mandi Tanjleyanwali in Pakistan, we faced an attack. The attackers killed around 250 people, including my mother (Laxmi), and burnt the premises. We were on other side of the gurdwara and realised what had happened only after hearing cries of people. The Indian Army came to our rescue, but it was too late.” He paused for sipping water and shared how they lost two family members within days.A resident of Seth Hukum Chand colony, he added, “We finally reached Jawahar Camp in Ludhiana without not a penny in our pockets. We had no time to recover from emotional and financial loss. We had to restart our lives and began with whatever work we could find. I got the job and used to wash utensils. Likewise, my brothers also did jobs.”Rajinder said, “As we had no formal education, my father started sending us all to a school in a gurdwara at the camp. So, we changed our jobs and started working in the evening. I started pulling a rickshaw and did this for almost a year. Things started getting better each day. We even got three plots in Sirsa and Fazilka as a compensation for our land in Pakistan.”He said, “I was convinced that only education can pave a better livelihood. I went to GGN Khalsa College, Ludhiana, to pursue BA. I did masters in political science from Mohindra College, Patiala. I did BEd from Malwa College, Ludhiana, and MEd from Panjab University. I even pursued LLB from evening college at MGN campus in Jalandhar. Armed with three undergraduate and two postgraduate courses, I got the job of a lecturer at MGN College of Education in Jalandhar. I have served for 33 years, including 11 years as a principal. Later, I also served as a principal at a college in Pathankot.”Despite his age, he walks quite comfortably and narrated the entire episode to the gathering quite well who even quizzed him for more details. Some even suggested that he should pen it all in a book for coming generations to get the firsthand account. The event was organised by vice chairperson of Virsa Vihar Maj Gen Balwinder Singh (retd). Capt IS Dhami (retd) and Channi GS Takulia among others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/75th-year-of-partition-saw-worst-tragedy-of-his-life-when-he-was-just-11-298864
18-08-2021||Jalandhar||7-year-old ‘Karate Kid’ from Phagwara wins gold in taekwondo c'ship in South Korea||Aaniyaa Goyal, a 7-year-old from Phagwara, has won the gold medal in the Open National Taekwondo Poomae and Speed Kicking Championship 2021. The event was organised by Korean Combat Martial Arts Academy, Kokkiwon, South Korea.Aaniyaa, who started learning taekwondo three months ago, particpated in the U-7 sub-junior girls category. The event was held from July 10 to July 13 and the results were declared recently.Aaniyaa’s father Abhineet Goyal, who is as an associate professor, said he has also played taekwondo.The 7-year-old’s curious brain would always find taekwondo very amusing, but it was after watching a movie that she took the sport.“My daughter used to see me practicing some moves at home. After watching ‘The Karate Kid’, she told me that she wanted to learn the sport,” said Abhineet.As this little wonder started learning during the pandemic, her father was her first coach who kept a check on her diet and taught her minute details regarding the game. The event was held online due to the pandemic. Earlier, the championship used to be held in Mumbai. “It is a tough job for the 7-year-old to kick 72 times. By bending the body at a specific angle it’s achievable,” said Abhineet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-year-old-karate-kid-from-phagwara-wins-gold-in-taekwondo-cship-in-south-korea-298865
18-08-2021||---||Delegation meets NGT panel head over industrial park site near Sutlej and Mattewara forest||Ludhiana, August 17A delegation of representatives of civil society organisations for the protection of environment met Justice Jasbir Singh (retd), who is heading the NGT monitoring panel, in Mohali over the issue of the proposed Modern Industrial Park to be set up near the Sutlej and Mattewara forest.Ex-serviceman writes to Capt AmarinderA city resident, Col CM Lakhanpal (retd), has sent a reminder letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, requesting him to take necessary steps for the shifting of the proposed modern industrial park. He said the industrial park should not be set up at an eco-sensitive site.The representatives are demanding from the government that the project site be shifted to save the river and the forest area.Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, president, Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Seva Society, Faridkot, and convener of Naroa Punjab Manch, said: “People of the Malwa belt have no option but to drink toxic water of the Sutlej. The Buddha Nullah is spreading diseases in the area which is affecting humans and as well as animals. Also, the Rs 650-crore Buddha Darya rejuvenation project which had given us a ray of hope is again turning to hopelessness with the announcement of the proposed dyeing and textile themed park near Mattewara.”Kultar Singh Sandhwan, MLA Kotkapura and senior vice president of Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Seva Society said, “Renaming of Mattewara Textile Park as Modern Industrial Park Koomkalan is a PR exercise designed to mislead people of the state on the issue.”He appealed to representatives of all political parties in the state to fight together on the issue for the future of the state.A city resident, Col CM Lakhanpal (retd), has also sent a reminder letter to the Chief Minister, requesting him to take necessary steps for the shifting of the proposed modern industrial park. He said the industrial park should not be set up at an eco-sensitive site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delegation-meets-ngt-panel-head-over-industrial-park-site-near-sutlej-and-mattewara-forest-298823
18-08-2021||---||Three of Davinder Bambiha gang nabbbed from Punjab's Kharar||Mohali, August 17The police today arrested three members of the Davinder Bambiha gang — Mandeep Singh Dhaliwal, Jaswinder Singh, alias Khattu, and Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh — and seized two pistols and nine live rounds from them near Kharar.The police got information that Khuda Lahora residents Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, and his brother Sourav Patial, alias Vicky, Jaswinder Singh and Mandeep Singh Dhaliwal indulged in criminal activities and threatened to kill people on the social media.The gang was also glorifying its criminal activities on the social media to create an atmosphere of terror among people. The gang has also been involved in taking ransom from industrialists after threatening them on the phone. The gang has invested money in two music companies, Thug Life and Gold Media. The police have arrested Mandeep Singh, a resident of Ferozepur village, Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Mangli Khas village, Ludhiana, and Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh, a resident of Patiala, from Kharar with ammunition. A case under Sections 384, 385, 386, 392, 395, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act and 66D of the IT Act has been registered against the suspects at Kharar City police station. The police have got their remand for three days after producing them in a local court.During preliminary interrogation, it came out that Mandeep Singh was in contact with Gaurav Patial when he was studying at Panjab University. Mandeep was also involved in providing shelter to Dilpreet Baba, Lucky Patial and Sukhpreet Budha after the attack on singer Parmish Verma. After that, he was absconding and went to Dubai.A few months ago, Mandeep came back and started working for the Thug Life company, which was promoted by Lucky Patial of the Bambiha gang. The police seized a .30 bore pistol and four live rounds from him.During the interrogation of Jaswinder Singh, it was revealed that he had earlier shot dead lawyer Arshdeep Singh Sethi along with his accomplices in Mohali and had come out of jail a few months ago. He was now working with the Bambiha gang along with Lucky Patial. The police have recovered five rounds and .32 bore pistol from Jaswinder Singh.Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh, was running a company called Gold Media when Sukhpreet Singh, alias Budha, demanded a ransom of Rs25 lakh from singer Gippy Grewal. Arshdeep Singh was also involved in that case and now he was promoting private companies at the behest of the gangster. The investigation has also revealed that the music company, Thug Life, is being run by Deepinder Singh Cheema, alias Deep Cheema, a resident of Ludhiana, residing in Toronto at present. His name was also incorporated in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-of-davinder-bambiha-gang-nabbbed-from-punjabs-kharar-298790
18-08-2021||---||Akalis ‘chargesheet’ AAP, Congress over ‘false’ promises||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today released a ‘public chargesheet’ against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal over their alleged false promises and corruption.The allegationsParty cancels Aug 20 longowal eventThe Sangrur administration has started preparations for the death anniversary of former SAD chief Sant Harchand Singh Longowal on August 20. "As area farmers are opposed to political rallies, the SAD has cancelled its political conference and decided to hold only religious function at a local gurdwara,” said SAD spokesperson Winnerjit Singh Goldy. TNSSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal also announced his poll campaign in which he would undertake a 100-day yatra across 100 constituencies starting tomorrow from Zira to distribute the chargesheet, which is in a booklet form.Besides, he said, SAD workers would go to each and every village and ward in the state to expose the Congress government as well as collect feedback from people as to what they expected from the next regime.He also released a missed-call number service to invite Punjabis to join the party’s campaign. A website www.GallPunjabDi.in was also launched on the occasion.Sukhbir said Capt Amarinder had a lot to answer in relation to the Rs 6,500 crore excise scam and corruption by his Cabinet colleagues. “Capt Amarinder Singh took an oath on the holy Gutka Sahib and broke it by not fulfilling his promise to eradicate drugs, ensure a complete Rs 90,000 crore loan waiver and provide a job to each household”.About Kejriwal, he claimed the AAP convener wanted to implement a failed Delhi model in Punjab. “He is known to have taken divergent stands on the SYL issue. He has also taken an anti-Punjab stand on the issue of stubble burning and notified the central farm laws in Delhi.Sukhbir claimed the 200 units free power scheme was a sham as 90 per cent of Delhi citizens ended up paying the entire bill even if they clocked one unit more.“Even the Mohalla Clinic and claims of improvement in government schools are bogus”, he said adding as many as 650 colonies in Delhi were receiving water from tankers despite Kejriwal’s promise to supply piped water across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-chargesheet-aap-congress-over-false-promises-298607
18-08-2021||Chandigarh/Tarn Taran||Ex-minister Anil Joshi to join Akali Dal on Aug 20||Former Cabinet Minister Anil Joshi, who was expelled from the BJP last month, is all set to join the SAD on August 20.Confirming the development, Joshi told The Tribune his decision to join the Akali Dal was unconditional. “I have always served people, so I am joining without asking for any designation or assurance,” he said.Backing farm stir was right stepSupporting the farmers’ stir was a right decision. The laws must be repealed. We must listen to them and redress their grievances. — Anil Joshi, Ex-Cabinet ministerSources say Joshi is likely to be fielded by the SAD from Amritsar North in the Assembly elections slated early next year. Joshi has been elected twice from the seat. Several other leaders are also likely to join the party along with Joshi.Joshi, however, evaded questions about his “sour ties” with the Akali leadership during the SAD-BJP government (2012-17), when he held the portfolio of Local Bodies and Medical Education and Research. “I will speak about all the issues after August 20,” he said.Meanwhile, Joshi today met his supporters in Tarn Taran today and asked them to turn up in large numbers in Amritsar on August 20. There were reports that senior leader of the BSP would also attend the event. In his address, Joshi said: “I am a Punjabi, talk of Punjab and resolve all their problems.” Interestingly, SAD leaders have been using “Punjabi” in place of “Sikhs” in their recent addresses.Joshi reiterated his stand on the three farm laws, saying: “We must listen to them and redress their grievances.” He called his decision to support farmers’ agitation a right step and demanded repeal of the three laws.Joshi was expelled from the BJP last month for publically airing his views regarding the farm laws and criticising the state leadership. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-minister-anil-joshi-to-join-akali-dal-on-aug-20-298608
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder has failed to deliver on law & order, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has questioned why Punjab is being targeted by anti-national forces every time before the elections, and why intelligence and security agencies fail on this front repeatedly.Seeks law on ‘one MLA, one pension’Opposing more than one pension to the sitting and ex-MLAs, AAP has demanded a ‘one MLA - one pension’ rule. A delegation of AAP MLAs led by Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema on Tuesday handed over a memorandum to Speaker Rana KP Singh, demanding the passage of law abolishing more than one pensionSenior AAP leader Aman Arora said: “There are only six months left for the Assembly elections. The law and order in the Congress rule has gone from bad to worse. It is a matter of concern that before every election in Punjab, anti-national forces make headlines.”Arora further said: “In the past 10 days, the Chief Minister has repeatedly expressed concern over the threat to the state. There have been reports of terrorist activities through drones. Grenades are being recovered and anti-national elements arrested.”He asked PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu whether it was right for Capt Amarinder to remain the Home Minister, who even after four and a half years had failed to improve the law and order. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-has-failed-to-deliver-on-law-order-says-aap-298609
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||BJP targets Punjab Industry Minister Sunder Sham Arora over land deals||BJP leader Tikshan Sud on Tuesday accused Minister for Industry Sunder Sham Arora of being involved in “illegal” land deals. He alleged the minister and his son acted in cahoots with government officials in several land deals.Alleging a scam in the sale of JCT Ltd’s prime land in Mohali, Sud alleged the minister was linked to the buyer who purchased the land. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-targets-punjab-industry-minister-sunder-sham-arora-over-land-deals-298610
18-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Cotton sells above MSP, Punjab farmers wary||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 17Cotton farmers in the southern Malwa region are upbeat as the advanced sown crop has started arriving in grain markets for sale. The private players are purchasing cotton at a price more than the MSP in Mansa district, triggering speculation of the Cotton Corporation of India’s ‘ouster’ from mandis.In Mansa, cotton has been purchased at a price of Rs 6,500 per quintal against the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 6,025. In Rama Mandi area in Bathinda, it is learnt that cotton crop has been purchased at Rs 6,250 per quintal.The rise in the price is due to the competitive bidding amongst the private players, including cotton traders and factories, which are placing bids and quoting higher prices to purchase the produce.As a result, farmers from different villages are likely to bring cotton in large quantities to the mandis for procurement in the coming days.A market committee official said, “On August 16, farmers brought 6-quintal cotton to the market and it was sold at a price of Rs 6,500 per quintal.”BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said, “Cotton is being sold at a price higher than the MSP in Mansa, but we also have information of cotton being sold at lower prices in some pockets of the region.”He said the rise in price was due to competitive bidding among private players but it could lead to the CCI being kept out of the purchase process, because once it happens, the private players would purchase the crop at a lower price. Farmer leaders claimed the government wanted to show that farmers were getting benefits from private players amid the protest against the famr laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-sells-above-msp-punjab-farmers-wary-298611
18-08-2021||---||Rs 200 cr pending, Punjab cane growers to hold indefinite sit-in on Jalandhar-Amritsar highway||Jalandhar, August 17Demanding fair price for their crop, sugarcane growers under the banner ofthe Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee today announced holding an indefinite protest on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway on August 20.The farmers said growers in Haryana were getting Rs 48 more than what they were getting in Punjab. The farmers also asked the government to clear their pending dues of nearly Rs 200 crore.The leaders said the per quintal price of sugarcane in Haryana was Rs 350 last year and it had now been increased to Rs 358, but in Punjab, the sugarcane growers were still getting a price of Rs 310 per quintal for the past five years.They said Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government had failed to meet the demands of farmers despite raising the issue multiple times. “Apart from the inflated production rate, the price of sugar has also crossed Rs 40 per kg in the market, yet farmers are not receiving appropriate price for their crop,” said Jaskaran Singh, a farm leader.The sugarcane growers urged the state government to hike the price by Rs 90 per quintal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-200-cr-pending-punjab-cane-growers-to-hold-indefinite-sit-in-on-jalandhar-amritsar-highway-298612
18-08-2021||New Delhi||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh to host Bajwa-led parliamentary panel tomorrow||CM Capt Amarinder Singh will host the parliamentary committee on subordinate legislation, chaired by Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa, for dinner on August 19, when the panel begins its two-day visit to Chandigarh to review the implementation of waste management rules framed under the Environment Protection Act, 1986.The delegation also consisting of Rajya Sabha MPs — NCP’s Vandana Chavan, BJD’s Amar Patnaik, Congress’ Vivek Tankha, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva and BJP’s GVL Narsimha Rao — will meet Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, who will host a lunch for the committee.The panel will hear depositions from chief secretaries of Punjab, Haryana and from the UT Administration on waste management rules apart from meeting with the DGPs. The panel, it is learnt, will also take a briefing on the narcotics situation in the region, before leaving for Kasauli on August 22, where it will assess waste management rule implementation with Himachal Pradesh Government officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-to-host-bajwa-led-parliamentary-panel-tomorrow-298613
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of sugar mills’ deceased staff get job letters||The Sugarfed has given appointment letters to the relative of 23 deceased employees of the Budhewal Cooperative Sugar Mill under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana.Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa distributed the job letters at Markfed’s head office here. The 13 kin of deceased employees of Batala Cooperative Sugar Mill and eight of the Ajnala Cooperative Sugar Mill were also handed over the letters.Sugarfed Chairman Amrik Singh Aliwal said the long-pending demand of the affected families had been fulfilled. He added the Sugarfed had made an attempt to help the families of the deceased in their hour of need.Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli said the appointments were stuck for the past 15-20 years and now the affected families could sustain themselves. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-of-sugar-mills-deceased-staff-get-job-letters-298614
18-08-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur: Prolonged stir fails to dampen spirits of farmers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 17The prolonged agitation against the farm laws has failed to dampen the spirits of farmers. A majority of families of farmers have been sending their members to protest in New Delhi and at various places in the district.Ready for long haulThe number of protesters has never gone down as farmers are well aware that it’s their own fight and they are prepared for a long haul. - Gobinder Singh, BKU (Ugrahan) leader“Our family has not skipped the protest even for a day. Either my daughter-in-law, my husband, my son or I go here. Not only ours, but there are many more families which are working round the clock for the success of the stir,” said Ranjit Kaur, a senior citizen, protesting in Sangrur. Another protester Gurmeet Singh said earlier he had gone to take part in the protest in New Delhi, but had to return due to some health problem. Later, his elder son joined the agitation. Satinder Singh, a farmer, said the number of family members of landless labourers had also increased at many places.Farmers have been protesting at various places in Sangrur district, including Lehal Khurd, Kheri, Gurdaspura, Sangrur railway station and others, for the past more than 300 days. Leaders disclosed that even during the paddy transplantation when farmers were busy in fields, the number of protesters did not go down as women along with their children came out in large numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-prolonged-stir-fails-to-dampen-spirits-of-farmers-298615
18-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Fake pesticides, fertilisers swamp market; agri officials step up vigil in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17The agriculture department has stepped up vigil to weed out spurious and adulterated pesticides and fertilisers sneaking into the market.lure of Low price“Many farmers living in border villages go to neighbouring states to buy spurious ‘cartap hydrochloride’ as it is available there at Rs30-35/kg against retail price of Rs100-105/kg in Punjab,” says Gokal Parkash Gupta, a pesticide dealer in DhanaulaFrom regular search and seizure operations to raids on these pesticide-laden trucks slyly entering villages at night from across the state’s borders, the government is going all out after the miscreants. This “heightened vigil” during the paddy and cotton season has started yielding positive results. A raid on an unscrupulous dealer in Mohali recently led agriculture “sleuths” to tonnes of pesticide with zero percentage of zinc against a specified 33 per cent, while in another raid at Moga, they found a cache of pesticides with negligible minerals.In all border districts, the department has put its teams on “alert” against trucks entering villages in the wee hours and selling fake/spurious pesticides and /or insecticides bearing the names of reputed multinational pesticide manufacturing companies. Farmers are reportedly buying these as these are cheaper, thinking that retail costs have been cut and not realising that the chemicals sold to them are spurious and mostly fake.Sources in the agriculture department and in the pesticide trade say mostly spurious or highly adulterated “cartap hydrochloride” is being sold in villages.Fertiliser samples collected by officials last month, bearing the brand name of three reputed manufacturers, failed random quality tests.“Following this, orders were issued to all district chief agriculture officers to go in for a wider sampling of these fertilisers. We will also go in for a re-test of the samples even as investigation is under way whether these fertilisers were actually sold by the company or some unscrupulous elements are (mis)using their brand name,” Baldev Singh, Joint Director, Agriculture, told The Tribune.Director Agriculture Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said the department had adopted a “zero tolerance” to spurious pesticides and routine sampling and search operations were being conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-pesticides-fertilisers-swamp-market-agri-officials-step-up-vigil-in-punjab-298616
18-08-2021||---||Banur SHO transferred for threatening farm union leaders||Patiala, August 17A week after the Banur SHO threatened protesting farm union leaders of “killing them right there and then” if they didn’t stop marching against Rajpura MLA Hardyal Kamboj, the police officer was transferred today.The video of SHO Balwinder Singh threatening the farmers had gone viral. The farmer were protesting the visit of the local MLA at a stadium when the SHO reached the spot and threatened them.“Under what law was he threatening to kill us. A police officer can’t behave like this to protect his political bosses,” a farmer leader said. The farmers had announced a dharna on August 19 if the SHO was not removed. Senior officials confirmed the SHO had been shifted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/banur-sho-transferred-for-threatening-farm-union-leaders-298617
18-08-2021||---||Now, get tax rebate on SGPC donations||Amritsar, August 17After 37 years, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has been granted income tax exemption under Section 80G, enabling donors to claim rebate for donations in their returns.Sec 80G applicablePilgrims who offer ‘daswand’ (10th part of their income) for services of the SGPC can avail tax rebate under the I-T ActRelief after 37 yearsSGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, an advocate, said the SGPC had been struggling to get the recognition since 1984. “It was a long-pending demand, which has been fulfilled after several hiccups. Now, pilgrims who offer ‘daswand’ (10th part of their income) for the services of the SGPC can avail tax rebate under the Income Tax Act,” he said.The SGPC had filed an application with the Commissioner of Income Tax, Amritsar, for registration under Section 80G, but it was rejected in 2009 with a perception that the committee was a religious body working for a particular religion (Sikhs).The SGPC challenged the order and filed an appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Amritsar. After 12 years, the case was heard and Judicial Member Laliet Kumar and Accountant Member Dr ML Meena of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Amritsar, granted exemption under Section 80G in favour of the SGPC.The lawyers — senior advocate Prem Singh, Gunjeet Singh Syal and TS Aurora — convinced the jury that the SGPC was never created for the benefit of the Sikh religious community alone, but was in service of public at large as charitable activities were being provided without discrimination of religion, caste, creed, colour, sex and race.The four doors of gurdwaras (including Darbar Sahib/Golden Temple) open out in four directions to welcome all without any discrimination of class or creed. Similarly, the services of ‘langar’ (cooked food from community kitchen), medical aid and rescue arrangements, free vaccination and oxygen supply during the times of crisis were offered without discrimination, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-get-tax-rebate-on-sgpc-donations-298618
18-08-2021||Amritsar||Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue vandalised in Pak||A statue of 19th-century Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh was vandalised at the Lahore Fort in Pakistan today. The suspect is associated with the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), an Islamic political party in Pakistan. This is the third time that the statue has been vandalised since 2019.MEA slams attackThe Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has lodged a protest with the Pakistan authorities. Talking to The Tribune, its president Satwant Singh said the accused, identified as Rizwan, had been arrested and would be liable to face the course of law.“The Pakistan authorities took prompt action and put him behind bars. Such elements try to vitiate the brotherhood between the Sikhs and Muslims and would never be tolerated,” he said. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur asked the Pakistan government to take exemplary action against the culprit.A 26-second video that went viral online showed Rizwan striking at the statue, breaking its arm, dismantling other parts and pushing the torso down to the ground. This statue was unveiled outside the Sikh Gallery of Lahore Fort on June 27, 2019, on his 180th death anniversary. Pakistan I&B Minister Fawad Chaudhry tweeted: “Shameful. These bunch of illiterates are really dangerous for Pakistan’s image in the world.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maharaja-ranjit-singhs-statue-vandalised-in-pak-298619
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini’s plea dismissed as withdrawn||Punjab’s former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s petition, seeking directions to the investigating officer not to arrest him for “any other additional offences” in the corruption case against him, was today dismissed as withdrawn by the HC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-dgp-sumedh-sainis-plea-dismissed-as-withdrawn-298620
18-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Pilot killed in helicopter crash cremated in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17The mortal remains of Lt Col Abheet Singh Baath, pilot of the Rudra helicopter from the Army Aviation Squadron, were consigned to flames with full military honours at his native place Amritsar on Tuesday.On August 3, Lt Col Baath, along with Captain Jayant Joshi, had taken off from Mamun Cantonment on a routine sortie but it had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar reservoir, which is around 25 km long, eight km wide and more than 500 ft deep. The reservoir falls in J&K’s Kathua district and is about 30 km from Pathankot. Though 12 days later Lt Col Baath’s body was retrieved from the reservoir on August 15, search for the second pilot still continues.Lt Col Baath is survived by his mother, wife and a 13-year-old son. His brother lives overseas. Earlier, his body was flown in a helicopter from Pathankot to Amritsar Cantonment from where it was taken to his house in the Adarsh Nagar locality where relatives, friends and the residents paid homage to the departed soul. His late father Sarbjit Singh Baath had also served the Army.Col Kuldeep Singh Sandhu (retd), a neighbour of Lt Col Baath, said he was a gallant Army officer who had earned the commendation of the Chief of Army Staff and commendation card for bravery from the GOC of the Northern Command and stood first in most of the aviation courses he had done during the job.Before joining the Army in December 2002, he had studied from local Khalsa College. His body was found in the cabin at 75-metre depth and the entire wreckage of the helicopter was deep down, which is yet to be taken out.The fatal crash ensued one of the longest search operations in the recent history in which experts and equipment of not only Army, Navy and Air Force, but also of NDRF, SDRF, NGOs, state police, dam authority and private firms from across the country were deployed to locate the wreckage and retrieve the bodies.Wreaths were laid and an Army contingent presented the guard of honour at the crematorium. Apart from officials of the district administration, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and councillor Vikas Soni were present during the cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pilot-killed-in-helicopter-crash-cremated-in-amritsar-298621
18-08-2021||---||SIT to attach assets of 3 Dera Sacha Sauda members in sacrilege cases of 2015||Faridkot, August 17The special investigation team (SIT) has started proceedings to attach the movable and immovable properties of three Dera Sacha Sauda members who are accused in sacrilege incidents of 2015.As per the court’s directions, the SIT has approached the Revenue Department and banks to procure the details of properties and deposits of Harish Dhuri, Pardeep Kaler and Sandeep Bareta for attachment.In January, a judicial court in Faridkot had declared these three accused as proclaimed offenders (POs). In the past over one year, neither the SIT could arrest them, nor did they appear before the court despite public notices against them and raids on various hideouts in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.They were declared POs in connection with the theft of ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015. Now they have been declared as POs in two other FIRs in sacrilege incidents near gurdwaras at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.As per the investigation by the SIT, the accused along with dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim were allegedly part of conspiracy in the theft of the ‘saroop’, which led to Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-to-attach-assets-of-3-dera-sacha-sauda-members-in-sacrilege-cases-of-2015-298622
18-08-2021||---||Notice to Punjab on appointment of Harpreet Singh Brar as technical adviser||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 17The appointment of Harpreet Singh Brar as a technical adviser to the Punjab. State Agriculture Marketing Board (Punjab Mandi Board) today came under judicial scanner, with the Punjab and Haryana High Court issuing a notice of motion on a petition filed in public interest challenging the same.Taking up the PIL filed by Pritam Singh Korey of Ludhiana, the Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli issued notice to the state, Punjab Mandi Board and Brar.Appearing before the Bench on the petitioner’s behalf, counsel HC Arora argued that Brar retired on July 31 as an engineer-in-chief with the Punjab Mandi Board. Just a few days before his retirement, the Vigilance Bureau registered a vigilance inquiry against Brar on the allegation of acquiring assets disproportionate to his known income. But the proposal to appoint him as a technical adviser was approved by overlooking the Vigilance inquiry against him.Arora added there was no post of technical adviser to the Punjab State Agriculture Marketing Board (Group A) Service Rules, 1988. Likewise, such a post was not provided for in the Act under which the Punjab Mandi Board was established.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/notice-to-punjab-on-appointment-of-harpreet-singh-brar-as-technical-adviser-298623
18-08-2021||Bathinda||Cop dies as gun goes off in Bathinda||A head constable posted in the arms branch died due to sudden firing of a bullet while a rifle was being cleaned in the Police Lines area of Bathinda today.The accident happened around 6.15 pm. The constable was on duty and cleaning a rifle kept in the branch when suddenly a bullet got fired.Hearing the sound of gunshot, police personnel immediately picked him up and got him admitted to the emergency ward of the Civil Hospital with the help of an NGO, where the doctors declared him dead.The deceased was identified as Head Constable Harjinder Singh. SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk also reached the hospital. He said it looked like an accident, but the police would investigate the matter. The postmortem of the body will be done on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cop-dies-as-gun-goes-off-in-bathinda-298624
18-08-2021||New Delhi||Bathinda's Central University of Punjab is nodal institute for CU-CET||The Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, (CUPB) , has been made the nodal university for Central University-Common Entrance Test (CU-CET) 2021, an official statement said today.According to the statement, online registration process to apply for admission in various integrated/under-graduate (UI) and postgraduate (PG) programmes of the 12 Central Universities of India (Assam University; Central University of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, south Bihar, and Tamil Nadu) for the academic year 2021-22 had started.The CU-CET 2021 will provide a single-window opportunity to students of India to seek admissions in UG and PG programmes. The admissions process for PhD programmes will be announced by each university separately, according to the statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathindas-central-university-of-punjab-is-nodal-institute-for-cu-cet-298625
18-08-2021||---||4 hand grenades, 3 pistols seized in Batala||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 17 Following the interrogation of two alleged associates of a UK-bsased terrorist group, the Punjab Police today recovered four hand grenades and three pistols along with three magazines and 30 live bullets concealed on the Dhariwal-Batala road near Suchetgarh village in Batala. Patrolling up: DGPThe DGP said vigil and patrolling had been intensified in border villages. Special security checkpoints had been set up near the border villages to check the movement of anti-national elements, he added.Amritpal Singh and Sammy were held on Sunday night with two hand grenades and a pistol along with four magazines and bullets. They are allegedly associates of a UK-based terrorist group led by Gurpreet Singh Khalsa, who is also wanted in the Shingar bomb blast case.DGP Dinkar Gupta, in a statement here today, said the search operation was carried out last night. Repeated seizure of explosives in the border belt raised concerns among the security agencies indicating that these were to be used to disrupt peace in Punjab. The DGP said following the development, the police added Sections 13, 16, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the FIR. Earlier, the police had recovered a tiffin bomb with 2 kg RDX and five hand grenades along with 100 live rounds of 9-mm pistol. Later, a hand grenade was found in a garbage pile at Ranjit Avenue on August 14. The DGP said vigil and patrolling had been intensified in border villages. Special security checkpoints had been set up near the border villages to check the movement of anti-national elements, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-hand-grenades-3-pistols-seized-in-batala-298626
18-08-2021||Patiala||Army man dies as car falls into Bhakra near Patiala's Ablowal village||An Army jawan drowned while another was missing after the car they were travelling in fell into the Bhakra canal near Ablowal village here this afternoon. A third car occupant swam to safety.The three Army men, all from the same unit, were said to have been on a month’s leave. The deceased has been identified as Jagmeet Singh, a resident of Nadampur village in Sangrur district. Manpreet Singh, who hailed from Shekpura village in Patiala, was missing, said the police. The body of the deceased was retrieved from the water by passersby using a turban.Kamadeep Singh, the survivor, said they had taken the path along the canal to meet their senior, a retired Army man, near Ablowal. “The driver, while trying to avoid a pothole, lost control of the vehicle and it plunged into the canal,” he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-man-dies-as-car-falls-into-bhakra-near-patialas-ablowal-village-298627
18-08-2021||Archit Watts||Poor enrolment in Muktsar college due to Covid fear||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 17Due to Covid fear, the registration for admission in BA-I is poor at Government College, Muktsar. The college has 640 seats and the registration had started on August 7, but so far, just around 310 students have applied for it.The last date for registration has now been extended from August 16 to 19. Notably, the registration process is being done through online mode free of charge at the college’s website. The college authorities said all seats were filled last year.“Almost every year, nearly 1,000 students apply to get admission in BA-I in the college. Then we prepare a merit list and give admission to the first 640 students. However, this time, the registration is very low,” said a senior employee of the college.On this, Satwant Kaur, Incharge Principal, Government College, Muktsar, said, “The registration is very low this year. Covid fear is one of the major reasons behind it. However, two more government colleges have started this year in the district, which are located at Husnar village in Gidderbaha and Danewala village in Malout. The students living near these two colleges may be applying for admissions there, but these colleges are having nearly 80 seats each.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-enrolment-in-muktsar-college-due-to-covid-fear-298629
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Promise better air in poll manifesto, parties urged||Members of Clean Air Punjab, a network of citizens and civil society organisations, has urged political parties to feature time-bound plans to tackle air pollution and public health issues prominently in their manifestos.The collective expressed its displeasure with the SAD-BSP manifesto, as it “failed” to address the issue of deteriorating air quality in the state. Samita Kaur, citizen activist from the Innovative Farmers’ Group, said despite facing its worst health crisis due to air pollution, the authorities were still not ready to accept the problem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/promise-better-air-in-poll-manifesto-parties-urged-298630
18-08-2021||Sangrur||Sports complex in Sangrur built sans nagar council’s nod: BJP||Two days after its inauguration, the construction of Rs 7.43 crore Central Government-funded Multipurpose Sports Complex in Sangrur has come under the scanner as BJP leaders alleged Public Works Department (PWD) officials, which constructed the building, did not get the building plan approved from the local government department.Local BJP leaders have also written to the Central Vigilance Commissioner for a high-level inquiry and action against officials for utilising huge amount of Centre, “without following norms”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sports-complex-in-sangrur-built-sans-nagar-councils-nod-bjp-298631
18-08-2021||Amritsar/Lahore||Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh's statue vandalised in Pakistan; accused arrested||A nine-feet tall cold bronze statue of the first Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh was on Tuesday vandalised by an activist of the banned Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) at the Lahore Fort in Pakistan's Punjab province, according to media reports.The accused was identified as Rizwan.As per the video that has gone viral, the accused could be seen chanting slogans, breaking the arm of the statue and dismantling Singh's bust from the horse and throwing it on the ground before being pulled by another man.The TLP activist has been arrested by the Punjab police, the Express Tribune newspaper reported.The Lahore Fort's administration said that strict action would be taken against the accused.Reacting to the incident, Information Minister Fawad Chaudhary in a tweet said that such "illiterates are really dangerous" for Pakistan's image internationally.Taking cognisance of the incident, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) had lodged a strong protest with the Pakistan authorities.Talking to The Tribune, Satwant Singh, president of PSGPC apprised that the accused has been arrested and would be liable to face the course of law.“The Pakistan authorities took prompt action and put him behind the bars. Such elements try to vitiate the brotherhood between the Sikhs and Muslims and would never be tolerated. We, in Pakistan, feel safe as the law and order here is prompt when it comes to such shameful incidents”, he said.Special Assistant to the Prime Minister Imran Khan on Political Communication Dr Shahbaz Gill said that immediate action will be taken against the accused.“These are symptoms of a sick mindset. This is an attempt to undermine Pakistan's assessment,” he was quoted as saying in the report.I have apprised Jt Secretary, Min of Exteranl Affairs (PAI) Mr JP Singh about this incident who has assured me that he would take up this matter with @PakinIndia & ask them to take a strict action to curb such hateful vandalising events@ANI @punjabkesari @thetribunechd https://t.co/wYTX4hwS6C pic.twitter.com/RtQbHZlAth  Pakistan Information and Broadcasting Minister Fawad Chaudhry on Twitter commented "Shameful this bunch of illiterates are really dangerous for Pakistan's image in the world,”.Ironically, it was the third time that the statue has been vandalised, since 2019. Less than a month after it was dedicated for the general public, this statue was vandalised by two members of TLP.The accused were arrested then too. It was again vandalised in December 2020.The nine-feet tall statue, made of cold bronze, shows the Sikh emperor sitting on a horse with a sword in hand in complete Sikh attire.This is not the first time that the statue has been targeted. The arm of the statue was broken in Lahore last year. It was also damaged in August 2019 by two young men, according to Geo News.Maharaja Ranjit Singh was the founder of the Sikh Empire, which ruled the northwest Indian subcontinent in the early half of the 19th century. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-ruler-maharaja-ranjit-singhs-statue-vandalised-in-pakistan-accused-arrested-298501
18-08-2021||---||Former Punjab minister Anil Joshi set to join SAD||Chandigarh, August 17Former cabinet minister Anil Joshi, who was expelled from BJP last month, is all set to join the Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday.Joshi confirmed the development. While talking to The Tribune, he said that he is joining unconditionally. "I have always served people, so I am joining without asking for any designation or assurance," he said.Sources say he is likely to be fielded by SAD from Amritsar North in the upcoming state Assembly elections. Joshi won from the seat twice. There are several other leaders who, along with Joshi, are also likely to join the SAD. However, he evaded the question about his sour relations with SAD leadership during the last government (2012-17), when he held the portfolio of Local Bodies and Medical Education and Research. "I will speak about all the issues after August 20," he said.Joshi was expelled from the BJP last month for publicly airing his views regarding the farm laws and criticising the state leadership. After his expulsion, Joshi had visited the farmers at the Singhu border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-minister-anil-joshi-set-to-join-sad-298477
