19-08-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 63 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||One more person died from coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday as 63 fresh cases took the state’s infection count to 6,00,123, according to a medical bulletin.So far, the virus has claimed 16,347 lives in the state. The death toll includes one death, which was not reported earlier.The number of active cases rose to 571 from 545 on Wednesday. Jalandhar and Pathankot reported nine cases each, followed by seven each in Amritsar and Mohali. With 35 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,83,205, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-death-63-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-299462
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu makes ex-IPS officer Mohd Mustafa his strategic adviser||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday appointed former IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa as his principal strategic adviser.The development followed a day after Mustafa, the husband of Punjab Cabinet Minister Razia Sultana, had turned down Sidhu’s offer to appoint him as one of his four advisers.“Mohd Mustafa is hereby appointed as the principal strategic advisor to the PPCC president, the undersigned, Navjot Singh Sidhu with immediate effect,” a statement issued by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee said.“He would act as a PCC coordinator with the AICC on issues pertaining to his domain and any other matters that the president may deem fit,” it added.“Love to be associated with Razia Ji and Mustafa sahib,” Sidhu said in a tweet.Besides Mustafa, Sidhu on August 11 had appointed three advisers—Lok Sabha MP Amar Singh, former registrar of Faridkot-based Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Pyare Lal Garg, and former government teacher Malvinder Singh Mali.But Mustafa had refused to take up the appointment.After becoming the PPCC chief, Sidhu had reached out to several leaders and visited their residences, including Mustafa’s.Mustafa along with another IPS officer Siddharth Chattopadhyaya had challenged IPS officer Dinkar Gupta’s appointment as Punjab police chief by the Amarinder Singh government in 2019.The state government had appointed Gupta as the Punjab DGP, suppressing the seniority of other IPS officers, including Mustafa.Sidhu has already appointed Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh as PPCC general secretary (organisation).The cricketer-turned-politician had on Wednesday also appointed two media advisers—Jagtar Singh Sidhu and Surinder Dalla. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-makes-ex-ips-officer-mohd-mustafa-his-strategic-adviser-299418
19-08-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Major fire breaks out at godown in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 19A major fire broke out in a three-storey plastic godown at Kutcha No. 16 in Field Ganj on Thursday morning.Over 50 fire tenders have been pressed into service but the blaze is yet to be controlled.The godown is located in a thickly populated area and panic spread among the nearby shopkeepers.The godown was locked and short circuit seems to have caused the fire.Sources said a huge stock of polythene and disposables was stored in the godown and almost the entire stock was reduced to ashes.Firefighters had to break open the main shutter to enter the godown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/major-fire-breaks-out-at-godown-in-ludhiana-299333
19-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mandi Gobindgarh councillor disqualified||While deciding a petition, Election Tribunal-cum-SDM, Amloh, has disqualified Raghbir Singh, an independent councillor of Ward No. 29 of the Mandi Gobindgarh Municipal Council (MC) from his post.An election petition was filed by Harjinder Singh, a defeated candidate, alleging that Raghbir had furnished wrong information in his nomination papers.Harjinder said as per the RTI received from MC a water supply connection was given at Raghbir’s residence. Harjinder mentioned that the water supply connection was illegal and the MC had served Raghbir notice to deposit Rs15,220, but he failed to do so. Rather, Raghbir managed to obtain an improper no dues certificate from the MC, Harjinder added. Raghbir also concealed facts while filing nomination papers, said Harjinder.Deciding the petition, the Election Tribunal, Amloh, disqualified Raghbir from the post of councillor.When contacted, Raghbir he said the house was owned by his father. So, there was no question of him concealing any facts and pending dues, Raghbir added. I will challenge the orders in the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” said Raghbir. — OCThe complaintAn election petition was filed by Harjinder Singh, a defeated candidate, alleging that Raghbir had furnished wrong information in his nomination papers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mandi-gobindgarh-councillor-disqualified-299068
19-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Assembly poll: 1,200 can vote at one polling station||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 18Additional District Election Officer Rajesh Dhiman today held a meeting with representatives of various political parties regarding upcoming Assembly elections in Fatehgarh Sahib, Amloh and Bassi Pathana constituencies in the district.Addressing the meeting, he said, “Polling stations have to be rationalised as per the Election Commission of India instructions. Keeping in view the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic the limit of voters at polling stations for the 2022 Assembly elections has been fixed at 1,200.”“All those polling stations, which don’t have required minimum facilities as per the instructions of the commission or the condition of the building is bad will be replaced. A list of such polling stations will be sent to the Election Commission for approval by September 8,” he added.“The election registration officers of Bassi Pathana, Fatehgarh Sahib and Amloh Assembly constituencies of the district have identified 39 polling stations out of the existing 534, which have more than 1,200 votes. Their list has been sent to the District Election Officer,” he said.“Buildings of certain polling stations have to be changed. Officials concerned should report to the District Election Officer by August 23 if any other change is required,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/assembly-poll-1-200-can-vote-at-one-polling-station-299067
19-08-2021||---||Mukarsar: Week after Dalit suicide, 2 still at large||Muktsar, August 18A week after a Dalit man of Chak Tamkot village here allegedly died by suicide over police inaction in tracing his ‘kidnapped’ wife, two of the five accused are still on the run.On August 10, Jagmeet Singh allegedly hanged himself from a tree and left a suicide note. Thereafter, an FIR was registered against five persons, including his wife. The National Commission for Scheduled Castes, too, has sought an action-taken report from the SSP and Deputy Commissioner.Meanwhile, the police had suspended the then SHO of Lakhewali police station and an ASI in this regard.Those arrested are deceased’s wife Satvir Kaur, Khushbag Singh and his mother Harjit Kaur and the accused still evading arrest are Gora Singh and Chhinder Bhagwan Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mukarsar-week-after-dalit-suicide-2-still-at-large-299109
19-08-2021||Gurdaspur||Sepoy cremated with state honours at Kiri Afgana village of Sri Hargobindpur||Sepoy Gurwinder Singh (20) was cremated with full state honours at Kiri Afgana village of Sri Hargobindpur today. Senior Army and administration officers were present on the occasion.Singh had joined the 24th artillery regiment a year ago and was posted in Akhnoor sector of Jammu. He died after his rifle went off accidentally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sepoy-cremated-with-state-honours-at-kiri-afgana-village-of-sri-hargobindpur-299107
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Youth body to gherao Punjab Congress legislators for 'neglecting monuments'||Flaying the state government’s attitude towards the historical buildings dedicated to the martyrs, the Naujwan Bharat Sabha announced to gherao residences of Congress MLAs and ministers.Naujwan Bharat Sabha president Rupinder Singh Chaunda said the government had neglected the monuments dedicated to the freedom struggle and the primary health centres, so the organisation had decided to gherao the residences of the ministers and Congress MLAs on August 25.Giving the example of a secret shelter of Bhagat Singh and his comrades in Ferozepur, he said the government had issued a notification to protect the building, but it was still in private posession. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-body-to-gherao-punjab-congress-legislators-for-neglecting-monuments-299116
19-08-2021||Ropar||Punjab CM to lay stone of Ropar bus stand tomorrow||Ten years after a new site was approved for the bus stand in town, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will lay the foundation stone of its building on August 20. Till now, the Ropar bus stand is being run from tin sheds.Besides, the Chief Minister will also distribute loan waiver certificates to landless farmers at Anandpur Sahib. Ropar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said all approvals for the construction of the new building of the bus stand at Transport Nagar had been received and the work would start with the laying of the foundation stone by the Chief Minister. Giri said around 1,600 buses would arrive or leave the new bus stand, to be built on a 7.56-acre plot.In 2007, it was decided that the bus stand situated in front of Nehru Stadium would be shifted out of the town. In January 2008, the deputy commissioner announced that the site near Nirankari Bhawan had been finalised for the project. The project, however, had to be abandoned after the administration had a dispute with the landowners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-to-lay-stone-of-ropar-bus-stand-tomorrow-299112
19-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Liquor vend in residential area, Mandi Gobindgarh residents  stage dharna||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 18Residents of Sector 23A block of Mandi Gobindgarh have started an indefinite dharna infront of a newly opened liquor vend in their area.They have also submitted a complaint to the Deputy Commissioner (DC), demanding immediate shifting of the illegally opened vend.Surinder Singh, a local resident, said the contractor had set up a kiosk in the residential area and they had complained to the DC, but to no avail. “Heavy rush of labourers and other people here is causing unnecessary problems. So, we decided to launch a dharna in protest,” he said.Gurjit Singh, another resident, said the vend had been opened against the guidelines of the government. “Children, women and other people residing here are feeling insecure. We will continue the dharna until the vend is shifted from here,” he said.SS Sandhu, ETO, Excise, said the vend had been opened as per the guidelines of the government, but keeping in view the sentiments of people, it would be shifted soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-vend-in-residential-area-mandi-gobindgarh-residents-stage-dharna-299114
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||At Rs 68K cr, revenue receipts up 12% in Punjab||Showing an upward trajectory, the total revenue receipts from April 2020 to March 2021 have increased by Rs 7,466.62 crore (12.14 per cent) to Rs 68,995.89 crore in comparison to the previous year’s (April 2019 to March 2020) collection, which stood at Rs 61,529.27 crore.An official spokesperson said the state’s Own Tax Revenue (OTR) had shown a marginal increase of 0.19 per cent over the previous year with total OTR receipts being Rs 30,057 crore with major components showing an upward trend like state excise (27 per cent), stamps and registration (9 per cent) and VAT (3 per cent). However, taxes on vehicles and SGST have shown negative growth of 27 and 7 per cent, respectively, over the previous year.The state’s own Non-Tax Revenue (NTR) was Rs 4,152 crore and it declined significantly by 37 per cent over 2019-20 fiscal. Some heads such as medical and public health (15 per cent), police (47 per cent) and mining (33 per cent) have witnessed a rising trend. A major fall has been observed under education, sports, art and culture (30 per cent), road transport (38 per cent) and others (62 per cent).The share of central taxes received amounted to Rs 10,634 crore, with an increase of 3 per cent over 2019-20.The spokesperson further pointed out that the grants-in-aid (GIA) from the Centre had shown an increase of 65 per cent, with GIA receipts totaling Rs 24,153 crore during 2020-21. The 80 per cent of increase in GIA from Centre (Rs 7,659 crore) can be attributed to the revenue deficit (RD) grant. The state has received Rs 638.25 crore monthly during 2020-21 on account of RD grant as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission.Revenue Expenditure has increased by 15 per cent from Rs 75,819 crore to Rs 87,096 crore with major increase of 33 per cent (Rs 3,381 crore) in pension and retirement benefits over the 2019-20 fiscal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-rs-68k-cr-revenue-receipts-up-12-in-punjab-299113
19-08-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Hit by frequent floods, Sangrur villagers struggle to find brides||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 18Apart from financial woes, seasonal rivulet Ghaggar has been creating social problems as well. Many farmers, whose land is located in the surroundings of the river, are not able to find brides for their sons as majority of people are unwilling to marry their girls in the affected villages.“My son is 31 years old and we are not able to find a bride for him. Many came to see our land but refused as it is adjacent to the Ghaggar,” said a farmer from Moonak. BKU (Ugrahan) leader Rinku said in almost all Ghaggar-affected villages, it’s the same story as the families of many youth are trying hard of find suitable brides for their sons.“In the coming days, things may take a turn for the worse as earlier, many families married their sons in Haryana, but now, the residents of the neighbouring state have also started refusing to marry their daughters in Ghaggar-affected villages,” he said. Goldy Cheema, former chairman of the Moonak Market Committee, said, “It’s a fact that Ghaggar-affected families are facing problems in finding brides. The government has failed to take effective steps to prevent the fury of the river.”As per the latest report of the Agriculture Department, rain has affected standing crops in 6,530 acres spread in 47 villages, of which 21 villages are in the Andana block while remaining 26 are in the Lehra block. With 500 acres affected by rain, Moonak is the worst affected, followed by Banarasi (410 acres), Balran (400 acres), and othersMoonak bears bruntAs per the latest report of the Agriculture Department, rain has affected standing crops in 6,530 acres spread in 47 villages, of which 21 villages are in the Andana block while remaining 26 are in the Lehra block. With 500 acres affected by rain, Moonak is the worst affected||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hit-by-frequent-floods-sangrur-villagers-struggle-to-find-brides-299117
19-08-2021||Praful Chander Nagpal||Historical monument Raghuvar Bhawan  in Fazilka now haven for addicts||Fazilka, August 18A 120-year-old protected monument, Raghuvar Bhawan, in Fazilka, is proving to be a haven for drug addicts and gamblers these days.The addicts can be seen taking drugs, consuming alcohol and playing cards during the afternoon and night in the neglected building. Historian Lachhman Dost, who spearheaded an agitation to get the heritage status for the building about five years ago, alleged addicts took drugs in the remains of the building, which was in a state of total ruin. He claimed used syringes had also been recovered from the building by local residents.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed about 7,700-foot-long wall constructed around the building to prevent access two years ago had now been proving to be a protection for anti-social elements as they have been using it as shelter.DSP Jasveer Singh said now the matter had been brought to his knowledge, the anti-social elements would be dealt with an iron hand and no one would be allowed to enter the building.The building, spread over 4 kanal and 18 marlas of Improvement Trust land on the Freedom fighter road is in a shambles due to the “callous” attitude of the district administration and successive governments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/historical-monument-raghuvar-bhawan-in-fazilka-now-haven-for-addicts-299104
19-08-2021||Vijay Mohan||Back from Kabul, ITBP’s K-9s await new role||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Back after a three-year gruelling stint in Afghanistan to safeguard Indian diplomats and assets, Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s sniffer dogs are now awaiting fresh postings on domestic security duties.The K-9s — Maya, Bobby and Roobi — had spent their time on foreign assignment to secure the Indian Embassy in Kabul amidst a high-threat perception. Access control to the embassy compound, anti-sabotage checks, perimeter security and providing early warning were among the tasks these dogs were deployed for. “They had detected many IEDs and protected lives and limbs of not only the Indian diplomats but also the local Afghan civilians working in the embassy,” Sudhakar Natarajan, Deputy Inspector General (Veterinary) in the ITBP, said.Aged 5-7 years, the K-9s had a tight schedule and a well-regulated daily routine. All care was taken to ensure their fitness, health and wellbeing. The dogs, along with their handlers, Kishan Kumar, Bijender Singh and Atul Kumar, were among the 99-member ITBP contingent that was evacuated by the IAF from Kabul yesterday. They are currently at the ITBP’s camp in Chawala, New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-from-kabul-itbps-k-9s-await-new-role-299105
19-08-2021||---||Arms smuggled by Babbar Khalsa International: Cops||Amritsar, August 18Even as the police have been carrying out search operations in the border belt, the authorities said explosives were sneaked into the Indian territory on the directions of the Babbar Khalsa International (BKI).The Punjab Police recently confiscated 11 hand grenades besides a tiffin bomb and 2-kg RDX, which were reportedly smuggled through drones to this side of the border.Concerned over the repeated seizure, the police teams have been contacting residents of border villages, urging them to inform the cops whenever they noticed or heard movement of drones in the area.AMRITSAR SEIZURE.Various security and intelligence agencies have been interrogating two alleged operatives of UK-based terrorist Gurpreet Singh Khalsa, alias Gurpreet, identified as Amritpal Singh and Sammy, who were held on Sunday night with two hand grenades and a pistol. Yesterday, the police recovered four more hand grenades and three pistols along with magazines and live cartridges from Suchetgarh village area in Batala following their interrogation.Sources in the rural police privy to the investigation said it was the BKI that had designated Gurpreet to give logistical support and funding for carrying out such nefarious acts to disturb law and order in Punjab by targeting prominent persons and places.Amritpal came in contact with Gurpreet around four years ago and was allegedly tasked to associate more youths with him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arms-smuggled-by-babbar-khalsa-international-cops-299106
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cane growers’ payment to be released by Sept||Sugarfed chairman Amrik Singh Aliwal today said the state cooperative sugar mills would clear dues of cane growers by the first week of September.The chairman further pointed out that nine cooperative sugar mills in the state had already released a sum of Rs 486.24 crore for 2019-20 while a sum of Rs 417.33 crore out of Rs 472.10 crore had been paid for 2020-21. The Finance Department has sanctioned the release of Rs 45 crore out of the balance Rs 54.77 crore which would be paid by the first week of September to the growers.Aliwal said the Union Government had withheld the export subsidy and buffer stock subsidy to the tune of Rs 9.77 crore of the cooperative sugar mills pertaining to the year 2019-20, which explained why the department concerned was being approached. The amount was expected to be released soon.As per directions of the Centre, payment for sugarcane is credited directly into the accounts of the growers, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cane-growers-payment-to-be-released-by-sept-299111
19-08-2021||---||6.7% Covid fatality rate in Punjab at all-time high||Chandigarh, August 18Even as the number of daily Covid cases as well as active cases has come down significantly in Punjab, the case fatality rate has remained at all-time high over the past one month.Fake Covishield in India, Uganda: WHOThe world body has asked drug regulators of the two nations to notify fake batchesAs per the state Health Department, in the past one month (July 18 onwards), 1,674 new cases were reported, lowest in the span of 30 days since the virus outbreak in March last year. But the number of deaths did not decline in the same proportion. In the same period, the state reported 112 Covid deaths, registering the case fatality rate of 6.69 per cent against 1.6 per cent nationally. This has led to a slight increase in the overall case fatality rate of the state, which is now 2.7%. The same had come down to 2.4% in April. The state’s fatality rate has remained above 6% since mid June.Health officials say there is nothing to worry as the number of cases is at the lowest level. “The number of cases and deaths is low. Some of the deaths reported in the past 30 days were from the second wave,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-7-covid-fatality-rate-in-punjab-at-all-time-high-299149
19-08-2021||Archit Watts||79% water samples fail potability test in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 18With over 79 per cent water samples failing the potability test in Muktsar district in the past seven months, getting clean drinking water is becoming a major problem for local residents.Data procured from the Health Department revealed that 58 of the 73 water samples collected from January to July have failed the potability test.A perusal of the records further revealed that in January, 10 samples were lifted and all were found potable. However, in February, just four of the 15 samples were found potable; in April, just one of 10 samples; and in June, none of the 38 water samples collected was found potable. However, in March, May and July, no water sample was lifted.Underground source sealedWhen a sample fails the test, we seal the underground source of water. Further, chlorination is done in water storage tanks. We also do re-sampling after some time. —Dr Vikram Asija, District epidemiologistDr Vikram Asija, district epidemiologist, Muktsar, said: “The samples are lifted from public places, including schools and reverse osmosis (RO) water treatment plants. But schools were shut during this period, so the sampling decreased. However, when a sample fails the potability test, we inform the department concerned and also seal the underground source of water. Further, chlorination is done in water storage tanks. We also do re-sampling after some time to check the quality of water.”Notably, the total dissolved solids level in water is also high in some parts of the district, which is unfit for consumption by humans and animals. However, a detailed survey has not been done over the past many years. A number of residents also complained of sewage contamination in water supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/79-water-samples-fail-potability-test-in-muktsar-299110
19-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Upload all orders on courts’ websites: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Bringing verdicts and directions to the mobile screens and computers of the people, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the subordinate judiciary across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to upload all judgments, interim and other orders, on the official websites of the courts.The HC also made it clear that the orders and judgments were required to be finalised and uploaded within 72 hours of pronouncement.In the absence of uploaded orders, the litigants were until now primarily depending upon the counsel and clerks for information. At times, the information was not readily available or it came with inaccuracies.The directiveThe decision on “uploading all judgments and orders, including zimni”, was communicated by the Registrar-General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to all District and Sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The communication said the issue was placed before the HC “executive committee” at its meeting on August 6.The committee, among other things, observed: “The District and Sessions Judges in the states of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh should ensure that all judgments and orders, including zimni orders, are uploaded immediately after the presiding officer of the court concerned signs the same, within the outer limit of 72 hours of its pronouncement.”The HC is already uploading its final and interim orders on its official website, besides information as regards rules, regulations, procedures and functioning of the justice delivery mechanism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/upload-all-orders-on-courts-websites-punjab-and-haryana-hc-299108
19-08-2021||Ferozepur||SAD kicks off poll campaign from Zira as farmers protest||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today kicked off the party’s campaign, ‘100 days, 100 constituencies’, for the next Assembly elections from the Zira segment.He promised the SAD would implement the recently announced 13-point programme in the same manner it implemented earlier commitments in the previous tenure.On Day 1 of the campaign, Sukhbir addressed 12 public gatherings during his whirlwind tour of Zira. He reiterated that the SAD- BSP alliance was committed to giving relief to farmers and Rs 2,000 per month to woman heads of all families having blue cards, making diesel cheaper by Rs 10 per litre for agricultural purposes, besides 400 units of free power to all domestic consumers and 75 per cent reservation in jobs for Punjabis in the industrial sector.Won’t let leaders enter villagesAll political parties are fighting for their benefit only, not for farmers. No party leaders will be allowed to enter the villages to ask for votes. —Lakhwinder Singh, Farmer leaderSukhbir interacted with doctors, CAs, lawyers, businessmen among others during his public gatherings to seek their feedback on what the next government should do to resolve all their pending issues. Earlier, the SAD president was shown “black flags” by farmers owing allegiance to the BKU (Krantikari) and Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee while he was going to Bhadana village in Zira sub-division.Heavy police force was deployed to avert any untoward incident. However, as soon as Sukhbir’s caravan entered Zira, protesters started raisings slogans and even tried to stop the caravan. Meanwhile, farmer leaders Lakhwinder Singh, Baldev Singh and Kuldeep Singh said they had come to express their resentment in a peaceful manner. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-kicks-off-poll-campaign-from-zira-as-farmers-protest-299095
19-08-2021||Ferozepur||Ferozepur: Will quit BJP if farm issues not resolved, says Ex-MLA Sukhpal Singh Nannu||In more trouble for the saffron party which is already facing criticism from farmers in the state, former chief parliamentary secretary and two-time BJP MLA from Ferozepur Sukhpal Singh Nannu has threatened to resign from the party in case the issues of farmers were not resolved soon.Former BJP minister Anil Joshi has already left the party and is slated to join the SAD later this week. Nannu said due to deaths of several farmers during the ongoing agitation, his supporters were enraged and forcing him to take some decision ahead of the 2022 poll.“It is only their unflinching love and support which helped me in winning from this Assembly constituency twice,” said Nannu. The BJP is already facing a leadership crisis here following the demise of former state BJP chief Kamal Sharma in 2019. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-will-quit-bjp-if-farm-issues-not-resolved-says-ex-mla-sukhpal-singh-nannu-299096
19-08-2021||GS Paul||Former BJP leader Anil Joshi’s entry to put Akalis in Catch-22 situation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 18With former BJP leader Anil Joshi set to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday, the Amritsar (North) Assembly constituency has come in the spotlight. The SAD has already allocated the North seat, which Joshi won twice in the past and is keen to contest again, to its new ally BSP.Akalis would have to take the BSP into confidence and compensate it before deciding upon fielding Joshi from the constituency. Joshi, as Cabinet Minister (2012-17), had done a lot of work in the Assembly segment and was popularly called “Vikas Purush”.Meanwhile, senior BJP leader Master Mohan Lal came to meet Joshi at his residence yesterday but had to return disappointed as he was not there. Mohan Lal said he had come to convince Joshi to review his decision of joining the SAD. Joshi, on the other hand, has already started remobilising support. He said he was all set to join the SAD on August 20.No conditionsI want to contest the Amritsar (North) seat, but I am joining the SAD with no conditions. — Anil Joshi, Ex-cabinet minister“I could not deviate from my stand now. I believe that Punjab’s decisions should be taken in Punjab only and not in New Delhi. Only a regional party like the SAD could do that in my opinion,” he said.Nonetheless, it would be a triangular contest in the North constituency, a Hindu-dominated seat which is occupied by Congress’ Sunil Dutti, who had toppled joshi by around 14,000 votes in the 2017 Assembly elections.Though AAP’s newly inducted member ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Partap didn’t disclose his choice of seat, he is also likely to start his political innings from the North, if the regular meetings he has been conducting are any indication.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-bjp-leader-anil-joshis-entry-to-put-akalis-in-catch-22-situation-299097
19-08-2021||Muktsar||Punjab Congress leaders face BKU members’ ire in Malout||Some farmers under the banner of Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur) held a protest outside a banquet hall on the outskirts of Malout town, where PCC working president Pawan Goel had to address Congress workers today.The protesters questioned the Congress leadership on issues like drug menace, unemployment, mining mafia, etc. Union leader Nirmal Singh said, “We did not come here to block the way of Congress leaders, but we will continue to ask questions to politicians in future as well.”The farmers also raised slogans when Malout MLA-cum-Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti reached there. Goel was, however, taken to the banquet hall through another gate. Talking to media, Goel said, “The Congress stands by farmers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-leaders-face-bku-members-ire-in-malout-299098
19-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Electoral Officer meets parties on elections||Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna held a meeting with representatives of political parties to apprise them about the Special Summary Revision-2022. Representatives of all state and national political parties attended the meeting.Raju said a special campaign for registration, deletion and correction of particulars in the voter list had been started. In view of the upcoming Assembly elections scheduled in the first quarter of 2022, this exercise would be extensively carried out across the state from the district to the booth level.He said a door-to-door exercise was underway till October 31 to intensify the campaign and plug the existing gaps. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-electoral-officer-meets-parties-on-elections-299099
19-08-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Navjot Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Singh Mali courts controversy over Kashmir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Malwinder Singh Mali, adviser to PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, has courted a political controversy with his recent Facebook posts against revocation of the special status and autonomy granted under Article 370 of the Constitution to Jammu and Kashmir.“Kashmir belongs to Kashmiris. Going against the tenets of the UNO resolutions, India and Pakistan have illegally usurped the Kashmir territory. If Kashmir was a part of India then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35-A. What was the special agreement with King Hari Singh? Tell people what were the terms of the agreement,” Mali said in his recent posts on Facebook.Oppn targets PCC chiefTalking to The Tribune, Mali stood by his statement and said: “How can Articles 370 and 35A be repealed when the matter is still pending in the Supreme Court?”Reacting to Mali’s controversial post, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said: “Does he stand with forces which are working against the nation? Kashmir is an integral part of India. The police should, in fact, register an FIR against him”. In response, Mali posted a newspaper clipping that showed Akalis in the past supported Kashmir’s right to self-determination.Meanwhile, BJP general secretary Dr Subhash Sharma has written to Sidhu, asking him whether he agreed with the Mali’s statement on Kashmir. “We ask for immediate action against the adviser,” he said. The PPCC chief could not be contacted despite repeated efforts.Sidhu appoints media advisersChandigarh: Close on the heels of appointing his political advisers, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday appointed his media advisers. In a tweet, he said he had appointed senior journalist Jagtar Sidhu and Surinder Dalla as his media advisers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhus-adviser-malwinder-singh-mali-courts-controversy-over-kashmir-299100
19-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||CBI arrests FCI officer, Amritsar trader for wheat auction scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The Central Bureau of Investigation has initiated an inquiry into the alleged “manipulation of wheat auction process” in the regional office of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) here. Two persons, including a senior officer of the food agency, have been arrested.It is alleged that the now-arrested officer, Gagan Negi, and an Amritsar-based trader, Ravinder Singh Bunty, were colluding to ensure that the latter gets the maximum percentage of wheat auctioned by the corporation each week in the Open Market Sale Scheme, in return for some gratification. The duo was arrested by the CBI sleuths from near a prominent mall here on Saturday when Bunty was reportedly here to hand over bribe to the officer.‘Demanded Rs 8L from Amritsar trader’Sources in the CBI told The Tribune that the activities of the officer and the trader were “under watch” for quite some time. “The arrested officer was showing undue favour to Bunty to get him FCI tender of Makhu; delaying special procurement of FCI at Patti; and delaying the inspection of Bunty’s business premises by FCI officers in order to give him sufficient time to remove disparity in his accounts,” alleges the FIR filed against the duo.The officer had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 2 lakh from the trader on four occasions between June and August, following which Bunty sought to him on August 14. It was at the venue of the meeting that the duo was nabbed.Sources said the trader had allegedly created multiple IDs to participate in e-auction of wheat. “There are allegations that the wheat that the trader was getting in the “manipulated e-auction” was being sold to flour mills in Jammu. It is a matter of investigation whether the small amount of wheat thus obtained by him in auction was a front to sell huge quantities of wheat that was embezzled from wheat stocks of procurement agencies elsewhere, to flour mills in Jammu,” a senior officer in the food department told The Tribune.Sources said the role of other FCI officers was being probed. The duo has been booked for criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbi-arrests-fci-officer-amritsar-trader-for-wheat-auction-scam-299101
19-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Wary of ’17 poll debacle repeat, AAP starts early in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 18In Gurdaspur district, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was defeated in all seven seats in the 2017 elections, but this time, it is getting its act together much in advance even as the Congress is busy trying to set its house in order while the SAD-BSP alliance is struggling to find its feet.AAP leaders claim they do not want a repeat of 2017. “This time will be different from the last Assembly poll when we put up a disjointed effort. We have learnt from our mistakes,” said Amarpal Singh Kishankot, AAP halqa in charge of Sri Hargobindpur seat.Learnt from pastThis time will be different from the last Assembly poll when we put up a disjointed effort. We have learnt from our mistakes. —Amarpal Singh Kishankot, AAP leaderThe party has already announced 48 halqa in charges. It has made it clear all of them will be given the ticket. The next list is expected soon.In Gurdaspur district, the AAP has declared its candidates in three seats — Amarpal Singh Kishankot (Sri Hargobindpur), Sherry Kalsi (Batala) and Balbir Singh Pannu (Fatehgarh Churian). Of these, only Kishankot had contested the last elections and had secured an impressive 25,000 votes. In Batala, Kalsi has replaced former state president Gurpreet Singh Ghuggi, while in Fatehgarh Churian, Gurvinder Singh Shampura has made way for Pannu.AAP leaders claim the Opposition parties were misleading voters by claiming Arvind Kejriwal had promised 300 units of free electricity and anybody using more than that will have to cough up the entire bill.“This is not true. In Punjab, the billing cycle of electricity consumption is two months. This, in effect, means Kejriwal has promised 600 units of free power. Opposition parties are misleading people saying just 300 units had been made free. Actually, 600 units have been made free,” said Kishankot.“The ‘Kejriwal-Ka-Guarantee card’ is not a manifesto. The first point in the card will be that AAP will provide 600 units of free electricity every two months. Similarly, other promises will be listed. Such cards were distributed successfully in the run up to the 2020 poll in Delhi,” said a halqa in charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wary-of-17-poll-debacle-repeat-aap-starts-early-in-gurdaspur-299102
19-08-2021||---||PSPCL top discom in energy efficiency||Patiala, August 18Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad disclosed that PSPCL had created history by being the top performer in PAT (Perform, Achieve and Trade) cycle-II, among all discoms in the nation. Prasad said the Ministry of Power had decided to issue 80,686 energy saving certificates to PSPCL.While sharing details about PAT, Prasad said it is a flagship scheme under the National Mission on Enhanced Energy Efficiency. He said the first cycle of PAT scheme was completed in 2015 and the second achieved a total energy savings of 14.08 million tonnes and resulted in a reduction of 66.01 million tonnes of carbon dioxide.Power mattersHe further said under the PAT scheme, an energy audit of designated consumer is under taken to verify the baseline data (current level of efficiency) and thereafter emission targets are given. As per the scheme, the designated customers who over achieve their targets are given energy saving certificates and those who are under achievers are entitled to purchase these certificates from over achievers and are also liable to financial penalty under the Energy Conservation Act, 2001.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-top-discom-in-energy-efficiency-299103
19-08-2021||Amritsar||2 shot dead in Amritsar as altercation over birthday cake smearing takes ugly turn||Two people were shot dead allegedly by a man after an altercation in a birthday party here, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place in a restaurant located at Majitha Road here.A birthday party was given by Tarunpreet Singh, who had invited around 30 friends, said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik.A heated argument took place after some of them started smearing birthday cake on each other.Malik said it took an ugly turn when one of them took out his weapon and opened fire, killing two of them. Mani Suniara and Vikram Singh were taken to a nearby hospital where they were declared brought dead. Five among 30 persons who attended the birthday party have been rounded up for questioning and their two cars have also been seized. An FIR will be registered under relevant sections of the IPC, said police. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-shot-dead-in-amritsar-as-altercation-over-birthday-cake-smearing-takes-ugly-turn-299051
19-08-2021||---||Punjab Vigilance Bureau arrests ex-DGP Sumedh Saini in corruption case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Punjab Vigilance Bureau on Wednesday arrested former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a corruption case and in connection with another FIR, whose contents have not been disclosed.Also read: Hours before arrest Sumedh Singh Saini moved High court for reliefA top vigilance official said Saini on his own reached the Bureau office at 8 pm saying he wanted to join investigation in the corruption case against him.Sources said Saini parked his car outside the compound gate in order to project that he had come to join investigation in a case in which he had got interim anticipatory bail and was to join investigation under orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court by August 18, 2021.Also read: Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini’s plea dismissed as withdrawnOn getting this information, the investigating officer apprehended Saini while he continued sitting in his car and refused to get out of the car. He was formally arrested in another case for having committed offence of forgery in order to stall the process of attachment of a house in Sector 20-D, Chandigarh, by the court of Special judge Mohali. Saini has been claiming to be a tenant in the house after his retirement.The official said later during questioning it was decided to arrest him. “The legal process subsequent to his arrest is on. The details may be shared tomorrow,” he said.Saini had moved the high court on Tuesday apprehending the arrest.His petition, seeking directions to the investigating officer not to arrest him for “any other additional offences” in the corruption case against him, was today dismissed as withdrawn by the HC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-vigilance-bureau-arrests-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-in-corruption-case-299048
