20-08-2021||---||15 IAS officers, 3 PCS officers transferred in major reshuffle in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 20In a major administrative reshuffle, the Punjab Government issued transfer and posting orders of 15 IAS officers and three PCS officers late Friday evening. Also read: Punjab Police reshuffle: 41 shifted; Amritsar, Ludhiana get new commissionersKK Yadav will be new Director, Information and Public Relation; Sibin C Director, Industries and MGSIPA; Indu Malhotra Secretary, Lokpal and state Election Commission; Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal Chief Administrator, GMADA, and Special secretary, Housing and Urban Development; Mohd Tayyab  Secretary, Punjab Infrastructure Regulatory Authority; Rajiv Prashar Special Secretary, Transport, Forest and Wild Life; Senu Duggal Additional CEO, Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion, and Additional Secretary, Information and Public Relations; Harpreet Singh Sudan Additional Director, Punjab Skill Development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/15-ias-officers-3-pcs-officers-transferred-in-major-reshuffle-in-punjab-299911
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Expelled BJP leader Anil Joshi joins SAD||Former minister Anil Joshi was among several leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party to join their former ally Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday in what was a big blow to the party.As he joined the party, Joshi said such instances of BJP leaders joining the Akali Dal proved that political alliances between parties might break but the bond of brotherhood that existed between Hindus and Sikhs in Punjab could never break. Former BJP leader Anil Joshi’s entry to put Akalis in Catch-22 situationJoshi was expelled from the party in July for anti-party activities after he spoke out against the state unit.Punjab BJP expels dissenter Anil Joshi for 'anti-party activities'Several BJP leaders like BJP youth president Mohit Gupta and BJP leaders Kamla Bailey and RD Sharma also joined the party with Joshi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expelled-bjp-leader-anil-joshi-joins-sad-299875
20-08-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Punjab CM launches Rs 520 crore debt relief scheme for 2.85 lakh farm labourers & landless farmers||Asserting his continued support to the farmers agitating against the three black farm laws, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday launched a Rs 520 crore debt relief scheme for 2.85 lakh farm labourers and landless farmers.“I hope and wish a day will come when India will be free from poverty, which Rajiv Gandhi dreamed about,” said the chief minister, dedicating the important scheme to the state on the 77th birth anniversary of his close friend.Noting that Rajiv was a close friend, Capt Amarinder said the former prime minister used to always ask when the day will come when people will have their own houses to live and India would be free from poverty.He, therefore, thought it apt to launch this scheme on the birth anniversary of Rajiv, said the chief minister, adding that the Congress had been fighting for the people for the last 130 years.The chief minister said his government had decided to waive off loans amounting to Rs 520 crores of farm labour and landless farmers with respect to the principal amount against their cooperative loans as on July 31, 2017, and simple interest at 7% p.a. on the above amount till 6th March, 2019.It is noteworthy that the state government had earlier waived off Rs 4700 crore worth of loans (up to Rs 2 lakh of crop loan each) for 5.85 lakh small and marginal famers.Declaring that his “heart is with the farmers who are protesting at the Delhi borders”, the chief minister made it clear that he does not agree with the stand taken by the Central government, who are not listening to the farmers.“We have amended the Constitution 127 times, so why are we not doing it now? Why is the Government of India standing on prestige on the issue of the farm laws,” he asked, adding that he had categorically urged the prime minister and the Union home minister to “repeal the legislations”.The chief minister said he had been asked to stop Punjab farmers from going to Delhi “but I never stopped as everyone has the right to protest in the national capital; protest is a democratic right”.“These small farmers are not fighting for themselves but for their coming generations,” he said, questioning why the Centre could not see the pain of the protesting farmers.These farmers are mostly those who own an average of 2.5 acres of land, he pointed out, recalling that during a visit to Poland long back he had seen that country increasing the land ceiling from the existing 40 acres to 100 acres as families could not feed themselves with such small land holdings.“So you can imagine what will happen to those who have just 2.5 acres,” he remarked, asking “how will they feed their families if the new laws are imposed on them?”Pointing out that around 400 farmers had died, he said his government was giving Rs 5 lakh to the families of the state’s farmers who had lost their jobs.In addition, they were being given jobs, and 200 had already got their appointment letters, he said, adding that the Centre need to protect the MSP and the market system as well as the age-old relationship between the farmers and the Aarhtiyas in the interest of the nation.In a token gesture to launch the scheme, the chief minister personally handed over cheques to 21 farm labourers and landless labourers, with ministers and MLAs set to disburse the cheques to all others over the next few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-launches-rs-520-crore-debt-relief-scheme-for-2-85-lakh-farm-labourers-landless-farmers-299856
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||ISI-backed ISYF terror module busted in Kapurthala-Jalandhar with arrest of 2 key operatives||Punjab Police on Friday busted a major terror module by arresting two key militant operatives of ISYF, a banned terror outfit, and recovered a huge cache of live grenades and a tiffin bomb, along with pistols and ammunition from them.The arrested accused have been identified as Gurmukh Singh Brar alias GB, resident of Hardyal Nagar, Garha, Jalandhar.Giving the details in a press release, the police spokesperson said that Kapurthala police arrested Gagandeep Singh, son of Sukhwinder Singh, resident of 73B, St No 02 Gurunanak Pura Phagwara, and recovered one illegal pistol from him.During follow-up investigations, Gagan revealed that the pistol recovered from him was part of a larger weapons consignment that had been sent from across the border over drones over the last few months.He also disclosed that the major part of the consignment had been hidden by his close friend, one Gurmukh Singh, in Jalandhar.Acting swiftly, police teams immediately raided the house of Gurmukh Singh and arrested GB from his house and recovered two live hand grenades, one box of detonators, two tubes suspected to contain RDX, one roll of high explosive yellow wire, Indian currency approximately Rs 3.75 lakhs, one licensed pistol of .45 bore, 14 Indian passports, one .30 pistol along with two magazines from his possession.He disclosed further that one live tiffin bomb and other explosive material was hidden in the office of Gurmukh Singh, situated near Jalandhar Bus Stand.Police teams immediately raided the office of Gurmukh Singh and during search recovered three live hand grenades, one tiffin bomb, four glock pistol magazines and packaging foam material from there.Preliminary investigations carried out so far have revealed that this consignment was part of a larger consignment sent by Pak ISI and Pak-based pro-Khalistan terrorist groups, such as the ISYF, to carry out multiple terror attacks in Punjab.In this regard, Kapurthala police have registered FIR against Gurmukh Singh and Gagandeep Singh under Sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 18B, 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, 4, 5 of Explosives Substances (Amendment) Act, 2001 and 25, 54, 59 of Arms Act at PS Sadar, Phagwara.On August 8, Amritsar (Rural) police also recovered a similar looking sophisticated tiffin bomb from village Daleke, PS Lopoke. The RDX was installed in this tiffin bomb and had three different trigger mechanisms including switch, magnetic and spring for operational flexibility.Further investigations in the above-mentioned case are in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/isi-backed-isyf-terror-module-busted-in-kapurthala-jalandhar-with-arrest-of-2-key-operatives-299854
20-08-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra, Shatrughan Sinha, Kapil Sharma in one frame: 'Funfair of lovely memories'||The Kapil Sharma Show is all set to hit the screens this weekend. Pictures of the recently shot episode featuring yesteryear actors Dharmendra and Shatrughan Sinha have surfaced.  Sudesh Lehri—who has joined Kapil’s team in the latest season—feels blessed to get an opportunity to work with them.Sharing a picture from the sets, where Sudesh could be seen sitting on the floor with the veteran actors, he wrote: "Inka aashirwad mil gya , aur kya chahiye, (I have got their blessings, what else do I need.)"See Sudhesh's post here:A post shared by Sudesh Lehri (@realsudeshlehri)  Not only did Sudesh, but Dharmendra also shared a picture of himself with the Kapil Sharma Show team on his Twitter account. Sharing the picture, he wrote: "Good Morning Friends Shatru and Kapil, they both are very dear to me A funfair of lovely memories ….A jovial togetherness at Kapil Show".See Dharmendra's post here:Good Morning Friends 🌼 Shatru and Kapil, they both are very dear to me 💕💕💕💕💕 A funfair of lovely memories ….A jovial togetherness at Kapil Show 💝 pic.twitter.com/XvA4Z633qH||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-shatrughan-sinha-kapil-sharma-in-one-frame-funfair-of-lovely-memories-299833
20-08-2021||---||Punjab helpline number launched||Patiala, August 19During online launch of the unified state helpline number 1100 and state admission portal by Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, ADC (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal today called upon people to reap maximum benefit of public utility services, which had been digitalised.She said these digital initiatives launched today by the Punjab Government would address grievances of the common man. Now, people could government services in non-emergency conditions, she added.Similarly, the state admission portal started for undergraduate and postgraduate admissions in government colleges of Punjab would ease admission process through digitisation, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-helpline-number-launched-299800
20-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Farmers to block Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of NH-1 indefinitely from today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Commuters from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Pathankot and other adjoining areas, who are to shuttle across Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of NH-1 in Dhanowali by road or rail, are likely to face a huge bottleneck on Friday as the farmers are set to block the passage indefinitely. Tough time for commuters?We will try to ensure that the commuters face the least harassment. We have ensured a proper deployment of staff to guide the commuters on the alternate routes and ensure smooth flow of traffic. — Jagmohan Singh, DCP (law and order)The call for bandh had been announced yesterday by the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee over the issue of pending dues of sugarcane from the mills and no enhancement in the State Agreed Price (SAP) of sugarcane for the past four years. Though the state government announced to hike the SAP by Rs 15 per quintal today, it has further agitated the farmers.“The government has played a cruel joke with us. By announcing a meagre Rs 15 per quintal hike, they have ridiculed us. The state government did not have any one of us for representation during finalising this amount. We were expecting the SAP on sugarcane to be hiked to Rs 370 from the existing price of Rs 295 to 310 (varying according to variety). Haryana is already offering Rs 358 per quintal,” fumed Manjit Rai, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba).He added: “We will now have an intensified protest. We had plans to block only the road, but now we will also block the rail passage. Also, all 32 farmer unions of Punjab have offered us support. Our protest tomorrow at the site may have more than 30K farmers and it will go on indefinitely till all our demands are met to our satisfaction. We will also have our meeting at the site tomorrow morning and we may jam the entire state”.The Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee chooses the site at Dhannowali strategically as the NH and the railway crossing here are very close by and both the dharnas can be managed simultaneously. In the past few years, whenever the farmers announce to hold a protest here, the response remains massive and the dharna goes on for hours and even gets extended to the next day.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the police authorities had been directed to make proper security arrangements. The city police have planned diversions to ensure that the public does not suffer much. The diversions have been planned via Pathankot Chowk to Rama Mandi, from Partappura side for those coming via Nakodar Chowk, and via Cantt Road to Phagwara.DCP (law and order) Jagmohan Singh said: “We will try to ensure that the commuters face the least harassment. We have ensured a proper deployment of staff to guide the commuters on the alternate routes and ensure smooth flow of traffic.”About the plans of the farmers to block rail traffic too, he said: “It will be too early to comment on that. The farmers may not go to that extent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-block-jalandhar-phagwara-stretch-of-nh-1-indefinitely-from-today-299779
20-08-2021||---||Graft: CBI nabs FCI manager, firm owner||New Delhi, August 19The CBI today said it had arrested an FCI manager and the owner of a private firm in a bribery case. The investigating agency today said the FCI manager, Gagan Negi, posted at the regional office of Punjab in Chandigarh, and Ravinder Singh, alias Bunty, were arrested in a bribery case of Rs2 lakh. CBI officials said a case was registered against them and unidentified persons.“It was alleged that the private person (proprietor of a private firm), a resident of Amritsar and doing business of sale/purchase of rice, in connivance with the manager, was obtaining undue business from the FCI by manipulating the process of procurement and e-auction of food grains,” said a senior CBI official.The CBI laid a trap and caught Ravinder Singh paying a bribe of Rs2 lakh to the FCI manager, the official said, adding that searches were conducted on the premises of the accused at Chandigarh, Zirakpur and Amritsar.“The accused were produced in the competent court in Chandigarh. After the expiry of two days of police custody, they were produced in the court of Special Judge, CBI cases, Chandigarh, and were remanded in 14-day judicial custody,” the agency said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/graft-cbi-nabs-fci-manager-firm-owner-299514
20-08-2021||---||BJP slammed over ‘manhandling’ anti-farm law protesters in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 19The Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) criticised the ruling BJP for allegedly manhandling anti-farm law protesters. Their statements came after a video of protesters and BJP leaders exchanging heated arguments outside Himachal Bhawan went viral. AAP leader Pardeep Chhabra said, “BJP leaders abused and manhandled women protesters who had come in support of farmers at the venue. This is shameful and exposes the BJP’s real face.” Vinayak Bangia, general secretary, Youth Congress, Chandigarh, added, “Insulting and misbehaving with a woman protester is condemnable.”City BJP general secretary Ramveer Bhatti, who was present at the time of the incident, said, “They were abusing BJP leaders. They were not farmers; they were only there to create a ruckus. No BJP worker insults a woman, and we don’t allow such behaviour in the party.”Meanwhile, Congress councillor Saitsh Kainth has lodged a complaint with the Director General of Police, Chandigarh, against the BJP for violating Section 144 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-slammed-over-manhandling-anti-farm-law-protesters-in-chandigarh-299517
20-08-2021||---||Double murder outside Amritsar hotel: Prime suspects booked||Amritsar, August 19Even after 24 hours, the police have failed to nab the prime suspects involved in the double murder of two youngsters outside the hotel on Wednesday. A video of the incident has also gone viral on social media.According to the police, different teams were conducting raids to nab them. The police have booked Mani Dhillon, a goldsmith, along with his brother Vikram Singh, both residents of Tarn Taran Road, and 10 unknown persons for the murder.Also read: 2 shot dead in Amritsar as altercation over birthday cake smearing takes ugly turnThe vicitms were identified as Munish Sharma and Vikramjit Singh. Munish’s brother and complainant Pardeep Kumar told the police that he worked at a gym situated on Circular Road.Pardeep said his brother told him that he along with Vikramjit Singh and Taranpreet Singh of Daburji village were going to a hotel located near Ghala Mala Chowk on Majitha Road to attend a birthday party. He also asked him to attend the party after gym.He said around 6.30 pm, he along with Vikramjit’s brother Simran Singh reached outside the hotel. He said they saw the accused thrashing Munish and Vikramjit.He said the accused took out a pistol and shot Munish in the head while Vikramjit sustained bullet injuries in the back. He said Munish died on the spot and Vikramjit succumbed at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik said the dispute happened as the accused rubbed cake on the face of the victims.Initial verbal spat turned violent and the accused shot the victims. He said the police teams were conducting raids and the suspects would be arrested soon.The police have been investigating into the legality of the weapon used in the crime. A case under Section 302, 148 and 149 of the IPC and under the Arms Act has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/double-murder-outside-amritsar-hotel-prime-suspects-booked-299674
20-08-2021||A man sailing on two boats||A party with two engines||Former MLA Ashwani Shekhri, a senior Congress leader from Gurdaspur, who is known for his alliance with Capt Amarinder Singh, expressed satisfaction. Shekhri, who is a chairman of Punjab Health Systems Corporation, was in Patti to lay a foundation stone of a Mother-Child Ward at the Civil Hospital recently. Harminder Singh Gill, who represents the Patti constituency, managed the event. While addressing the gathering, Gill said we (Congressmen) we are a train with two engines. “Ours win is sure in the 2022 Assembly elections and we need not worry,” said Shekhri. A person in the gathering said what if the two engines pull the train in diffirent direction, which is the actual ground situation. Gill had faced this type of situation during the 2014 Lok Sabha Elections when he contested from Khadoor Sahib.In 2013, the AICC had appointed Partap Singh Bajwa as chief of the PPCC, and Capt Amarinder had opposed him. Gill left the Capt’s camp and joined Bajwa. In 2014, the Congress had appointed Capt Amarinder as PPCC president, who decided to contest the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Amritsar. He assured Gill to accompany his cavalcade at the time of filing his nomination papers. Gill waited for hours with his supportes for Capt Amarinder, but he never showed up. At the end, Gill went on to file his nomination with a handful of supporters. This happens with a person who sails in two boats and similar is the situation this time for Congress MLAs.A man of rare qualitiesDr SS Lauhuka is among a few persons who is known across the region due to his public welfare activities. He has been elected as a councillor thrice in Tarn Taran. He is a parton of the Citizen Council , Tarn Taran. This social organisation has been solemnising mass marriages since 1990 every year. He is district chief of the All India Tonkkashtrya Sabha and also of the District Consumers Welfare Forum, which protects the interests of consumers.The district administration had nominated him as the member of certain committees with the police welfare. All these activities are his hobby. He is closely associated with LIC and was recently honoured with gold medal by the the latter for his social services. He always remain ready to help the needy, especially school students and provides them stationery.Endless wait for justiceThe custodial death of Pardeep Singh may be considered to be the rare of the rarest cases in the history of Indian judiciary. Pardeep Singh, a student of Class IX, was beaten to death by Goindwal Sahib police in the custody on December 22, 2001. The police alleged that he was ‘arrested’ with intoxicanting tablets and he died during interrogation. After facing resentment from residents, the police registered a case against cops for custodial death. Later, the case was cancelled for lack of ‘evidence’ and other loopholes. Joginder Kaur, mother of Pardeep, who has no source of income, came out on the road and filed a complaint in the court challenging the police theory. A social organisation ‘Pardeep Katal Kand Action Committee’ was formed with efforts of a Tarn Taran-based social worker, which helped Joginder. After years of hearings, the court had awarded 10-year jail term to Assistant Sub-Inspector Harbhajan Singh. Despite being declared a Proclaimed Offender (PO), Harbhajan, not just went on performing his police duty, but was also promoted as a Sub-Inspector by the Police Department. He retired with all the pension benefits. The voice of the Pardeep Katal Kand Action Committee went unheard. The committee had been demanding compensation for the family of the victim as per the orders of the court and locate the policemen who had been helping the PO all this while. The committee had written to the Deputy Commissioner regarding the same and the latter asked the Khadoor Sahib SDM Khadoor to take necessary action on June 12, 2019. The SDM prepared a report after more than one year and replied to the DC on July 10, 2020 expressing their inability to take action against the erring official. It’s yet to be seen how much more time it will take to deliver the justice to aggrieved family.Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-party-with-two-engines-299687
20-08-2021||---||Cane SAP up by Rs 15/quintal in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19To safeguard the interests of cane growers in Punjab, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today approved a hike of Rs 15 per quintal in the state agreed price (SAP) of all varieties for the crushing season 2021-22.With this, the SAP of sugarcane has gone up from Rs 310 to Rs 325 for early variety, Rs 300 to Rs 315 for mid variety and Rs 295 to Rs 310 per quintal for late maturing variety.For the ensuing crushing year, around 1.10 lakh hectares is under sugarcane cultivation across the state. Around 660 lakh quintals of sugarcane would be crushed by mills.With the increase in sugarcane rates, state farmers will get a higher benefit of Rs 230 crore against the previous year. Besides, on the demand of the Punjab cane growers, the rate of variety Co-0238 would also be purchased at Rs 325 per quintal.Chairing a meeting of the Sugarcane Control Board here through video conferencing, the Chief Minister constituted a Cane Development Group, headed by Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa with Rana Sugars CMD Rana Gurjit Singh, Punjab State Farmers’ Commission Chairman Ajay Vir Jakhar, Cane Commissioner Gurvinder Singh and PAU Sugar Research Centre, Kapurthala, Director Dr Gulzar Singh as members.The group has been mandated to find ways and means to enhance the production of sugarcane and promote advanced cultivation technologies to ensure an improvement in sugar recovery.The Chief Minister asked the Agriculture Department to work closely with farmers to bring more area under cane cultivation to improve the viability of mills, besides giving a push to state government’s ambitious programme of crop diversification.On his part, Randhawa emphasised the need for modernising cooperative sugar mills to reduce the cost of production and allow cane growers to fetch better remunerative prices. The state has as many as 16 sugar mills, of which nine are in the cooperative sector. The cane crushing capacity of these mills is 56,000 tonne per day. If run at full capacity, the mills can crush sugarcane from an area of 125 lakh hectares, whereas the present area is 0.93 lakh hectares.The crop has the potential to generate high number of job in the rural areas, both in harvesting and processing.The meeting was attended ACS Development Anirudh Tewari, Principal Secretary KAP Sinha, RCS Vikas Garg, Commissioner Agriculture Balwinder Singh Sidhu, Director Agriculture Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, Nahar Industrial Enterprises CMD Amloh Kamal Oswal, besides representatives of various cane growers’ associations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cane-sap-up-by-rs-15-quintal-in-punjab-299556
20-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Ferozepur: BJP ex-MLA Sukhpal Singh Nannu quits party over farm laws||Ferozepur, August 19Hours after confronting the BJP state leadership over the three farm laws, former Chief Parliamentary Secretary and two-term Ferozepur MLA Sukhpal Singh Nannu formally quit the party today.Top brass to blameThe top BJP leadership of Punjab did not present the right picture to the party high command. — Sukhpal Singh Nannu, Ex-MLAFather three-time MLAEarlier, there was speculation that Nannu might join the SAD, but he denied any such move, saying he was in no mood to join any political outfit for now. In the same vein, Nannu said he would take the final decision about his future course of action in consultation with supporters.Nannu had won the Ferozepur seat twice as a BJP candidate in 2002 and 2007, but lost two subsequent polls in 2012 and 2017. He attributed the loss to alleged backstabbing by some BJP leaders.Addressing mediapersons at this residence, where the saffron flag had been fluttering atop for the past 54 years, Nannu broke down while talking about his decision, saying it was a tough call for him.Nannu said his supporters were up in arms particularly over the farmers’ agitation and subsequent deaths over the past few months. He also raised apprehensions over the current party leadership in the state, whom he accused of failing to keep the flock together.In a veiled attack on the party high command, Nannu alleged the state BJP president Ashwani Sharma should be held responsible for the present scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-bjp-ex-mla-sukhpal-singh-nannu-quits-party-over-farm-laws-299558
20-08-2021||Ferozepur||Sukhbir Badal reaches out to farmers in Guruharsahai||On the second day of his “100 days, 100 constituencies” programme, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today claimed his party was farmers’ only voice in Parliament.Trying to strike a chord with farmers who protested in front of his convoy in Guruharsahai, Sukhbir disembarked from his SUV and interacted with Harnek Singh Mehma of BKU (Dakounda) and others spearheading the protest.Sukhbir stressed the SAD alone stood up against the Centre by voting against the three farm laws in Parliament, even though the Congress and AAP chose to abstain from voting. Sukhbir told farmers that the SAD also raised the voice of farmers during the recent monsoon session.The SAD president visited several villages in Guruharsahai sub-division, including Guru Karam Singh Basti, Chakk Mohant Wala, Panje Ke Uthar, Megha Rai Uthar, Lakho ke Behram and Boore Wala. Attacking the Congress, Sukhbir claimed Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was part of the seven-member committee of CMs which framed the three agriculture ordinances. Sukhbir alleged the CM had also amended the APMC Act to make it conform with the three farm laws.Sukhbir said the moment the three ordinances were presented in Parliament, Harsimrat Kaur Badal protested and subsequently resigned. “We were assured that the views of farmers would be taken into consideration and this is why we held meetings with all farmer organisation representatives to take their views. The farmer leaders told us to vote against the three Bills and specifically said we should not stage a walk out or abstain from voting. We did that and left the NDA.” Meanwhile, the SAD chief today declared Vardev Singh “Noni” Mann as the party candidate from Guruharsahai. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-reaches-out-to-farmers-in-guruharsahai-299559
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Labour body leaders walk out of govt meeting||Leaders of rural workers walked out of a meeting between labour organisations and the government today. They alleged the government was “insensitive” towards the demands of labourers.Land ownership for eligible workersAt a meeting with Zameen Parapti Sangharsh Commitee, the government agreed to do drone mapping of workers’ houses built inside the “lal dora” (red line) and those found eligible would be given ownership.Demanding small plots, debt waiver scheme for the rural poor, etc., organisations had protested in Patiala for several days, following which the government had constituted a committee under Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra.The committee convened a meeting with unions today. However, the leaders walked out of the meeting saying except Mohindra, no official concerned was present there.The government has again convened a meeting on August 25. The unions have threatened to gherao the houses of ministers and MLAs from September 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-body-leaders-walk-out-of-govt-meeting-299560
20-08-2021||---||Corruption case: After Sumedh Saini, WWICS chief Davinder Sandhu held||Chandigarh, August 19The Punjab Vigilance Bureau today arrested WWICS Director Davinder Sandhu, who has been named a co-accused of ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, in a corruption case.Ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s Rs 6.4 crore ‘shady’ transactionA day after arresting Saini, the Vigilance Bureau (VB) in its first official release said they arrested Saini in connection with an FIR registered on September 17, 2020, under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and 7(A)(B)(C) and 7-A, 13(1) r/w 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Saini was nominated as the accused on August 2 this year.The VB further said the Director of WorldWide Immigration Consultancy Services (WWICS) Estates Pvt Ltd colluded with Deputy Director Ashok Sika PCS, now retired, Senior Town Planner Sagar Bhatia, now retired, and other officials and illegally converted an agricultural land into residential colonies named Green Meadows-1 and Meadows-2 at Kurali in Mohali by fraudulently hiding the actual facts and showing fake documents pertaining to 2013.During probe it was found that Sandhu was known to Nimratdeep Singh, executive engineer of PWD who is well known to higher authorities. Nimratdeep reportedly received Rs 6 crore as bribe from Sandhu to get the colonies certified.Thereafter, Nimratdeep, his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal and their aides Taranjeet Singh Aneja and Mohit Puri had also been nominated as accused in the land use conversion case.The VB said during investigation, it came to light that Nimratdeep had purchased a two-kanal house (No. 3048) in Sector 20-D of Chandigarh and rebuilt it in September 2017 with the same bribe money of Rs 6 crore. On being questioned, he revealed that the former DGP had been residing as a tenant on the first floor of the house since October 15, 2018, and paying a rent of Rs 2.50 lakh per month.The Vigilance Bureau said after analysing the financial transactions of Surinderjit Singh Jaspal and Sumedh Singh Saini’s bank account, it was revealed that Saini had transferred Rs 6 crore and Rs 40 lakh to Nimratdeep and Surinderjit in their bank accounts from August 2018 to August 2020. This amount was not given in accordance with the rent deed.A VB spokesperson said Nimratdeep and his father further presented a new fact after conspiring with Saini that the latter wanted to purchase the house for which they had done a verbal agreement with him. But as the new facts emerged during the probe, the father-son duo furnished a copy of a fake agreement to sell the house, which was executed on October 2, 2019, in order to prevent attachment of the property in a local court.This agreement was reportedly signed between Saini and Surinderjit on a plain paper without any testimony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/corruption-case-after-sumedh-saini-wwics-chief-davinder-sandhu-held-299565
20-08-2021||---||Train staff, set up anti-Covid infra before Aug 31: National Medical Commission to colleges||Faridkot, August 19To mitigate any further surge in Covid cases, the National Medical Commission (NMC) today issued an advisory to all medical colleges to ensure the training and certification of all health professionals, including doctors, nurses and other clinical staff, to ensure patient safety at all times.3 Muktsar docs quit within 3 monthsTo strengthen the infrastructure for Covid training and nomination of competent trainers, the NMC secretary has written to the medical colleges to decisively and effectively address the evolving challenge from Covid-19 and ensure a robust training network to train the healthcare professionals.More than 120 lessons across 22 modules have been identified by the NMC for the training and several of these modules are clinical in nature and need onsite training.The skill training and verification has been envisaged at the level of Covid hospitals and similar facilities, including medical colleges, by utilising the existing resources. The NMC recommended that all skill laboratories of the medical colleges may be utilised for this purpose. All medical colleges have been advised to coordinate to conduct these trainings and set up infrastructure before August 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/train-staff-set-up-anti-covid-infra-before-aug-31-national-medical-commission-to-colleges-299566
20-08-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||No bank transfer, cheques for pension beneficiaries in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19The Punjab Government will set up three camps in each block of the state for disbursal of the enhanced old age pension amount from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500. The beneficiaries will be handed over cheques instead of the existing provision of direct transfer of the amount to their bank accounts.It’s a poll stuntWhen the amount is directly going into the beneficiaries’ accounts, what is the need to organise special camps? This is being done to woo voters before the Vidhan Sabha elections. an ex-secretaryCheques for the hiked amount of Rs 1,500 will also be disbursed among the beneficiaries of schemes for the differently abled, widows and destitute. A notification to this regard has already been issued.The beneficiaries, whose number is estimated at 26 lakh, will be paid the enhanced amount for July. Official sources said special camps were being organised to make peopleaware about the enhanced financial benefits.The development follows a recent decision by the Cabinet sub-committee headed by Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra. The committee members included ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary and Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Social Welfare Department officials, under the supervision of the Deputy Commissioners concerned,will hand over the cheques to the beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-bank-transfer-cheques-for-pension-beneficiaries-in-punjab-299567
20-08-2021||GS Paul||Soldiers’ valour sculpted at Attari||Tribune News ServiceAttari, August 19Dedicated to India’s 75th Independence Day, an old guard post on the premises of the Attari-Wagah Joint Checkpost (JCP) has been transformed into a masterpiece of art, worth a watch.Chandigarh couple behind projectThe Indian armed forces have a tradition of unflinching loyalty, valour and sacrifice for the sake of the country in the line of duty. This intangible value and concept of Indian warriors was translated into a sculptural technique known as ‘relief’.Based on the theme of the Border Security Force, India’s first line of defence, and giving a special tribute to ‘mahila prehari’ (women solders), Bengaluru-based eminent visual artist and faculty of Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology, Narendra Raghunath, and FICCI FLO Amritsar chairperson Manjot Kaur Dhillon conceptualised and designed the project on paper.Chandigarh-based sculptor couple Gurpreet Singh Dhuri and Gagandeep Kaur Dhuri was commissioned to sculpt the idea. Ultimately, this ordinary four-wall room-like structure ahead of Swarn Jayanti Dwar, took the shape of a special installation having murals of soldiers, including women, denoting the Indian forces who brave adverse conditions in the battlefield. Around it, a beautiful leisure green belt with ornamental plants and trees was developed by the National Highways Authority of India at the JCP.“The women soldiers guard our nation under the same conditions as the men do. So, they should be celebrated together. And what better occasion than the 75th anniversary of our Independence when we pay tribute to our soldiers,” she said.The murals have been made up of fiberglass material. The murals, with fluorescent blue tinge having dark grey background on the wall, look lively on the walls. Gurpreet said, “Though no particular character was portrayed in the project, it was basically focused on the soldiers’ steadfast devotion to duty. Making the sculpture of armed forces in ‘relief’ mode was the first-of-its-kind projects at the Attari border.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soldiers-valour-sculpted-at-attari-299568
20-08-2021||Sameer Singh||3 deer die at Bir Talab Zoo in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 19Three female deer, aged three to six months, are reported to have died within a short span at Bir Talab Zoo in Bathinda on Thursday.As per information, the deer were in sound health and fainted all of a sudden at the safari situated inside the zoo. Prima facie, it appears the deer died due to the hot and humid conditions, said a zoo official.Sultry conditions may be factorIt appears the deer died due to extreme humid conditions. The exact cause will be ascertained once post-mortem reports are received. Pawan Sridhar, forest range officer, bir talab zooPawan Sridhar, Forest Range Officer, Bir Talab Zoo, said: “As per preliminary examination, it appears the deer died due to extreme humid conditions. The exact cause of death could not be ascertained and the carcasses have been sent to Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, for a post-mortem examination. Things will be clear once we get the reports.”While the zoo authorities ruled the foot-and-mouth disease among the dead animals, there is fear of the deer being infected.Sridhar said: “We have examined the animals and haven’t found any signs of the foot-and-mouth disease. The deer safari is closed for public in the wake of the pandemic, so there is little chance of spread of infection inside the premises. Moreover, the mating period is on and the deer can often be seen fighting.” There is a hospital inside the zoo but in the absence of a veterinary doctor, sick animals do not get timely treatment. The zoo, located on the outskirts of the city, has around 150 deer of four species.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-deer-die-at-bir-talab-zoo-in-bathinda-299569
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||PCC chief Navjot Sidhu picks former DGP Mohd Mustafa as strategic adviser||Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu has appointed former DGP Mohd Mustafa as his principal strategic adviser. He has accepted the post.Sidhu had earlier appointed Mustafa as his political adviser, but the latter had declined to accept any political post. Sidhu reportedly had a two-hour meeting with Mustafa at the latter’s residence today. Mustafa’s wife Razia Sultana is a Cabinet minister. However, Mustafa was unhappy at not being included in the panel of officers for the post of Punjab DGP. He had aired his disappointment over the issue. Sources said Sidhu called on Mustafa and convinced him to take up the post for the “betterment of the state”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcc-chief-navjot-sidhu-picks-former-dgp-mohd-mustafa-as-strategic-adviser-299570
20-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab Govt objects to paddy norm change by Centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19The Punjab Government has objected to the new changes in specifications for paddy procurement and delivery of out-turned rice from the procured paddy, saying it was not “feasible” to follow the new stringent specifications.Panel recommendationsThe objections were raised by officers of the state government with the Ministry of Food and Public Distribution during a virtual meeting this evening. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is writing a DO letter to the Prime Minister on the issue, raising concerns of the state on the new stringent norms for procurement.The Centre has proposed that foreign matter allowed in paddy be reduced from 2 per cent to one per cent; percentage of damaged/discoloured grains be reduced from 5 per cent to 3 per cent and moisture content from 17 per cent to 16 per cent.Refraction in rice to be accepted from the miller has been reduced to 20 per cent from earlier 25 per cent in raw and to 12 per cent from 16 per cent in parboiled rice.The limit of damaged grains has been reduced by one per cent, which means rice which has more than 2 per cent (in raw and 3 per cent in parboiled) damaged grains will not be accepted. The red grains will no longer be allowed (earlier it was 3 per cent) and grains having moisture content of over 14 per cent (till now it was 15 per cent) will not be allowed.In paddy, crop having over 16 per cent moisture cannot be purchased (current limit is 17 per cent). These new quality specifications were recommended by a committee of officers headed by the FCI Chairman early this year.During the meeting, Punjab Secretary Food and Supplies Rahul Tiwari is learnt to have told the officers from Government of India that the decision had been taken unilaterally, without consulting the major stakeholders — farmers.It is learnt other states too have objected to these new specifications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-objects-to-paddy-norm-change-by-centre-299571
20-08-2021||Archit Watts||As Punjab Assembly poll nears, parties’ flags come up in rural areas||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 19With the Assembly elections due early next year and the political activity increasing, flags of farmer unions installed atop or outside houses in villages are now being replaced with that of parties.Support atop housesAs most people are affiliated with some political outfit, they have started installing flags of parties atop their houses. — Gurprit Singh, Khokhar SarpanchResidents of several villages said earlier farmer union flags or black flags were installed at almost all houses, but now these are visible at just about 10-20 per cent of the residences.“Political activities have increased due to the upcoming Assembly polls. As most people are affiliated to some political outfit, they have started installing flags of parties they owe allegiance to atop or outside their houses. Moreover, flags of farm unions, which were distributed for free in villages a long time ago, have worn out. No one distributed the new ones again,” said Gurprit Singh, sarpanch, Khokhar village, who had launched a cleanliness drive at the Delhi border protest site last year.Similarly, Parampal Singh, sarpanch, Panniwala Fatta village, said: “The situation is almost same everywhere across the state. Now, the visibility of flags of political parties is increasing in villages.”Gurbhagat Singh Bhallaiana, general secretary, BKU (Ekta), Muktsar, said, “When the Kisan andolan started, all parties assigned duties to their workers to visit Delhi borders and also install union flags outside their residences. However, as the elections are approaching, the workers’ focus has changed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-punjab-assembly-poll-nears-parties-flags-come-up-in-rural-areas-299572
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD manifesto bundle of lies: AAP MLA Aman Arora||Reacting to the ‘Gal Punjab Di’ programme launched by the SAD, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today said the people of Punjab would not fall prey to the false promises made by Sukhbir Singh Badal and his party.Terming the SAD’s 13-point programme a bundle of lies, AAP legislator Aman Arora asked Sukhbir to first come clean on the issue of farm laws.“Will Sukhbir Singh Badal explain why Harsimrat Kaur Badal as Cabinet Minister signed the ordinance on the black laws? How many farmers and labourers committed suicide during the SAD-BJP regime and why it did not support any affected family?“Will you tell why the government thermal plants were sacrificed for private ones? Why do people face power outages in the summer despite buying very expensive power?” Arora asked Sukhbir. The AAP leader also targeted the SAD on unemployment, sacrilege and the the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-manifesto-bundle-of-lies-aap-mla-aman-arora-299573
20-08-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Urea in short supply, Sangrur farmers worried||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 19The shortage of urea has created problems for farmers in Sangrur while officials of the Multipurpose Agriculture Services Society say they have sent the demand to senior authorities.Farmers allege private sellers are charging higher rates as the authorities have failed to ensure timely supply of urea. “I have been making repeated rounds of our society, but salesmen say they have sent the demand to the higher-ups. They do not know when the supply of urea would be ensured. Government authorities should look into the matter as farmers are already under debt. They cannot purchase urea from the market at higher rates,” said Ranbir Singh, a farmer from the Nadampur area.There are total 222 societies in Sangrur district. Some other farmers alleged that from the society, they could purchase urea at the rate of Rs 266 per bag of 45 kg, but the private traders were selling the same at the rate of Rs 280 per bag.“I have bought urea at a higher rate of Rs 280 per bag from a private shop. Government authorities are not taking any action against shopkeepers for selling urea at inflated prices,” said Kulwinder Teja, another farmer of the area.Alloarkh society secretary Jagmale Singh, who also has the charge of Nadampur, confirmed that after July 19, they had not received any supply.“On Wednesday, we received 1,400 MT of urea. If farmers need more, we will take up the matter with the higher authorities,” said Anil Kumar, deputy registrar of societies, Sangrur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/urea-in-short-supply-sangrur-farmers-worried-299574
20-08-2021||---||Muktsar: Villagers oppose Raja Warring’s wife visit||Muktsar, August 19Some farmers today protested against Amrita Warring, wife of Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, at Kothe Dashmesh Nagar village here.The protesting farmers, who were nearly 20-25 in number, asked Amrit some questions. They asked her about the purpose of holding public meetings when the agitation over the three farm laws was under way at the Delhi borders.Sub-Inspector Navpreet Singh, SHO, Kotbhai police station, said, “It was a peaceful protest by nearly 25 farmers. No one has lodged a complaint in this regard. The MLA’s wife had come to someone’s house in the village.”Earlier, Raja Warring too faced the farmers’ protest in Muktsar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-villagers-oppose-raja-warrings-wife-visit-299575
20-08-2021||---||Six-year-old dies in Ludhiana, officials suspect dengue||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 19The Health Department today declared the season’s first suspected death of dengue in the state.154 cases so farOfficials said a six-year-old child, who was a resident of Rauhti Moriyan village in Nabha block of Patiala, had died at a private hospital in Ludhiana. They said the kid died on August 16, but they received the confirmatory reports for dengue on August 18.Following this, a health team today visited the child’s house in Nabha to conduct a survey. State nodal officer Dr Gagan Grover said they did not find any dengue breeding at the house or nearby. “We have sought medical records from the DMCH, Ludhiana, where the kid died,” he said.It has been learned that the kid first visited a private paediatrician in Nabha town and then in Patiala city with symptoms of fever and rash. However, the family members, after the symptoms did not alleviate, took the kid to DMCH, where the kid died during treatment.Patiala health officials said it was the first positive case in the district for dengue.Notably, the state has already reported over 154 positive cases of dengue in this season so far. Dr Grover said Moga, Tarn Taran and Mukstar were the worst-hit, while other districts reported only sporadic cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-year-old-dies-in-ludhiana-officials-suspect-dengue-299576
20-08-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab state reports first swine flu death this yr||After Covid cases started subsiding in the state, Ludhiana district today reported Punjab’s first swine flu death this year.A 59-year-old woman from the city, who was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital on August 15, succumbed to the virus today. The district had not reported any swine flu case last year.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said the patient was a housewife and had no travel history. None of her family members tested positive for the virus. “Contact tracing of the woman is being done. The department has intensified the awareness campaign in and around Laxmi theatre, where she used to live,” Dr Gill said.All senior medical officers in the district have been alerted and told to take necessary precautions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-state-reports-first-swine-flu-death-this-yr-299577
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC: File stay vacation pleas in pending  cases against lawmakers of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today warned “senior officers” that it would be left with no option but to order their personal appearance in case applications for vacation of stay were not filed in pending cases against sitting and erstwhile parliamentarians and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh also called for a list of civil and criminal cases pending before the High Court against MPs/MLAs. Details were also called for regarding cases pending against MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains after rapping the state of Punjab for not coming out with a response to the court query regarding alleged police inaction in a rape case against him. The Bench asserted it was not inclined to grant further time, but was granting an opportunity purely in the interests of justice.“Additional Advocate-General SPS Tinna would be at liberty to seek instructions from the Director General of Police, Punjab, and apprise the court about the number of cases pending against Simarjeet Singh Bains and stage of investigation after registration of a case against him by virtue of the order passed by the magistrate concerned at Ludhiana under Section 156(3) of the CrPC,” the Bench asserted.As the case “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs” for monitoring the progress of cases pending against the MP/MLAs came up for resumed hearing, the amicus curiae or the friend of the court, Rupinder S Khosla, pointed out that investigating/prosecuting agencies were required to move an application for vacation of stay in all those cases where stay was operating in view of a Supreme Court order on the issue.The Bench observed the counsel representing various investigating and prosecution agencies assured the court that the matter would be looked into and earnest efforts made before the next date of hearing. “This court has no hesitation in making it clear that in case needful is not done, it has no option but to seek personal appearance of all the senior officers who are entrusted with supervising the stage of pending investigations/trials,” the Bench concluded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-file-stay-vacation-pleas-in-pending-cases-against-lawmakers-of-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-299578
20-08-2021||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh launches admission portal, helpline for services||Chandigarh, August 19Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday virtually launched Unified State Helpline Number 1100 to provide citizen-centric services and redress grievances besides starting the state admission portal (https://admission.punjab.gov.in).Two abohar collges start enrolmentApplicants will have to pay a one-time non-refundable registration fee of Rs 200 at the time of form submission till August 31, 2021, to apply for various government colleges across the state in a hassle-free manner.In his address, the Chief Minister said nearly 42,000 students had already enrolled on the portal. With this common admission portal, 100 per cent admissions would be contactless as applicants need not to be present themselves physically, which would keep them at bay from the risk of Covid.The Chief Minister said the helpline would help people in making their life easier in several ways with just the click of a button. He said the helpline number 1100 would be soon supported by features like chat, email, WhatsApp and SMS.Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said a long-pending demand of students had been met with the launch of the state admission portal to enable them apply through a single application for multiple colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-launches-admission-portal-helpline-for-services-299579
20-08-2021||Aman Sood||Signs of recovery, GST collection in Punjab up 29%||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 19Punjab has recorded a considerable increase in tax collection as compared to the last fiscal.Following a dip in Covid-19 cases, automobile retail, real estate and construction activities have resumed. This has helped pump growth into cement and iron and steel sectors, thus adding to the state revenue.Bogus billing curtailedPunjab is rigorously monitoring bogus billing and unscrupulous trade practices through effective enforcement of guidelines. officialThe Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue collected on receipt basis (cash collected under State Goods and Services Tax head, Central Goods and Services Tax (CST) head, Integrated Goods and Services Tax head and cess head) in July stands at Rs 1,533 crore as compared to Rs 1,188 crore last year.“There is growth of 29 per cent in GST revenue collected on receipt basis,” confirmed A Venu Prasad, Principal Secretary, Excise and Taxation.The GST revenue (state GST collected in cash) and the credit of Integrated GST, used to make payment of state GST, collected in July this year is Rs 1,455.85 crore, which was Rs 1,103.31 crore last year. “The GST revenue in July this year is 31.95 per cent higher than the last year, indicating that the pace of economic recovery has improved,” Prasad said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/signs-of-recovery-gst-collection-in-punjab-up-29-299580
20-08-2021||Bathinda||Two arrested for gangster Kulbir Naruana’s murder||The police have arrested two more persons in connection with the murder of gangster Kulbir Naruana in July. The police also recovered six pistols and two cars from their possession.Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said: “On June 21, some armed men had opened fire at gangster Kulbir Naruana’s car in which he was travelling. Then, the police on Naruana’s statement had registered a case against gangster Mandeep Singh, Fateh Singh, Mann Singh and Neeraj under relevant sections of the Arms Act and IPC.”Mandeep, Fateh and their aide Amandeep Singh subsequently fled to Uttarakhand. On July 19, the Punjab Police arrested them. On August 12, the Bathinda police brought them from Uttarakhand on a production warrant and secured their police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-arrested-for-gangster-kulbir-naruanas-murder-299581
20-08-2021||Nakodar||27 Pak balloons found in Nakodar||Panic spread among residents when a Pakistani flag and 27 balloons  were found in a Hundal Dhadhe village near  Nakodar on Thursday. SSP (Rural) Naveen Singla said these were found near a field belonging to Harbhajan Singh. The balloons could have been left in the air by Pakistan on its Independence Day. He said the balloons had “dil dil Pakistan” written on them, adding the police were investigating the matter. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/27-pak-balloons-found-in-nakodar-299582
20-08-2021||Ropar||New Ropar bus stand project postponed||Lambi residents thwart breach in feeder canalMuktsar: Residents of Fattakera village in Lambi Assembly segment on Thursday claimed to have thwarted a breach in a feeder canal at Rajasthan. They said they saw water seepage, and immediately started the work to plug it. SAD Zila Parishad member Tejinder Singh Middukhera reached the spot and spoke to senior officers. TNSClose slaughterhouseson Samvatsri: Jain assnAbohar: The Vishwa Jain Sangathan has sought intervention of the CM and the Governor to close all slaughterhouses in the state on September 11 during Jain festival, Samvatsri. A memorandum has been submitted to the CM and the Governor. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-ropar-bus-stand-project-postponed-299583
20-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s release||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19Just over 24 hours after he was arrested by the Vigilance Bureau, Punjab’s former Director-General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini was around midnight ordered to be released forthwith by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The Bench ruled his arrest was in violation of earlier orders dated October 11, 2018, September 23, 2020 and anticipatory bail order dated August 12. The Court vide order dated October 11, 2018, had directed the issuance of seven day advance notice to Saini in case action was contemplated against himAlso read: Sukhjinder Randhawa demands removal of officers over Saini arrest fiasco; Capt advises colleagues to check facts before commentingThe Court, vide order dated September 23, 2020, extended the protection of order dated October 11, 2018, to any incident pertaining to his entire service career. The Bench had also made it clear that the only exception would be the Multani case registered by the Punjab Police on May 6, 2020.Also read: Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini arrested in corruption caseThe orders by Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi of the High Court came at about 11:40 pm after hearing day-long arguments on two petitions — one filed by Saini for extension of protection to him in all cases and another habeas corpus petition filed for his release. The Bench, among other things, was told that Saini was allegedly arrested in violation of the orders passed by the High Court.  Saini, produced before a Court in Mohali for remand, remained there with the magistrate concerned awaiting High Court orders. Saini was arrested in case registered on September 17, 2020, for cheating, forgery and other offences under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120- B of the IPC and the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act at Vigilance Bureau police station, Flying Squad-1, MohaliAlso read: Hours before arrest Sumedh Singh Saini moved High Court for reliefAmong other things, Saini stated that he had filed the petition expressing his apprehension of false implication in criminal cases on account of malice, malafides and ulterior motives attributed to the political party in power in the State of Punjab. Despite directions dated September 23, 2020, directing a week's advance notice before effecting his arrest, the officials of the respondent-State were making attempts to arrest him by falsely implicating him in false cases.Saini was represented by senior advocates A.P.S. Deol and Vinod Ghai with counsel Himmat Singh Deol, Jasdev Singh Mehndiratta, Edward Augustine George, Kanika Ahuja and Inderpreet Singh Brar. Taking up the matter in the morning, Justice Tyagi directed the State to file copies of the relevant documents, including arrest memo prepared at the time of his arrest, document intimating him about the grounds of arrest, document intimating his family member/friend about his arrest and copy of the FIR. The case was then adjourned to 3 pm for resuming hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-singh-sainis-release-299467
20-08-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Pending cane dues: Farmers set to block NH-1 'indefinitely' on Friday||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Commuters from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Pathankot and other adjoining areas, who are to shuttle across Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of NH-1 in Dhanowali by road or rail are likely to face a huge bottleneck on Friday as the farmers are likely to block the passage indefinitely.The call for bandh had been announced yesterday by the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee over the issue of pending dues of sugarcane from the mills and no enhancement in the State Agreed Price (SAP) of sugarcane for the past four years.While the state government announced to hike the SAP by Rs 15 per quintal, this has not satisfied the farmers who have got further agitated.“The government has played a cruel joke with us. By announcing a meagre Rs 15 per quintal hike, they have ridiculed us. The state government did not have any one of us for representation during finalising this amount. We were expecting the SAP on sugarcane to be hiked to Rs 370 at least as the existing price of Rs 295 to 310 (varying according to variety). Haryana is already offering Rs 358 per quintal,” fumed Manjit Rai, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba).He added, “We will now have an intensified protest. We had planned to block only the road earlier, but now we will also block the rail passage. Also, all the 32 farmer unions of Punjab have offered us support. Our protest tomorrow at the site may have more than 30,000 farmers and it will go on indefinitely till all our demands are met to our satisfaction. We will also have our meeting at the site tomorrow morning and we may jam the entire Punjab.”The Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee chooses the site at Dhannowali strategically as the NH and the railway crossing here are very closeby and both the dharnas can be managed simultaneously. In the past few years, whenever the farmers announce to hold a protest here, the response remains massive and the dharna goes on for hours and even gets extended to the next day.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the police authorities had been directed to make proper arrangements. The city police have planned diversions to ensure that the public does not suffer much. The diversions have been planned via Pathankot Chowk to Rama Mandi, from Partappura side for those coming via Nakodar Chowk, and via Cantt Road to Phagwara.DCP (law and order) Jagmohan Singh said, “We will try to ensure that the commuters face the least harassment. We have ensured a proper deployment of staff to guide the commuters on the alternate routes and ensure smooth flow of traffic.”About the plans of the farmers to block rail traffic too, he said, “It will be too early to comment on that. The farmers may not go to that extent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pending-cane-dues-farmers-set-to-block-nh-1-indefinitely-on-friday-299449
20-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Hours before arrest Sumedh Singh Saini moved High Court for relief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19Hours before his arrest by the Vigilance Bureau, Punjab’s former Director-General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini had moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Among other things, the former top cop is seeking directions for extension of blanket bail to him in all cases. The matter is scheduled to come up for hearing Thursday morning before Justice Arun Kymar Tyagi of the High Court.Also read: Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini arrested in corruption caseSaini had moved the High Court in November last year also for extending the protection granted by the High Court, vide order dated October 11, 2018, to “any incident pertaining to the entire service career of the applicant/petitioner”.Taking up his plea expressing apprehensions of false implication in criminal matters “on account of malice, malafides and ulterior motives on the part of the political party in power in the State”, the High Court had in October 2018 directed the issuance of seven-day advance notice in case action was contemplated against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hours-before-arrest-sumedh-singh-saini-moved-high-court-for-relief-299331
20-08-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini arrested in corruption case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Punjab Vigilance Bureau sleuths today arrested former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with an ongoing case of corruption against him and an undisclosed case.Saini, who faced allegations of human rights abuse during terrorism in Punjab, is also facing two murder cases. Despite immense pressure on the Capt Amarinder Singh government from public and within his party to deal with Saini strictly, he was never arrested.Also read: Hours before arrest Sumedh Singh Saini moved High court for reliefHe managed to give the slip to teams of the Vigilance Bureau on several occasions. Saini's name also figures in the Behbal Kalan/Kotkapura police firing cases. His arrest is likely to trigger a political flurry in the state as he was considered close to the Shiromani Akali Dal.Locked in room while being questionedA Vigilance official said Saini reached the VB office around 8 pm to join investigation in the corruption case. He had not informed officials that he would visit the Vigilance office. After questioning, the officials ordered his arrest. Saini's lawyers reportedly accompanied him to the office. They were later asked to wait outside, while officials locked Saini in a room."We have arrested Saini. He has a corruption case against him besides another one," a senior official confirmed, refusing to disclose details of the other case against him. "These will be known in due time," he said.On Tuesday, Saini's petition, seeking directions to the investigating officer not to arrest him for "any other additional offences" in the corruption case against him was dismissed as withdrawn by the Punjab and Haryana HC. He was directed to join the probe within a week.Saini had also sought directions to the investigating officer to seek the court's prior permission if the petitioner was sought to be arrested for "those additional offences".The Bench was told that the HC had granted interim bail to the petitioner in connection with FIR dated August 2 under the Prevention of Corruption Act, along with Sections 109 and 120-B of the IPC at the Vigilance Bureau police station in Phase-I, Mohali. He added there was reasonable apprehension of a definite nature that the VB was likely to detain/arrest the petitioner for additional offences at the time of his joining the investigation in compliance of the interim order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-arrested-in-corruption-case-299115
