22-08-2021||Chandigarh||41 new Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Sunday reported 41 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 6,00,266, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related fatality was reported on Sunday. The death toll stands at 16,352, it said, adding the number of active cases dropped to 488 from 493 on Saturday.Of the new cases, Amritsar reported seven followed by five in Ferozepur and four each in Ludhiana and Sangrur, the bulletin said.A total of 46 people recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 5,83,426, according to the bulletin.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/41-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-300691
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab names 10 govt schools after Olympic medallist hockey team players||Punjab School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Sunday said the state government has renamed 10 schools after the Olympic medal-winning hockey team players from the state.Singla said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has given approval to rename schools after the names of various players from Punjab who were part of the Indian men hockey team squad which won the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics.The minister said the Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Mithapur, Jalandhar has been named after hockey team captain Manpreet Singh.He said the school will now be known as Olympian Manpreet Singh Government Senior Secondary School, Mithapur.Singla said the GSSS, Timmowal in Amritsar has been named after vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh who was the top scorer in the Olympics for India with six goals.He said the school will now be known as Olympian Harmanpreet Singh GSSS, Timmowal.The Government Primary School, Mithapur, Jalandhar has been named as Olympian Mandeep Singh, he said in an official statement.The other schools renamed include GSSS Attari, Amritsar, which will now be known as Olympian Shamsher Singh Government Senior Secondary School, Attari after the name of the midfielder.The Cabinet minister said the Government Middle School, (Basic Girls), Faridkot has been named as Olympian Rupinderpal Singh Government Middle School.The Government Middle School. Khusropur, Jalandhar has been named after Olympian Hardik Singh while Government Primary School Khalaihara, Amritsar has been named as Olympian Gurjant Singh.The Government High School, Chahal Kalan, Gurdaspur has been named as Olympian Simranjit Singh Government High School Chahal Kalan, Gurdaspur.Singla said there was a golden contribution of Punjab in the field of Indian sports and it has sent the second largest contingent (after Haryana) in Olympics in the country as 20 sportspersons were from Punjab.Notably, the Indian men’s hockey team rewrote history by claiming an Olympic medal after 41 years. A resolute Indian team had defeated a plucky Germany 5-4 to win the bronze in an edge-of-the-seat play-off match in the Tokyo Olympics.The eight-time former gold-winners, which battled a heartbreaking slump in the last four decades, made the resurgence of the last couple of years count in the best way possible with an Olympic medal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-names-10-govt-schools-after-olympic-medallist-hockey-team-players-300652
22-08-2021||Hoshiarpur||Woman shot dead by son-in-law, wife injured in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur||A man allegedly shot dead his 58-year-old mother-in-law and seriously injured his wife here on Sunday in Jhuggian village, police said.The deceased was identified as Balbir Kaur. Her critically injured daughter, Sarabdeep Kaur (34), was admitted in a local government hospital, from where she was referred to a hospital at Jalandhar, Pardeep Kumar, Station House Officer (SHO), Chabbewal police station, said.The accused, Mandeep Singh, is on the run, he said.He belonged to Bhagsingh Pura and had married Sarabdeep Kaur about three years ago, police said.Mandeep had come to his in-laws’ residence in the village on Saturday evening.On Sunday morning, he allegedly fired a few shots from a gun which killed his mother-in-law and injured his wife, the SHO said, adding that raids were on to nab him. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-shot-dead-by-son-in-law-wife-injured-in-punjabs-hoshiarpur-300635
22-08-2021||---||HC stays production warrant of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria||Amritsar, August 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed production warrant orders of notorious gangster Jagdeep Singh alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who is lodged at the Tihar Jail.Plea in the high courtOn August 10, the Court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) had issued the production warrant of Bhagwanpuria for August 23. He was to be interrogated for killing another notorious gangster and his rival Rana Kandowalia, who was shot dead by armed assailants at a private hospital on circular road in Amritsar.Kandowalia’s family in their statement to the police had held Bhagwanpuria responsible for the murder along with several other persons.In a message on social media, Bhagwanpuria had claimed the responsibility of Kandowalia’s murder and even warned his rivals of the same fate.Challenging the order in the high court, Bhagwanpuria had claimed that the incident occurred on August 3 while he was at the Tihar Jail. He had expressed ‘extreme apprehension’ to his life and well-being. He feared that the investigating agency could eliminate him in a fake encounter while there was no evidence to link him with the case.The high court in its order issued on Friday stayed the operation of the impugned order till the next date of hearing. However, the court pointed out that the state can interrogate the petitioner (Bhagwanpuria) at the Tihar Jail after obtaining proper warrants from the competent authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-stays-production-warrant-of-gangster-jaggu-bhagwanpuria-300559
22-08-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor Dr Arvind launches book ‘Ramgarhia Virasat’||Punjabis should be proud of their rich heritage. These views were expressed by Dr Arvind, Vice-Chancellor (VC), Punjabi University, while releasing the coffee table book ‘Ramgarhia Virasat’ written and edited by Jaiteg Singh Anant at a function held on the university campus here today.While appreciating efforts of Jaiteg Singh Anant, the VC said, “We should remember sacrifices of our ancestors. Only then our future can be bright.”“Developing book culture is the way to nation’s progress. The nation that respects its literature and history in mother tongue will always progress by leaps and bounds,” the VC added. The Ramgarhia community had not much property and money, but with their hard work, they had carved out a niche in the Sikh Community, the VC said.In his key note address Dr Balkar Singh, Director, World Punjabi Centre, said, “Sikh Misls have played a major role in uniting Punjabis, who must take inspiration from the rich Ramgarhia Virasat.” “Ramgarhias succeeded in their struggle as they have full faith in the Sikh philosophy,” he added.In his welcome address Ujagar Singh, co-ordinator, India chapter, Hardarsham Memorial International Trust, Canada, welcomed Dr Arvind and thanked him for releasing the book.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-vice-chancellor-dr-arvind-launches-book-ramgarhia-virasat-300480
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala BTech grad held with 50 stolen phones||The police have arrested a 31-year-old BTech graduate and recovered 50 stolen mobile phones, two watches and a pair of sports shoes from him.The suspect, Patiala resident Charan Kamal, is unmarried and is stated to be a “gold medallist in National Wrestling Games in 2014”. The total value of recovered items was around Rs9.50 lakh, the police said.The suspect was produced in a court today, which sent him to two-day police remand.On August 3, Sector 16 resident Sumeet Sehgal, an advocate, had reported that when he woke up around 6 am, he found his phones, two watches and a pair of sports shoes stolen from his house. A case under Section 380 of the IPC was registered at Sector 17. On a tip-off, the police nabbed the suspect from a hotel in Patiala on Wednesday.DSP Charanjit Singh Virk said, “The suspect hails from a well-to do family in Rajo Majra. His mother is a lecturer while brother is settled abroad. He appears to be in the habit of consuming drugs. Further investigation in the case is in progress.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-btech-grad-held-with-50-stolen-phones-300460
22-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Import of dry fruit from Kabul comes to halt||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 21The import of Afghan dry fruit to India through the Integrated Checkpost (ICP) at the Attari-Wagah border has come to a halt after the Taliban took over by toppling the Ashraf Ghani government.India imports around $500 million worth dry fruit from Afghanistan every year. BK Bajaj, a leading dry fruit importer, said business had come to a standstill as government offices were not functioning after the change of the government. “I interacted with Kabul-based traders through social media and they promised that once the offices start functioning, the trade will resume.”He said the kind of feedback he was getting, the Taliban would in all sincerity try to smoothly run offices to gain international legitimacy.Just days before the Taliban took over Afghanistan, dry fruit import had been stopped by India’s Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage due to some technical reasons. The problem was recently resolved and trucks stuck in different parts of Pakistan were daily coming to India. About nine trucks crossed over from the JCP yesterday.India does not export to Afghanistan from the local dry port. Once a thriving port with an annual turnover clocking between Rs 4,000 crore and Rs 5,000 crore, it has now reduced to Rs 24 crore to Rs 27 crore. Similarly, the dry port used to employ nearly 1,400 porters. Now, less than 70 of them earn daily wages from here.State needs to be alert: TewariThe Taliban takeover had empowered anti-Indian forces based in Pakistan, MP Manish Tewari said during his visit to the city on Saturday. He said the ISI was working to sabotage peace in India and increased instances of smuggling of drugs and weapons through drones in Punjab were its latest examples. He said he had written to Home Minister Amit Shah for installation of anti-drone technologies along the international border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/import-of-dry-fruit-from-kabul-comes-to-halt-300331
22-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Doaba, Majha cane growers lead stir against meagre SAP||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 21Farmers of the Doaba and Majha sugarcane belts are at the forefront of the protest which started in Jalandhar on August 20. While surgarcane cultivation started as part of diversification in the 1990s, farmers of the region say the government has left them in the lurch with the meagre State Assured Price (SAP).Doaba Kisan Union, Bhartiya Kisan Union and Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee are leading from the front at the dharna site. While 15,000 members of the Majha Kisan Sangharsh Committee (MKSC) are supporting the dharna, Gurdaspur farmers, too, are playing an important role. Batala, Gurdaspur, Dinanagar, Pathankot, Bhoa, Hoshiarour, Bhogpur and Dasuya comprise the sugarcane belt in the state.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Baljit Singh has been in Jalandhar for the protest since yesterday. “Singhu morcha is for the country, but this protest is for Punjab. The morcha is airing the concerns of the sugarcane belt and demanding a decent hike in SAP,” he says.Bring sap on par with that of hryWe are asking for at least Rs363 to Rs383 a quintal on a par with Haryana. At present, with SAP of Rs310, we are incurring a loss of Rs50-70 per quintal. —Balwinder Singh Raju, MKSC president“The successive governments promised to increase SAP by Rs 15-20 every year. The promise hasn’t been fulfilled yet. In Gurdaspur yesterday, our cavalcade was 2-3 km long. Farmers know if they get together, they will get the promised rates. We hope to find a solution in tomorrow's meeting,” he says.Balwinder Singh Raju, president, MKSC, says: “The Beas flows between Majha and Doaba. No other crop except sugarcane works in that region. Every year there are floods. They (government) don’t adequately compensate us for floods. We want to diversify, but there’s no MSP for us. The MSP of corn is Rs 1,800, but it sells for mere Rs 800-900. The MSP of Moong is Rs 7,500, but traders pay mere Rs 4,000. Dals don’t sell at MSP. They want to give everything to corporates. It is shameful they won’t pay SAP for sugrcane either.”He adds, “What are we asking is at least Rs 363 to Rs 383 a quintal on a par with Haryana. At present, with SAP of Rs 310, we are incurring a loss of Rs 50-70. In 2017, we held a meeting with Manpreet Badal and he promised Rs 10 that year and a regular hike every year. But now they tell us they don’t have money.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doaba-majha-cane-growers-lead-stir-against-meagre-sap-300332
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||VB to file recall petition against Sumedh Saini’s bail order||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) has decided to file a recall petition in the High Court against the August 19 release orders of Sumedh Singh Saini in a land fraud case, and also against the court’s interim bail order of August 12 in the disproportionate assets case against the former DGP.A spokesperson of the bureau said it would soon be moving the recall petitions in the two cases filed against Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer.The spokesperson said Saini was arrested on August 18 in the land fraud case when he went to the VB office late in the evening in connection with another case (disproportionate assets). Saini had gone to the VB office in accordance with the High Court orders awarding him interim bail subject to him joining the investigation in the FIR within seven days of grant of interim bail.IO not informedSaini intentionally exhausted the seven-day period during which he had to join the probe, and even then, he arrived at the Mohali office of the bureau without any information. —VB spokespersonPointing out that the ex-DGP had chosen to visit the VB office late in the evening on the last day of the seven-day period, an official spokesperson of the bureau said Saini had thus failed to follow the HC orders in letter and spirit. “Saini intentionally exhausted the seven-day period during which he had to join the investigation in accordance with the interim order in FIR no. 13, and even then, he arrived at the Sector 68 Mohali office of the bureau without any prior intimation to the IO. In fact, he intentionally did not go to the office of IO, VB, Sector-62, SAS Nagar,” said the spokesperson.In these circumstances, the bureau had thus decided to file a petition before the court seeking the recall of the interim bail orders in the disproportionate assets case. The case relates to 35 properties and certain bank accounts of Nimratdeep, XEN, with balance and transactions worth Rs 100 crore, including some in crores of rupees with Saini, leading to his undue enrichment, and exhibiting that he held assets far exceeding his income.The spokesperson further said sufficient ground was also made out in the land fraud case for the state to seek recall of the HC orders releasing Saini from detention. Firstly, Saini had been taken into custody not under FIR 13 (where he had got interim bail) but in case relating to FIR 11, in which he had no protection from arrest. The criminal acts in FIR no. 11 and FIR no. 13 were different, said the spokesperson.Secondly, since Saini retired from service in June 2018 while the crime against him in illegal land fraud case related to 2021, he was not protected from arrest without notice by the said orders, said the spokesperson. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vb-to-file-recall-petition-against-sumedh-sainis-bail-order-300334
22-08-2021||Abohar||BKU farmers protest  closure of canal||A protest was organised outside the Irrigation Department’s office by members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhpur) here today over the closure of a canal. The protest lasted for about seven hours. The farmers demanded water should be released in the sub-canals and full supply should be ensured for a month without any further closure.BKU (Sidhpur) convener Jagjit Singh said farmers had already suffered a lot because of the damage to the crops. Later, at a meeting with Sub-Divisional Engineer (SDE) Gurbir Singh Sandhu, it was decided that after a week’s closure, water would be released in sub-canals. The SDE said water would continue to flow in Sukhchain Minor, Maujgarh, Dalmirkhera, Ramsara sub-canals without interruption. The dharna was lifted in the evening. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-farmers-protest-closure-of-canal-300335
22-08-2021||Ferozepur||Farmers stir: 69 trains cancelled in 2 days on Jalandhar section||As many as 126 trains were affected as farmers blocked the railway track near Dhannowal village in the Jalandhar-Chaheru section of this division for the second consecutive day. Ferozepur Division DRM Seema Sharma said in the past two days 69 trains had been cancelled, 18 diverted, 36 short-terminated and three short-originated.She said due to the protest, 14 mail trains were cancelled. These included Intercity Amritsar-Chandigarh, Golden Temple Amritsar-Mumbai Express, Amritsar to Dehradun Bias-Rudrapur Express, Jammu Tawi-Pune Jehlam Special, Shri Vaishno Devi Delhi Shri Shakti Special, Hoshiarpur Delhi Express, New Delhi- Shri Vaishno Devi Super Special, New Delhi-Jammu Tawi Rajdhani Special, Durranto-Jammu Tawi Durranto Express, Jammu Tawi-Barmar Special and Jammu Tawi- Guwahati Amarnath Express.Other trains that were cancelled are Jalandhar Cantt-Hoshiarpur Express, Jammu-Tawi Nanded Express, Amritsar-Dehradun Sepcial, Shri Vaishno Devi Katra to Kalka, New Delhi Amritsar Shatabadi Special, Haridwar-Amritsar Janshatabadi Special, New Delhi-Hoshiarpur Special, Dehradun Amritsar Special, Rishikesh- Shri Vaishno Devi Hemkunt Special, New Delhi-Shri Vaishno Devi Shri Shakti Special, New Delhi-Shri Vaishno Devi Jammu Mail Express, New Delhi-Jammu Tawi Rajdhan Express, New Delhi-Shri Vaishno Devi Super Special, Sarairohila-Udhampur Mail Express and Ajmer—Jammu Tawi Festival. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-stir-69-trains-cancelled-in-2-days-on-jalandhar-section-300337
22-08-2021||---||Jobless start fresh protest in Sangrur||Sangrur, August 21Unemployed BEd and TET pass Munish Kumar from Fazilka on Saturday climbed atop a water tank at the Civil Hospital, Sangrur, demanding a government job. Other members of a joint front of unemployed youth have started another indefinite protest near the hospital.Besides, several unemployed youth have already been holding a dharna in front of the residence of Minister Vijay Inder Singla since December 31 last year. “I request all BEd and TET pass to join our protest to press the government to hold the recruitment for the maximum number of vacant posts,” said Munish.Despite a heightened security amid inauguration of new facilities at a local cancer hospital by Singla, jobless youth succeeded in entering the hospital and climbing atop a water tank. Protesters tried to gherao the minister, but cops thwarted their attempt.“Since the formation of our government, we have been taking all steps to provide jobs to a maximum number of unemployed youth” said the minister, who inaugurated a radiology block with advanced technology constructed at a cost of Rs 12 crore and a girls’ hostel at Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Sangrur. Besides, he laid the foundation stones of residences for doctors near Ranbir Club and residential block’s upgrade in the cancer hospital.“We will not relent until our demands are met,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president of BEd and TET pass union. Members of four other unions, including All Punjab 873 DPE Teachers’ Union, 646 PTI Teachers’ Union, Punjab, Unemployed Art and Craft Union, Punjab, and Unemployed Multipurpose Health Union, Punjab under the banner of Joint Front of Unemployed, have been sitting on an indefinite protest in front of the Education Minister’s residence since December 31, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-start-fresh-protest-in-sangrur-300338
22-08-2021||Archit Watts||Area under horticulture increases in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 21The area under horticulture cultivation has increased in Muktsar district. According to data, area under horticulture cultivation was 3,026 hectares in Muktsar district in 2018-19, which has now increased to 3,645 hectares.Main fruits which are grown in the district are kinnow, guava, peach, pear and ‘ber’ (jujube). Other fruits grown in the district are lemon, plum, amla (gooseberry), ‘jamun’ (Indian blackberry) and pomegranate.Officials in the Horticulture Department said earlier, farmers used to grow grapes too but they discontinued the practice after the crop used to get damaged in rain.Muktsar Horticulture assistant director Kuljit Singh said: “In the past few years, the area under fruit-bearing plants has increased in the district and the trend is still on. Problems of waterlogging are now more in Fazilka district and thus there is an increase in this trend. In Muktsar, kinnow is cultivated more.” Waterlogging had once caused an extensive damage to kinnow orchards in the district.Figures procured from the department revealed that nearly 2,250 hectares area under horticulture was in Lambi block, 700 in Muktsar block, 525 in Malout block and 175 in Gidderbaha block.Notably, the state government had also established a citrus estate in Badal village here, which is also proving beneficial for horticulturists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/area-under-horticulture-increases-in-muktsar-300340
22-08-2021||---||Congress denigrating Akal Takht: SGPC||Amritsar, August 21Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur has accused the Congress government of splitting the Sikh community by endorsing “parallel” jathedars and denigrating the institution of the Akal Takht Jathedar.In a press release, she said Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira and Harminder Singh Gill staged a drama by meeting self-styled Jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand at the Golden Temple entrance plaza yesterday.The SGPC president said the move was an apparent attack on the centuries-old institution of Akal Takht and its traditions. She added the Congress had a history of attacking Sikh institutes.On behalf of the Capt Amarinder Singh government, they submitted their reply in a closed envelop pertaining to the allegations levelled against them for misguiding the organisers with a view to terminating the six-month-long morcha.Mand said their reply would be discussed with the Five High Priests before taking further action on August 30. As government representatives, the leaders had earlier met “parallel” jathedars during Bargarhi Morcha held to seek justice in sacrilege cases and firing incidents.Summoned, Bajwa, Gill and Zira had appeared before Mand and submitted a reply in a closed envelop outside the Golden Temple premises on Friday. They clarified their stance over the sacrilege incidents of 2015, followed by the Bargarhi morcha in 2018.They were part of the five-member government panel that had established a liaison with the organisers of the morcha. However, they had refrained from commenting over the development, saying it was a religious matter and they had submitted a clarification in writing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-denigrating-akal-takht-sgpc-300341
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal using BSP for political gains: Parminder Singh Dhindsa||Senior SAD (Sanyukt) leader and former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa today slammed state BJP leaders for joining the Akali Dal.He said the manner in which SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal declared BJP turncoats as candidates on reserved seats of the BSP suggested the saffron party was behind the SAD-BSP alliance. Badal was merely using the BSP for political gains, he claimed.Dhindsa said the seats on which BJP turncoats had been declared candidates after including them in the SAD were already reserved for BSP candidates and Sukhbir had “cleverly manipulated” these seats for himself and the BJP.By fielding these candidates, Sukhbir was using the BSP cadre only for political gain, claimed Dhindsa. He expressed surprise over the BSP leadership not objecting to Sukhbir’s move. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-dal-using-bsp-for-political-gains-parminder-singh-dhindsa-300343
22-08-2021||Amritsar||After delays, PM to virtually unveil renovated Jallianwala Bagh on Aug 28||After missing many deadlines due to Covid restrictions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is now set to inaugurate the newly renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial virtually on August 28.Raghuvendra Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Culture, along with Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik, who is also a member of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, met administrative officials to finalise the programme modalities.Malik said since the Covid protocol did not permit big gatherings, it was decided that the PM, who is also the chairperson of the trust, would dedicate it to the public virtually.With the renovation work for the first phase under way, the memorial had been lying closed since February 15 last year. The renovation work was set to be completed in the first week of April 2020, ahead of the commemoration of 101th year of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13, 2020. However, it was suspended due to the Covid lockdown. The deadlines of June 15, July 31 and August 15, 2020, too could not be met. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-delays-pm-to-virtually-unveil-renovated-jallianwala-bagh-on-aug-28-300344
22-08-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab fares poorly in vaccinating its elderly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21Punjab is one of the worst-performing states in the country when it comes to vaccinating the population in the 60-plus age group.As per government data till August 18, just 22 per cent population belonging to the above-60 year group is fully vaccinated in Punjab. However, the national average is 30 per cent. Punjab is on the 28th position among all states and union territories in the country. Neighbouring Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh are way ahead. Himachal Pradesh has fully vaccinated 63 per cent of its population, Jammu and Kashmir (43 per cent) and Haryana (38 per cent) of this age group.Similarly, 47 per cent population in Punjab from the same group has received the first dose of the vaccine against the national average of 60 per cent. The coverage in Himachal Pradesh is 95 per cent, Jammu and Kashmir (93 per cent) and Haryana (73 per cent). Significantly, the state is continuously facing shortage of vaccines. During a meeting with the Union Health Minister last week, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had sought supply of 55 lakh doses of Covid vaccine on priority for Punjab in view of the forthcoming festival season. Following this, the Union Health and Family Welfare Minister had ordered immediate increase in the state’s allocation by 25 per cent.Meanwhile, with two more students testing positive, the total number of infected students reached six at a Muktsar school on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-fares-poorly-in-vaccinating-its-elderly-300345
22-08-2021||---||Pathankot: 30 Army men collapse during run, jawan dead||Chandigarh, August 21An Army jawan died while several others are in a critical condition after more than 30 soldiers collapsed due to heat and exhaustion during routine training at Mamun military station near Pathankot today.The incident took place during a 10-km endurance run while carrying weapons and battle load as part of a recce troop competition being organised by the 9 Corps in the morning, when the weather was hot and humid.Treatment under wayDue to severe weather conditions, there has been one fatal casualty and a few individuals admitted to the Military Hospital, Pathankot. The affected persons are being closely monitored. —Western command officer“In an organised, supervised and monitored training activity near Pathankot, due to severe weather conditions, there has been one fatal casualty and a few individuals admitted to the Military Hospital, Pathankot. The affected persons are being closely monitored and provided with requisite medical care,” an officer at the Western Command said.Those admitted to the hospital included officers. The training activity was being undertaken by 11 officers, 11 junior commissioned officers and 120 other ranks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathankot-30-army-men-collapse-during-run-jawan-dead-300346
22-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Live-in relationship of married woman unholy, says High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court has termed unholy the live-in relationship of a married woman before turning down a couple’s protection plea.Justice Sant Parkash asserted the petitioner-couple’s case was that the woman’s parents got her married against her wishes in July 2018. Out of that wedlock, a child was born. But the woman was unhappy with the marriage.It was also alleged that the husband used to harass her mentally and physically. As such, she left her matrimonial home and was residing with the co-petitioner in a live-in relationship. It was also averred in the writ petition that her husband and some other relatives, unhappy with the alliance, were threatening them with elimination.Justice Sant Parkash observed the petitioners apprehended that private respondents would cause harm to them. As such, they submitted a representation on August 13 to the police authorities. But action had not been taken on their plea, compelling them to file the writ petition.After hearing the counsel for the petitioners, Justice Sant Parkash asserted the court was of the view that the present writ petition deserved to be dismissed for more than one reasons. It was apparent that the woman was already married and a child was born out of that wedlock.After some time of the marriage, she fell in love with the co-petitioner and was now residing in a live-in relationship. During the course of hearing, the counsel for the petitioner could not convince the court that she had obtained a divorce from her husband.“Thus, this court feels no hesitation to say that petitioner-woman has entered into an unholy alliance with the co-petitioner. Except for the bald allegations that the respondents-relatives are giving threat to the petitioners, no supportive material has been placed on record by the petitioners…. Furthermore, there is no valid and convincing material in the writ petition for exercising the extraordinary writ jurisdiction,” Justice Sant Parkash asserted while dismissing the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/live-in-relationship-of-married-woman-unholy-says-high-court-300347
22-08-2021||---||40-kg heroin worth Rs 200 cr seized in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 21Acting on a tip-off, the Amritsar rural police, in a joint operation with the Border Security Force (BSF), foiled a smuggling bid and recovered 40-kg heroin worth Rs 200 crore in the international market from the Panjgraian border outpost in the wee hours on Saturday.The police also booked a drug peddler, identified as Nirmal Singh, alias Sonu Mayer, while a case has been registered with the Ramdass police station in this connection.DGP Dinkar Gupta and Amritsar (rural) SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana said the police also seized 180-gm opium, two PVC pipes (manufactured in Pakistan), a bike and a scooter reportedly belonging to the smugglers in the area where the attempt was made.The pipes were inserted in the electrified barbed border fence. As many as 30 packets containing 40.81-kg heroin were seized from these pipes.On seeing the suspicious movements on the other side of the fence, BSF jawans challenged and fired in that direction. However, the Pakistan-based smugglers managed to flee back, the DGP said.The police have launched a manhunt to nab Sonu who is also wanted in the smuggling of 1-kg heroin recovered by the Tarn Taran police. The police suspect in today’s seizure, there were around three to four smugglers from the Indian side. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act, Section 14 of the Foreigners Act and Sections 3, 34 and 20 of the Indian Passport Act had been registered, the SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/40-kg-heroin-worth-rs-200-cr-seized-in-amritsar-300348
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali's Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital to be functional by Nov||Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre in Mohali is likely to be operational by November.In a joint visit to the construction site, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and Dr RA Badwe, Director, Tata Memorial Centre Mumbai, reviewed the progress of the project. The Chief Secretary said the 300-bed state-of-the-art hospital would act as a tertiary care centre for the entire northern region. “The hospital will start radiotherapy, radiology, CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, X-ray, mammography, medical oncology, chemotherapy, day-care ward, pathology and lab facilities,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohalis-homi-bhabha-cancer-hospital-to-be-functional-by-nov-300349
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Anganwari employees get raise, end stir||Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary today announced enhancement of honorarium of anganwari workers, mini anganwari workers and anganwari helpers across the state.After the announcement, anganwari workers called off their strike at Dinanagar.The minister said the state government had decided to increase honorarium as per its 40 per cent state share. “Now, 26,074 anganwari workers will get Rs 600 more per month, while 1,240 mini anganwari workers will draw Rs 500 more as increased honorarium. Further, 26,074 helpers will receive Rs 300 more as honorarium every month,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anganwari-employees-get-raise-end-stir-300350
22-08-2021||Abohar||Man’s body found in canal||Women police station unveiledSangrur: Education and PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday inaugurated the first all-women police station in the district as a ‘Rakhi gift’. “The aim of deploying female police officers here is to facilitate quick delivery of justice to victims of various crimes,” said Singla. tnsTwo kids drown in reservoirAbohar: Two boys drowned in a reservoir in a field here on Saturday. Sources said farmer Gurdev Singh’s son Harmandeep Singh (14) had gone to his farm with friend Mohit Kumar (13), son of Gopi Ram. The two apparently slipped into a reservoir in an adjoining field. The bodies were later found by a passerby. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mans-body-found-in-canal-300352
22-08-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee goes to polls today||As many as 3.42 lakh members of the Sikh community are listed as voters for the elections to the prestigious Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).The elections will be held tomorrow and the counting is slated for August 25. The entire process of elections is to be completed by August 31. The body has a four-year term.A 46-member body will be elected to run the affairs of gurdwaras, schools, colleges and hospitals. Polling will be conducted through ballot papers at 546 polling stations set up in government schools located in different parts of the city.A keen fight is expected between candidates from the Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal), former DSGMC president Manjeet Singh GK-led Jag Aasra Guru Ott (Jago) and Paramjeet Singh Sarna-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi). — TNSBattle of ballot312 candidates180 represent different recognised parties132 Independent candidates||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-goes-to-polls-today-300321
22-08-2021||Jalandhar||Punjab sugarcane farmers ready for long haul, toilets raised||Protesting farmers of the Doaba and Majha cane belts are in no mood to relent. Spearheading a morcha here similar to the one at Singhu, they are angry over being “let down” by the government that prodded them to diversify and take to cane cultivation. They have announced they will continue the protest till their demand for a higher SAP for cane is met.Rakhi gestureBatala, Gurdaspur, Dinanagar, Pathankot, Bhoa, Hoshiarpur, Bhogpur and Dasuya comprise Punjab’s cane belt. A determined Baljit Singh of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, who hails from Gurdaspur, said: “The Singhu morcha is for the country, this morcha is for Punjab.”“For four years we haven’t seen a decent hike in SAP,” he said. The protest for the second day in a row has affected rail and road traffic. Hundreds of trucks are stranded on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway.Traffic from the Maqsudan bypass flyover to the PAP Chowk, connecting Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ludhiana, is the worst-hit. The Roadways and PRTC buses are using link roads. The dharna on the rail tracks at Dhanowali has forced the Railways to cancel or re-route 126 trains. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sugarcane-farmers-ready-for-long-haul-toilets-raised-300333
22-08-2021||---||Punjab vigilance to file recall petition against Aug 19 HC order releasing Sumedh Saini in land fraud case||Chandigarh, August 21The Punjab Vigilance Bureau has decided to file a Recall Petition in the High Court against the August 19 release orders of Sumedh Saini in a land fraud case, and also against the court’s interim bail order of August 12 in the disproportionate assets case against the former DGP.The Bureau will soon be moving the recall petitions in the two cases filed against Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer.Read alsoSaini was arrested on August 18 in the land fraud case (FIR no. 11, Mohali) when he went to the Vigilance Bureau (VB) office late in the evening (around 8 p.m.) in connection with another case (FIR no. 13 - disproportionate assets case). Saini had gone to the VB office in accordance with the High Court orders awarding him interim bail subject to him joining the investigation in FIR 13 within 7 days of the grant of interim bail.Ordering Saini’s interim bail, the court had, on August 12, 2021, stated: “For joining loose ends, if any with regard to the documentary evidence or banking transactions, this Court is of the opinion that custodial interrogation of the petitioner is not required. The petitioner is granted interim bail subject to his joining investigation within one week from today.”Pointing out that the ex-DGP had chosen to visit the VB office late in the evening on the last day of the 7-day period, an official spokesperson of the Bureau said Saini had thus failed to follow the HC orders in letter and spirit. “Saini intentionally exhausted the 7-day period during which he had to join the investigation in accordance with the interim order in FIR no. 13, and even then he arrived at the Sector 68 Mohali office of the Bureau without any prior intimation to the IO. In fact, he intentionally did not go to the office of IO, VB, Unit SAS Nagar, Quarter No. 69, Police Housing Complex, Sector-62, SAS Nagar,” said the spokesperson.In the circumstances, the Bureau had thus decided to file a petition before the court seeking the recall of the interim bail orders in the disproportionate assets case. The case relates to 35 properties and certain bank accounts of Nimratdeep, XEN, with balance and transactions worth Rs 100 crore, including some in crores of rupees with Saini, leading to his undue enrichment, and exhibiting that he held assets far exceeding his income.The spokesperson further said sufficient ground was also made out in the land fraud case for the state to seek recall of the HC orders releasing Saini from detention. Firstly, Saini had been taken into custody not under FIR 13 (where he had got interim bail) but in case relating to FIR 11, in which he had no protection from arrest. The criminal acts in FIR no. 11 and FIR no. 13 are different, said the spokesperson.Secondly, the earlier protection orders of the HC, dated October 11, 2018 and September 23, 2020, do not apply to this particular case as those had provided for 7 days’ notice to be given to the officer before arresting him for any offences committed during his service period. Since Saini retired from service in June 2018 while the crime against him in illegal land fraud case related to the year 2021, he was not protected from arrest without notice by the said orders, said the spokespersonNotably, the HC, in its order dated August 19, 2021, had declared the detention of Saini “illegal in circumvented violation of protection orders dated 11.10.2018 and 23.09.2020 and interim anticipatory bail order dated 12.08.2021.”The said land fraud case relates to Saini conspiring with one Surinderjit Singh Jaspal to forge a property purchase agreement. The VB had charged Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, who is the father of Nimratdeep, and Sumedh Singh Saini with conspiracy to prevent attachment of a house, Sector-20/D, Chandigarh, and had further accused them of creating a false agreement and using it as a valuable security. Hence, Surinderjit Singh Jaspal and Sumedh Singh Saini had committed offence u/s 465, 467, 471 r/w 120-B IPC, as per the Bureau.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-vigilance-to-file-recall-petition-against-aug-19-hc-order-releasing-sumedh-saini-in-land-fraud-case-300264
22-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest hits train movement, road traffic in Jalandhar for second day||Farmers seeking hike in sugarcane prices blocked rail tracks and a national highway in Jalandhar on Saturday, impacting movement of trains and vehicular traffic.According to railway officials of Ferozepur division, 50 trains have been cancelled, while 54 have either been diverted or short-terminated.Scores of farmers had on Friday launched an agitation for an indefinite period to press the Punjab government to accept their demands related to pending dues of sugarcane and hike in cane prices.On Saturday, they refused to lift the blockade till their demands were met.Emergency vehicles had, however, been allowed to ply, they added.Protesters have blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the national highway near Dhanowali village of Jalandhar district.The blockade affected traffic to and from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Pathankot, though the administration diverted traffic through alternative routes.Farmers sitting on the Jalandhar-Chaheru section have blocked the Ludhiana-Amritsar and the Ludhiana-Jammu rail tracks in Jalandhar, affecting several trains, including the Amritsar-New Delhi and the Amritsar-New Delhi Shane-e-Punjab.They are demanding that the Punjab government raise the state assured price (SAP) of sugarcane and clear payment of arrears of Rs 200 crore-250 crore. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-hits-train-movement-road-traffic-in-jalandhar-for-second-day-300198
22-08-2021||---||Punjab Police foil major heroin smuggling bid along Indo-Pak border in Amritsar||Chandigarh/Amritsar, August 21In an intelligence-led operation based on specific inputs, the Amritsar Rural Police foiled a major drug smuggling bid by Pakistan-based smugglers on Saturday morning by recovering 39 packets of heroin, weighing 40.81 kg, in the Panjgraian Border Outpost (BOP) area of Amritsar worth about Rs 200 crore in the international market.The above operation was supported by the Border Security Force (BSF) as it was carried out in the border area under the control of the BSF.Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said that following an input that Nirmal Singh alias Sonu Mayer, a notorious smuggler of Gharinda area, was attempting to smuggle heroin through the Indo-Pak Border, SSP Amritsar (Rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana immediately shared the inputs with the BSF. He added that in the meanwhile, a police team comprising DSP Investigation Gurinderpal Singh and DSP Ajnala Vipan Kumar also reached the spot to work with the BSF for nabbing the drug smugglers and seizing the heroin.The DGP said that the joint teams of Punjab Police and BSF successfully seized the huge heroin cache besides recovering 180 gram opium and two plastic pipes (manufactured by Super Punjab Pump, Made in Pakistan). The police have also impounded a motorcycle and a Scooty belonging to the smugglers.“The police have launched a manhunt to arrest Sonu, who is also wanted by the Tarn Taran police in case of 1 kg heroin recovery in 2020,” said SSP Khurana, adding that investigations were on and all the accused persons were likely to be arrested soon.Sharing the modus operandi, SSP Khurana said that the smugglers used Pakistan-made plastic pipes to get the heroin across the border fence in the shape of neatly tied packets of heroin contraband.An FIR under Sections 21, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act, Section 14 of the Foreigners Act and Sections 3, 34, 20 of the Indian Passport Act had been registered at Police Station Ramdas, Amritsar, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-foil-major-heroin-smuggling-bid-along-indo-pak-border-in-amritsar-300173
