23-08-2021||New Delhi||Railways cancels 68 trains in view of farmers’ agitation in Punjab||The Railways on Monday said that it has cancelled 68 trains amid the farmers’ agitation in several parts of Punjab.A Northern Railway spokesperson said that due to farmers’ agitation in Ferozepur division of Punjab, it has cancelled 68 train, including two Vande Bharat and Rajdhani each, four Shatabdi Express, one Duranto, and two Janshatabdi Express trains.The official said it has diverted 10 trains and short originated 12 trains in the wake of farmers’ protest.The Railways also short terminated seven trains.Agitating sugarcane farmers in Punjab have blocked highway, and railway tracks in Jalandhar, demanding clearance of their dues since August 19. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/railways-cancels-68-trains-in-view-of-farmers-agitation-in-punjab-301071
23-08-2021||New Delhi||Sri Guru Granth Sahib, 46 Afghan Hindus, Sikhs to arrive in India today||Sri Guru Granth Sahib and 46 Afghan Hindus and Sikhs and several Indian passport holders are expected to arrive in India on Monday amid growing tension in Afghanistan.Sources said the stranded Indian nationals and 46 Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, with Sri Guru Granth Sahib, are currently inside the Hamid Karzai International Airport at Kabul and will reach India by Monday night. They are being escorted to the Indian Air Force aircraft.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, "3 Sri Guru Granth Sahib and 46 Indian passport holders will arrive in India today. We thank GoI & PM Modi for helping Hindus-Sikhs in Afghanistan. We're in touch with minorities in Kabul who wish to be evacuated." In a separate development, one more private plane carrying Indian nationals landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport on Monday morning. However, out of a total of 30 persons who have been evacuated from Kabul via Qatar, two have tested positive for Covid."Two persons out of 146 people who have returned to India from Afghanistan today have tested positive for Covid," said Rajinder Kumar, Nodal Officer (Delhi govt) for Covid testing of Afghanistan returnees. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sri-guru-granth-sahib-46-afghan-hindus-sikhs-to-arrive-in-india-today-301025
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-IG Kunwar Partap Singh moves High Court against observations in sacrilege probe order||The Punjab and Haryana High Court issued notice of motion to the State of Punjab on Monday on an appeal filed by former Inspector General of Police Kuwar Vijay Partap Singh, who challenged the order of a Single Judge of the same court quashing probe into the Kotkapura firing case.Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh filed an appeal against observations made by a single judge bench in the sacrilege case on Monday.Taking up the petition filed through counsel APS Shergill, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice AK Verma set the next hearing for December 7.HC quashes investigation in Kotkapura police firing caseA single-judge bench had quashed probe by an SIT headed by Singh into the Kotkapura firing case and made some strong observations against him.Before quitting, ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap flagged plan to submit challan against BadalsSingh put in his papers in April soon after a bench of Justice Rajbir Sehrawat quashed his investigations.On April 9, the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed the investigation carried out by the state in the Kotkapura firing case and directed the state to reconstitute the special investigation team without the IPS officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-ig-kunwar-partap-singh-moves-high-court-against-observations-in-sacrilege-probe-order-300988
23-08-2021||---||No updates from Kabul, Amritsar residents seek repair of defunct AIR tower||Amritsar, August 22A veteran engineer Harjap Singh Aujla has urged the Union Government to promptly complete the partially-built 1,000 feet high All India Radio (AIR) tower in Gharinda, a border village near here.In a communiqué to Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting, he drew his attention to the matter and called upon him to impress upon the Prasar Bharati to complete India’s only 300-metre high FM tower at Gharinda, covering Lahore in Pakistan, and its surrounding areas. The tower is located on the Amritsar-Attari GT Road, which is 13 miles to the west of Amritsar and 23 miles to the east of Lahore.Long waitIn a communiqué to Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting, engineer Harjap Singh Aujla drew his attention to the matterHe called upon him to impress upon the Prasar Bharati to complete India’s only 300-metre high FM tower at Gharinda village, covering Lahore in Pakistan, and its surrounding areasThe tower is located on the Amritsar-Attari GT Road, which is 13 miles to the west of Amritsar and 23 miles to the east of LahoreAfter the Taliban takeover, local people were keen on hearing the news updates from PakistanAfter the Taliban takeover, local people were keen on hearing the news updates from Pakistan.In the letter, he stated that: “Though the work on this tower began in 2006 and it was completed in 2013. Due to a minor tilt in its upper portion, it has not been commissioned till date.”Last year, the tilted portion was demolished but was never rebuilt. It has been left as an eyesore.“This is the only Central Government project, which took 15 years to rebuilt and is still nowhere near commissioning,” he rued.In-charge Aftab Ahmed in New Delhi said due to Covid-19, reconstruction of the AIR tower has been postponed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-updates-from-kabul-amritsar-residents-seek-repair-of-defunct-air-tower-300944
23-08-2021||Raikot||ITBP officer cremated with honours in Ludhiana village||The mortal remains of ITBP ASI Gurmukh Singh, who was martyred during a Naxal attack in Bastar a few days ago, were consigned to the flames with full honours at his native Jhordan village in Ludhiana today. His minor son Gurnur Singh lit the pyre. Gurmukh had joined the ITBP in 1988, and was a distinguished judo and kabaddi player. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/itbp-officer-cremated-with-honours-in-ludhiana-village-300783
23-08-2021||Abohar||Young archer hits bull’s eye||Bid to lose ‘dirty’ tagAbohar: To beautify Abohar town, which had been ranked the third dirtiest city in the country in a survey conducted last year, the Arorvansh Sabha has agreed to shift the life-size statue of Arut Ji Maharaj, founder of Arora community, to fountain chowk which will be constructed near the maiden 100-ft wide road connecting the Abha City Square and main bus stand. A sum of Rs12 lakh will be spent on the project. Abohar Mayor Vimal Thatai and others said 50 per cent of the cost had been arranged during a fundraising campaign and work could be started as per prescribed the schedule.Tactic ‘understanding’ failsSangrur: Incidents of gherao by farmers at events organised in Longowal on August 20 have caused panic among SAD and Congress leaders. Politicians of both parties were confident the tactic “understanding” with some farmers loyal to their respective parties will help them avoid similar protests, but their calculations have proved wrong so far.In US to woo diasporaFaridkot: With eyes set on 2022 Assembly elections, Gurdit Singh Sekhon, halqa in charge of AAP from Faridkot, has gone to the US to woo NRI Punjab diaspora. Other than drawing people with Punjab background in America, the AAP leader plans to visit Canada to attract the overseas Punjabis and seek donations. “Though it is an informal visit by Sekhon, he may set an impressive base among Punjab diaspora in the US and Canada. Due to links with Punjab voters, Sekhon’s visit will surely help the party,” said Kotkapura AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan.No challan by traffic police!Patiala: Following orders of Patiala SSP Sandeep Garg, the traffic police have lost the right to issue challans. The SSP issued the orders while acting on numerous complaints received by him that the cops were indulged in wrong practices. A few days ago, he ordered the traffic wing of the district not to issue challans and only manage traffic to ensure smooth vehicular movement. They were asked to deposit their challan books. “Instead, the police stations concerned will now issue challans and ensure the traffic violators are penalised. We will take strict action against anyone harassing public,” said Garg.Contributed by Raj Sadosh, Parvesh Sharma, Balwant Garg & Aman Sood||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/young-archer-hits-bulls-eye-300704
23-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Addict found dead on school premises in Fatehgarh Sahib||A youth was found dead, apparently due to drug overdose, on the premises of a primary school here village. An injection was recovered from the body.The deceased has been identified as Davinder Singh Baggar, a resident of Tarkhan Majra village. The death has exposed the working of the Sirhind police with residents alleging free supply of drugs by peddlers in the area.Shindar Kaur said her son left the house last evening and failed to return. This morning, a villager informed her that her son was lying on the primary school premises. They informed the sarpanch, who called up the police.She accused a village youth of supplying her son, an addict, with drugs and sought action against the culprits.ASI Jaswinder Singh of the Sirhind police station said the body had been taken into custody and further action would be initiated as per law. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/addict-found-dead-on-school-premises-in-fatehgarh-sahib-300705
23-08-2021||Abohar||Abohar farmer booked in minors’ drowning case||Dalit Sena seeks jobs for unemployed youthBathinda Members of the Dalit Sena state unit organised a social awareness programme here in Dana Mandi area. State president Gurtej Singh said: “The unemployed youth of the state is in dire need of jobs. We will reach out to the Centre and request it to establish a food processing unit so that youth could get jobs,” said Singh. TNSBishnoi sabha members visit zoo after deer deathsBathinda: Days after three female deer died mysteriously at Bir Talab zoo here, a team of the Akhil Bhartiya Jeev Raksha Bishnoi Sabha, Punjab, recently visited the zoo to take stock of the situation. The Sabha pointed out certain anomalies, including absence of a doctor at the hospital inside the zoo. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-farmer-booked-in-minors-drowning-case-300706
23-08-2021||New Delhi||37.27% turnout in DSGMC polls||With a total of 312 candidates in the fray, the elections witnessed a low turnout of 37.27%. The counting of votes will take place on August 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/37-27-turnout-in-dsgmc-polls-300707
23-08-2021||Sangrur||Won’t budge, says jobless teachers in Punjab||Protesting for more than over seven months and having spent lakhs from their pockets to sustain their agitation, unemployed members of various unions in Sangrur are firm in their resolve to get their demands met. With the start of a second indefinite protest atop a water tank, they are hopeful that they will make the government budge and announce jobs for them.Despite rain on Sunday, Munish Kumar from Fazilika, continued his protest atop a water tank at Civil Hospital. “Protesters remain put at protest sites throughout the day, skipping their meal. They have their breakfast before joining the protest and have their food only when they reach home in the evening,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president of the B.Ed and TET Pass Union. “Our protests will continue till our recruitment. Many have even decided to sell their vehicles to arrange money for protests”, said Nirpal Singh, a protester. Education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the department was meetings protesters to find early solution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-budge-says-jobless-teachers-in-punjab-300712
23-08-2021||Ferozepur||71 trains hit by blockade in Ferozepur division||On the third day of the sugarcane farmers’ agitation, 71 trains were affected in the Ferozepur division due to which commuters and traders had to bear the brunt.As many as 51 trains were cancelled, another 17 diverted while three trains were short-terminated. The trains which were diverted included Amritsar-Bandra Terminal Paschim Express, Amritsar-Chhatrapati Shivaji Special, Amritsar-Hawrah Mail, Amritsar-Mumbai Central Golden Temple Special, Jammu Tawi-Pune Jehlam Special, Udhampur-Prayagraj Special, Amritsar-Ajmer Festival Special, Jammu Tawi-Patna Sahib Festival Special and Jalandhar City-Darbhanga Festival Special. Three trains that short-terminated at Ludhiana are Patna Sahib- Jammu Tawi Archana Express, Ajmer-Amritsar Festival Express and Darbhanga-Jalandhar Special. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/71-trains-hit-by-blockade-in-ferozepur-division-300713
23-08-2021||Amritsar||Heroin haul: Malaysian man among 2 booked in Amritsar||A day after the seizure of 40-kg heroin near the Panjgraian border outpost on the Pakistan border, the police have nominated two persons, including Malaysian resident Jagga, and Lovely, in the case.Jagga was friends with prime suspect Nirmal Singh and had links in Pakistan and Malaysia. The heroin seized yesterday was pushed into the Indian territory on his instructions. Nimral, Lovely and his other unidentified accomplices were to retrieve the consignment from the International Border.Amritsar Rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khuranna said police teams had been raiding suspected hideouts of Nirmal, who along with family members fled the village.According to police sources privy to the investigations, Jagga had contacted Nirmal about the consignment around three months ago and had introduced him to Pakistan accomplices. Nirmal was wanted in connection with the seizure of 1 kg heroin by the Sarai Amanat Khan Police in Tarn Taran. The police have learnt Nirmal had contacts in Pakistan, Malaysia and Singapore and they are trying to identify them. — TNSSent consignment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-haul-malaysian-man-among-2-booked-in-amritsar-300714
23-08-2021||---||Parents prefer antibody test to RT-PCR for kids in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, August 22After students tested positive for Covid in Ludhiana district, parents are reportedly getting their kids tested for antibodies, not RT-PCR, if they observe any symptoms. Some are going in for the antibodies test even of asymptomatic children.As a result, many kids have shown the presence of antibodies while they were unaware of being Covid-positive at any point of time.A paediatrician from a private hospital said parents were really scared after schools reopened and students started testing positive. “Many were reluctant to get their kids tested for Covid. So, they went ahead with the antibodies test. The fear of social stigma and being isolated seem to be the main reasons for not getting the test done,” the doctor said, adding: “But it is not possible to treat the patient on the basis of an antibodies test as it is not indicative of the present status of the virus.”Dr Bishav Mohan, a senior cardiologist, said getting an antibodies test or CT-scan done could not determine if one was currently infected with the virus. “It takes 2-3 weeks to develop enough antibodies after infection. RT-PCR test is the only medium through which one can diagnose Covid. Rest everything is futile,” he said.An official from the Health Department said: “If a person has symptoms and the test shows presence of antibodies, he should immediately isolate himself.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parents-prefer-antibody-test-to-rt-pcr-for-kids-in-ludhiana-300716
23-08-2021||Karam Prakash||33% newly hired doctors kin of serving, retired officials||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 22Seemingly taking advantage of “loopholes” in the recruitment process, nearly 33 per cent of the recently hired assistant professors in the Medical Education Department happen to be relatives of serving and retired officials of the department.Notably, no written test was conducted for the recruitment, while hiring in most other government departments is completed on the basis of the test.Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ AssociationRoom for nepotismAllocating 50% marks to interview leaves room for favouritism and nepotism. Consequently, deserving candidates do not get a chance. This format of the recruitment process should be immediately scrapped.Besides, 50 per cent marks were allocated for the interview. Of the total 100 marks, 10 were earmarked for MBBS, 10 for MD/MS, 20 for publication and 10 marks for additional qualification.As many as 53 candidates were called for the interview. Of the 15 selected, said sources, two were relations of the former principal of the GMC, Patiala, while one was the sister of a serving professor at the GMC, Amritsar. Besides, another selected candidate was the nephew of a senior GMC official. Similarly, a few other candidates were said to be relatives of officials in the Medical Education Department.The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, an association of medical professors, said: “Allocating 50 per cent marks for interview leaves room for favouritism and nepotism. Consequently, deserving candidates do not get a chance. This format of the recruitment process should immediately be stopped.”A candidate, who was not selected, said: “The entire process seems to be a sham.”Dr Sujata Sharma, Director, Research and Medical Education, was not available for a comment. Dr Akashdeep, Joint Director, Research and Medical Education Department, said: “I have not seen the list of selected candidates and won’t be able to comment.”Asked about the justification of 50 per cent marks being allocated for interview, Dr Akashdeep refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/33-newly-hired-doctors-kin-of-serving-retired-officials-300720
23-08-2021||Praful Chander Nagpal||Fazilka college makes do with guest faculty||Fazilka, August 22All the posts of 33 regular lecturer at the local MR Government College have been lying vacant. No regular principal has also been deployed here. Students say this puts a question mark on their future as only 13 guest faculty lecturers have been taking classes here.Dheeraj Kumar, a student of the college and president of the Punjab Students’ Union, Fazilka unit, said students were worried as five guest faculty lecturers were recently shifted to the newly construct Government College in Abohar.He said due to non-availability of lecturers of political science and Hindi, more than 2,000 students were affected.According to information, only two guest faculties are there for compulsory subjects of English and Punjabi for 2,500 students. Established in 1940, the existence of the one of the oldest institutions of the area is virtually at stake, say students.DPI (Colleges) Parmjit Singh admitted that he was aware of the matter. He said that there were only 18 principals for 64 government colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-college-makes-do-with-guest-faculty-300722
23-08-2021||Bathinda||Man killed in Bathinda roof collapse||Heavy rain has caused a flood-like situation with almost all roads getting waterlogged in the city. The downpour has brought life to a standstill. A person was killed when the roof of his house collapsed in the Old Thana area in Bathinda.As per information, 50-year-old Manohar Singh died while his 22-year-old son was injured in the incident. Their treatment is going on at the local Civil Hospital. Residents are suffering as rainwater has entered their houses and shops in various localities of the city. The situation turned so grim that Bathinda MC Deputy Mayor Harmander Singh also got stuck in a waterlogged road. He had to get out as his Innova submerged into rainwater.The Power House road, Sirki Bazaar, District Administrative Complex road, Civil Lines, Paras Ram Nagar, Ganesha Nagar, Amrik Singh Road and Mall Road have been badly affected post the downpour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-in-bathinda-roof-collapse-300700
23-08-2021||Sameer Singh||Waterlogging after rain in Bathinda; dengue threat looms||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 22Though dengue and malaria have started spreading tentacles in the district, stagnant rainwater can be spotted on roads, and in public places and residential areas of the city. The city witnessed rain four days ago.Stagnant water can be seen even in posh areas, including Civil Lines, and near residences of administration and police officials as well as the district administrative complex. Low-lying areas are worst-hit.Raman Goyal, MayorNew pipelines laid in some areasWe have installed new pipelines in some areas. Residents can raise a formal complaint with us, if there is stagnant water in their areas.Sources in the Health Department said it was a cause for concern that even the posh areas of the city and those adjacent to the residences of the Deputy Commissioner and the Senior Superintendent of Police remained inundated. This could result in spread of vector-borne diseases, they said.Though the health department officials claimed they had been taking steps to prevent breeding of larvae in different parts of the district, without a proper drainage system, the threat of spreading of dengue and malaria looms large.As per the Health Department records, so far, seven cases of dengue and two cases of malaria had surfaced in the district during this season.The ground reality belies the claim of the Bathinda Municipal Corporation that crores of rupees had been spent to maintain sewerage in the city. Even after mild rain, city residents could be seen wading through waist-deep water, said the sources.Mayor Raman Goyal said, “We have been making efforts to drain out the rainwater from all areas in the city. We have installed new pipelines in some areas. Residents can raise a formal complaint with us, if there is stagnant water in their areas, and we will resolve it on priority.”Jaswinder Sharma, Health and Sanitary Inspector, district Health Department, said, “The teams of the department have been spraying medicine in stagnant water in different parts of the district to avoid breeding of dengue larvae. We have been conducting regular fogging in residential areas, in coordination with the Municipal Corporation. However, draining out water does not fall in our jurisdiction.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/waterlogging-after-rain-in-bathinda-dengue-threat-looms-300711
23-08-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Hussainiwala checkpost shut to visitors, local business takes a hit||Ferozepur, August 22The viewers’ gallery at the Indo-Pakistan joint checkpost, Hussainiwala, which used to host over 1,000 visitors each day before the outbreak of Covid, has been wearing a deserted look for over a year. The BSF had closed the entry of visitors for witnessing its beating retreat ceremony last year in view of the pandemic.While the Pakistan Rangers have allowed the visitors, the Indian side is yet to open its doors to public. Before the pandemic, thousands would throng Hussainiwala daily to witness the electrifying drill by the BSF and Pakistan Rangers. The numbers would go up substantially on weekends and special occasions.The absence of visitors has also severely hit the local economy, as restaurants, auto-rickshaw drivers and other vendors are left in the lurch. Praveen Bansal, a local businessman, demanded that the BSF should allow visitors at the earliest.While the BSF has resumed the beating retreat ceremony at the India-Bangladesh border, there has been no decision on allowing spectators at the Attari-Wagah and Hussainiwala border joint checkpost. BSF officials say the issue of visitors’ entry is under consideration. Sudhir Arya, a local contactor, said the visitor’s entry should be resumed at the earliest. “I have many relative who returned home disappointed due to this ban,” he said.Beating retreat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hussainiwala-checkpost-shut-to-visitors-local-business-takes-a-hit-300708
23-08-2021||---||Stick to brief, avoid ill-conceived  remarks: Capt Amarinder Singh to Navjot Singh Sidhu advisers||Chandigarh, August 22Taking exception to the recent statements of two of PCC president Navjot Sidhu’s advisers on sensitive national issues like Kashmir and Pakistan, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday warned them against making ill-conceived comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country.Also read: BJP ‘praises’ Navjot Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Singh Mali over Indira Gandhi postCapt Amarinder urged the PCC advisers to stick to giving advice to Sidhu and not speak on matters of which they clearly had little or no knowledge, and had no understanding of the implications. The Chief Minister was reacting to reported remarks of Dr Pyare Lal Garg questioning his (Captain Amarinder’s) criticism of Pakistan, as well as the earlier controversial statement of Malwinder Singh Mali on Kashmir. Both of them were recently appointed by Sidhu as his advisers.He expressed shock at the statements of Mali and Garg, which he said were totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress on Pakistan and Kashmir. He urged the Punjab Congress president to rein in his advisors before they end up doing more damage to India’s interests.“Kashmir was and is an inalienable part of India,” asserted the Chief Minister, adding that with his proclamation to the contrary, Mali had effectively and inexplicably toed Islamabad’s line. “This is totally anti-national,” he said, also slamming Mali for failing to withdraw his statement despite the widespread condemnation it had evoked not only from other parties but also from within the Congress.Ridiculing Garg’s statement that criticism of Pakistan by him (Captain Amarinder) was not in the interest of Punjab, the Chief Minister said Sidhu’s adviser was clearly disconnected from the ground reality. “The fact, which every Punjabi and in fact every Indian knows, is that Pakistan’s threat to us is real. Every day they are pushing weapons and drugs into Punjab via drones in a brazen attempt to destabilise our state, and our nation. Punjabi soldiers are dying at the borders at the hands of Pak-backed forces,” pointed out the Chief Minister, dubbing Garg’s remarks as irrational and unjustified?“Garg may have forgotten the thousands of Punjabi lives lost in the fire of Pak-backed terrorism of the 1980s and 1990s, but I have not. Nor have the people of Punjab. And we will continue to do everything in our power to fight off Pakistan’s dangerous games,” asserted Capt Amarinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stick-to-brief-avoid-ill-conceived-remarks-capt-amarinder-singh-to-navjot-singh-sidhu-advisers-300692
23-08-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda scientists discover new algae||A team of marine biologists from the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, has discovered a new species of marine green algae from Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The green seaweed is named as Acetabularia jalakanyakae.Authors said they chose the name as a tribute to the goddess of oceans. Jalakanyaka in Sanskrit literally means mermaid and a goddess of oceans. “The newly discovered alga is stunning; it has caps with intricate designs as if it were umbrellas of a mermaid,” said Dr Felix Bast, who led the study.Dr Bast, on a family trip to Andaman and Nicobar Islands in May 2019, stumbled upon these algae. He said, “At first I thought it to be Acetabularia acetabulum, or a variant of this species. But then the cap looked rather unique with intricate designs. I brought back the algal samples to the lab. After meticulous taxonomic works that lasted for more than one and a half years, it turned out to be a new species.”The main feature of the newly discovered species is that the plant is made up of one gigantic cell with a nucleus. The scientists spent more than 18 months sequencing the plant DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and comparing its form with other plants in the lab. The paper describing the discovery has been accepted for publication in the journal Indian Journal of Geo-Marine Sciences published by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.Andaman and Nicobar Islands has some of the last remaining healthy coral reefs in the world. These coral reefs support a host of other organisms, including a rich tapestry of algae. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-scientists-discover-new-algae-300701
23-08-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Farmers ready with posers for leaders in Sangrur village||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 22At a state-level meeting held at Chatha village last evening, farmers and youngsters, under the banner of Kirti Kisan Union (KKU), have decided to ban the entry of politicians in all villages. They have decided that only those politicians who give satisfactory reply to their questions will be allowed to enter villages.They have prepared questions to be asked from the Congress, SAD, BJP and AAP leaders. Congress leaders will be asked why they failed to give complete debt waiver and Ghar Ghar Rozgar and end drug menace despite making tall promises before the last Assembly elections.SAD and BJP leaders will have to reply many other questions, including their failure to prevent the passage of the central farm laws and get the Swaminathan report implemented. AAP leaders will have to reply the reasons of their failure in playing active and adequate role of Opposition in Punjab.“We have already announced that till the farm laws are repealed, we won’t allow any political activity in any village. But if any politician wants to enter any village, he/she first must reply our questions. We have prepared different questions for different parties. We have started forming committees the village level,” said Bhupinder Longowal, convener, KKU’s youth wing.Committees will keep a watch on the activities of supporters of parties in their villages and ensure no politician enters any village without replying to their questions.Queries to parties||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-ready-with-posers-for-leaders-in-sangrur-village-300719
23-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Women join hands with protesters in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22Raksha Bandhan was celebrated on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway near Dhanowali railway tracks today, with scores of women tying rakhis to agitators and joining the protest.For the past two days, women have been extending their support by supplying cooked food. Now they will also lead from the front.Satnam Kaur, a farmer leaderTime to amplify our voice in unisonWe are ready to join our male counterparts. If we can raise our voice against the Centre at the Singhu border, we can also do the same here. Now is the time to amplify our voice in unison. Satnam Kaur (45), a woman farmer leader from Bhogpur, said: “We are ready to join our male counterparts. If we can raise our voice against the central government at the Singhu border, we can also do the same here.”Jeevan Singh, a BKU (Doaba) leader, said for over nine months, women farmers had been at the forefront in raising their voice against the three farm laws. They knew how to conduct a protest and speak up for their rights. We celebrated the fact that how women of all age groups had lent their support to the farmers’ protest. Like other crops, women equally participated in cultivating sugarcane.On the occasion of Rakhsha Bandhan, farmer leaders said women contributed to nearly 70 per cent of all agricultural activities. It’s in fact a return gift for us that they were taking the baton for leading the protest. Gurmail Singh, a farmer under the banner of Doaba Kisan Union, at Dhanowali railway tracks, said: “It comes a little surprise for us if women are joining the protest. We also want our daughters and women to understand what it takes to safeguard our rights.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-join-hands-with-protesters-in-punjab-300695
23-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||No consensus on input cost, panel to meet Punjab farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22As the meeting with the state government on demands regarding the state agreed price (SAP) for sugarcane remained inconclusive, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha today announced continuation of the blockade of the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway and rail tracks here.Balwinder Singh Raju, President, Majha Kisan Sangharsh CommitteeGovt figure too lowOnce there is a consensus on cost of production, talks can move further. Government's Rs350 figure is too low. Things will be clearer after meeting with experts.With the government and farmers failing to arrive at a consensus over the cost of production of sugarcane despite a two-and-a-half-hour meeting, the farmers decided to continue with the agitation and intensify it, if need be.An 11-member SKM delegation met Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa as well as Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh in Chandigarh along with a panel of agricultural experts and bureaucrats.An expert panel will now meet the farmers in Jalandhar again on Monday to hold deliberations. Meanwhile, farmers also anticipate a meeting with the Chief Minister on Tuesday, failing which they will hold a protest at toll plazas in the state. While farmers have pegged the cost of production of sugarcane at Rs 392.50, the government puts it at Rs 350 per quintal.Manjit Singh Rai, president, Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba), said: “We have made it clear we can’t settle for a rate below our input cost. While we haven’t been able to arrive at a consensus on the issue at the meeting today, deliberations will continue tomorrow.” Meanwhile, farmers stayed put at the Jalandhar dharna site, which is slowly emerging into a Singhu-like protest.The highway and rail blockade at Jalandhar continued as usual. In view of the Rakhi today, the service lanes were opened for passage of vehicles. “We opened the service lanes but these will be closed on Monday. Only schoolchildren and emergency vehicles will be given passage,” a union leader said.Both sides differWhile farmers have pegged production cost of sugarcane at Rs392.50, the government puts it at Rs350/quintal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-consensus-on-input-cost-panel-to-meet-punjab-farmers-300693
23-08-2021||New Delhi||37.27 per cent turnout in Delhi gurdwara body polls||The polling for the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee elections witnessed a low turnout of 37.27 per cent on Sunday, officials said.The DSGMC which controls shrines in the city, including Rakabganj and Bangla Sahib Gurdwaras as well as various academic institutions and hospitals, goes to polls after every four year.       The DSGMC is a membered body, of which 46 are directly elected from 46 wards in Delhi. Rest of the members are appointed from different seats of Sikh religion and groups.The elections being conducted by the Delhi government’s Directorate of Gurdwara Elections, has 3.42 lakh voters. The voting percentage of male voters was 39.95 per cent and it was 34.95 per cent for females, officials said.The Punjabi Bagh ward recorded the highest voting percentage of 54.10 per cent while Sham Nagar recorded the lowest 25.18 per cent, according to the figures issued by the directorate.Counting of votes will take place on August 25. A total of 312 candidates, including 132 independents, are in the fray.The major players include Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) which has fielded candidates from all the 46 wards. SAD’s Manjinder Singh Sirsa is currently the president of DSGMC.Manjit Singh GK-led Jago party has fielded 41 candidates while Akali Dali (Delhi) headed by Paramjit Singh Sarna is contesting in 45 wards. Both Manjit Singh and Sarna are former presidents of DSGMC.In the previous elections held in 2017, SAD came to control the DSGMC by winning 35 wards. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/37-27-per-cent-turnout-in-delhi-gurdwara-body-polls-300689
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||‘Atrocious, ill-conceived, against India’s interests’: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh slams Sidhu’s advisers for recent remarks about Kashmir, Pakistan||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday warned against “atrocious and ill-conceived comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country”, referring to recent statements made by two of Navjot Sidhu’s advisers on sensitive national issues like Kashmir and Pakistan.A press release issued from the Chief Minister’s Office said Captain Amarinder urged Sidhu’s advisers to stick to giving advice to the PPCC president and “not speak on matters of which they clearly had little or no knowledge, and had no understanding of the implications of their comments”.This was in response to Sidhu’s adviser Pyare Lal Garg’s recent questioning of the chief minister’s criticism of Pakistan and a previous comment by another Sidhu aide, Malwinder Singh Mali, on Kashmir. Sidhu appointed both as advisers recently.The press release said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was shocked at their “extraordinary statements”, which he viewed as “totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress on Pakistan and Kashmir”, and urged the Punjab Congress president to rein in his advisers.“Kashmir was and is an inalienable part of India,” he said, adding that with his proclamation to the contrary, Mali had “effectively and inexplicably toed Islamabad’s line”, the press release said. “This is totally anti-national,” he said and criticised him for not withdrawing his remarks despite condemnation not only from other parties but also from within the Congress.Garg’s statement that any criticism of Pakistan by Captain Amarinder was not in the interest of Punjab showed Sidhu’s advisor was clearly disconnected from the ground reality, the chief minister said.“The fact, which every Punjabi and in fact every Indian knows, is that Pakistan’s threat to us is real. Every day they are pushing weapons and drugs into Punjab via drones in a brazen attempt to destabilise our state, and our nation. Punjabi soldiers are dying at the borders at the hands of Pak-backed forces,” he said.  “Garg may have forgotten the thousands of Punjabi lives lost in the fire of Pak-backed terrorism of the 1980s and 1990s, but I have not. Nor have the people of Punjab. And we will continue to do everything in our power to fight off Pakistan’s dangerous games.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/atrocious-ill-conceived-against-indias-interests-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-slams-sidhus-advisers-for-recent-remarks-about-kashmir-pakistan-300656
23-08-2021||---||Sugarcane farmers’ meeting with Punjab govt inconclusive, stir to continue||Jalandhar, August 22Farmer leaders meeting with the Punjab government remained inconclusive on Sunday, as no agreement could be reached on the cost of production for sugarcane. The highway and rail blockade to continue.Read alsoAnother meeting with an expert committee will be held on Monday. Experts shall hold deliberations with farmers at Jalandhar.A meeting with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh may be held on Tuesday. Farmers await declaration from the CM regarding the same.Service roads were opened for Raksha Bandhan, while the dharna at Jalandhar continued as usual. The festival was also celebrated at the dharna site.After tying rakhis to the agitators, women also announced to join the protest. For the last two days women were extending their support by supplying cooked food.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sugarcane-farmers-meeting-with-punjab-govt-inconclusive-stir-to-continue-300649
