25-08-2021||New Delhi||Kejriwal to visit ex-minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan in Punjab Thursday||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will visit former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan in Punjab on Thursday, AAP leader Raghav Chadha said.He will meet the former SAD leader in Sekhwan village in Gurdaspur district, he said.The visit comes months ahead of the Punjab assembly polls slated for next year.“Hon’ble Chief Minister of Delhi @ArvindKejriwal will be in Punjab tomorrow and shall visit Former Cabinet Minister Jathedar Sewa Singh Sekhwan at his native village Sekhwan in Gurdaspur District,” Chadha tweeted on Wednesday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-to-visit-ex-minister-sewa-singh-sekhwan-in-punjab-thursday-302012
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 37 Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Wednesday reported 37 fresh cases of coronavirus and one Covid-related death, taking the number of infections and fatalities to 6,00,378 and 16,358 respectively, according to a medical bulletin.The latest death was reported from Sangrur.The toll includes two deaths, which were not reported earlier.The number of active cases dropped to 401 from 423 on Tuesday, the bulletin said.Of the fresh cases, Mohali reported seven, followed by six each in Amritsar and Pathankot.With 55 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,83,619, as per the bulletin. Chandigarh reported two cases of Covid-19, taking the total count to 65,071.The toll figure stood at 812 in the union territory.The number of active cases in the city was 36 while the number of cured persons was 64,223. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-37-covid-cases-1-death-302008
25-08-2021||Ramgarh (Jharkhand)||Man arrested from Punjab for duping youths with false promises of job in Army||Military intelligence personnel arrested a man hailing from Tarn Taran district of Punjab from a hotel in this garrison town for allegedly trying to dupe youths with promises of jobs in the Army, Jharkhand Police said on Wednesday.The arrest on Tuesday followed inputs by the Punjab Regimental Centre commandant’s office in this garrison town, the police said. The Ramgarh sub-divisional police officer Kishore Kumar Rajak said the 43-year-old Guljinder Singh was arrested by military intelligence personnel for cheating youths from Punjab and Haryana with false promises of jobs in the Army.An FIR has been lodged at the Ramgarh town police station following a written complaint by Army officials, the police said.Brigadier Narendra Singh Chaarag, commandant of Punjab Regimental Centre of the Indian Army at Ramgarh said that the alleged fraudster was apprehended by the military intelligence after his office sent a dummy job aspirant to him and tracked his mobile phone number and his hideout.“We informed military intelligence about a fraudster from Punjab who arrived here for duping Army job aspirants. In order to nab the conman our man met the fraudster as a job aspirant,” said a senior Army official.This is the second such instance in nine months. In November 2020 three fraudsters, including a jewellery trader from Ramgarh town, were arrested by the Jharkhand Police in coordination with the Army following inputs by the military intelligence that they were cheating youths from Punjab with false promises of recruitment in Punjab Regimental Centre which is one of the oldest regiments of the country, the police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-arrested-from-punjab-for-duping-youths-with-false-promises-of-job-in-army-302000
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu responsible for current situation in Punjab Congress: Preneet Kaur||Congress MP Preneet Kaur on Wednesday slammed disgruntled leaders who are seeking a replacement of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and held PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu responsible for the current situation in the party’s state unit.Kaur, who is Amarinder Singh’s wife, asked those who have raised a banner of revolt against the chief minister to refrain from raking up such issues as it was “damaging” the party ahead of the 2022 assembly elections.She praised the chief minister for leading the party to “many victories” and taking Punjab on a “road to progress”.Four ministers and several party legislators have gone against Amarinder Singh and sought his replacement, saying they have “lost faith in him” over the issue of unfulfilled promises.Talking to the media here, Kaur asked the leaders to play a positive role to bring the party back to power in the upcoming elections.Asked if some leaders were unhappy after the four-and-half-years of the Congress government’s tenure, she said, “First ask them were they happy during the four-and-half-years. This is not the time to say such things...it is damaging the party.”        To a question why some party leaders were raising voices against the chief minister all of a sudden, she said, “For four-and-half-years, it was ok. But now it is for the (party) high command to take note and see what is actually going on on the ground and do what is best for the party.”When asked whether she holds Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sidhu responsible for the current situation, she replied, “Of course he is. He is the one who started (with) his advisers.”Kaur said Amarinder Singh showed “great maturity and great largeness of heart” after the party high command decided to appoint Sidhu as the state unit chief.“Once the decision had been taken by the high command (that) Sidhu was coming, the CM said yes, it is the Congress president’s decision, I (CM) abide by it.”  “They (disgruntled leaders) should also fall in line. This is not the time to rake up all things. You raked them up at the party platform. We want a united Congress to fight the elections,” she said.Asked if those leaders who are unhappy with the chief minister want his replecement, Kaur said, “That is not up to them. It is up to the (party) high command.”She said Amarinder Singh has done “his best” as a party leader.“He has led the party to many victories. He has done whatever the high command asked. He fought against (Arun) Jaitley and won (from Amritsar seat),” Kaur said.“He (CM) has done good work for Punjab in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic and monetary concerns. He took Punjab on a road to progress in every constituency,” she added.To a question on remarks of Sidhu’s two advisers, Kaur said, “I do not know from where these advisers came.”She said the Punjab Congress chief should choose such people from within the party.Sidhu is facing fire over controversial remarks by his two advisers—Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg—on Pakistan and Kashmir. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-responsible-for-current-situation-in-punjab-congress-preneet-kaur-301975
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM writes to Jaishankar for repatriation of Shaheed Udham Singh's personal effects from UK||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has written to Union Minister for External Affairs Dr. S. Jaishankar to seek from the Government of United Kingdom repatriation of the personal effects of legendary martyr Shaheed Udham Singh, including his pistol and personal diary.Captain Amarinder Singh, in his letter to the Union Minister, appealed to him to take up this matter with the Government of the United Kingdom so that the nation can express its highest gratitude to the martyr and great patriot while celebrating the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence.“You may be aware that it was with this very pistol that he avenged the dastardly act of the erstwhile British Government at Jallianwala Bagh, where hundreds of unarmed and innocent Indians were shot dead under the charge of the then Lieutenant Governor of Punjab, Michael O'Dwyer.”, reads the letter.“It was with this pistol that Shaheed Udham Singh brought Michael O' Dwyer to justice in the Caxton Hall, London,” wrote the Chief Minister.Captain Amarinder further stated that “It is also known that Shaheed Udham Singh used to keep a diary, as his personal log, which also deserves to be brought back to India, so that the people of the country could derive motivation and inspiration from it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-writes-to-jaishankar-for-repatriation-of-shaheed-udham-singhs-personal-effects-from-uk-301918
25-08-2021||Mumbai||Akshay Kumar calls Shah Rukh Khan on fan’s request; Kapil Sharma says 'Gauri bhabhi bolengi...'||Bollywood star Akshay Kumar brought a big smile to a fan's face while promoting his latest release 'Bell Bottom' on 'The Kapil Sharma Show'.In a segment, when Kapil asked the audience members who is the one person they would like to get hijacked with, a fan quickly replied "Shahrukh Khan".The female fan even professed that she wants to get married to a person like Shah Rukh.In order to fulfil her wish of speaking to Shah Rukh, Akshay dialled Shah Rukh's number, only to find that his number was switched off.The fan hilariously asks Akshay to dial Shah Rukh's wife Gauri Khan's number, which leaves everyone including the cast of 'Bell Bottom' in splits.Kapil warned Akshay if you do this, everything will come on you, “Gauri bhabhi bolengi, ‘Akshay ji aap bigaad rahe hain humaare pati ko’ (Gauri will say, ‘Akshay, you are spoiling my husband’).”Along with Akshay, actors Vaani Kapoor, Huma Qureshi and producer Jackky Bhagnani were present on the show, hosted by comedian Kapil Sharma.Archana Puran Singh, Krushna Abhishek, Bharti Singh, Chandan Prabhakar and Kiku Sharda among many others make a comeback on the show.'The Kapil Sharma Show' airs on Sony Entertainment Television. — IANSA post shared by Shah Rukh Khan Tweets (@srktweets)@akshaykumar trying to call up @iamsrk Sir for a Srk Fan Girl in The Kapil Sharma Show ❤❤❤Thank you Akshay Kumar sir for trying ❤#ShahRukhKhan #SRK #AkshayKumar @SRKCHENNAIFC @sudhirkothari03 pic.twitter.com/bl7GxnJAqZ||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akshay-kumar-calls-shah-rukh-khan-on-fans-request-kapil-sharma-says-gauri-bhabhi-bolengi-301886
25-08-2021||---||SGPC mulls music academy in memory of Bhai Mardana||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24A delegation of Kafila-e-Mir All India (regd), Punjab, arrived at the Golden Temple and met Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur.The delegation included several eminent Punjabi singers who submitted a memorandum to her demanding the establishment of a music academy in the memory of Bhai Mardana.She assured the delegation that the SGPC would open a music academy in which students would be taught tanti saaj (stringed instruments) and rabab (a lute-like musical instrument).A staunch devoteeBhai Mardana was the first rabbi kirtania of guru ghar, who had the good fortune to be in the company of Guru Nanak Dev for a long time.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a hall has already been constructed at Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib Sultanpur Lodhi in the memory of Bhai Mardana.Bhai Mardana was the first rabbi kirtania of guru ghar, who had the good fortune to be in the company of Guru Nanak Dev for a long time. She told that Bhai Mardana has an important place in Sikh history and Sikhs always remember him with respect.“On the occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev at Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, the celebrations began with a special nagar kirtan from Gurdwara Sri Rababsar Sahib, built in memory of Bhai Mardana, with 550 stringed instruments”, she said.SGPC president said a hall has already been constructed at Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib Sultanpur Lodhi in the memory of Bhai Mardana.Office-bearers of Kafila-e-Mir All India thanked the president of the SGPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-mulls-music-academy-in-memory-of-bhai-mardana-301864
25-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Farmers lift blockade on Amritsar-Delhi track, train services yet to be restored||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24Farmers lifted their blockade on Amritsar-Delhi railway track near Jalandhar on Tuesday evening after the state government hiked state advised price (SAP) of sugarcane by Rs35 per quintal to Rs 360.The blockade of this track crippled the train movement at the Amritsar railway station.The Indian Railways officials today said it would take sometime to restore the normal traffic on this route. Only three trains—Howrah Mail, Amritsar to Jaipur and Dadar— headed for their respective destinations from Amritsar via Nakodar today. Similarly—Frontier and Dadar—arrived via Nakodar.Officials said due to the absence of relevant infrastructure at the Nakodar railway station and single track, enough trains could not be plied on this route.Vendors at the Amritsar railway station rued that their losses multiplied in the last two years. First, it was the lockdown, and then farmers blocked the track near the Jandiala Guru railway station for months together. “We hardly registered any sale in the last five days as less than six pairs of trains were running daily,” said vendors.Ahead of the farmers’ blockade near the Jalandhar railway station, around 30 pairs of trains plied from the Amritsar railway station daily. This number used to be around 65 pairs of trains before March 2020.“These figures cleary indicate how much loss we have suffered so far,” said vendors.Meanwhile, officials at Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) said flow of passengers has increased considerably in the last couple of days.The ISBT was packed to its capacity today and passengers jostled to aboard buses.Navneet Kaur, a passenger, said, “I booked a train ticket for Delhi, which got cancelled due to the farmers’ agitation. Thus, I decided to travel by bus till Rajpura. From there I will travel by train to reach the final destination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-lift-blockade-on-amritsar-delhi-track-train-services-yet-to-be-restored-301858
25-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Over 500 ‘illegal’ hotels mushroom near Golden Temple in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24After taking action against 17 commercial establishments around the Golden Temple on July 24, 2019 on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation soon went into a deep slumber and failed to act against under construction ‘illegal’ hotels in the walled city.Ironically, most of these illegal hotels have become operational, despite a ban on approval of their building plan by the high court. Sarabjit Singh Verka, who is a petitioner in the case, said around 550 hotels had been constructed around the Golden Temple during the last nine years.“The Supreme Court had given an interim relief to the hoteliers who opposed the MC’s action related to disconnection of their water and sewer connections. However, nobody allowed others to construct new buildings. Last year, we counted 500 buildings and now it’s around 550 approximately.”Verka said hearing in the case slowed down due to the pandemic, but hotel mafia took the advantage of the situation, and increased illegal construction activity around the Golden Temple.On July 24, 2019, the MC and the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited had disconnected water, sewer and power connections, of illegal hotels around the Golden Temple.The high court had stayed operation of the Amritsar Walled City (Recognition of Usage) Act, 2016, and had directed the Deputy Commissioner to disconnect water and electricity supply to unauthorised commercial establishments, including hotels, in and around the Golden Temple corridor. Later, the hoteliers moved the Supreme Court and got a stay against the high court’s orders.Narinder Sharma, Municipal Town Planner, said, “There is hardly any illegal construction reported around the Golden Temple. The illegal hotels were constructed before 2019. We are vigilant about illegal hotel buildings.”Verka claimed that hotels produce a lot of pollution and heat around the Golden Temple. The pollution damages gold plates and fills holy sarover with silt. “Around 500 hotels means 500 kitchens, 2,000 rooms mean 2,000 air-conditioners, and the same number of washrooms. The existing drain in narrow streets around the Golden Temple is not able to tackle this load.”The petitioner said, “Religious and heritage concerns are there. The centuries-old buildings have been demolished to construct hotels. The hotels give space to flesh trade around the most sacred place of the Sikhs. Hotels should be constructed a few miles away from the Golden Temple.”Timeline2010: Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed against 105 illegal hotels around the Golden Temple corridor2012: The Punjab and Haryana High Court directed that no building plan should to be sanctioned till further orders2014: A three-member SIT formed, which finds 125 illegal hotels built after 20122016: Govt enacts the Amritsar Walled City (Recognition of Usage) Act and the MC demands applications to regularise illegal hotels. The MC receives 216 applications2017: It’s found that no hotel fulfils building bylaws. The Local Bodies Department dismisses a senior Town Planner, demotes three ATPs and imposes 50 per cent pension cut on seven building branch officials for ‘overlooking’ violations2017: The government amends the Act and offers one-time settlement2018: On the high court’s directions, the MC initiates a drive to seal the illegal hotels, but owners reopen these2019: The government again seeks applications for one-time settlement. Owners of 352 illegal hotels submit applications2019: The high court stayed operation of the Amritsar Walled City (Recognition of Usage) Act, 2016, and directed the MC to disconnect water and electricity supply to unauthorised commercial establishments, including hotels in and around the Golden Temple corridor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-500-illegal-hotels-mushroom-near-golden-temple-in-amritsar-301857
25-08-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers: People must know our side of story||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24“People only see that we hold dharnas, block roads and highways and they complain of having trouble in commuting. But nobody understands why we do so,” said farmers who were protesting in Jalandhar for meagre hike in sugarcane SAP.Davinder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr, said the private mills owe Rs 10 lakh to him and most of his works were stalled because of no money. “If you don’t receive a salary for even a month, you become uneasy. So, why can’t people think about what problems we go through? They should empathise with us to understand the ground realities,” he said.Another farmer, Kirpal Singh from Jalandhar, said farmers take loans from the lenders, arhtiyas and wait for their payments so that they could repay. “In such a condition, when our loaned money is also exhausted, who would help us again? I have also taken a loan of Rs 2 lakh and because of non-payment, I have not been able to pay the money back. I get calls from the lenders daily, but can’t do anything for it,” he said.He also shared that one of the farmers from Majha had to sell his 5 acres of land to repay the loan that he had taken from the lenders. “The situation is grave, one cannot understand,” he said.The cane growers in December 2018 also held a massive protest and the protesting sugarcane farmers had said that they were left with no option but to leave their families and hold dharnas. After the government had promised to give their dues, the farmers had lifted the protest, but had to wait for their payment for long.This time, too, the CM has assured that the pending amount would be given to the farmers in 15 days. This has certainly brought cheers for the farmers but there is a little suspicion too.“We have heard umpteen promises, held many meetings and protests, but we will have to see what happens this time. We really hope that the government fulfils its promise,” this is how cane growers express their worry. It should not keep bragging about the crop diversification scheme in speeches and also must stop showing ‘fake sympathy’ towards them, the farmers had earlier said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-people-must-know-our-side-of-story-301831
25-08-2021||Popular rapper and actor Sidhu Moosewala has joined short video platform||Sidhu Moosewala joins MX TakaTak||In his six-month exclusive period with this short video application, Sidhu will be seen interacting with fans via live sessions and will drop original songs and also participate in exciting hashtag challenges.Sidhu recently released a challenge #CelebrityKiller based on his new trendsetter song that has witnessed massive participation from users across the country who are lip syncing to this groovy tune.Sidhu Moosewala said, “Since the pandemic hit us last year, I have observed that MX TakaTak has given budding artistes and musicians the much-required platform to showcase their talent and connect with the audience. Joining MX TakaTak would only strengthen my connect with a wide range of fans on the app and interact with them, and hopefully inspire other budding artistes. I’m thrilled to be part of the MX TakaTak family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-moosewala-joins-mx-takatak-301653
25-08-2021||---||Actor Yograj Singh joins campaign against industrial park near Sutlej, Mattewara Forest||Ludhiana, August 24Eminent actor Yograj Singh has joined the campaign, being run by a public action committee (PAC), to save the Mattewara Forest and the Sutlej. He took part in a plantation drive organised by the PAC in the area today, which aimed to spread awareness about the movement against the decision of the Punjab Government to set up a modern industrial park near the Sutlej and Mattewara Forest.Yograj Singh said he strongly opposed the decision and to prevent a disaster, the government must roll it back and save the rare flora and fauna of the area.Earlier, environment lovers gathered at the Mattewara bus stand and marched towards the forest. They planted saplings of various kinds and raised slogans to spread their message.Environment activist and president of Ramgarhia Educational Council, Ranjodh Singh, said the world today needed to be protected from natural calamities and all nature lovers must come forward in support of the campaign to save the reserves.Col (retd) CM Lakhanpal, a member of the PAC, emphasised that water and air pollution and rapid urbanisation would kill the natural reserves and its flora and fauna. “The pollutants will destroy the Sutlej waters and have devastating effects on the marine life. No industrial park should be set up at this eco-sensitive site”, he said.Another member, Shaminder Singh Longowal, appealed to the people to join the cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/actor-yograj-singh-joins-campaign-against-industrial-park-near-sutlej-mattewara-forest-301776
25-08-2021||Nitin Jain||Real estate market starts picking up in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 24The real estate market has started picking up in Ludhiana, which is the largest district in the state in terms of area and population, if the revenue collection is any indication.The district has achieved 24 per cent revenue collection, a key indicator of market trend, in the first quarter of this fiscal, the administration has confirmed.The development assumes significance as the real estate market had suffered a major setback due to the second Covid wave, which had caused maximum loss to Ludhiana in terms of deaths and infections.The official figures compiled by the district administration, which are available with The Tribune, revealed that Rs 93,53,50,241 stamp duty was collected from the registration of 18,176 documents in the district from April 1 to June 30.Sharing details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune here on Tuesday that the district had fixed Rs 400 crore as the target of stamp duty collection for this financial year, which is 5.54 per cent more than the previous fiscal’s target of Rs 379 crore.In 2020-21, the district could achieve 85 per cent target with the collection of Rs 320,42,70,163 from the registration of 67,536 documents from April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021.The last fiscal’s collection was Rs 3,71,69,405, which accounted for 1.15 per cent, less than Rs 324,14,39,568 revenue earned from the registration of 74,251 documents in 2019-20.Divulging the revenue court management system in the district, the DC disclosed that all 35 revenue courts are presently operational in the district, on the portal of which 4,013 cases have so far been uploaded. Referring to the national generic document registration system (NGDRS), the Deputy Commissioner has demanded an increase in the availability of online appointment slots in Super-A category in the sub-registrar offices across the district for ensuring better service to the public.Raising the demand before Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan during the latter’s visit to Ludhiana recently, the DC proposed to increase the tatkal (urgent) appointments in Ludhiana (East) from present 15 to 25, with which the total appointments, including the present 150 normal ones, will go up from present 165 to 175 appointments.In Ludhiana (Central), the normal appointments were proposed to be raised from 110 to 125 and tatkal from present 7 to 10, with which the total appointments will go up from present 117 to 135 appointments.The proposal for Ludhiana (West) demanded an increase of normal appointments from present 115 to 150 and tatkal from 7 to 25, with which the total appointments will go up from present 122 to 175.The Chief Secretary, while taking stock of the NGDRS in the district, assured to consider the demands raised by the DC as per rules and in the larger interest of the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/real-estate-market-starts-picking-up-in-ludhiana-district-301787
25-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||SAP raised to Rs 360 in Punjab; sugarcane farmers call off stir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24With an eye on the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, the Congress government today announced a hike in state advised price (SAP) of sugarcane by Rs 50 per quintal over the last year’s price, fixing it at Rs 360 per quintal. Welcoming the decision, the protesting farmers lifted the blockade on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway and rail tracks.Private sugar mills seek subsidy The decision to increase the SAP was taken after a meeting between Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here. The CM told the farmer leaders the state’s financial situation had held back the government from raising the SAP for the past few years.Last week, the government had proposed raising the SAP to Rs 325 per quintal, leading to the blockade by farmers. The intervention by Cooperatives Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, too, failed to break the ice between farmers and government, and rail and road traffic in the state remained disrupted.Sources in the government said during today’s talks, the CM initially proposed Rs 340 per quintal, with an assurance that it would be raised by another Rs 15 per quintal in the next cane crushing season. After the offer, farmer leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Manjit Singh Rai, insisted the SAP be raised in one go, and should be higher than that of neighbouring Haryana. It was then agreed that the SAP be fixed at Rs 360 per quintal, Rs 2 per quintal more than the SAP of Haryana.Interestingly, former minister Rana Gurjit Singh, whose family owns a prominent sugar mill, supported farmers’ demand and played a key role in resolving the crisis. Rai later told The Tribune the decision would help alleviate the suffering of debt-ridden farmers.The SAP of sugarcane has been increased from Rs 295-Rs 310 per quintal (based on the variety) after a gap of four years. Last February, an expert committee headed by scientists from Punjab Agricultural University had recommended the SAP be fixed at Rs 342 per quintal after calculating the input costs.The reason for the price not being increased was state’s weak fiscal health, and its complete dependence on private sugar mills, which crush over 70 per cent of the cane. Private mills, owned by politicians from across the political spectrum, have been resisting any hike in SAP, saying the retail and wholesale prices of sugar have remained low in the past couple of years.The retail price of sugar now hovers around Rs 4,000 per quintal and wholesale price around Rs 3,800 per quintal. “The average mill realisation for crushing cane and sugar production is Rs 3,250-Rs 3,300 per quintal, based on a 10 per cent sugar recovery rate. Most private mills have distilleries and cogeneration plants, besides selling molasses in huge quantities. Thus, they should be making good profits. The only issue is the nine cooperative sugar mills, where the state will have to shell out more from its kitty to pay the hiked SAP to farmers,” says Jaswant Singh, former Cane Commissioner, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sap-raised-to-rs-360-in-punjab-sugarcane-farmers-call-off-stir-301562
25-08-2021||Ajay Joshi||Punjab farmers hail increase in sugarcane SAP||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24Farmers today welcomed the increase in the SAP of sugarcane by Rs 50 per quintal, terming it a historic achievement of their collective struggle. The protest at Dhannowali railway tracks and Jalandhar-Phagwara highway finally ended with the distribution of sweets.SAD promises Rs380/qtlSAD chief and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said the SAD-BSP government would raise the sugarcane’s state advised price (SAP) to at least Rs380 per quintal if voted to power.“With the cost of production of sugarcane pegged at around Rs 470 per quintal, the SAP of Rs 310 a quintal was unjustified. We fought a collective battle and succeeded in getting the price hiked to at least Rs 360 per quintal,” said another farm leader.With the protest in Jalandhar over, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) now aims to further intensify the protest on the Delhi-Haryana borders. Farmer leaders urged all protesters to head to Delhi morchas and strengthen the movement there.Thousands of farmers from various states are ready to assemble for two important events of the SKM. The registration is on for a national convention on August 26 and 27 at the Singhu border. The organising committee of SKM stated there would be three sessions on August 26 and two on August 27 to further intensify the movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmers-hail-increase-in-sugarcane-sap-301563
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh camp calls for action against Navjot Sidhu’s advisers Malwinder Mali, Pyare Lal Garg||Day after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh hit out at PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Singh Mali over his “anti-national and pro-Pakistan” remarks, a group of Punjab ministers and an MLA today sought action against Mali and another adviser, Pyare Lal Garg.Also read: BJP ‘praises’ Navjot Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Singh Mali over Indira Gandhi postRemove Mali, Garg: Dissident groupThe dissident ministers, who have opened the front against the CM, have distanced themselves from statements by Sidhu’s advisers. Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Bajwa said Kashmir was an integral part of India. “The advisers are using wrong statements. We have asked Sidhu to remove them,” said Bajwa.PCC Chief must actResponsibility lies with Sidhu, who appointed them. Only he can speak on this. — Ravneet Singh Bittu, MPThis comes hours after Mali, in reply to CM’s statement, hit out at his personal life. Taking exception to the comments by two of Sidhu’s advisers,the ministers and the MLA called for stern action against them under the law.Also read: Navjot Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Singh Mali courts controversy over Kashmir Congress leaders questioned Sidhu’s failure to put his foot down on “anti-national and pro-Pakistan” diatribe by his aides. “The statements of both newly appointed advisers to Sidhu are clearly against India’s interests, and detrimental to national security,” said ministers Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, along with MLA Raj Kumar Verka in a statement.They urged the Congress central leadership to direct Sidhu to rein in his advisers. Party’s Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat said he had sought comments from Sidhu regarding the statements, which seemed to be doubtful, but if true, action would be taken.“The Congress has made several sacrifices to safeguard nation’s security and peace, as have our soldiers at the borders. Nobody can or should be allowed to undermine these sacrifices and jeopardise the safety of our country and its people,” the group emphasised. The group warned against damage it could cause to the Congress in the run-up to the Assembly elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-camp-calls-for-action-against-navjot-sidhus-advisers-malwinder-mali-pyare-lal-garg-301564
25-08-2021||---||SC asks CBI to verify health status of Sajjan Kumar jailed in 1984 riots case||New Delhi, August 24The Supreme Court today asked the CBI to verify the medical condition of former Delhi Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is serving life sentence in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.Serving life term for 1984 riotsKumar, 75, has sought interim bail citing his poor health condition. Issuing notice to the CBI on Kumar’s interim bail plea, a Bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul asked the agency to file an affidavit within a week after verifying his medical condition.Kumar, who had sought an interim bail on the grounds of poor health, has been in jail since December 31, 2018, when he surrendered after being convicted and awarded life term by the Delhi High Court in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.He has challenged the Delhi High Court’s verdict of December 17, 2018, awarding him life imprisonment for the “remainder of his natural life”.The case relates the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment’s Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1-2 in 1984, and burning down of a Gurudwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.On Kumar’s behalf, senior advocate Vikas Singh said the former MP should be taken to a private hospital for treatment as his condition had not been determined at a government hospital here.“We want somebody from the state to verify it. We want the state to verify what the medical condition is,”the Bench said, posting the matter for further hearing September 6.Singh said Kumar was earlier treated by a doctor at a private hospital and he could be treated there only. “I have serious reservations about private hospitals and these powerful accused,” senior advocate Dushyant Dave said on behalf of the complainants. He pointed out the top court had in September last year dismissed Kumar’s interim bail.When Singh said Kumar was in a “very precarious condition”, Dave said in March last year, he was examined by an AIIMS board.The Supreme Court had on September 4 last year dismissed Kumar’s interim bail plea, saying: “This is not a small case... We cannot grant you bail”. It had also declined his plea for hospitalisation, saying his medical reports suggested he didn’t need to be sent to a hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-asks-cbi-to-verify-health-status-of-sajjan-kumar-jailed-in-1984-riots-case-301565
25-08-2021||GS Paul||Sikh shrines in Afghanistan vulnerable post Taliban takeover||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24While three copies of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ have been flown carefully to India from Kabul, efforts need to be made to ensure the sanctity of historic Afghanistan gurdwaras and evacuate the rare century-old holy scriptures enshrined over there to avoid any instance of sacrilege.Fear of desecration loomsIf the Centre doesn’t take steps for the upkeep and sanctity of Sikh shrines, there is every possibility of their desecration in Afghanistan. — Nirmal Singh, CKD ChiefAfghanistan has been a home to many historic gurdwaras across several cities as well as villages. Many of them have been lost in the civil war leading to the exit of most Hindu and Sikh families from the country.Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Nirmal Singh said as the circumstances compelled the Sikhs to vacate their native place, the concern was that who will take care of historical Sikh shrines and rare manuscripts left behind? “The CKD is all set to assist in any way. If the Centre doesn’t take steps for the upkeep and maintain sanctity of Sikh shrines, there is every possibility of their desecration,” he said. Former SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said, “At a time when the people were making desperate efforts to be evacuated from the war-torn Afghanistan, the Afghani-origin Sikhs have sent a global message by showing concern about the safety and sanctity of the holy scriptures.”Dr Roop Singh said one of the most authentic texts which provided information about these gurdwaras was ‘Afghanistan Da Safar’ written by Prof Ganda Singh, who toured Afghanistan on September 2, 1952. Prof Ganda Singh had located around 40 gurdwaras then in Jalalabad, Ghazni, Kabul, Kandahar and Sultanpur.Now, there are seven main gurdwaras in Kabul, five in Kandahar and one each in Ghazni, Jalalabad and Sultanpur. These include the oldest gurdwara Khalsa (Dera Bhai Gurdas) in Shor Bazaar, Kabul. Similarly, at a gurdwara in Ghazni, there are seven old handwritten copies of Guru Granth Sahib and one Dasam Granth. Gurdwara Shri Guru Har Rai Sahib has got two written volumes of Guru Granth Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-shrines-in-afghanistan-vulnerable-post-taliban-takeover-301566
25-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s staunch loyalists Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Bajwa now lead rebellion against him||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 24Cabinet Ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa have fallen out with CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp despite being his steadfast loyalists for the past several years.Bureaucrats confusedAn unusual fallout of the spat is the uncertainty gnawing at bureaucrats in Gurdaspur, the home district of both Randhawa and Bajwa. Senior administration and police officers clandestinely admit they are confused over the hierarchy to be followed.What is rankling observers is the fact that they were considered to be dyed-in-the-wool supporters of the CM and would “hear no evil, speak no evil and see no evil” when it came to Capt Amarinder.Both Randhawa and Bajwa, at one time, were fiercely blinded with faithfulness towards Capt Amarinder even when he was not the CM. In 2013, when the Congress high command catapulted then Lok Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa as the state Congress head, these leaders stood behind Capt Amarinder like a rock. They often changed the political dynamics of the party to ensure nothing went awry for their boss. They rested only after their boss took the CM’s oath for the second time after remaining in the wilderness from 2007 till 2017.An unusual fallout of the spat is the uncertainty gnawing at bureaucrats in Gurdaspur, the home district of both Randhawa and Bajwa. Senior administration and police officers clandestinely admit they are confused over the hierarchy to be followed. “If we listen to them we run the risk of getting a bad name in the CM’s office. And if we do not obey their diktats, we run the risk of facing the music from them. Both ways, we have been caught in a cleft stick,” said a top officer.Congressmen were astonished at the allegiance displayed by them when Partap Bajwa was made the PPCC chief. They organised functions and rallies against Bajwa and went all out to displace him from the throne. “They did not rest till, after a prolonged battle, Bajwa was finally replaced with Capt Amarinder in 2016. This is why we are amazed at the alacrity with which they have now decided to detach themselves from Capt Amarinder’s bandwagon,” claimed a sitting legislator.When the CM formed his Cabinet for the first time, both these politicians were considered as certainties. While Bajwa was made a Cabinet Minister, Randhawa was left out due to pressure exerted on the CM by a powerful lobby. Nine months later, he was made Cooperation and Jails Minister after Randhawa got Sunil Jakhar a 20,000-plus lead from his Assembly seat of Dera Baba Nanak. When Preneet Kaur contested the Patiala seat after Capt Amarinder vacated it following his win in the 2014 LS poll from Amritsar, it was Tript Bajwa who camped in Patiala and managed her campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-capt-amarinder-singhs-staunch-loyalists-sukhjinder-randhawa-tript-bajwa-now-lead-rebellion-against-him-301567
25-08-2021||New Delhi||BJP president JP Nadda asks Cong to clarify stance on K-remarks||Stepping up attack on the Congress over the controversial remarks by its state leaders on Kashmir and Pakistan, the BJP on Tuesday alleged that it reflected the opposition party’s “divisive and anti-India approach”.BJP president JP Nadda also asked the Congress national leadership to clarify its stance on the issue as silence would be comprehended as “implicit support”.Also read: Navjot Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Singh Mali courts controversy over KashmirNadda said: “Recent comments by Punjab Congress leaders, who enjoy the patronage of the top-most state leadership as well as the high command in Delhi, are reprehensible. They are repeatedly making irresponsible statements that have grave implications on the national security.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-president-jp-nadda-asks-cong-to-clarify-stance-on-k-remarks-301568
25-08-2021||Ravneet Singh||AAP joins pension stir in Patiala, farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan leaves stage||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 24Joginder Singh Ugrahan of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ugrahan) on Tuesday lambasted political parties over the issues of the state and left the stage after AAP leaders Harpal Singh Cheema, Harchand Barsat and MLA from Delhi Ajay Dutt joined a protest organised by the CPF Workers’ Union for reimplementation of the old pension scheme in Patiala.The leader, who had earlier been sitting at the centre of the stage, moved to a corner when AAP leaders reached the venue. Later, commotion ensued after Ugrahan’s statement from the stage. He said, “All political parties work under the influence of corporates. The issues of the old pension scheme, unemployment and the three farm laws spruce from the same.” Addressing the organisers, he said the union would offer outside support if they wanted to give political colour to their protest. “You shouldn’t have called us if you wanted us to share the stage with leaders of political parties. We wouldn’t have come,” he said and left the venue. Soon after, Harpal Singh Cheema also left the site. Cheema, in a press note issued later, said the issue of restoration of the old pension scheme would be included in AAP’s election manifesto.Organisers said the gathering was held for the sole purpose of holding a protest to demand reimplementation of the old pension scheme. CPF Workers’ Union president Sukhjeet Singh said, “Anyone can come to the protest site. We did not invite any leader. We should not have an issue if a political leader supports our demands.”The union was supposed to hold a protest march toward the residence of the Chief Minister but cancelled the programme after it was promised a meeting with the Chief Minister’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-joins-pension-stir-in-patiala-farmer-leader-joginder-singh-ugrahan-leaves-stage-301569
25-08-2021||Sangrur||Cops foil jobless teachers’ bid  to gatecrash Punjab minister Vijay Inder Singla’s event||Members under the banner of the Joint Front of Unemployed on Tuesday protested outside the local government girls school where Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla had come to attend a function.The police foiled the protesters’ attempt to meet the minister and took them into custody.“We came to meet the minister to talk about our demand for government jobs, but the police did not allow us to enter the school,” alleged Gagandeep Kaur, a protester.Members of the BEd and TET Pass Union along with four other unions have been sitting on an indefinite protest in front of Singla’s local residence since December 31, 2020. Last Saturday, they started another indefinite protest atop a water tank of the local Civil Hospital.“Whenever we go to meet the minister, the police detain our members without any valid reasons,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president of BEd and TET Pass Union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-foil-jobless-teachers-bid-to-gatecrash-punjab-minister-vijay-inder-singlas-event-301570
25-08-2021||Moga||No plans to take poll plunge: Sonu Sood||Actor and social activist Sonu Sood said neither he nor his sister Malvika Sachar was interested in contesting the Assembly elections from Moga. Speculations were rife that Malvika would contest from the Moga constituency on Congress ticket as she had become active in social activities in the area for the past few months. She was also invited in local functions by the government departments.“She loves serving the society. She enjoys helping people. As of now, we have not decided on contesting the elections,” said the actor. Though Sood meets the Chief Minister every time he visits Moga, he claimed his relations with politicians were personal and professional in nature. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-plans-to-take-poll-plunge-sonu-sood-301571
25-08-2021||Gidderbaha/Muktsar||Withdraw stubble burning cases against Punjab farmers: Akali Dal||SAD chief and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal today continued with ‘Gall Punjab Di’ programme in the Gidderbaha segment here amid the farmers’ protest.Sukhbir announced Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon as the party candidate from Gidderbaha. He demanded withdrawal of cases against farmers on account of stubble burning. During a road show, some farmers waved black flags at him. The police, however, prevented them from coming out and protesting. Farmers said they would continue their stir until they got answers to their queries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/withdraw-stubble-burning-cases-against-punjab-farmers-akali-dal-301572
25-08-2021||Aman Sood||Congress-backed 
Punjab sarpanches up ante against MLAs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 24Not only its own MLAs, but even the grassroots-level torchbearers of the Congress — sarpanches and panches — have also raised a banner of revolt against the party, claiming they are being “ignored”.Hundreds of sarpanches alleged their own MLAs had forgotten about the plight of villages and warned the government of facing the people’s wrath if they came to seek votes for the forthcoming Assembly elections.“The government has failed to address the concerns of sarpanches who are suffering at the hands of bureaucracy and corrupt officials. This will cost the government dear in 2022,” said Ravinder Singh Rinku (Gurney), vice-president, Sarpanch Panchayat Union of Punjab.“Pending MGNREGA payments and stalled development works in villages will only add to the woes,” he said.These sarpanches claimed that a majority of them were Congress supporters, but they had been meted out a stepmotherly treatment by the government. “For next 10 days, no MLA or minister will be allowed to enter or hold any kind of event in any village. All our pleas to look into our demands to ensure speeding up of developmental works have fallen on deaf ears,” claimed union president Gurmeet Singh.Around 8,000 union members are camping in Patiala against the state government, a majority of them Congress-backed. “While the state wants to rehire retired patwaris at Rs 25,000, it pays merely Rs 1,200 per month to a sarpanch. Even this meagre amount has not been paid for months,” claimed union members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-backed-punjab-sarpanches-up-ante-against-mlas-301573
25-08-2021||Aparna Banerji||Fled Kabul after attack, man longs to see kith||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 24“Ashraf Ghani’s policies destroyed us. We were happy before that,” says 54-year-old Chhabol Singh, an Afghan Sikh who awaits the return of his counterparts from the war-torn country.Grant citizenship to evacuees: SirsaDelhi Sikh Gurdwara Managing Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa has approached Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah urging him to grant citizenship to Sikhs and Hindus who have been evacuated from Afghanistan. “We have urged the Centre to make amendments to the Citizenship Act,” he said.As the three ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib were brought back from Afghanistan yesterday, Chhabol said the collective mood was of brooding as all earnings and properties of Aghan Sikhs and Hindus had been left behind. A resident of Karte Parwan in Kabul, he was a seventh-generation Sikh who came to India on September 5 last year after a terror attack at a gurdwara there. At the airport to receive his counterparts, Chhabol said, “It’s a heartbreaking moment. I spent my life visiting the gurdwara. Around 150 Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, including women, are still stuck at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara. In all, 26 returned today. We await the return of the rest.”Overwhelmed by memories of Afghanistan, he says, “The last time the Taliban took over, they did not say anything to us. We lived comfortably. But this Taliban is different. They include Pakistanis, Arabs, Baghdadis and Iranianas. They don’t recognise or value us. Ghani’s policies brought our downfall. After the Kabul gurdwara attack last year, we began receiving threats from the Mujahideen, Al Qaeda and Daesh. Staying there wasn’t feasible anymore. So we came to India.” Chhabol, who ran a cosemetics business in Afghanistan, added, “There was love there. We are strangers here. We lived life to the fullest there.”Chhabol, along with other refugees from Pakistan, lives in the Tilak Nagar locality in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fled-kabul-after-attack-man-longs-to-see-kith-301574
25-08-2021||Saurabh Malik||Keep digital record of training camps for overweight Punjab cops: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24Making it clear that the Punjab Police stood a fat chance of misleading the court on the fitness level of its officers, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed all SSPs to maintain digital record of physical training camps for overweight cops.Rs2.97 crore for wellness centresThe direction by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan, for enabling the Bench to carry out random inspection, came after photographs showed “many” police officials appearing to be overweight undergoing physical training courses at different places.Justice Sangwan asserted it was unclear whether such exercise camps were conducted on a regular basis or just for one or two days for taking such photographs. The direction assumes significance as police officials were unable to catch even aged suspects in 1,727 FIRs.As the case came up for resumed hearing, an affidavit by Punjab Director, Bureau of Investigation, stated the DGP held a virtual meeting on February 24 with all range IGPs/DIGs, CPs and SSPs. The field officers were sensitised about the serious concerns expressed by the court about recurring instances/cases in which accused ran away from the spot despite police personnel/raiding parties being present.The affidavit added the field officers were directed to depute young and fit police officials to conduct raids. A special campaign was also organised toarrest persons who had managed to escape in the presence of police officials.The affidavit added instructions had been issued to start refresher courses in district training schools to ensure physical fitness of the police officials and take disciplinary action against erring officials failing to nab offenders. Regular departmental inquiries, and suitable action under relevant service rules, were also initiated in cases of negligence, especially in the matters under the NDPS Act and the Punjab Excise Act.“All SSPs in the districts will maintain a digital record of all camps held regularly after every three months to enable this court to make a random inspection of the same. While maintaining such digital records, all SSPs will also keep the record about the days when the camps have been organised as well as the number of days when such training is imparted to police officials, who are overweight,” Justice Sangwan asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keep-digital-record-of-training-camps-for-overweight-punjab-cops-hc-301575
25-08-2021||Vibha Sharma||Ministers receive ‘saroops’; Puri slams CAA detractors||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 24Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and V Muraleedharan along with BJP national spokesperson RP Singh today received three ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib brought on board a special Air India flight from strife-torn Afghanistan.‘100 Sikhs in danger’Afghanistan MP Anarkali Kaur Honaryar on Tuesday urged the Centre to evacuate the remaining Sikhs from the strife-torn country. Speaking to The Tribune, Honaryar, MP in the upper House for 10 years, said: “The situation is not good in Afghanistan and we have been forced to escape to India”. She said the lives of 100 Sikhs, still in Afghanistan, were in danger and they might be given the same ‘facility’ as extended to them.Puri, who shared a video of him carrying a ‘saroop’ on his head, called it “a very emotional and moving experience as a Sikh”. “Today, I got the privilege to serve the three ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib that arrived in Delhi from Kabul,” he said.Hundreds of Sikhs and BJP cadre were at the airport to welcome the holy scriptures and escort these with “honour and maryada” to Gurdwara Sri Arjan Dev in New Mahavir Nagar.Puri, who has been citing the developments in Afghanistan to stress the need for a law like the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), later said all from the Sikh and Hindu communities would be brought back to India. The minister said 626 persons, including 228 Indians, had been evacuated from Afghanistan, since the Taliban crisis. The number of Afghan Sikhs evacuated to date was 77.“People who were opposing the CAA when it was enacted in 2019 are now demanding to extend the cut-off date,” he said, slamming detractors of the law.Reacting to AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi’s comment on his CAA argument, Puri said Owaisi made a political statement whereas he was talking about the ground realities in Afghanistan.“You should see the sentiments of the Sikh and Hindu community and refrain from playing politics on such matters. India’s political leadership is aware of the ground situationin Kabul,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ministers-receive-saroops-puri-slams-caa-detractors-301576
25-08-2021||Legal Correspondent||Ludhiana: Doctor gets 20-yr jail for patient’s rape||Ludhiana, August 24The Court of Additional Sessions Judge KK Jain convicted Dr Tapinder Singh, a resident of Leel village, Sudhar, on the charge of raping a 14-year old girl, who was her patient. He was sentenced to imprisonment for 20 years.Delivering the verdict, the court held the prosecution had proved the charges against the accused. The court turned down the plea of leniency raised by the accused with the observation that keeping in view his indulgence in such a henious crime, he did not deserve leniency. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 15.05 lakh on the accused. Of this amount, Rs 15 lakh will be paid to the victim’s family as compensation.A case against the accused was registered at the Sudhar police station on July 30, 2018, following the statement of the victim. The girl had told the police that she was a Class IX student, and she had been sick for a couple of days, because of which her parents took her to the New Raj clinic at Pakowal, being run by the accused. During treatment, she was administered medicines. On July 29, 2018, she went to the clinic at 6.30 pm again. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused raped her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-doctor-gets-20-yr-jail-for-patients-rape-301577
25-08-2021||Fazilka||Rs25-crore heroin seized in Fazilka||The BSF claimed to have seized five packets of contraband heroin, weighing about 5 kg, worth over Rs 25 crore in the international market.Official sources said sleuths of the BSF second battalion, during patrol, observed some footprints across the barbed wire fencing near BOP, SS Wala, in Jalalabad subdivision of the district, this morning.During search, five packets of heroin, wrapped in an adhesive tape, were seized from the site. Meanwhile, in Abohar, a team of the anti-narcotics cell of the police seized 22-gm heroin with drug money ofRs 4,900 by intercepting Jaswinder Singh Jassa in Alamgarh village, 5 km from here. A case under the NDPS Act was registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs25-crore-heroin-seized-in-fazilka-301578
25-08-2021||---||Congress rift widens, 4 ministers, several MLAs want Capt Amarinder Singh out||Chandigarh, August 24The simmering unease in the Punjab Congress today gave way to an open revolt against CM Capt Amarinder Singh, with four of his ministers and at least 24 MLAs seeking his replacement, saying they “have lost faith in him”.The four ministers — Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi — and the dissident MLAs, including Pargat Singh, met at Bajwa’s residence here. The legislators authorised the ministers to press the leadership to call a meeting of the CLP.Addressing the media, Randhawa and Channi claimed the Congress wouldn’t be able to win the 2022 Assembly elections under Capt Amarinder’s leadership. They said they had lost faith in him as he had failed to fulfill poll promises like justice in sacrilege cases, scrapping faulty PPAs and eradicating the drug and transport mafias.“We have the best portfolios, but we don’t care. There is a dire need for a change in leadership if the party has to be saved,” said Bajwa.The meeting comes amid severe criticism of two advisers of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for making controversial remarks on sensitive issues like Kashmir. Sources said a number of dissident MLAs pointed out the four ministers should lead from the front, as legislators who had earlier stood against the CM were targeted. The MLAs also expressed dissatisfaction over Sidhu’s style of functioning and said his advisers’ public utterances were proving to be counter-productive for the party. Tript Bajwa has already taken up the matter with Sidhu.After the meeting, the ministers and six MLAs — Kulbir Zira, Parminder Pinki, Darshan Brar, Davinder Ghubaya, Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Avtar Junior — met Sidhu. The leaders are learnt to have sought Sidhu’s support in the change of leadership. Sidhu later tweeted, “Met him (Tript Bajwa) along with other colleagues. Will apprise the high command about the situation.”Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, who is in Dehradun, said, “I would be meeting them tomorrow to listen to their grievance. If required, a meeting would be arranged with the party president.” In a late evening statement, the CMO claimed seven of the MLAs, who reportedly backed the demand for CM’s removal, have disassociated themselves from any such move. An official spokesman said denying being part of what they termed as “a conspiracy hatched by a section engaged in trying to drive a wedge within the party”, these seven leaders had thrown their weight behind the CM and reposed their faith in his leadership.CM’s men for action against Sidhu’s aidesCaptain loyalists, including ministers Brahm Mohindra and Vijay Inder Singla, and MLAs, called for action against Sidhu’s advisersCMO counters dissidents’ claimThe CMO claimed seven of the “20 incumbent and former MLAs”, who reportedly backed demand for CM’s removal, have disassociated themselves from any such move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-rift-widens-4-ministers-several-mlas-want-capt-amarinder-singh-out-301559
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sugarcane farmers withdraw protest after Punjab announces hike in prices||Sugarcane farmers withdrew their blockade after the Punjab government hiked the state-advised price of sugarcane by Rs 35 a quintal to Rs 360, officials said on Tuesday.The decision came after a meeting between farmers’ unions and the chief minister.The price offered by Punjab is Rs 2 more than the one offered by neighbouring Haryana, a press release from the chief minister’s office.Farmer union leaders were miffed previously about price parity with Haryana.Farmers were demanding Rs 400 a quintal and clearance of their dues. The Punjab government had previously offered them a hike of Rs 15 a quintal, which they rejected. The state government had previously offered to revise sugarcane rates to Rs 325 for the early variety, Rs 315 for mid-variety, and Rs 310 per quintal for the late maturing variety.Protesters had blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the Delhi-Amritsar national highway near Dhanowali village of Jalandhar district as well as railway tracks near Jalandhar, affecting several trains.— With inputs from agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sugarcane-farmers-withdraw-protest-after-punjab-announces-hike-in-prices-301475
25-08-2021||---||4 Punjab ministers, two dozen MLAs say they have no faith in CM; dissidents meet Sidhu||Chandigarh, August 24In an open revolt against Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, four Punjab ministers and nearly two dozen state MLAs on Tuesday announced that they had no faith in the Chief Minister as far as fulfilling the election promises is concerned, indirectly seeking his replacement.“Changing the CM is the prerogative of the party high command. But we have lost faith in him,” pointed out ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Channi.Also read: Punjab Congress ministers and MLAs call for action against Navjot Sidhu’s advisorsDissidents also met Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on the issue. "Got a call from Tripat Bajwa ji asking for an emergency meeting... Met him along with other colleagues at the PPCC office. Will apprise the high command of the situation," Sidhu said in a Facebook post.The development taking place a day ahead of Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat’s Chandigarh visit has further deepened the crisis in the Punjab Congress amid the shadow fight between the CM and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu.After arriving at a wider consensus during a meeting called at the Sector 39 residence of minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa, the three other ministers, along with the MLAs, authorised a five-member delegation to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi at the earliest.Navjot Singh Sidhu, however, was not present at the meeting.Ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Charanjit Channi and PPCC general secretary and MLA Pargat Singh will seek time to meet the Congress president.Addressing the media after the meeting, Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Channi said it is sure that they would not be able to win the elections under the current chief minister. “We have the best portfolios. But we are not bothered. Our concern is that the poll promises like justice in Bargari and scrapping the faulty power purchase agreements have not been fulfilled.”The ministers and MLAs felt that in the scaling up of the shadow fight between the CM and Navjot Sindhu, the core issue for which party leaders appeared before the Kharge panel was not being addressed.The development comes ahead of the impending cabinet reshuffle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-punjab-ministers-two-dozen-mlas-say-they-have-no-faith-in-cm-dissidents-meet-sidhu-301454
25-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court restrains special CBI judge from pronouncing verdict in murder case in which Dera chief is accused||Just about two days before the verdict in the Ranjeet Singh murder case allegedly involving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday stayed the final pronouncement of judgment. Comments were also sought from Panchkula CBI Special Judge.The directions by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came after the Bench was told that “everything has been manipulated through CBI Public Prosecutor KP Singh”. Taking a note of the allegations by victim Ranjeet Singh’s son Jagseer Singh, Justice Sangwan also directed the CBI to place before the Bench KP Singh’s posting order and a specific affidavit on his appointment for CBI Court at Panchkula.Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate RS Bains with Loveneet Thakur submitted that KP Singh was previously posted with the UT CBI Special Judge, when the presiding officer was posted at Chandigarh.  After his transfer to Panchkula, he was interfering in the administration of justice and was influencing the entire proceedings despite the fact there were two other special public prosecutors appointed for the trial.Another ground taken by the senior counsel was that a complaint relating to some other trial, “wherein there are allegations that the presiding officer is in constant touch with accused Manish Grover and some other influential persons facing prosecution under the Money Laundering Act”, has been given addressed to the High Chief Justice.Justice Sangwan also took note of the petitioner’s allegations that footage of the CCTV camera installed in the Court would show KP Singh was attending the Court even on Saturday, which was not a Court working day. Though some personal oral aspersions were made against the Special Judge, the same were not recorded in this order as those were not stated on oath by the petitioner,” Justice Sangwan added.“The senior counsel for the petitioner has also submitted that the presence of respondent KP Singh is suspicious as rather than assisting the Special Public Prosecutor, he is having a fiduciary relationship over the Presiding Officer. The senior counsel for the petitioner has, thus, submitted that the petitioner has the reasonable apprehension that he may not get justice from the Special Judge, CBI Court, Panchkula,” Justice Sangwan further observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-restrains-special-cbi-judge-from-pronouncing-verdict-in-murder-case-in-which-dera-chief-is-accused-301450
25-08-2021||New Delhi||SC asks CBI to verify medical condition of former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar jailed in 1984 riots case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to verify the medical condition of former Delhi Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is serving life sentence in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.Kumar (75) has sought interim bail citing his poor health condition.Issuing notice to the CBI on Kumar's interim bail plea, a Bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul asked the agency to file an affidavit within a week after verifying his medical condition.Kumar, who had sought interim bail on the ground of his poor health condition, has been in jail since December 31, 2018, when he surrendered after being convicted and awarded life imprisonment by the Delhi High Court in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case. He has challenged the Delhi High Court's verdict of December 17, 2018 that awarded him life imprisonment for the "remainder of his natural life". The case relates the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment's Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1-2 in 1984, and burning down of a Gurudwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.On behalf of Kumar, senior advocate Vikas Singh said the former MP should be taken to a private hospital for treatment as his condition had not been determined at a government hospital here.“We want somebody from the state to verify it. We want the state to verify what the medical condition is,” the Bench said, posting the matter for further hearing September 6.Singh said Kumar was earlier treated by a doctor at a private hospital and he could be treated there only.“I have serious reservations about private hospitals and these powerful accused,” senior advocate Dushyant Dave said on behalf of the complainants.He pointed out that the top court had in September last year dismissed Kumar’s interim bail.When Singh said that Kumar is in a “very precarious condition”, Dave said that in March last year he was examined by an AIIMS board.The Supreme Court had on September 4 last year dismissed Kumar’s interim bail plea, saying "This is not a small case... We cannot grant you bail.” It had also declined his plea for hospitalisation, saying his medical reports suggested he didn’t need to be sent to a hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-asks-cbi-to-verify-medical-condition-of-former-congress-leader-sajjan-kumar-jailed-in-1984-riots-case-301438
25-08-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan posts video on social media offering apology over recent controversy||Chandigarh, August 24Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan has posted a video on the social media platform offering apology over his recent controversy.Maan had landed in a controversy as members of the Satkar Committee had lodged a police complaint after his video had gone viral wherein he was heard saying that the chief of a dera and Nakodar Sain Laddi Shah was from the descendants of third Sikh guru, Guru Amar Dass.Also read: Gurdas Maan lands in fresh controversyThe committee members had lodged a complaint with Nakodar police and later with the SSP, Jalandhar. The committee had demanded that a case be lodged against the singer or else they would lodge a demonstration on the issue across Punjab. The members had raised slogans against the singer outside the SSP office and threatened to gherao the SSP office if the officials did not take action against Maan.The singer had reportedly made the statement during a mela at Nakodar. The members of the committee had alleged that the speech of Maan could be a part of his planned strategy and aimed at hurting the sentiments of the Sikhs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-gurdas-maan-posts-video-on-social-media-offering-apology-over-recent-controversy-301423
