29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab witnesses 40 more cases, 3 more deaths||Punjab on Sunday reported three more Covid-related deaths and 40 fresh cases, taking the overall figures to 16,369 fatalities and 6,00,551 infections, according to a medical bulletin.The three fresh fatalities were reported from Ferozepur, Mohali and Tarn Taran districts.Among the new Covid-19 cases, Bathinda reported nine, followed by six each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur.The number of active cases in the state dropped to 392 from 405 on Saturday.With 47 recoveries, the number of such persons reached 5,83,790, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported six more cases, taking the total count to 65,093.With no death reported on Sunday, the toll stood at 813.The number of active cases in the city was 38 while the number of recoveries was 64,242. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-witnesses-40-more-cases-3-more-deaths-303811
29-08-2021||---||SAD announces 3 more candidates for Punjab Assembly elections; Maluka refuses to contest||Bathinda, August 29The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday announced the names of three more candidates for the forthcoming Punjab Assembly elections.Senior party leader and former minister Sikander Singh Maluka has been fielded from Rampura Phul, while Parkash Singh Bhatti will contest from Bathinda Rural. The party has fielded Darshan Singh Kotfatta from Bucho.  These three seats fall in Bathinda district.“SAD President Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced three more candidates for Vidhan Sabha election. Mr Sikandar S Maluka from Rampura Phul, Parkash Singh Bhatti from Bathinda Rural & Darshan Singh Kotfatta from Bhuchon assembly constituency,” said SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema in a tweet.Meanwhile, Sikander Singh Maluka refused to contest from Rampura Phul constituency after his name figured in the list of three candidates.Maluka said the ticket should be given to his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka.After his candidature for Rampura Phul seat was announced, Maluka said his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka has been working in this constituency for the last one year and the ticket should be given to his son.He said the party did not consult him before announcing his name for the Rampura Phul seat.Maluka said he should be fielded from Maur seat. — with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-announces-3-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-elections-maluka-refuses-to-contest-303741
29-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar mass suicide: Tainted DSP Hardev Singh Boparai dismissed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28Punjab Government has dismissed the services of tainted DSP Hardev Singh Boparai who was convicted by the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge last year in connection with mass suicide case in which five members of a family had ended their lives in 2004.It took nearly one and half year for the Punjab Police to terminate his services. The order regarding his dismissal was released on August 18 which reached Amritsar rural police on Saturday. SP Headquarter, Amandeep Kaur confirmed the development while adding that the same has been noted to Amritsar central jail authorities.Boparai was convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 465, 471, 120-B, 119, 201 and 217 of the IPC in February 2020. The orders reportedly read that he was allegedly harassing a family for money which forced the members to commit suicide. Therefore, his services have been terminated under Section 311 (2) (B) of the Indian Constitution and under 13 of Punjab Civil Services (punishment and appeal) rules 1970 from immediate effect.Besides Boparai, the court of Additional Session Judge had convicted former DIG Kultar Singh and several relatives of the deceased. DIG was sentenced to eight years of imprisonment while DSP was handed down a four-year prison term. The court had also sentenced Hardeep’s sister Parminder Kaur, her husband Palwinder Pal Singh, Hardeep’s uncle Mohinder Singh and his daughter-in-law Subreen Kaur to eight years in jail for driving the five members to end their lives.Hardeep Singh, a resident of Chowk Karori locality in walled city here, his wife Romi, mother Jaswant Kaur, and children Simran and Ismeet, had committed suicide by consuming poison on October 31, 2004.The family had left a suicide note scribbled on a wall of their house besides posting a letter to their acquaintance, accusing four of their relatives and the then SSP Kultar Singh of forcing them to take the extreme step. Hardeep was allegedly being blackmailed by his relatives and Kultar Singh for having committed a crime. In 2009, Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) activist Sarabjit Singh Verka brought the matter to the court, seeking justice for the victims, while alleging that the police were not investigating the case due to involvement of senior cops despite three inquiries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-mass-suicide-tainted-dsp-hardev-singh-boparai-dismissed-303641
29-08-2021||---||‘Urdu poetry a voice of dissent’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28The Majha House hosted Saif Mahmood and Mohsin Sayeed, two-eminent Urdu writers and poets, to talk about Urdu poetry and its relevance in these troubled times.The duo talked about Urdu poetry and its role and presence in the times of hate, with reference to political and social divisions. One persistent fallacy that we must do away with is that Urdu poetry is just about love, wine and romance. If we cast a deep look at the variety of poetry that we have in the language we will discover that Urdu poetry addresses almost all malaise of life in every phase of time. Whether it was standing against the establishment or lodging any protest, Urdu poetry has always been the voice of dissent. — Saif Mahmood, a writer & author of 'Beloved Delhi: A Mughal city and her greatest poets'Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said, “Urdu has always been regarded as the language of love and Urdu poetry provides succour and solace from hate. We all need a cohesive force to bring us together irrespective of our differences.”Mahmood, considered an astonishing repository of Urdu poetry, is a writer and author of ‘Beloved Delhi: A Mughal city and her greatest poets’. Sayeed, is a writer and commentator of the series, ‘The Pink tree in Karachi and Lahore’.Calling Urdu poetry the medium of protest and dissent against divisive forces, Mahmood said, “One persistent fallacy that we must do away with is that Urdu poetry is just about love, wine and romance. If we cast a deep look at the variety of poetry that we have in the language we will discover that Urdu poetry addresses almost all malaise of life in every phase of time. Whether it was standing against the establishment or lodging any protest, Urdu poetry has always been the voice of dissent.” He cited Ahmad Faraz’s poem, ‘Mohaasra’, written in rebellion against the political order warning the poets of protest. “The poem is a harsh indictment of the tyrannical rule of Zia Ul Haq and his military regime. He did not bow down to the dictator and went on fearlessly to recite this very nazm at a mushaira after which he was arrested. Like him, Faiz Ahmad Faiz also fearlessly wrote against the powers. And in spite of the thundering tones and the violent imagery of their poems, there is always a ray of hope therein which inspire people to dream of a better future,” he said.Mahmood stressed that this protest is not something new and modern as many are led to believe; it has been going on since the times of Mir, Ghalib and Sauda. He further added that the protest we were talking about isn’t only against religion or the state; it’s also against parochial views about sexuality. “Mir has written many ghazals, which may be termed obscene today, but they have distinct undertones of homosexuality. Even poets like Khusro, Hasrat and Haali, wrote extensively about infanticide and sexual abuse. Thus, these poets, regarded primarily as love poets, can also be regarded rightly as feminist poets. Even latter-day poets, including Zehra Nigaah, composed many hard hitting poems in protest against violence against women. Poems like ‘Gul badshah’ and ‘Main bach gayi maan’ were written years ago, yet they remain relevant even today,” said Mahmood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/urdu-poetry-a-voice-of-dissent-303647
29-08-2021||---||Sikh Regiment celebrates 175 years of its raising||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 28The Sikh Regiment, most decorated among Indian Army regiments, on Saturday celebrated 175 years of its raising at Sikh Regimental Centre in Ramgarh Cantt, Jharkhand.The ceremonial celebrations commenced with the customary paying of homage at the Regimental War Memorial, followed by ‘Sainik Sammelan’, which was addressed by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Colonel of the Sikh regiment.Lt Gen Menon, who is commanding the Leh-based 14 Corps, addressed the troops via video-conferencing. He also released the ‘First Day Cover’ to commemorate the day.A well-produced ‘SIKH’ magazine has been brought out and it details each of the battles fought by Sikh troops. The regiment also unveiled ‘Dodransbicentennial’ silver trophy.The first battalion of the Sikh Regiment was raised on July 30, 1846, as XIV Ferozepore Sikhs. The regiment fought several successful battles, including World War-I and II, in pre-Independence era. The 1897 battle of Saragarhi is still regarded the bravest with display of raw courage following the ethos of ‘last man-last round’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-regiment-celebrates-175-years-of-its-raising-303492
29-08-2021||Fazilka||Surjit Kumar Jyani seeks more trains for Fazilka||Former Health Minister Surjit Kumar Jyani yesterday met Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in New Delhi and demanded more trains for Fazilka.In a memorandum submitted to the Railway Minister, Jyani demanded extending the Chandigarh-Ferozepur train to Fazilka. He pleaded that the Mumbai-Ferozepur Punjab mail train should be extended to Sriganganagar via Fazilka-Abohar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surjit-kumar-jyani-seeks-more-trains-for-fazilka-303488
29-08-2021||Jalandhar||BSP to hold rally in Phagwara today||The BSP is set to hold a mammoth state-level ‘Alakh Jagao Rally’ tomorrow at Phagwara grain market and is likely to announce its state chief Jasvir Singh Garhi as the candidate from here.His candidature is expected to be announced in the presence of BSP national vice-president Anand Kumar, national coordinator of the party Akash Anand and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsp-to-hold-rally-in-phagwara-today-303487
29-08-2021||Sangrur||Unions oppose minister Vijay Inder Singla’s visit||Unemployed members of the BEd and TET Pass Union today protested against Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla at Phagguwala. The minister was here to attend a function. He said his government had taken all possible steps to help farmers and the unemployed.Some farmers also opposed his visit to Rampura. They alleged the state government had not been supporting them in their protest against the central farm laws. “I interacted with 140 students and their parents today and sought their suggestions on how to further improve the education system,” said Singla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unions-oppose-minister-vijay-inder-singlas-visit-303485
29-08-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Ticket aspirants out to woo parties in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 28In the Sangrur constituency, both the SAD and AAP have a long list of ticket aspirants for the forthcoming Assembly elections, while the Congress has its local MLA and Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla, who is confident of repeating his victory riding on the development work done in the area.In AAP, youth leader Narinder Kaur Bharaj, party’s trade wing leader Minku Jawandha, intellectual wing’s district president Avtar Ealwal and party’s candidate in the last election Dinesh Bansal are hopeful of getting ticket and working hard towards it. Sangrur being a strong fort of AAP, as Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, state party president Bhagwant Mann and senior leader Aman Arora belong to the district, the finalisation of candidate may be a tough task for the party.“The long list of aspirants shows the popularity of our party. People have high hopes from us. Though I want to contest from Sangrur, I will follow the party’s decision,” said Ealwal.Amid rumours that the SAD leadership has asked former Sangrur MLA Parkash Chand Garg to shift to Dhuri constituency, Sangrur District Bar Association president Gagandeep Singh Sibia and other aspirants have started making efforts to secure the party ticket. Garg couldn’t be contacted, despite repeated attempts.Singla sounded confident to repeat his winning performance. Another youngster, Chamandeep Singh Milkhy, has announced to contest as an Independent.Tough taskSangrur being a strong fort of AAP, as Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, state party president Bhagwant Mann and senior leader Aman Arora belong to the district, the finalisation of candidate may be a tough task for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ticket-aspirants-out-to-woo-parties-in-sangrur-303484
29-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Batala Improvement Trust chief’s son held for Rs 90 crore GST fraud||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 28Congress politicians were left red-faced after Shiva Sareen, son of the newly appointed chairman of Batala Improvement Trust (IT) Pawan Kumar Pamma, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Jalandhar today for his involvement in a Rs 90 crore GST fraud.The development has upset political dynamics of the Assembly seat as Pawan Pamma is known to be a long-time loyalist of Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa. His appointment as the chairman was made a few days ago on the recommendations of Bajwa. The MP was to be the chief guest at his installation ceremony which was slated to be held on August 31. Elaborate arrangements were being made by Pamma and his loyalists for the event.Three powerful Congress politicians, including Partap Bajwa, are eying this Assembly seat. The two others are Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri. Tript is the sitting MLA from the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian. He controlled all the administrative and police affairs of the area till the spat between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu spilled out in the open. Tript is a Sidhu supporter.Today’s arrest of Shiva means the appointment of his father now hangs by a thread. Sources say in an election year, the PPCC chief and the CM would not like to have “the father of a tainted son” as the IT chief.As news of Shiva’s arrest reached the city, deliberations among leaders started on the name of the next chairman. The IT chairmanship is considered to be a plum posting as Batala is the sixth biggest city of Punjab. Sources say Bajwa will try hard to get Pamma’s appointment through but there are several others who want a new chief to take over. Bajwa’s detractors have already started piling pressure on state leaders to ensure a new man is appointed. The MP had displayed his political prowess recently by making Pamma the chairman despite the fact that there were still days to go before the term of incumbent chief Kasturi Lal Seth was slated to end. Bajwa had also appointed another supporter Gurinder Singh Chikoo as the chairman of the Batala Market Committee. Sources say he had proved that he was a force to reckon in the area by appointing two of his loyalists on plum posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batala-improvement-trust-chiefs-son-held-for-rs-90-crore-gst-fraud-303481
29-08-2021||---||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma holds meet in Ludhiana amid farmers’ stir||Ludhiana, August 28Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma today reached Ludhiana where farmers were protesting outside his meeting venue. Heavy police was deployed and barricades were put up since morning in the area.A farmer said they would continue the protest and would go to every place where the BJP leader was visiting till the farm laws were rolled back.Ashwani Sharma, Punjab BJP President Will address issues concerning industryIssues concerning the industry will be included in the election manifesto of the BJP for the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections. The state government has imposed taxes and made life of traders more difficult.Addressing the media today, Sharma said it was sad to see the infighting in the Punjab Congress. “It is the state and its people who are suffering due to personal issues and egos of the leaders,” said Sharma.He announced forming a seven-member committee which would work for the welfare of industry. “We will provide assurance and safety to the industry. Issues concerning the industry will be included in the election manifesto of the BJP for the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections. The state government has imposed taxes and made life of traders more difficult,” he alleged. Sharma held a meeting with the members of the trade cell and discussed at length the problems faced by the industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-bjp-president-ashwani-sharma-holds-meet-in-ludhiana-amid-farmers-stir-303355
29-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Former MP Jagmeet Singh Brar shifts focus to Maur||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 28Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior vice-president and former MP Jagmeet Singh Brar has shifted his focus to the Maur constituency ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections. Even though the party has not made any formal announcement on his candidature, the veteran leader has been holding meetings in the segment.Talking to The Tribune, Brar said, “Giving ticket to contest the elections is the prerogative of the SAD president and the party high command, but I have started meeting people in Maur.”The entry of Brar in Maur has triggered infighting in the SAD as Sikander Singh Maluka, who was made halqa in charge of the SAD after former SAD minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon shifted his base to Zira, has also started holding public gathering as a show of strength as he is eyeing the ticket for his son Gurpreet Maluka from Rampura Phul and for himself from Maur. Party sources claimed the SAD was eyeing to field Brar from Maur because it would benefit the party, as he would also campaign for party candidates in nearby constituencies like Bathinda (Rural), Mansa, Budhlada and Talwandi Sabo.Meanwhile, Sikander Singh Maluka held a show of strength on Raksha Bandhan in Maur, where women present in the large numbers demanded him to be announced as the candidate from this segment. Maluka’s home constituency is Rampura Phul, but sometime back, he was made the halqa in charge of the Maur Assembly segment.Maluka: Will provide free insurance coverSAD kisan wing president and former minister Sikander Singh Maluka on Saturday said if elected, the SAD-BSP would provide many schemes in the health and education sector. He said the SAD-BSP alliance had also formulated a policy under which each person would be provided a free insurance cover of Rs10 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-mp-jagmeet-singh-brar-shifts-focus-to-maur-303354
29-08-2021||---||Ministers must quit if no trust in Punjab CM: Akalis||Amritsar, August 28Elect a government which can bring peace and development, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said this while addressing a rally organised by expelled BJP leader Anil Joshi, who recently joined the Akali Dal.The former deputy CM also promised to beautify the entire walled city on the pattern of Heritage Street, if voted to power. He also criticised the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana and demanded action against police officers.Sukhbir said approximately Rs 4,000 crore was spent in the holy city during the 10 years of the SAD government. Criticising Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said, “Sidhu was the Local Bodies Minister but he has not started a single project in Amritsar.”Sukhbir said a mega solar power project at the cost of Rs 25,000 crore would be set up in Punjab to provide promised free and cheap electricity to people. After a demand raised by Anil Joshi, Sukhbir also promised a world-class multi-sports stadium in the city.Senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia challenged Congress ministers Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Randhawa, and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to resign from the government if they did not have faith in the Chief Minister. He said the SAD would bring a no-confidence motion against the government.Shoe hurled at party chief after rallyA man hurled a shoe at Sukhbir Singh Badal as he walked off the stage after the rally. The shoe, however, did not hit him. The police have detained Boota Singh of the Amritsar north constituency. Sources in the police department said Boota Singh was physically disabled and “feeble-minded”. Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal confirmed the man had been detained. He, however, said there was no evidence yet whether the incident took place.‘Capt should resign on moral grounds’Mohali: Former Lok Sabha member and senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra on Saturday asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to resign from the post on moral grounds as he no longer enjoyed the full support of Congress MLAs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ministers-must-quit-if-no-trust-in-punjab-cm-akalis-303353
29-08-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||BJP leaders’ entry spells trouble for SAD||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 28The induction of former BJP leaders into the SAD has opened a plethora of problems for the Akali Dal. While the party is trying to find two new seats for alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) — after Amritsar-North and Sujanpur were given to former BJP leaders Anil Joshi and Raj Kumar Gupta — a few SAD Hindu leaders eyeing the deputy CM’s post are in a fix as BJP turncoats have emerged as probable claimants.Jasvir Singh Garhi, BSP State PresidentWorking in tandemThe central leadership will take a call on the issue. We are working in tandem with the Akalis on each seat for the upcoming polls. The problem may be compounded if more BJP or Congress leaders join the Akalis. Joshi has already announced several saffron leaders have sent him feelers of joining the Akalis.Sources said the SAD and BSP were discussing the possible exchange of two to four seats to meet such an eventuality. However, the discussions have been kept under wraps with the Akalis apprehending a protest in the ranks. The SAD is also facing infighting on some seats where there are more than one candidate vying for the ticket.Bathinda’s Maur is one such seat, from where former Congress leader Jagmeet Brar, who joined the SAD in April 2019, and former minister and senior Akali leader Sikander Singh Maluka are vying for a ticket.Maluka, who has traditionally contested from the Rampura Phul seat, now wants the party to field his son Gurpreet Singh from there. Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal is learnt to be backing Brar.Daljit Singh Cheema, SAD SpokespersonDiscussing seat allocationTalks are on for allocation of fresh seats to the BSP… The SAD-BSP leaders have full confidence in one another.Murmurs within the BSP against the alliance have also begun, but its state and central leadership does not want to step in for now. It has already taken disciplinary action against some Doaba leaders for questioning the distribution of the seats with the Akalis.Sources in the BSP say the leadership does not want any controversy ahead of party’s August 29 state-level rally in Phagwara. “SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal is the main speaker, besides some prominent national leaders of the BSP. The detractors are waiting for the event to make their move. It is possible Sukhbir may announce new seats for BSP candidates there.”SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said discussions were on for the allocation of fresh seats to the BSP.Sukhbir had announced two posts of deputy CM — one for a Dalit and another for a Hindu leader — if the Akalis came to power. SAD Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma is the only prominent Hindu face in the party. The applecart seems to have been disturbed as more influential Hindu leaders such as Joshi have joined the ranks.The party may also see trouble on the Bathinda urban seat. MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal has already announced former MLA Sarup Chand Singla as the candidate from Bathinda-Urban. However, former BJP Yuva Morcha leader Mohit Gupta, who joined the Akalis along with Joshi, has built his political career there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-entry-spells-trouble-for-sad-303352
29-08-2021||Muktsar||Man accused of killing wife in Muktsar||Workers gherao FM’s officeBathinda: The All-Punjab Anganwadi Workers’ Union on Saturday gheraoed the office of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal for more than four hours and staged a dharna. Later, they submitted a memorandum of their demands at his office. The workers have been seeking payment of hiked honorarium amount and regularisation of services. TNSKhalistan flag hoisted, probe onSangrur: After a video purportedly showing flags of Khalistan and Punjab Referendum-2020 being unfurled at the gate of the office of Sangrur DC went viral on social media, the police have started an investigation. They have not received any complaint in this connection as yet. TNSTyre showroom guttedAbohar: Hundreds of tyres and other material were destroyed in a fire that broke out in a showroom in Abohar on Saturday. People saw smoke emanating from the top floor of the showroom located on the Abohar-Seetogunno road and alerted the owner. It took the authorities over two hours to control the fire. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-accused-of-killing-wife-in-muktsar-303351
29-08-2021||---||Tech vigil must during festive season, says DGP||Jalandhar, August 28Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta today directed all CPs/SSPs to launch preventive, precautionary and operational security measures to ensure peace and communal harmony in the state.“Intelligent and smart policing, which involves use of technology and tradecraft, needs to be implemented at the ground level,” said DGP Gupta, while addressing a state-level crime review meeting at the Punjab Armed Police (PAP) campus here. The meeting took place at a time when the state has been witnessing a huge influx of grenades and RDX-laden tiffin boxes besides recovery of other arms and ammunition, signalling major attempts being made by anti-national elements to disturb peace and communal harmony in the border state. With festival season also around the corner, DGP Gupta directed the CPs/SSPs to keep vigil at all sensitive places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tech-vigil-must-during-festive-season-says-dgp-303356
29-08-2021||Bathinda||Blood transfusion in Bathinda: Victim’s spouse, 3-year-old daughter HIV +ve||The adverse effects of the HIV-infected blood given to children and a woman admitted to the Civil Hospital in Bathinda last year have started appearing as the husband and 3-year-old daughter of the woman have also tested HIV-positive.However, the report of her 5-year-old son has come out negative. Sonu Maheshwari, president of NGO Naujawan Welfare Society, has promised justice to the family. The victim claimed the careless staff of the Civil Hospital had ruined her family. Her husband had stopped going to work after being diagnosed with the disease, which had also worsened their financial condition. She would now have to depend on medicines all her life. The family has demanded help and strict action against those who donated infected blood.Notably, a woman was admitted to the medical ward at the hospital for loss of blood in May last year. The woman was given two units of blood. The next day, more blood was required.A regular donor donated his blood through an NGO at the hospital but officials, without checking the blood, administered it to the patient. It was later found that the donor was HIV-positive. After an inquiry, a case was registered against three employees of the blood bank at the Civil Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blood-transfusion-in-bathinda-victims-spouse-3-year-old-daughter-hiv-ve-303357
29-08-2021||---||PM inaugurates renovated Jallianwala Bagh||New Delhi, August 28Stressing that it was a country’s duty to protect its history, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today dedicated to the nation the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Amritsar.Inaugurating the complex virtually, Modi said the dreams of innocent people were still visible in the bullet marks on the walls of Jallianwala Bagh. He said horrors like the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and Partition spoke of the sacrifices made for India’s freedom and should not be forgotten as these inspired to keep the country above all.Recounting the impact of the ghastly 10-minute incident in Jallianwala Bagh on April 13, 1919, the PM said, “It inspired countless revolutionaries and freedom fighters, including martyrs Bhagat Singh and Udham Singh, to die for the cause of free India.” Those 10 minutes, he said, became immortal in the Indian freedom struggle, due to which the country was able to celebrate the Amrut Mahotsav of freedom today.Modi said it was the responsibility of every nation to preserve its history as it taught the countrymen and gave them the direction to move forward. “Therefore, we have decided to observe August 14 every year as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. India witnessed horrors like Jallianwala Bagh and many more during Partition… Punjab people have been the biggest victims of Partition,” he said.Underlining the brave tradition of Punjab, he said following the path of Gurus, sons and daughters of the state had stood fearlessly against all dangers facing the country.Noting that efforts were on to preserve this rich heritage, the PM said, “Fortunately, auspicious occasions like the 550th Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev, 350th of Guru Gobind Singh and 400th of Guru Teg Bahadur had taken place in the last seven years and the Union Government has tried to spread the teachings of the Gurus through these holy occasions.”He also mentioned about initiatives like turning Sultanpur Lodhi into a heritage town and Kartarpur corridor. He said it was due to ‘Guru Kripa’ (blessings of the Gurus) that the government was able to bring the ‘swaroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib along with stranded citizens back to India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-inaugurates-renovated-jallianwala-bagh-303469
29-08-2021||Karam Prakash||5 of 15 assistant professors posts in Punjab's medical education dept saw one candidate||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 28During the recent recruitment of 15 assistant professors in the Department of Medical Education, there were five posts in different branches against which only one candidate each appeared for the interview.Dr KK Talwar, Chairman, Selection CommitteeSelected on meritWhile we had the discretion to reject the lone candidate, we selected them on merit. Some posts were reserved, so only a few candidates showed up.With no other candidate in the fray, all five — including two relations of former principals — made it to the selection list. Dr KK Talwar, chairman of the selection committee, said it was not their fault if there was no other candidate. “While we had the discretion to reject the lone candidate, we selected them on merit. Some posts were reserved, so only a few candidates showed up.”Meanwhile, a candidate, who had applied for the post, claimed the Department of Medical Education had been cancelling interviews in the past owing to the poor turnout, but this time they didn’t. “The department had in the past called off interviews after a single candidate showed up against a post. However, it was not done this time,” he said. It is learnt that all relations of the retired or serving officials who had applied for the posts were successful in making it to the list of selected candidates.Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said everyone had the right to apply for the post — including relatives of retired and serving officials. “It is not their fault if candidates are sons or daughters of former principal of any medical college. We can’t discriminate against them. All have been selected on merit.” Some candidates, who couldn’t make it to the list, said an inquiry should be conducted into the criteria adopted for reservation of seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-of-15-assistant-professors-posts-in-punjabs-medical-education-dept-saw-one-candidate-303358
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Apologise for lathicharge on Haryana protesters: Punjab CM to Manohar Lal Khattar||Expressing shock at the “brutality” of the Haryana Police, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today slammed his counterpart in the neighbouring state for “assault” on peacefully protesting farmers, leaving many injured in the lathicharge.Pointing out this was not the first time farmers had been subjected to “brute force” at the hands of the Haryana Police, Captain Amarinder said it was evident that the BJP-led ML Khattar government was doing so in a desperate bid to end the farmers’ stir against the farm laws.The Chief Minister demanded an apology from the Haryana CM and aid for the injured farmers.“This is no way to treat our ‘annadatas’,” said Captain Amarinder, warning the BJP would have to bear the consequences in the forthcoming Assembly elections in Punjab and other states. — TNSHighway blocked near AboharAbohar: On a call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers on Saturday blocked national and state highways for an hour over the lathicharge on farmers in Karnal. This brought road traffic to a standstill. In Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh, farmer organisations blocked traffic by staging a sit-in from 4 to 5 pm. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/apologise-for-lathicharge-on-haryana-protesters-punjab-cm-to-manohar-lal-khattar-303350
29-08-2021||Amritsar||Farmers lathicharged after sit-in; many hurt in Amritsar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the restored historic memorial amidst a mild lathicharge on protesting activists of youth and farmer organisations outside the venue.While appreciating the restoration of the memorial, family members of the martyrs expressed disappointment at the PM not coming in person for the unveiling ceremony. “Neither the PM nor a senior BJP leader attended the ceremony in person,” they said. BJP leaders chose to attend the programme virtually.Unprecedented security was in place on the heritage alley leading to the memorial and major intersections — Hall Gate and Gheo Mandi Chowk — in the city.Activists of the Naujwan Bharat Sabha, Kirti Kisan Union and other farmer organisations squatted outside the Bagh before being removed by the police. They then staged a sit-in at the Hall Gate and Gheo Mandi Chowk.A group of protesters even entered the Golden Temple complex and left half an hour before the commencement of the virtual programme.The protesters clashed with the police to gain access to the venue, leading to the use of mild lathi-charge. Some protesters sustained injuries as the police huddled them in a bus and took them away. Manga Azad, general secretary, Naujwan Bharat Sabha, claimed the police rounded up around 100 persons after both sides were involved in jostling.In the morning, farmers and youth organisations held a sit-in outside the Bagh to prevent BJP leaders from attending the ceremony. Their leaders demanded repeal of the three agriculture laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-lathicharged-after-sit-in-many-hurt-in-amritsar-303349
29-08-2021||---||Harish Rawat briefs Rahul Gandhi on Punjab, will visit Chandigarh next week||New Delhi, August 28AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat today met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and briefed him on the developments in the state where the turf war between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and state chief Navjot Sidhu is far from over and is, in fact, escalating.Rawat will be in Chandigarh next week to meet the CM and Sidhu in a bid to attempt a resolution as Punjab leaders are learnt to have urged the high command to pacify the warring factions in the interests of the party.Sources said Rawat apprised Rahul of the ongoing outreach of the state government, concerns some ministers and MLAs voiced about the CM, progress on the 18-point manifesto programme, recent intemperate remarks by Sidhu’s advisers and continuing parallel shows of strength by the two leaders.The resignation by Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Mali was also discussed and Rahul is learnt to have asked Rawat to reach out to both the CM and Sidhu.Rawat made light of Sidhu’s “will give a befitting reply if not given the freedom to decide” remarks saying “everyone had their own style of speaking and all state leaders were polite”. The reaction followed a tweet by Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari, who questioned the high command’s silence on Sidhu’s comments daring the party. “I will go to Punjab in two-three days and meet the CM, Sidhu and anyone else who wants to meet me,” Rawat said.The high command wants the two camps to resolve their differences and work together in larger electoral interest, but no amount of admonishment appears to be helping the reconciliation process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-briefs-rahul-gandhi-on-punjab-will-visit-chandigarh-next-week-303466
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Jallianwala Bagh: Memorial to fallen protesters opens in new avatar||Describing the newly renovated Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial as a tribute to the martyrs and a symbol of inspiration for the youth, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said the monument must serve as a reminder for the future generations about the right of people to peaceful democratic protest.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterTestament to barbaric actIt is a symbol of non-violent freedom struggle. It is also a testament to one of the most barbaric acts of violence perpetrated on peacefully assembled people.In what was apparently an oblique reference to the ongoing agitation of the peacefully protesting farmers, the Chief Minister said the ‘smarak’, along with the Jallianwala Bagh centenary memorial recently dedicated to the people by the state government, should serve to remind leaders of the inalienable right of Indians to hold peaceful democratic protests, which could not be stifled, as the British also learnt from the Jallianwala Bagh incident.“The ‘smarak’ and the centenary memorial “seek to pay tribute to the great martyrs so that history may always remember their sacrifice and our present and future generations can draw inspiration from their patriotism,” said the Chief Minister, in his brief remarks before PM Narendra Modi virtually dedicated the national memorial to the nation through the remote.Captain Amarinder also requested the Prime Minister that the Government of India should make efforts to bring back the personal effects, i.e. pistol and diary of Shaheed Udham Singh, who avenged the injustice of this massacre, from the UK. He said he had written to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in this regard.The event was attended, among others, by several Union ministers, Governor, Leader of the Opposition and Jallianwala Bagh trustees, besides several MPs and MLAs. Families of the Jallianwala massacre martyrs were also present.The occasion was marked by a two-minute silence in the memory of the martyrs, following the sounding of the bugle. Describing the memorial as “an everlasting symbol of non-violent and peaceful struggle for the freedom of India”, the Chief Minister said “at another level, it also stands testament to one of the most barbaric acts of violence and state oppression perpetrated on a group of peacefully assembled people”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-bagh-memorial-to-fallen-protesters-opens-in-new-avatar-303347
29-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Jallianwala Bagh: Embossed figures, new-look well & more||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28The historic Jallianwala Bagh, housing the national martyrs’ memorial, which was thrown open to public after over one and a half years of renovation, has been beautified at a cost of Rs 20 crore by the Ministry of Culture with accent on aesthetics.During the renovation period, the Bagh underwent massive changes. Both walls of the narrow street, from where the British Indian troops led by General Dyer had gained access to the Bagh on April 13, 1919, are now teeming with embossed human figures, depicting varied culture through their attires.The entrance to the Bagh, where a fountain stood, now has a huge piece of granite bearing the flame carving symbolising the martyrs’ memorial.Sheds have been installed on the walls bearing the bullet marks, while glass panels have been put up on the historic well, where hundreds fell to their death to escape bullets. The façade of the well has been redone with small bricks (locally known as Nanakshahi) replacing the plaster walls. The other features include a permanent sound and light show besides an open theatre.The public garden has been landscaped with with native plantation. The steel grills around it have been replaced with wooden ones. On the outside, booths with ticket windows have been set up.Heritage experts, however, feel the original character of the Bagh has been lost with repeat beautification drives. “The original character can now only be seen in old pictures, journals, newspapers, documentaries and movies. Present and future generations will have difficulty in relating with the past,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-bagh-embossed-figures-new-look-well-more-303348
29-08-2021||Aditi Tandon||Harish Rawat briefs Rahul Gandhi on Punjab; to visit Chandigarh next week||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 28AICC general Secretary Punjab Harish Rawat on Saturday met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and briefed him on the developments in Punjab where the turf war between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and state chief Navjot Sidhu is far from over and is in fact escalating.Rawat will be in Chandigarh next week to meet the CM and Sidhu and anyone who wants to meet him.Rawat is learnt to have apprised Gandhi of the ongoing political and administrative outreach of the state government, the outstanding areas of concern and the progress on 18-point manifesto programme besides the parallel shows of strength by the two leaders and simmering dissidence against the CM.Gandhi was also told that Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Mali had resigned as asked by the party.Rawat, meanwhile, made light of Sidhu’s “I will give a befitting reply if not given the freedom to act and decide” remark saying, “Everyone has a style of speaking and all state leaders are polite.”“I met Rahul ji and briefed him. I will go to Punjab in two to three days and meet the CM and Sidhu,” Rawat said as the matters escalated.The party leadership remains torn between the CM and Sidhu camps hoping for the two leaders to resolve their differences and work together in larger electoral interest.No amount of admonishment from the leadership to reconcile appears to be working.If the CM continues his show of strength—first through dinner diplomacy with ministers and MLAs and then through personal outreach to former rival and ex-CM Rajinder Bhattal in Chandigarh—Sidhu has literally dared the party of a “befitting reply” if not granted working autonomy to take decisions.The Congress’s urge to have warring leaders—both valuable in an election year—work in tandem continues to remain a pipedream in Punjab with the CM and Sidhu continuing to pull in different directions.There is now a growing view in the party that affairs of the state are becoming messy and proving counter-productive.For a long time before and after Sidhu’s appointment as state chief, the Congress made the CM look weak by organising an elaborate outreach with MLAs and allowing them to vent their anger against his working style.“If Sidhu was to be made state chief, the CM could have been called and told of the decision. The public exercise of humiliating the CM didn’t help and now this ongoing public criticism of the CM by the state party chief is adding to party’s woes,” said a Punjab minister.Another AICC functionary said if the party wanted to bet on Sidhu it could have replaced the CM along with the appointment of Sidhu and paved way for newness, no matter how risky.“This current situation of allowing wounds to fester, hoping against hope that both warring leaders will somehow patch up is quite worrisome. The fact is there is too much bad blood between the CM and Sidhu for the two to reconcile. The high command should call both leaders and talk to them together to reach a resolution. That’s also not happening. So it’s quite a strange situation, fluid and uncertain with all sides anxious and edgy. These signs are ominous when battle preparedness is the goal,” said an AICC leader.Meanwhile, the much anticipated state cabinet reshuffle also remains pending.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-briefs-rahul-gandhi-on-punjab-to-visit-chandigarh-next-week-303265
29-08-2021||New Delhi||Congress leader Manish Tewari ‘questions party’s silence’ following Navjot Sidhu’s recent statement||Prominent leader of the G-23 group in the Congress, Manish Tewari, has “questioned the party’s silence” on Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu following his recent statement in Amritsar.Sources close to Tewari said that in August last year when the group of leaders had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi for the betterment of the party, they were called traitors, but now no action was taken against Sidhu.Tewari tweeted a video on Saturday, where Sidhu said if not allowed to work independently he would resort to “eent se eent baja denge”.Tewari, a former Union minister, used an Urdu couplet to describe the situation, “Hum aah bhi bharte hain to ho jaate hain badnaam, woh qatal bhi karte hain tau charcha nahin hota.”On August 23 last year, Congress leaders, including Tewari, had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi for a “visible and effective leadership” and internal party elections.Speaking at a party function in Amritsar on Friday, Sidhu had said if he is allowed to work according to his own policy of hope and faith, he would ensure Congress rule in the state for 20 years. "But if you don't allow me to make decisions, then I can't help anything," Sidhu had said without mincing words.Meanwhile, the power struggle between Sidhu and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh continues. Amarinder confidante and Cabinet minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi hosted a dinner at his house on Thursday. As many as 58 MLAs and eight MPs attended the dinner and expressed their confidence that the party would win the 2022 Assembly poll under Capt Amarinder Singh. “The journey has started today,” Sodhi later said in a tweet.After Sidhu's recent statement, Harish Rawat, general secretary in-charge of Punjab, had met Sonia Gandhi on Friday and apprised her of the issue. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leader-manish-tewari-questions-partys-silence-following-navjot-sidhus-recent-statement-303257
29-08-2021||New Delhi||‘No one above law’: Delhi court raps Honey Singh for not appearing in domestic violence case||A Delhi court on Saturday came down heavily on Punjabi singer and actor Yo Yo Honey Singh for not appearing before it in a domestic violence case filed by his wife."No one is above the law. Surprised to see how this case is being taken so lightly," metropolitan magistrate Tania Singh said.Singh moved an application seeking exemption from appearance in the case, citing medical reasons. Meanwhile, his wife, Shalini Talwar, appeared before the court.Expressing displeasure, the court told Singh's lawyer, "Honey Singh has not appeared. You have not filed his income affidavit and are not prepared with the arguments."The metropolitan magistrate gave Singh one last opportunity to appear before the court, and asked him not to repeat this conduct.Shalini Talwar has filed a domestic violence case against her singer-actor husband and sought Rs 20 crore as compensation from him under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act.Advocate Ishan Mukherjee, appearing for Singh, filed a reply to her complaint and informed the court that she had already taken all the valuables with her, including jewellery, and could come to reside at her in-laws' home in Noida in 15 days."We are ready to accommodate her. We will build a wall. It can be provided to her in 15 days," Mukherjee said, adding that Singh had two properties costing around Rs 4 crore, of which a property worth Rs 1 crore belonged to Shalini Talwar.Hirdesh Singh, known professionally as Yo Yo Honey Singh, and Talwar tied the knot on January 23, 2011.In her plea, Talwar charted out how she was physically assaulted by Singh over the last 10 years. She has also alleged that Honey Singh cheated on her.The 38-year-old woman claimed that she was subjected to numerous incidents of physical, verbal, mental and emotional abuse at the hands of her husband and his family.Talwar alleged that Singh and his family broke her mentally and emotionally to the extent that she almost started identifying herself as a "farm animal". PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-one-above-law-delhi-court-raps-honey-singh-for-not-appearing-in-domestic-violence-case-303251
29-08-2021||Amritsar||Prime Minister inaugurates renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday virtually inaugurated the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial.A wreath-laying ceremony was held and a two-minute silence observed in the memory of martyrs of the Jallianwala massacre.Museum galleries have been developed at the memorial and the event showcased multiple development initiatives taken by the government to upgrade the complex.A sound and light show has been set up to display the events that happened on April 13, 1919 when the British forces fired indiscriminately on a large and peaceful gathering of protesters, killing over 1,000 people and wounding hundreds of them. Four museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings.They showcase the historical value of events that unfolded in Punjab during that period, with the fusion of audio-visual technology, including projection mapping and 3D representation, as well as art and sculptural installations. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prime-minister-inaugurates-renovated-complex-of-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-303242
