30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Badnore relinquishes charge of Punjab Governor, Chandigarh Administrator||VP Singh Badnore relinquished the charge of Punjab Governor and Administrator of Chandigarh on Monday on completion of his five-year term.Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has been given the additional charge of Punjab and the Union Territory of Chandigarh.Badnore had taken over as Governor of Punjab and Administrator of Union Territory of Chandigarh on August 22, 2016.In his farewell speech, Badnore said that he would remain indebted to his officers at the Punjab Raj Bhavan, Punjab Government and the UT Administration for extending full support and cooperation during his five-year tenure, according to an official statement.He thanked the people of Punjab and Chandigarh for their support, love and affection.On the occasion, the outgoing governor was given a coffee table book, ‘The Raj Bhawan Punjab - A Glorious Journey’, released by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.The book has details about all the important functions and other information of the Governors of Punjab from 1947 till date.Badnore said, “Five years is a long time in one’s lifetime and my five years in Chandigarh and Punjab are not only memorable but have been glorious for me.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badnore-relinquishes-charge-of-punjab-governor-chandigarh-administrator-304238
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||27 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 more deaths in Punjab||Punjab on Monday recorded 27 fresh coronavirus cases that took its infection tally to 6,00,576, while four more fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,373, according to a medical bulletin.Of the fresh cases, six were reported from Mohali and four each from Gurdaspur and Jalandhar, the bulletin stated.The latest deaths were reported from Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Mohali districts, it said.There are 359 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the bulletin said.With 54 more recoveries, the total number of cured persons has reached 5,83,844, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/27-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-more-deaths-in-punjab-304231
30-08-2021||---||Anurag Aggarwal removed as Punjab Home Secretary||Chandigarh, August 1Ten days after rebel Congress Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa demanded removal of state Home Secretary besides DGP (Vigilance) and Advocate General for arrest fiasco of ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, the Punjab government on Monday removed Home Secretary Anurag Aggarwal from the post.Aggarwal is a 1987-batch IAS officer.A 1993-batch officer Anurag Verma has been appointed as new Home Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anurag-aggarwal-removed-as-punjab-home-secretary-304217
30-08-2021||Jalandhar||Acid attack leaves 47-year-old Jalandhar woman with 35-40% burns||Acid attack on a 47-year-old woman left her critically injured, police said on Monday.A fellow factory worker whom police identified as Sohal Lal (50) was arrested.The victim, Raj Rani, suffered 35-40 per cent burns, police said, and was admitted to the district civil hospital. The burns were primarily on her face, hands and knees, police said.Both the suspect and the victim worked at Vijay Factory, a hardware manufacturing unit near Focal Point. The victim’s 20-year-old son, who also works at the same factory as his mother, said, said that the victim and the suspect had an argument."I took my mother to the hospital on my bike. She was in unbearable pain. After a verbal spat with my mother, the suspect threw nearly 50 ML acid at her,” he said.Police said that co-workers caught hold of the suspect and handed him in to law enforcement authorities.The victim’s 19-year-old daughter Maneesha quoted doctors as saying that the acid had damaged her vision.Assistant Sub Inspector Madan Singh, a cop at the Focal Point Police station who was investigating the case, said they were still investigating the case and had yet to know what prompted the attack.“We’re checking security cameras in the factory,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/acid-attack-leaves-47-year-old-jalandhar-woman-with-35-40-burns-304186
30-08-2021||New Delhi||Ahead of Harish Rawat's visit to Punjab, factionalism escalates in Congress||Ahead of Congress General Secretary Harish Rawat's visit to Punjab to de-escalate tension between the two factions, the Navjot Singh Sidhu's camp has opened a front against Rawat and challenged his statement on Amarinder.In a statement, Punjab Congress General Secretary Pargat Singh had posed a challenge that Harish Rawat should tell when it was decided that Punjab elections will be fought under the leadership of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh."Election will be fought under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi," Pargat Singh said.Harish Rawat had met Rahul Gandhi on Saturday and briefed him about the situation there which has arisen after the statement of Navjot Singh Sidhu.Rawat is scheduled to visit Punjab in a day or two and will talk to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and state president Navjot Singh Sidhu and sort out the issues arising out of the differences between the two leaders.Rawat had on Friday met interim President Sonia Gandhi and apprised her of the situation in the state."Punjab situation is under control... I have apprised her about the situation in the state," he told reporters after the meeting.Sidhu speaking at a party function in Amritsar last week had said, "If he is allowed to work according to his own policy of hope and faith, he will ensure the Congress rule in the state for 20 years."But if you won't let me take decisions, eint naal eint bi kharkaonga (it will be disastrous for the party). There's no point in becoming a showpiece," Sidhu had said without mincing words.Speaking about the Punjab model, Sidhu said, "Punjab model means people make policies for trade, industry and power. Giving power back to the people." The meeting happened in wake of some "rebel" MLAs seeking time from Sonia Gandhi to press for the removal of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.Rawat has been facing a tough task to balance both sides in Punjab as Sidhu and Amarinder Singh are at loggerheads.Meanwhile, Amarinder Singh's confidante and Cabinet minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi hosted a dinner at his residence on Thursday.A total of 58 MLAs and eight MPs attended the dinner and expressed confidence that the party would win the 2022 polls under the leadership of Amarinder Singh. "The journey has started today," Sodhi informed in a tweet. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-harish-rawats-visit-to-punjab-factionalism-escalates-in-congress-304162
30-08-2021||---||Farmers block roads in Amritsar, against cane-charge in Haryana||Amritsar, August 29Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) on Saturday blocked vehicular traffic on the elevated road and the Bhandari railway overbridge (ROB) in the city to protest against cane charging of protesting farmers in Haryana.They squatted on the ROB and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Holding flags of the BKU, they raised slogans against Khattar for using power against the peaceful protesting farmers. The sit-in, which commenced at 10 am, concluded at 2.30 pm. They also raised slogans of unity between farmers of Punjab and Haryana.Karnail Singh Nangali, a farmer leader, said the farmers of two neighbouring states had been staging a peaceful protest for the past over nine months. However, the government was resorting to violent measures to suppress the movement.However, blocking of the two vital roads passing through the city caused traffic chaos. It resulted in traffic jam and commuters were greatly inconvenienced. A large proportion among the commuters was of young candidates who were heading to attempt written tests for recruitment in cooperative bank and in jail as warden. The examination centres for these jobs were opened at various government schools. They were harassed while on the way to their examination centres.Jatinder Singh, a resident of the GT Road, said his examination centre was at Government Senior Secondary School, Bhaiyan Da Shivala. “Though being a local on the way I had to face traffic jams and bottlenecks. I hardly managed to reach the centre.” He claimed that many candidates, especially those coming from remote areas and villages, did not make it to the centre or reached quite late.Being a weekend, the proportion of local people was less in traffic, but the number of floating population like tourists and candidates was highest. They found it extremely tough to move from one part to another in the city.Burn effigies of khattar Government in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Farmers and labourers organised protests at different places in the area on Sunday against the brutal cane-charging by the Haryana Police on agitating farmers. The protesting farmers blocked roads, staged dharnas and burnt the effigies of the Union and the Khattar governments. The workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committees, Punjab, staged dharnas on the National Highway 54 near Rasulpur, Thathia Mahantan, Shakri, Doburji and at the crossing of Chabal village. The agitated farmers blocked traffic for hours together. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Dhanna Singh Lalughuman were among others who addressed on the occasion. The leaders alleged that the Union and the BJP-led state governments were adopting all types of tactics to defame and destabilise the farmers’ agitation, which was going on with great enthusiasm at the Delhi borders even after nine months. The members of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), Jamhoori Kisan Sabha and other organisations, too, lodged their protest in different villages of the district and burnt effigies of the Union and the Haryana governments. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-roads-in-amritsar-against-cane-charge-in-haryana-303885
30-08-2021||Karam Prakash||Rajindra Hospital study: Unnatural deaths highest among women less educated||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 29A study of medicolegal autopsy on female deaths, conducted at Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital here, revealed the highest unnatural deaths were among the young and less educated housewives.The study, Epidemiological Profile of Female Deaths amongst Medico Legal Autopsies, was conducted by the department of forensic medicine and toxicology of the Government Medical College.In the study, the most common age group involved in unnatural deaths among females was 21-30 years. Around 33 per cent deaths were recorded in this age group, followed by 17 per cent in the age group of 31-40 years.As to the reasons for more deaths in this group, It has been hypothesised that this is the age group which is more energetic and hence might be more exposed to the stresses of life.Besides, most of the marriages take place in this age group and all post-marriage issues crop up in this age group only. Of 145 female unnatural deaths analysed in the study, 101 women were married while 44 were unmarried.According to Dr Deepak Kumar, who conducted the study under the supervision of Dr DS Bhullar, Head of the department and in charge of the Rajindra Hospital mortuary, said most of the affected females had educational qualification up to senior secondary level. Around 20 per cent females, who died unnatural deaths, were illiterate.Of a total of 145 deaths, during the study period from January 2019 to December 2020, 56 per cent were suicides, of which 57 per cent were poisoning cases and 23 per cent were by hanging. Around 16 per cent were drowning cases.Between 2019 and 2020, the highest number of unnatural deaths were reported in April in 2019. The nationwide Covid lockdown was imposed in March 2019.Finally, Dr DS Bhullar, said the main purpose of this study was to suggest long-term planning and strategy to check such unnatural mishaps and crimes against women in the interest of natural justice.What expert saysAccording to Dr Deepak Kumar, who conducted the study under the supervision of Dr DS Bhullar, Head of the department and in charge of the Rajindra Hospital mortuary, said most of the affected females had educational qualification up to senior secondary level. Around 20 per cent females, who died unnatural deaths, were illiterate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajindra-hospital-study-unnatural-deaths-highest-among-women-less-educated-304049
30-08-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Remark on Punjab 'CM face' was misread, clarifies Harish Rawat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29In an apparent course correction, Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat has sought to clarify his recent “Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh leading the party’s poll campaign” remark, saying PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was the overall in charge of the elections.Pargat targets state affairs in charge“The PCC chief is the overall controller of the election. The CM is the person who is running the government and gives accounts of the implementation of the policies and decisions. These are the basic things in elections. I have left it to the people to interpret my previous statement as they want,” he said.While Rawat’s initial statement had attracted adverse reactions from the Sidhu camp and dissident leaders, the pro-CM camp had welcomed the statement followed by a show of strength of MLAs at a dinner hosted by minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi.This comes as PCC general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh, while reacting to Rawat playing down Sidhu’s remark that he “will give befitting reply if not given the freedom to decide”, said it was apparently aimed at the Punjab affairs in charge, not the party high command. Sidhu had made the remarks at a function of traders in Amritsar recently, after Rawat had stated the 2022 Assembly elections would be fought under the leadership of Captain Amarinder.The Jalandhar Cantt MLA and Sidhu confidant told The Tribune: “When Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge, who headed the three-member panel looking into to Congress crisis, had stated the next elections would be fought under party president Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi, only Rawat could tell why he made the statement of next elections being fought under the CM.”After being cornered within the party over his remarks, Sidhu had released a full video of the Amritsar event, while trying to clear the air over his remark. On Sidhu’s remarks, Rawat after meeting Rahul had said “everyone had their own style of speaking and all state leaders were polite”. Sources said Sidhu was miffed at Rawat over the statement regarding the 2022 election, as it has its own implications on the tussle between the two warring factions in the state.Sources in the PCC said after the change of guard in the state unit, the smooth transition of relevant data related to party leaders and detailed field information had not been shared by those “managing the show” previously. Absence of detailed data and information was hampering the functioning and the matter was likely to be taken up in the coming days with the persons concerned in the government.“Though the ministers have started sitting at Punjab Congress Bhawan and forming the 10-member strategic policy group, on the ground coordination is still missing,” said a senior party leader.All eyes are now on Rawat’s upcoming visit to Chandigarh, ahead of the one-day special Assembly session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remark-on-punjab-cm-face-was-misread-clarifies-harish-rawat-303898
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Now, unease over Punjab Youth Congress elevation list||Elevation of seven office-bearers of the state Youth Congress unit, including sons of two Cabinet ministers, has resulted in unease within the Indian Youth Congress (IYC), forcing the leadership to withhold the list. The trouble started after IYC general secretary in charge (Punjab) Bunty Shelke and his co-in charge Mukesh Kumar released a list on Saturday, elevating two vice-presidents as senior vice-presidents, four general secretaries as vice-presidents and one district president as a vice-president.Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder Dhillon said: “An old list had been released. It has been withheld at the intervention of the central youth Congress leadership.”The list was released without the consent of the Indian Youth Congress president or state Youth Congress chief. Even those holding the primary membership had been made office-bearers in the state unit, he said. Amit Bawa, general secretary, Punjab Youth Congress, said the list was against the democratic principles of electing office-bearers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-unease-over-punjab-youth-congress-elevation-list-303900
30-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Fielded by SAD from Rampura Phul, Sikander Singh Maluka demands Maur seat||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 29In a major embarrassment to the SAD high command, a confidant of the Badal family and senior leader Sikander Singh Maluka today refused to contest the Assembly poll after his candidature was announced from the Rampura Phul Assembly seat in a list issued by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Not consultedI was not consulted by party before my name was announced. I will not contest from Rampura Phul, rather my son Gurpreet Singh will contest from there. — Sikander Singh Maluka, SAD LeaderBrar likely to get ticket from maurIt is learnt that SAD leader Jagmeet Singh Brar is likely to be given ticket from the Maur segment. He has started holding meetings in the area.Maluka said, “I was not consulted by the party before announcing my name. I will not contest from Rampura Phul, but my son Gurpreet Singh will contest the election from here.”Maluka is eyeing two tickets — one for his son from his home seat Rampura Phul, and second for himself from the Maur Assembly seat.Maluka said, “For more than four decades, I have been doing the work assigned to me by the party with utmost honesty. The party high command should announce my candidature from the Maur seat.”Maluka also said if the SAD did not want him to contest from the Maur constituency, then he would take up any other responsibility given by the party. In a tweet, SAD general secretary Daljit Singh Cheema today said: “SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced three more candidates for the Vidhan Sabha election. Sikander Singh Maluka from Rampura Phul, Parkash Singh Bhatti from Bathinda (Rural) and Darshan Singh Kotfatta from the Bhucho Assembly constituency.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fielded-by-sad-from-rampura-phul-sikander-singh-maluka-demands-maur-seat-303901
30-08-2021||Abohar||Ex-MLA Parkash Singh Bhatti shifted from Balluana to Bathinda||Announcing the first list of candidates for the Vidhan Sabha election, the SAD shifted former MLA Parkash Singh Bhatti to the Bathinda rural constituency. Observers said this might have been done to clear the path of another ex-MLA Gurtej Singh Ghuriana to contest from Balluana.Bhatti was elected on a Congress ticket in 2002 from Balluana, a reserved constituency. In 2017, he joined the SAD and contested from Balluana, but lost to Congress’ Nathu Ram by 15,449 votes.Ghuriana, who won Vidhan Sabha elections as SAD candidate in 1997, 2007 and 2012, had reportedly opposed Bhatti’s candidature in 2017.Regarding Abohar seat, after SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal paid obeisance for the first time to Arut Ji Maharaj, the founder of the Arora community on May 30, there was a buzz that the party could field an Arora candidate from here. Even the name of Panjab University ex-senator Rajinder Deepa was floated for the seat. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-mla-parkash-singh-bhatti-shifted-from-balluana-to-bathinda-303902
30-08-2021||---||Karnal lathicharge: Punjab farmers block highways for 2 hrs, burn effigies of Khattar govt||Bathinda, August 29Expressing resentment against the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana, activists of various farm unions under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) protested at several locations, including toll plazas, in Bathinda district on Sunday.Widespread angerBKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said roads were blocked at 56 places for two hours and effigies of the Khattar government were burnt at various places across the state.Won’t change standAfter seeing success of our Delhi protest, the Centre has panicked. It wants to end stir forcibly. But we will not budge until the repeal of farm laws. — Rajvir Singh, Farmer LeaderFarmers gathered at the Bathinda-Chandigarh highway in Rampura, Jeeda and Lehra Bega toll plazas, Balluana, Ghudda (Bathinda-Badal road), Maiser Khana, Talwandi Sabo (Bathinda-Sardulgarh road) and several other pockets of the district to protest the lathicharge. Protesting farmers blocked the roads from 12 pm to 2 pm and in some villages burnt effigies of Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Harjinder Singh Baggi said: “On Saturday, a group of farmers were peacefully protesting in Karnal where the Haryana CM was scheduled to attend a meeting. However, on the directions of senior officials, the police resorted to lathicharge, leaving many farmers seriously injured.”Union leaders demanded strict action against officials who ordered the lathicharge and punitive action against cops who carried out the orders.Paramjit Kaur, another farmer leader said: “We demand release of farmers arrested during the protest and free treatment for the injured from hospitals with proper medical facilities.Similar protests were witnessed in many parts of neighbouring Mansa district where farmers owing allegiance to different unions blocked roads and raised slogans against the Haryana and central governments. Farmers blocked highways at six locations for two hours. Farmers in 62 villages burnt effigies of the Haryana Government to lodge their protest.Condemning the lathicharge, farmer union leaders along with activists protested against the BJP at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar. “Peaceful protests against BJP ministers and leaders will continue in future as well. The use of force cannot suppress our voice,” said Kaur.In Sangrur and Barnala, farmers blocked various roads and announced that they would intensify their agitation in coming days. Members of Kirti Kisan Union blocked the Sangrur-Barnala road at Bahadurpur village and raised slogans against central government.In Fatehgarh Sahib, farm organisations blocked the traffic on GT Road Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Khamano, Bassi Pathana and Amloh town. Farmers staged sit-ins at several places and even on link roads. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed on all roads, causing inconvenience to commuters. SKM leader Gursatinder Singh Jallah termed the lathicharge shameful.(With inputs from Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/karnal-lathicharge-punjab-farmers-block-highways-for-2-hrs-burn-effigies-of-khattar-govt-303905
30-08-2021||---||Farmers' protest: Commuters face tough time in Patiala||Patiala, August 29Farmers protesting the lathicharge on their Haryana counterpart jammed all roads leading to Patiala, including the Patiala-Rajpura, Patiala-Nabha and Patiala-Sirhind roads on Sunday.Commuters had a tough time due to the blockade. A few ambulances were seen stuck on their way. A number of aspirants missed their competitive exams. A few youngsters who were on their way to Chandigarh claimed they were getting late for the cooperative bank exam. Some of them were allowed to pass through the blockade while others remained stuck.The protests were led by BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), BKU (Krantikari) and other unions. Their members didn’t allow vehicles to pass through the protest sites, leading to long traffic jams.Farmers also blocked the roads near Bahadurgarh on the Patiala-Rajpura road, at Hardaspur village on the Patiala-Sirhind road and near Rohti bridge at Nabha. The roads leading to Ghanaur, Sanour and Samana were also jammed for over two hours.Flaying the police action, protesters demanded that the Duty Magistrate who issued the lathicharge order should be dismissed. BKU (Krantikari) district president Ranjit Sawajpur said: “We had already announced a convention at the Dhareri Jattan toll plaza.” The protests ended at 2 pm.In Ropar, farmers assembled at the toll plazas on Chandigarh road, Anandpur Sahib road and Chamkaur Sahib road around 11 am and blocked them at 12 noon. The Chandigarh-Ludhiana road was also blocked at Morinda bypass. As many as 300 farmers protested at Solakhian toll plaza on the Ropar-Chandigarh road.(With inputs from Ropar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-commuters-face-tough-time-in-patiala-303906
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||AAP unit to support farmers' ‘Bharat Bandh’ call||The state unit of AAP today condemned “indiscriminate” canecharge on Haryana and Punjab farmers protesting the agriculture laws, saying the ruling BJP and Congress were adopting a dictatorial attitude to suppress the voice of the ‘annadatas’.Rising above partisanship, the AAP said it would support the call for ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 25 against the Centre’s stance on the farm laws.In a statement, party’s Kisan Wing state president and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar of unleashing violence on farmers. “The BJP will have to pay the price for such a repressive policy,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-unit-to-support-farmers-bharat-bandh-call-303907
30-08-2021||Phagwara||Show of bonhomie at SAD-BSP rally||The first joint SAD-BSP rally, after the recent alliance ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, turned out to be a show of bonhomie, with the two announcing BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi as their candidate from Phagwara.Addressing the ‘Alakh Jagao’ rally, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal touted the alliance as the champion of the ‘gareeb, kisan, mazdoor’.Addressing the BSP supremo as “Behen” Mayawati, Sukhbir said: “The SAD and BSP were last together in 1956. It was Parkash Singh Badal’s dream to see the alliance again. When I conveyed this to Behen Mayawati, she said ‘just consider our alliance forged’. I thought she would think over, but her response was immediate.”“I once conveyed to her there were just a few Akali MPs in the Lok Sabha, and if the BSP MPs could support us. The very next day, all 14 BSP MPs stood with us in the House. They told me ‘Behen-ji has ordered us. Whatever you do, we are with you’. They stood with us in the House and in the farm agitation. These is what true relations are about,” he said.Taking a jibe at the Congress, Sukhbir said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had fooled people by taking “false oath” on ‘gutka sahib’. He reiterated the 13-point agenda of the SAD-BSP alliance that would be implemented once their government was formed.Huge flex boards featuring Dr BR Ambedakar were put up all over the venue. Each speech started with twin chants of ‘Jai Bhim, Jai Bharat’ and traditional Sikh greetings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/show-of-bonhomie-at-sad-bsp-rally-303909
30-08-2021||Amritsar||Giving freebies tall order for next govt: Ex-FM Parminder Singh Dhindsa||Former Finance Minister and senior SAD (Sanyukt) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa has asserted no political party could extend freebies after coming to power in the state keeping in view its dismal financial condition.Don’t be misledThe voter should not fall prey to freebies as the next government will have to take stern steps to correct economy. Even continuing existing subsidies will be a big ask. — Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Ex-FMHe stated this in response to queries over the AAP, SAD and BJP promising the electorate power sops in the state once coming to power.Addressing mediapersons here today, he said the Capt Amarinder Singh government had resorted to heavy borrowing over the past two years and the debt had reached four to five per cent of the GDP, which was “unserviceable”. “To service debt will be a gigantic task as the current financial condition was grim and I do not see any way out,” he remarked.The next year’s financial condition will further aggravate with the discontinuation of the GST compensation. “It means the GST revenue will fall by nearly 40 per cent,” he said. On the AAP offering power at surprisingly low rates, he said there was no comparison between Delhi and Punjab. “Unlike Punjab, Delhi is free from debt, it does not offer subsidy like Punjab is extending to farmers and many of its departments are being taken care of by the Union Government.”On faulty power agreements reached by the erstwhile SAD government in which he was a Cabinet minister, Dhindsa said he could not be blamed as he was a PWD minister and those agreements were signed by the knowledge of CM’s Office and the then Power minister.On his party colleague Sewa Singh Sekhwan joining the AAP, he said it was a surprise move. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/giving-freebies-tall-order-for-next-govt-ex-fm-parminder-singh-dhindsa-303911
30-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Jallianwala Bagh martyrs’ kin to boycott govt events||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 29A day after PM Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the renovated martyrs’ memorial here, the Jallianwala Bagh Freedom Fighters Foundation announced boycott of all future programmes of the state and central governments pertaining to the Bagh.Key demandsOur demands include giving tamar pattar, certificate and other facilities being provided to families of freedom fighters. — Sunil Kapoor, Freedom fighters’ bodyFoundation chief Sunil Kapoor said the decision was taken as the PM failed to announce any move to recognise them as the next of kin of freedom fighters.Kapoor claimed over two years ago, he had written to the PM, Home Minister and President seeking tamar pattar, certificate and facilities for the families. “The letter was then forwarded by the President to the Home Ministry for further action, a copy of which was also sent to me,” he recalled. Subsequently, a letter was sent by the PMO to the state government for further action, but it remained unanswered, he added.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-bagh-martyrs-kin-to-boycott-govt-events-303914
30-08-2021||---||Punjab sees 1.5K Covid cases, 75 deaths during August||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29With just two days left in August, the entire month saw the number of total Covid cases coming down to around 1,500 and the number of deaths to 75.This is the lowest since the outbreak of the disease. In Punjab, the first case of Covid was reported in March last year. However, the second wave, which hit the peak in May, proved to be worst. As per official figures, the number of cases was 1.9 lakh and there were over 5,000 deaths. However, the government’s own analysis says that the number could be four times higher than what was reported in the official bulletin.After May, the second wave started receding. In June, the cases came down to 28,000 and the deaths to 1,500. But the last two months — July and August — provided a big relief to the state. In July, the number of cases had come down to 3,495 and deaths to 241. The cases further declined in August, so far in the month 1,410 cases and 73 deaths have been reported.Even the case positivity rate also remained around 0.10 per cent, which is far less than the national average. The number of active cases has come down to around 400 now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-1-5k-covid-cases-75-deaths-during-august-303916
30-08-2021||---||KTF operative arrested at Delhi airport||Tribune News ServiceMoga, August 29The Moga police have arrested Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) operative from Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, while he was trying to flee to Canada on a student visa.The accused has been identified as Baldeep Singh, who is wanted in numerous criminal cases.Moga Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale said, “Baldeep’s brother Arshdeep Singh Daala is a dreaded terrorist and operates from Canada.”It’s learnt that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has approached the Interpol to deport Arshdeep from Canada. At least, 11 cases of murder, attempt to murder, unlawful activities and many other cases, were pending against him.Baldeep’s interogation led to recovery of weapons and ammunition from India-Pakistan border, including three .30 bore pistols, one .9 mm pistol, four magazines and a few cartridges. These weapons were kept in a bag along the International Border, said Nimbale.The Senior Superintendent of Police said, “Arshdeep extorted money by threatening several traders in Moga and in adjoining areas.”This gang killed son of a showroom owner in Moga, murdered a Dera Sacha Sauda follower at Dayalpura (Bathinda) and killed gangster Sukha Lamma. They were also said to be involved in murderous attack on a temple priest in Phillaur.After getting bail a few months ago, Baldeep stopped taking part in court’s proceedings and failed to report to the police.Baldeep’s student visa was confirmed in April this year and his flight for Canada was scheduled at 7.20 am on August 28 from the Delhi airport.Security at the airport took Baldeep into their custody and informed the Moga police.The police had registered a criminal case under Sections 384, 386, 506 and 120B of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act against Baldeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ktf-operative-arrested-at-delhi-airport-303917
30-08-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Crackdown on peddlers after drug overdose deaths in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 29Under fire over the death of five youths here due to suspected drug overdose in the past two weeks, the Bathinda police have launched a crackdown on peddlers.Bid to break supply chainTo break the drug supply chain, 50 teams have been constituted. Houses of suspects in City 1 and 2 areas are being searched. Large seizures have been made. — Jaspal Singh, SP (city), BathindaSSP Ajay Maluja has ordered a search of houses/hideouts of suspected drug dealers and habitual smugglers in the city.As many as 50 police teams had been formed in the city to raid the houses of suspects facing complaints of drug peddling in the past.A team of the Canal Colony police searched houses of a dozen suspects in Bangi Nagar and surrounding areas. They claimed to have seized a large number of intoxicants and instructed police stations concerned to take legal action against suspects.While the police claim to have been making daily seizures, peddlers continue to sell drugs and intoxicating pills across the district. The situation in the city is such that drugs are reportedly being delivered at homes on demand. To date, no action has been taken against the big suppliers involved in the illegal trade.The police teams are currently raiding houses of those selling drugs. SSP Ajay Maluja said the crackdown on peddlers was aimed at reaching the big fish, adding “no one who ruins the lives of the youth will be spared”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crackdown-on-peddlers-after-drug-overdose-deaths-in-bathinda-303919
30-08-2021||Ropar||Digitise quality checks: Punjab rice millers||millers demanded digitisation of quality checks to root out the alleged corruption in the Food Corporation of India (FCI). Tarsem Lal Saini, chief, Punjab Millers’ Association and Federation of All India Millers’ Association, said taking such steps would also end the harassment of rice millers at the hands of unscrupulous elements in the FCI.Saini initiated a campaign titled ‘Jago’ to create awareness among millers about the challenges they would face in future. He said the Centre had started a pilot project in this regard and set up laboratories, but these were not put to use properly. The policy to accept rice from a miller was 50-year-old, he said. The quality of the produce is checked by an Inspector-level official through manual system, thus leaving a miller at the mercy of officials. “The FCI needs to bring reforms in this field by setting up digital labs,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/digitise-quality-checks-punjab-rice-millers-303920
30-08-2021||Moga||Moga Congress men confused||Congress leaders in Moga, the heartland of Malwa belt, seem to be in disarray with division among its cadres and leaders over the crisis in the party’s state leadership. Party veterans say the differences between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Sidhu is not a good sign in the run-up to the Assembly elections next year.The flip sideSome leaders have started projecting themselves as probable candidates in my constituency owing to factionalism. — Dr Harjot Kamal, Congress MLAPolitical analysts believe the delay on the part of the central leadership to settle the differences between the two leaders has started impacting the party at the ground level. “The Congress cadre and the leaders are in a state of confusion,” said Gurwinder Singh Guggu, a former PCC secretary.Moga Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal admitted some leaders had started projecting themselves as probable party candidates in his constituency, taking advantage of the growing factionalism.Vinod Bansal, Chairman, Moga Improvement Trust, has started holding separate public meetings to improve his profile for seeking the party ticket. He said, “All party leaders must respect the decision by the high command and work together to prepare for the Assembly elections”.Former minister Dr Malti Thapar said the sharp divisions within the party were not good for the party. “The CM and the PCC president should work together instead of creating confusion among the ground-level workers of the party,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-congress-men-confused-303922
30-08-2021||Ferozepur||Not part of lobby against Punjab CM: Ferozepur MLA Satkar Kaur||Amidst the ongoing internal strife within the Congress, a section of party MLAs is seemingly perplexed over which side to be on. Many of them, who were earlier seen with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, have now switched loyalties following the AICC statement that polls would be fought under Captain Amarinder Singh.Ferozepur (Rural) MLA Satkar Kaur, whose husband Jasmail Singh Laddi Gehri was seen with Navjot Sidhu till a few weeks ago, has made a “U- turn” and issued a statement denying any link with the anti-CM lobby. Satkar Kaur said she had gone to Chandigarh a few days ago to attend a meeting held by some Cabinet Ministers. “I had no idea that the meeting was organised to initiate some campaign against the CM,” she said, adding that she had full faith in the leadership of Captain Amarinder. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-part-of-lobby-against-punjab-cm-ferozepur-mla-satkar-kaur-303923
30-08-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Jobless youth agitation spells trouble for locals, Sangrur cops||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 29Three ongoing protests of unemployed youth against the state government have multiplied the problems of locals and police.New PTI Union members have been protesting on the main Barnala Chowk while members of five unions, under the banner of the Joint Front of Unemployed, have been staging sit-ins at two places — near the Civil Hospital and at the residence of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.“We have been protesting for the past two years for government jobs. Today also, our members protested at Kakra village. We are demanding jobs as per our eligibility and our protest will continue till the acceptance of our long-pending demands,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president, BEd and TET Pass Union. Members of the BEd Union along with activists of the Joint Front of Unemployed have been protesting in front of Singla’s residence since December 31, 2020.“Though we have sympathy with them, but many times they block roads and we face harassment,” said Baljinder Singh, a local. Whenever any VIP visits the area, the police have to beef up security near the protest sites and even in villages also to prevent gherao of the minister. Protesters also clash with cops, but former have refused to relent and protests are getting stronger with time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-youth-agitation-spells-trouble-for-locals-sangrur-cops-303924
30-08-2021||Muktsar||Proposal to buy car for Muktsar MC chief divides Congress||The ruling Congress yesterday presented a divided house in the Muktsar Municipal Council over the proposal to buy an Innova Crysta for its president Krishan Kumar Shammi Tehria.Senior Congress leader-cum Yadwinder Singh Yadu, who is a councillor from ward No. 4, publicly lodged a protest against the proposal.Yadu said, “The council does not have money for works like better sewerage and drainage, but it is ready to spend money for an Innova vehicle.” Yadu said just a few councillors were in favour of the proposal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/proposal-to-buy-car-for-muktsar-mc-chief-divides-congress-303925
30-08-2021||Bathinda||Chemist booked for man’s death in Bathinda||The police have registered a case against a medical store owner in connection with a man’s death on Thursday allegedly due to drug overdose. The accused has been identified as Rajan Kumar, who is absconding.Harpinder Singh of Surkhpeer Road, Bathinda, lodged a complaint with the Canal Colony police station that his brother, Rupinder Singh (29), had allegedly purchased syringes and tablets from Rajan’s medical store on Thursday. Next day, his body was recovered from a car. He alleged Rupinder had died due to drug overdose.A case under the IPC has been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chemist-booked-for-mans-death-in-bathinda-303926
30-08-2021||---||Panel awards two-year jail to co-op society secy||Tribune News ServiceRopar, August 29The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission comprising president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma and member Yuvinder Singh Matta has awarded the secretary of the Dalla Multipurpose Cooperative Agriculture Service Society in Chamkaur Sahib tehsil an imprisonment of two years for not complying with orders. The commission has also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on him, failing which he will have to undergo another year of sentence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-awards-two-year-jail-to-co-op-society-secy-303927
30-08-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mandi Gobindargh iron furnace blast toll rises to four||As one more labourer succumbed to his injuries at DMC Hospital, Ludhiana, today, the toll of blast in an iron furnace in Mandi Gobindargh on August 13 increased to four. A total of 12 labourers were injured in the incident that happened in the iron furnace of Punjab Steel Forging & Agro Industries Limited in Mandi Gobindgarh and five of them are critical. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mandi-gobindargh-iron-furnace-blast-toll-rises-to-four-303928
30-08-2021||---||4 arrested for selling govt fuel||Our CorrespondentAbohar/Sriganganagar, Aug 29The police have arrested two engineers of the Border Roads Organisation’s General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF) for selling government diesel and petrol at less expensive rate in the market.The police seized 2,200-lt diesel and 20-lt petrol and Rs 1.5 lakh from them. The consignment that was uploaded at Sriganganagar was to be delivered to the GREF office in Fazilka but was illegally sold locally.Superintendent of Police Rajan Dushyant said Linga Raju Nayak of Kupparavalli in Nanjangud Tehsil of Mysore in Karnataka and Vinod Kumar Kahar of Shyampuram Colonyin Kharagpur, Udham Singh Nagar (Uttarakhand), have been arrested.Linga Raju works as an assistant engineer (civil), officer-in-charge (GREF) and Vinod Kahar as a junior engineer (civil) at the Military Station on Abohar Road. Both have been arrested for allegedly selling fuel at a hideout in the journalists’ colony behind district hospital.A police team led by SHO Hanuman Ram Bishnoi raided the hideout and arrested Inderjit Bishnoi of Asinga Fatehabad (Haryana) and Jatinder Kumar of Dhangani Nechhwa Sikar, Murlidhar Sindhi and Hardeep Singh of Padampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-arrested-for-selling-govt-fuel-303929
30-08-2021||---||In 10 days, joblessness takes 3 lives||Moga, August 29Exposing the state government’s much-hyped ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana’, Manga Singh (35), who was a labourer, ended his life at Badhni Kalan village on August 27 after he failed to find work at his house at Badhni Kalan village in Moga.Manga’s wife Kamaldeep Kaur told the police that she and her elder daughter used to work as a domestic help, but they were unable to feed the entire family. She said as a result Manga took the extreme step.A few days ago, Jaswant Singh (22), who was unemployed, had allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree branch at Chak Singh Pura village in Dharamkot.Pritam Kaur, mother of the victim, had told the police that Jaswant was not able to find a job due to the pandemic. Earlier, he used to work as a labourer, but it became very difficult for us to make both ends meet during the lockdown, she said.As a result, Jaswant started living under stress and ended his life, she said. Pritam’s husband Sulakhan Singh died around 11 years ago, after which she raised her children.Last week, a 28-year-old woman, had committed suicide at Samalsar village, after her family failed to find a suitable match due to their poor financial background.The police officials said they had got the autopsy conducted and initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC in all the incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-10-days-joblessness-takes-3-lives-303930
30-08-2021||Mansa||Mansa: 4 nabbed hours after robbery||The Mansa police have arrested four members of a gang and recovered a country-made pistol, three cartridges, a toy gun, an iron bar, two motorcycles, a mobile phone and Rs 1 lakh in cash.The accused have been identified as Jaskaran Singh and Jagtar Singh, both of Bucho Kalan; Harpreet Singh of Bathinda; and Gurpreet Singh of Lehra Sodhan in Bathinda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-4-nabbed-hours-after-robbery-303931
30-08-2021||Fazilka||Panel seeks report over ‘assault’ on Dalit family in Jalalabad||The National Scheduled Caste Commission has sought a reply from the Chief Secretary and DGP over the alleged assault on a Dalit family after tying them to a tree at Ghangan Khurd village in Jalalabad subdivision of Fazilka district.Taking cognisance of the incident, commission chairman Vijay Sampla, in a statement today, said a notice had been issued to both officials, besides the Ferozepur Range IGP, SSP and DC directing them to present an action taken report in this regard.On August 27, some persons had allegedly tied a minor girl and her parents to a tree before assaulting them and tearing off their clothes. The suspects shot a video of the incident and uploaded it on the social media.SSP Deepak Hilori said a case had been registered against seven persons under various Sections of the IPC and would be nabbed soon. A team led by a DSP-rank official had examined the site and the guilty would not be spared, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-seeks-report-over-assault-on-dalit-family-in-jalalabad-303932
30-08-2021||Batala||Contrasting tales of two neighbouring Punjab Assembly seats||Khanna ‘phobia’Sangrur: Many Sangrur Congressmen have stopped discussing their party affairs with colleagues these days. Reason: There are reports that former Sangrur Congress MLA Arvind Khanna (in pic) is coming back to contest election on SAD ticket. Since a majority of Congress leaders has worked with Khanna, who is likely to join the SAD, many look at each other with suspicion. Khanna ‘phobia’ has surely gripped Congress, SAD and even some AAP leaders. At a majority of meetings, it’s Khanna’s arrival that is the focus of discussions. Though future of all parties is uncertain as farmers have announced opposition to all candidates, many Khanna supporters from various parties have started activities to garner support for him. Some senior leaders of ruling party, having proximity to local minister Vijay Inder Singla, confirmed they were keeping a close watch.From fisher family to IAS officerFaridkot: Baba Farid University of Health Sciences’s new Registrar IAS officer Dr Nirmal Ouesppachan (in pic) is a man of high ambition, who walked from a fisher family in Kerala to the Indian Civil Services. He remembers, how his father had to drop out of the MBBS halfway as he did not had money to pay the fee, said Dr Nirmal. “I fulfilled my father’s dream by becoming a doctor and then cracked the civil services examination to become an IAS officer,” he said proudly. “It was my father who helped me realise my dream to become an IAS officer,” said Dr Nirmal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contrasting-tales-of-two-neighbouring-punjab-assembly-seats-303934
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital project to be reviewed weekly||Body found at Fazilka village waterworks; two bookedFazilka: Panic gripped Chack Singhewla Senia after the body of a youth was recovered from the village waterworks. The mother of victim Malkeet Singh (30), a resident of Jhuge Gulab Singh village, alleged her son was last seen with Raman Singh and an unidentified person, who had come to their residence and taken him along. The two have been booked for murder. OCMan, son injured as shots fired over land disputeSangrur: A resident of Dhandoli Kalan village opened fire at his uncle and cousin. Police said the accused, Tarsem Singh, opened fire on his uncle Jagpal Singh and his son Sukhdarshan Singh on Sunday after having arguments over a piece of land. “Both are under treatment. A case has been registered under Section 307, IPC,” the police said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/homi-bhabha-cancer-hospital-project-to-be-reviewed-weekly-303935
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AAP women protesters canecharged in Chandigarh||A day after farmers were lathicharged in Karnal and Amritsar, activists of the state women wing of AAP today gheraoed the state BJP’s office here today alleging use of abusive language and assault on women and farmers.The women volunteers raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar as the Chandigarh Police tried to prevent them from marching towards the BJP office by putting up barricades.The protesters broke through the barricading, prompting the police to use batons and water cannons, leaving many women injured. AAP’s women wing state president Rajwinder Kaur Thiara and youth leader Anmol Gagan Mann were among those injured and were admitted to the hospital.“BJP men are abusing and physically assaulting women in Punjab and across the country. The state governments are avoiding taking action against them,” alleged Mann.“Even the police, under the BJP regime, were assuming atrocities on women and farmers were achievements,” said Thiara. She alleged the police responsible for protecting the citizens were supporting party men. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-aap-women-protesters-canecharged-in-chandigarh-303874
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana farmers protest Karnal lathicharge||A day after the lathicharge on protesting farmers in Karnal, members of various farmers’ unions in Punjab blocked major highways in the state between 12 noon and 2 pm on Sunday. Commuters were stopped at various toll plazas.The protests were held at 250 sites, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha claimed.In Haryana, the farmers continued to demonstrate at toll plazas on NH-44, without impeding the traffic flow.The Karnal police, meanwhile, have filed two FIRs for attacking a public servant and unlawful assembly. The Ambala police have registered three FIRs and the Kurukshetra police eight.Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni is among those booked. A BKU meeting is scheduled to be held on Monday to chalk out the future course of action. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait visited the injured in a Karnal hospital. He sought action against the SDM who ordered the lathicharge. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-haryana-farmers-protest-karnal-lathicharge-303903
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab block roads, burn effigies over lathicharge on Haryana peasants||Farmers blocked roads and highways in Punjab for two hours on Sunday in protest against the lathicharge on peasants in Haryana.Owing allegiance to various farmer bodies, the protesters burnt the effigies of the BJP-led government in Haryana for using “force” on farmers in Karnal.Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting.The two-hour-long agitation in Punjab that started at 12 noon also caused inconvenience to commuters, who got stuck in traffic snarls at several places.The protest caused disruption of vehicular traffic at many places and affected routes along the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway, Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway, Amritsar-Ganganagar highway and Ferozepur-Zira road.Kisan Sangharsh Mazdoor Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher strongly condemned the lathicharge on farmers by the Haryana police.During a protest in Amritsar, Pandher said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar should resign on moral grounds as he has no right to continue on the post after the police action on farmers.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) staged protests at 56 places in the state and castigated the “shameful” act of the Khattar government.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also condemned the Haryana police action on farmers in Karnal.“Deplorable assault on the protesting Farmers is an attack on Fundamental Rights of every Indian...earned after innumerable sacrifices during the freedom struggle, It impinges and impedes on the spirit of the Constitution and Breaks the Backbone of India’s democracy!!” he said in a tweet and also shared a video of “use of force” by police on farmers in Haryana.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had expressed shock on Saturday at the “brazen brutality” of the Haryana police and had slammed Khattar for “unleashing such a vicious assault on the peacefully protesting farmers”, many of whom were injured in the lathicharge. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-in-punjab-block-roads-burn-effigies-over-lathicharge-on-haryana-peasants-303783
