01-02-2021||Today's||The government’s arithmetic jugglery cast a shadow over the budget’s right direction||Let me start with a deceptively simple quiz. In February 2020, finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman budgeted ₹67,000 crore on health expenditure. In February 2021, it is known that the government spent ₹82,000 crore in health due to the pandemic. Now, FM has announced a health budget of ₹74,000 crore for next year. Does this represent an increase in the government’s health budget or a decrease?Sitharaman called it a “big increase” because ₹74,000 crore is higher than the original budget of ₹67,000 crore of last year. Of course, last year was an exception. But is it correct to claim that the government will spend more on health next year when public hospitals, health centres and medical practitioners on the ground will have less money than they did last year? This example aptly describes the theme of the budget.Before the budget, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former FM P Chidambaram and I laid out a blueprint that called for enhanced public investment to spur the economy, until an ailing private sector can recover to steer it. Hence, the bulk of the focus of India’s first budget for the post-Covid-19 era was rightfully on public expenditure and must be assessed through this prism.The government plans to spend ₹34.8 lakh crore next year. But the government spent ₹34.5 lakh crore last year and, on that basis, this is not a big increase. Again, FM compared it to the original budget expenditure of ₹30.4 lakh crore last year. In nearly every major expenditure head, this was a recurring theme.The government has budgeted ₹73,000 crore for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for next year, which is much higher than the ₹61,500 crore budgeted for last year, but significantly lower than ₹111,500 crore actually spent on MGNREGS in FY2021. In reality, demand for MGNREGS work continued to rise even in January 2021, signalling the lack of income opportunities for a vast majority of people.When the budget for next year is reduced from what was spent last year, it is bound to affect the millions of families that depend on it for their livelihoods, while for the sake of headlines, FM can proclaim that the MGNREGS budget has been increased significantly from last year’s budgeted amount.The arithmetic sorcery apart, the government has truly increased overall capital expenditure from 13% to 16% of total expenditure, which is very laudable. Government capital expenditure can translate into jobs and incomes for millions and also catalyse demand in the larger economy. While our blueprint was more aggressive in calling for 20% of the total expenditure as capital expenditure, the budgeted increase is a commendable step. There were also some creditable steps to attract private capital for infrastructure investments, which if it fructifies, can help usher in a new growth cycle for the economy.Ardent advocates of electoral democracy would have gleamed on hearing FM’s unabashed opportunistic but judicious allocations for building roads and other infrastructure in election-bound states, proving the fundamental premise of political science that democracy is the best means to reconcile disparities. FM also provided for a 60% increase in revenue deficit grants to states. Any devolution of powers and resources is a welcome move. Perhaps every state should change its election schedule to April or May, in between national elections.Phrases such as privatisation and monetisation were bandied about enough in FM’s speech to thrill the stock market, which is easily excitable. Over the last few years, a handful of corporates in the country, through their proximity to the government, have amassed enormous market power that can be severely detrimental to the consumer and the larger economy in the long run. Economic history teaches us that no privatisation is better than crony privatisation. So, while phrases such as “choice and efficiency for consumers” that FM uttered to make the case for privatisation may sound endearing, the devil lies in the details of the process.The budget also revealed India’s vulnerable macro-economic situation in terms of deficits and borrowing. The transparency measures taken to reduce off-balance sheet financing and include it in the budget are praiseworthy, which should help allay concerns of the international ratings agencies.It is no secret that India’s economic situation is ugly with soaring inequality, a choked financial system and a nervous private sector. Prudent public investment and a robust social safety net are what can prevent India from falling off the precipice of the economic cliff.Needless clever-by-half means of proclaiming big increases in public expenditure through arithmetic jugglery will only exacerbate the trust deficit between the government and the real economy. While the budget was directionally right, the government’s penchant for headlines, sophistry and exaggeration cast a shadow on Budget 2021-22.Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and senior office-bearer of the Congress The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-government-s-arithmetic-jugglery-cast-a-shadow-over-the-budget-s-right-direction-101612199309144.html
01-02-2021||Today's||Sharply focused, the budget boosts hopes of revival||There is nothing that sharpens the mind quite as much as a crisis. This was reflected in the brevity and precision of finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech, which was one-third shorter than her speech last year.The budget signals where the government’s priorities lie. This government, in its fight against Covid -19, has had to bear the brunt of 70 years of underspending on health care. It has unsurprisingly focused on the sector through an expansion of expenditure on health and nutrition from ₹94,000 crore to over ₹2.2 lakh crore. As recommended by many economists, the budget provides a strong Keynesian stimulus. There is a significant enhancement of allocation to existing water supply and sanitation programmes. Highways and metro rail construction projects were prominent within the first 30 minutes of the FM’s speech. The common theme running through these sectors is that old-fashioned construction spending, funded by a capital expenditure programme, up from ₹4 lakh crore to over ₹5.5 lakh crore, should create a degree of demand transmission.High-value infrastructure creation requires financial institutions to manage flows of capital. There is a proposal to create an Infrastructure Development Financial Institution to fill the space that was once occupied by IDBI, IFCI and IDFC. There is also an understanding that some markets will not develop unless the government steps in to create basic infrastructure. The proposal to create a market-making entity for investment grade bonds and the removal of tax restrictions on INVITS (infrastructure investment trusts) and REITS (real estate investment trusts) aims to address bottlenecks within these markets.The government also needs to bring public sector banks, with non-performing assets (NPAs), back to the lending fold. It is addressing this reluctance to lend with the creation of a monolithic asset reconstruction company. This has a certain appeal. The Troubled Asset Relief Program in the United States, after the Lehman crisis, ultimately succeeded in recovering nearly 100% of its asset value. There is a logical belief that moving NPAs into such an entity will free banks to return to credit provision. What needs to be ensured is that these assets are transferred in a transparent manner at the right value, which does not paper over the true NPA levels of the selling banks. The budget recognises that India’s problems are uniquely messy and require a preparedness to compromise on small inefficiencies. The reduction of tax audits for small companies, a commitment to not reopen income tax assessments after three years, and the simplification of tax filing for senior citizens may not make a difference to the economy as a whole, but helps focus state capacity in areas that are more useful.A consequence of this overall approach is move into a high-deficit regime. This year’s fiscal deficit of 9.5% is the highest since the 1991 crisis, and the government will be living with deficits of at least 4% until 2025-26. This is a dramatic commitment from the government to prime the pump of the economy. There was a fear that, faced with a crisis, the government would resort to an aggressive taxation programme which would stifle demand. Through a Marshall Plan-like commitment to spending on infrastructure and health expenditure, and yet largely permitting private sector animal spirits (such as they remain after Covid-19) to remain intact, the government has balanced some very difficult priorities.The plans articulated in the budget are largely within the government’s control. This is in contrast to budgets that focus on reduction in duties, offering tax breaks or steps to attract capital — all of which depend on the response of the private sector. To that extent, one can feel a little more confident about the successful consummation of the activities in this budget. In the budget, by focusing on a few objectives, the government has perhaps achieved more.Govind Sankaranarayanan, a former COO and CFO of Tata Capital, is currently vice chairman at ESG Fund ECube Investment Adviser The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/sharply-focused-the-budget-boosts-hopes-of-revival-101612199133734.html
01-02-2021||Today's||A Union Budget that bets on growth||The 2021-22 Union Budget has exceeded all expectations. This is reflected in the sharpest budget day rise in both the Nifty and Sensex since February 2001. The markets as well as the experts are cheering finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman’s boldness in focusing almost exclusively on accelerating growth and, thereby, generating large scale employment.She has jettisoned the Fiscal Responsibility and Management Act’s import of fiscal conservatism. The budget has launched the economy on a virtuous cycle of growth, which will imply rising tax revenues, higher non-tax resource mobilisation, and ramping up credit flows from the banking and financial sectors to infrastructure, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), and agriculture. This will ensure that our debt-to-Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratios will decline once the economy is on a higher growth path. The higher liquidity available in the banking sector will help absorb higher level of government borrowing, without stocking inflationary pressures or raising bond yields.The 137% increase in the health sector outlays is a bold response to the pandemic’s requirement for improving the public health infrastructure. This higher outlay will be used to strengthen the existing health and system and also supporting 17,000 health and wellness centres in rural and 11,000 in urban areas. Over and above this, the budget also allocates ₹2.86 lakh crores for Jal Jeevan Mission in urban areas and ₹1.67 lakh crore for the Swachh Bharat Urban Mission over the next five years. This outlay will also help to improve health outcomes. The allocation of ₹2,027 crore for improving air quality in cities with more than one million population, and the introduction of voluntary scrappage policy, will help battle pollution. While allocating ₹35,000 crores for the roll-out of the vaccine programme, the FM was careful in pointing out that additional funds would be made available as and when required.The highlight of the budget has been its laser-like focus on ramping up public capital expenditure for improving the physical infrastructure of the country. The budget allocates ₹5.54 lakh crore for capital expenditure — a 34% increase over the ₹4.12 lakh crore allocated in the previous year. If we include the additional ₹2 lakh crore to be transferred to the states for helping them raise their own capital expenditure, it represents a whopping increase of 70% over the previous year capital expenditure. This is unprecedented.This capital expenditure will see the highest ever allocation of ₹1.08 lakh crore of capital expenditure for the ministry of road, transport and highways; ₹1.07 lakh crores for railways; ₹18,000 crores for public transport in urban areas; extension of city gas distribution system to another 100 cities; and higher allocation of inland waterways, ports and airports. This outlay on infrastructure projects will generate significant multiplier effects, thereby generating employment and faster growth in the coming years.The budget has laid out a very ambitious package for raising non-tax revenue. For the first time, a concrete pipeline has been prepared with a dashboard for close monitoring for effective implementation. This effort will be supplemented by an active disinvestment programme, which will include several companies such as BPCL, Air India, Pawan Hans, CONCOR, SCI and BEML. Work on disinvestment is in an advanced stage and will be surely completed within this year. Its highlight is the inclusion of two public sector banks and one general insurance company, which are slated to be disinvested, and the listing of the Life Insurance Corporation, through an IPO, in the coming fiscal year. The FM has also announced the monetisation of surplus land holdings. All these together are expected to yield ₹1.75 lakh crore and will also ensure a larger space for private investors and entrepreneurs.The budget proposes a number of structural reforms. These include establishing an independent pipeline operator; raising the foreign direct investment limit from 49% to 74% in the insurance sector so as to attract higher foreign capital inflows; establishing a development finance institute with a capital of ₹20,000 crore; setting up an Asset Reconstruction and Management company to help clean up the balance sheet of commercial banks so that they can start lending in full measures to various sectors in the economy; incorporating another 1,000 mandis in the e-Nam framework; expanding “operation green” to 22 perishable crops; establishing the higher education commission for implementing the reforms recommended by the New Education Policy; allocating ₹50,000 crore for the next five years to operationalise the national research foundation for encouraging front-line technologies in India; and complete exemption for senior citizens above 75 years for filing income tax returns.This impressive list of structural reforms, though not exhaustive, will lay a strong foundation for the Indian economy to sustain high rates of growth and employment generation in the coming decade.This is a landmark budget as it improves both ease of doing business and also ease of living for women. It attempts to minimise the regulatory and compliance burden imposed on the taxpayers, especially corporate taxpayers and facilitates the growth of MSMEs. This will ensure that the Indian manufacturing sector, which has already been given a huge boost by the production-linked incentive scheme announced for the 13 sectors, will now gather fresh momentum and see India’s share in global trade rising at a faster rate.Rajiv Kumar is the vice-chairman of Niti AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-union-budget-that-bets-on-growth-101612195530712.html
01-02-2021||Today's||The Union Budget will unleash animal spirits and enthuse investors||Finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman has delivered a truly historic and ambitious budget. It comes after a year of economic contraction caused by the pandemic and lockdown. The initial national priority was to save lives against an unseen killer virus, and hence the harsh lockdown, which resulted in a demand and supply shock.India has been exceptionally successful in “flattening the curve” and keeping fatalities low. But as we prepare for the post-pandemic economy, we needed a big fiscal boost. This has led to the usual dilemma of whether to obey the diktat of fiscal prudence or to tilt towards fiscal extravagance. The Economic Survey had clearly indicated its preference towards fiscal expansion. The FM correctly identified that the need of the hour is to be bold, unafraid of rating agencies, and that is what the budget provides.The strong growth stimulus is in the form of a much higher allocation for spending on infrastructure. The benefits of infra-assets that are thus created, whether in terms of roads, highways, ports or airports, are for the benefit of several generations into the future. Hence, it makes sense to finance them with resources raised from both the current and future unborn taxpayers, that is to say, from current taxes and future borrowing. And, thus, the enhanced spending relies on a higher fiscal deficit of about 6.8% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to be brought down to 4.5% in the next four years.This is a credible, honest and realistic glide path of debt financing. It is also sustainable because, as such, India’s debt-to-GDP ratio is on the lower side, as compared to its G20 peers. The world is currently awash with plenty of liquidity and the extremely low interest rate regime will continue in the foreseeable future. India’s high growth potential is attractive to global funds seeking a higher return.By making it easier for foreign sovereign wealth and pension funds to invest in India’s infrastructure, the budget has greatly improved the outlook for infra development in the next few years. It will lead to massive construction activity, and also create significant employment. And such public investment will crowd in more private investment, and will reduce logistics and transportation costs and increase industrial productivity. There is a considerable push given to the creation of large-scale affordable housing, which is also part of infrastructure. The budget provides money for the creation of a development financial institution which can access long term funds for long gestation projects.Beyond hard infrastructure are health and education sectors, which can be called India’s soft infrastructure. Investment in them enhances human capital and increases long-term growth rates and prosperity. The budget has correctly given extra emphasis on these two social sectors, especially creating a widespread network of quality primary health and education centres. India has to more than double its expenditure on health, as a share of GDP, to be comparable to peer countries. It has a proven capability to synthesise the lifesaving vaccine, which is now also being exported to other countries. Beyond the pharmaceutical sector, the other parts of the entire health care sector need much more funding, which this budget has provided.The other notable feature, described as one of the pillars which form the basis of the budget, is the role of the private sector. The FM called it the asset monetisation programme which has been ongoing, and will now be accelerated. That means that several public sector entities will be opened up for this investment or privatisation, including two prominent public sector banks as well as a general insurance company owned by the government. The government intends to get out of all non-strategic sectors, leaving them for the creative energy and innovation of the private sector.This historic budget is sure to unleash animal spirits and enthuse investors. The virtuous cycle of consumer and business confidence is what is needed to take the economy into the high growth orbit. Only high economic growth can create the resources needed for a just and inclusive society.Kumar Mangalam Birla is the chairman of the Aditya Birla GroupThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-union-budget-will-unleash-animal-spirits-and-enthuse-investors-101612195470694.html
01-02-2021||Today's||Where the budget gets India’s economy wrong||What is the basic economic philosophy of the 2021-22 Union Budget? Two sets of numbers can answer this question. Let us look at the tax projections first. The 2021-22 Budget Estimate (BE) for Gross Tax Revenue is ₹22.17 lakh crore, which is lower than 2020-21 BE figures of ₹24.23 lakh crore. The shortfall would have been higher if collections from Union excise duties (basically taxes on petrol-diesel) had not increased by ₹68,000 crore between 2020-21 and 2021-22 BE figures. Tax rates have not been changed in this budget. Taxes are a fraction of income. This means the budget itself assumes that personal and business incomes in 2021-22 will not reach levels which should have been achieved in 2020-21. Lower incomes will also mean lower demand. Take government spending figures now. The BE for total central government spending for 2021-22 is ₹34.83 lakh crore. The Revised Estimate (RE) for total central spending in 2020-21 is ₹34.5 lakh crore. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) deflator — if one takes 14.4% nominal GDP growth projection for 2021-22 given in the budget and 11% real GDP forecast given in the latest Economic Survey — comes to 3.4%. This means that central spending should have increased to at least ₹35.7 lakh crore to keep it unchanged in real terms. The fact that it has not happened implies that the 2021-22 budget entails a negative fiscal stimulus to the economy. If one reads both sets of numbers together, the macroeconomic takeaway is clear. The budget has pinned its hopes on supply-side economics, while the economy is facing a demand-side crisis.To be sure, one could argue that 2020-21 was an abnormal year — and, therefore, the government is justified in rolling back its welfare spending push, as the economy gets unlocked and vaccination gains momentum. This is in keeping with the government’s view that the economy is already on the rising side of a V-shaped recovery curve. But this argument is overoptimistic. If the economy were indeed on a V-shaped recovery path, why are the government’s tax projections for 2021-22 lower than what they were a year ago? There is an additional problem with what is a premature withdrawal of the fiscal boost. A lot of the sequential recovery, especially in rural areas, was contingent on the government’s support. This has been withdrawn in a big way. For example, spending on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) is down from ₹1.15 lakh crore in 2020-21 RE to ₹73,000 crore in 2021-22 BE. Similarly, allocation for Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojna is down from ₹40,500 crore in 2020-21 RE to ₹27,500 crore in 2021-22 BE. PM-KISAN allocation was ₹75,000 crore in 2020-21 BE; it came down to ₹65,000 crore in 2020-21 RE and has been maintained at that level in 2021-22 BE.Once the resource flow to such schemes reduces from April 2021, rural incomes and demand will take a hit. When read with the fact that even the better-looking high-frequency economic indicators, such as Purchasing Managers’ Indices, have been highlighting the fact that labour markets have not recovered even though production has picked up, this has an ominous possibility. While India was spared a second wave of Covid-19 infections, it could end up with a second round of distress in labour markets, especially for those who are at the bottom of the pyramid and have the highest propensity to consume. What explains a negative fiscal stimulus in the wake of a contraction? Given the government’s economic philosophy even during the pre-pandemic slowdown, this is not surprising. It believed that the slowdown was not because of a demand-side problem, and that the solution was to be found in supply-side measures and a formalisation push in the economy. But this approach may have worsened the economic situation.The budget has only carried forward the supply-side focus of the government. After having announced critical factor market reforms in agriculture and labour, the government has gone ahead with liberalising foreign direct investment limits in critical sectors such as insurance, announced privatisation of government-owned banks, and has taken up large-scale monetisation of government assets beyond public sector companies. This is what explains the exuberance in equity markets. While these policies might play a role in keeping the fiscal deficit under control despite a bleak revenue scenario, there will be little impact in terms of fresh economic activity and, hence, boosting aggregate demand. In fact, the net economic impact of these policies need not be benign for two reasons. One, large-scale monetisation of infrastructure assets such as roads and railways can lead to a hike in user charges and hence higher inflation in the long-term. Two, continued exuberance in equity markets will continue to encourage divergence of household savings towards speculative activities and will also make their assets more vulnerable to a sudden windfall loss as and when interest rates are hiked in advanced countries, and foreign investors pull out.The possible clash between the government’s assumptions and the reality of the economy will determine India’s trajectory in the next year.roshan.k@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/where-the-budget-gets-india-s-economy-wrong-101612195469387.html
01-02-2021||Today's||The end of Myanmar’s limited experiment with democracy||At around 3 am on Monday, Myanmar’s dalliance with electoral democracy — never a liberal experiment — came to an end. State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint of the National League of Democracy (NLD), which recently swept Myanmar’s general elections, were detained by the military (also known as the Tatmadaw) on charges of electoral fraud. So were many other journalists, activists, and artists critical of the military. The coup d’état of 2021, the third in Myanmar’s political history — the first two being in 1962 and 1990– was underway, unleashing horrific human suffering.Apart from altering Myanmar’s political trajectory, the coup also risks destabilising the geopolitics of the South and Southeast Asian region. Historically, Myanmar has held a deeply isolationist streak in its foreign policy. But since the late 1980s, it became increasingly dependent on China in the face of intense international criticism of the Tatmadaw’s authoritarianism. This began to change in the first decade of the century, as the country adopted a seven-step roadmap to democracy, selectively removed restrictions, and slowly opened up, raising hopes of democrats the world over. Not anymore.Two key questions require unpacking at this stage. First, why did the Tatmadaw undertake a coup when it commands tremendous influence in Myanmar’s politics? The 2008 constitution guarantees the military 25% seat share in the parliament and does not permit constitutional amendments without a 75%-plus majority favouring such moves. This affords the Tatmadaw structural control of the country’s lawmaking processes, even if elected representatives can decide on foreign and domestic policies — as witnessed in the past few years under Suu Kyi. Second, why now? Though the specifics of what triggered the coup will slowly come in, there are two reasons why Senior-General Min Aung Hlaing might have opted to go ahead with this risky decision.One, despite the pro-military constitutional arrangements, and counter to intuition, the Tatmadaw had begun feeling deeply uncomfortable with Suu Kyi. Her rising popularity among the Bamar-Buddhist majority, more-nationalist-than-most populism (as witnessed during the Rohingya crisis), and persistent demand to reduce the percentage requirement for ushering in constitutional amendments, deepened the Tatmadaw’s suspicion of Suu Kyi trying to alter the civil-military balance of power.Such a combination of the military’s insecurities and Suu Kyi’s ambitions led to open spats between the State Counsellor and the Senior-General (S-G). There was increasing concern within the Tatmadaw that it risked losing influence and autonomy over critical policy domains, including the peace process — which has made little progress in the last five years — as well as, to a limited extent, external relations. The S-G, for instance, has been critical of China in recent months and blamed Beijing for supporting the Arakan army in Rakhine state. Suu Kyi’s perceived tilt towards Beijing, as seen in her red-carpet welcome to Xi Jinping in January 2020, exacerbated these concerns. The Tatmadaw viewed it as a Machiavellian attempt to carve out more political support for herself when the West had abandoned Suu Kyi.In this backdrop, the alleged electoral inconsistencies in recent elections, though denied by the Union Election Commission, ironically offered the military an opportunity to oust Suu Kyi in the name of safeguarding the 2008 constitution from a civilian autocrat. In comparative perspective, this situation is not dissimilar to the 1977 ouster of the popular, and equally autocratic, former Pakistani prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto by the military dictator Zia-ul-Haq. But this in itself is insufficient to explain the timing of the coup d’état. For that, one must focus on the power politics within the Tatmadaw.For the purpose of analytical ease, two broad factions can be identified within the Tatmadaw.The so-called reformists, most represented by former President Thein Sein, are those who have been relatively open to devolving power to elected civilian leaders, diversifying Myanmar’s external relations by opening up to the West, and developing an inclusive political formula that could bring an end to the country’s multiple long-running insurgencies. To be clear, the reformists don’t desire a structural shift in civil-military balance to the detriment of the Tatmadaw. But they were less threatened by the NLD when ushering in reforms after 2008 that allowed the electoral — if not actual — rise of Suu Kyi.The so-called conservative faction, epitomised by Min Aung Hlaing, is deeply suspicious of civilian leaders, especially Suu Kyi. Castigated by the West for their actions in Rakhine state (apparent in London’s targeted sanctions against the S-G and the Deputy S-G), and equally vary of China’s overbearing influence, this faction values the Tatmadaw’s political superiority and vision of a Bamar-Buddhist dominated Myanmar above all else. The conservatives, unlike the reformists, put a premium of Myanmar’s geostrategic locale and understand that neighbours are unlikely to punish Naypyitaw because of the coup d’état, Western sanctions notwithstanding.With the tenure of Min Aung Hlaing soon coming to an end, this was, then, a do-or-die moment in the conservative worldview of Myanmar’s military. The next S-G, even if a conservative, would not have been able to easily outmaneuver Suu Kyi. The change of guard in the military top-brass at a moment when Suu Kyi won another election handsomely risked actual democratisation (even if illiberal in nature), potentially undermining the military’s position for a long time to come.What the Tatmadaw does with this power in the next few weeks, and how it deals with the incoming international criticism, will determine the future course of both Myanmar and the region as a whole. Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US Withdrawal (New York: Oxford University Press, 2017) The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-end-of-myanmar-s-limited-experiment-with-democracy-101612172076142.html
01-02-2021||Today's||In Bengal, the political battle over Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose||There are many, especially in Bengal, who believe that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose not only did not die in an air crash in 1945, but survived long after India became independent. Netaji-spotting and conspiracy theories became a cottage industry, spurred by diehard fans, multiple government-appointed commissions and books and films, often based on tenuous research. What’s different in 2021 is Netaji being dragged into electoral politics.With the party founded by Netaji, the Forward Bloc, having faded into obscurity, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is making a concerted bid to claim Netaji’s legacy in the run-up to the state elections. Netaji has a special relevance for Bengal. He has long fed into the Bengali notions of pride as well as neglect in independent India.When West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee objected, in the presence of the prime minister, to cries of Jai Shri Ram at a function in Victoria Memorial to commemorate Netaji’s birth anniversary, she was expressing her anger at a slogan that has acquired a political hue and riled her earlier. But, at another level, she was objecting to the BJP’s attempts to own Netaji.Indeed, just as in the case of Mahatma Gandhi and BR Ambedkar — other icons the BJP has attempted to appropriate — the effort to do so with Netaji is fraught with ideological contradictions. If nothing else, Netaji was avowedly secular through his political career.Nearly a decade before he formed the Indian National Army (INA), Netaji wrote a passionate message to his fellow Bengalis: “One of the dreams that have inspired me and given a purpose to my life is that of a great and undivided Bengal … a Bengal that is above all sects and groups and is the home alike of the Muslim, the Hindu, the Christian and the Buddhist.”Again, in 1937, when a controversy arose over the singing of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay’s Vande Mataram by Congress members on formal occasions, Bose suggested taking the advice of Rabindranath Tagore. Tagore said that while the first verse of the song was inspirational, the rest could be offensive to Muslims. This interpretation was accepted by Bose and the Congress.Netaji’s secular spirit found true expression in INA and the Azad Hind government. While Jai Hind was the slogan of INA, three Urdu words — Itmad, Ittefaq and Kurbani — were its motto. Several other incidents highlight Netaji’s secular outlook. Historian Sugata Bose, who is also a member of Bose’s family, notes that, in 1943, when priests of the main Chettiar temple in Singapore invited Netaji to a religious ceremony, he turned them down. He eventually consented only after the temple authorities agreed to a gathering of all castes and communities. Netaji’s compatriot, Abid Hasan, has written that the temple was “filled to capacity with the uniforms of INA officers and men and the black caps of the South Indian Muslims glaringly evident.”Perhaps, the famous public trial in 1945 of three INA officers — Prem Kumar Sahgal, a Hindu, Shah Nawaz Khan, a Muslim, and Gurbaksh Singh Dhillon, a Sikh — best showcased the composition of INA and Netaji’s secular leanings. As Sugata Bose argues, the “Hindu right lauds his military heroism, ignoring his deep commitment to Hindu-Muslim unity and the rights of religious minorities”.The effort to own Netaji has intensified in this election cycle, with his 125th birth anniversary celebrations also acting as a catalyst. The current situation is complicated by a political divide within Netaji’s family. Sugata Bose and his late mother, Krishna Bose, are former MPs of the Trinamool Congress while a cousin, Chandra Bose, unsuccessfully contested the 2016 Assembly election on a BJP ticket.What is certain though is that once the election is over, Netaji will once again be consigned to statues and portraits as well as conspiracy theories.Ronojoy Sen is senior research fellow, ISAS & SASP, National University of Singapore.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-bengal-the-political-battle-over-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-101612099284983.html
01-02-2021||Today's||Why the budget is crucial for democracy||Even as the Covid-19 pandemic has devastated lives and livelihoods for a majority, a tiny sliver of the population, both globally and in India, managed to become richer.The United States (US) witnessed the highest number of deaths caused by the pandemic in any country so far. Yet, the wealth of the top 20% increased by leaps and bounds.The total net worth of 614 billionaires rose by $931 billion between March and October. The employment rate of 25% of the population with the highest income recorded a jump of 1.6% over the pre-pandemic period.But this limited prosperity for some happened even as the economic condition of the majority, particularly the poor, kept deteriorating. Some were killed by the pandemic, while most of them were suffering from the other disasters indirectly caused by the pandemic.By December, 10 million Americans had lost jobs, while numerous small businesses had been deprived of their work.The dichotomy is not unique to the US. The New Policy Institute estimated in June last year that the top 20% of British super-rich had earned $29.3 billion during the lockdown.Even “communist” China saw a spike in the wealth of the rich. In India, the income of a select few has grown so much that observers suggest that all those who need support can be vaccinated with the extra wealth, or that they can even afford to spend on schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for years — remember this scheme has served as a crucial safety valve and has helped feed millions of people in India’s rural hinterland.All of this has prompted some economists to advocate the extra income of the super-rich.During the pandemic, there was a 12% decrease in the income of organised sector employees. An average Indian lost his earning by 17%. According to an eye-opening survey by Oxfam, women have been the worst victims. Their unemployment rate has registered a 15% increase.Will the finance minister take care of all those who have lost out and suffered in the budget to be presented on Monday? Jobs were lost, shelters disappeared, and millions of people had to walk hundreds of kilometres to get home. These destitute people are most in need of support from the government.All of this points to a worrying pattern — economic inequality is increasing all over the world and, unfortunately, there is little scope for immediate improvement since the pandemic continues to wreak havoc. The vaccine is now available, but the unpredictability of the disease and emergence of new strains means there is no room for complacency.This also means that any assessment of economic recovery can only be tentative and not certain. Countries such as India, which were facing an economic slowdown even before the Covid-19 crisis, will find it even harder to recover.This is not good news for the democratic world. History shows that persisting economic inequalities sows the seeds of dissatisfaction.This dissatisfaction leads to mistrust, and mistrust often forces the common citizen to hit the streets. Recently, India witnessed the fury of the farm movement on the streets and Red Fort in Delhi.This happened even as the government was giving clear signals of retreating and had made reasonable concessions — but the agitators were not ready for anything less than the withdrawal of the three farm laws. They had been on the road, at Delhi’s borders, for more than two months.Tensions had increased, culminating into the events of January 26. Some captured the Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag.The dignity of the Indian Republic suffered an unprecedented setback, but the episode also shattered the morale of the peasants and tarnished the credibility of their struggle.Or take another episode — on January 6, the US Capitol witnessed an insurrection of sorts. It appears that citizens are increasingly losing trust in their elected government and the system that has been in place for years in democratic countries. Many observers see this trend as a threat to the democratic system, born out of a mix of anxieties and grievances, often economic in nature.Those exercising power must find ways to tackle this. In India, Nirmala Sitharaman’s second full budget can mark the beginning of this effort to tackle inequality, distress, and provide hope to citizens, for it is with economic well-being that democracy too will remain robust.Shashi Shekhar is editor in chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-the-budget-is-crucial-for-democracy-101612099045258.html
01-02-2021||Today's||Lessons from the tractor rally on R Day||The most enduring image of the 72nd Republic Day in the Capital was a religious flag flying on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The visual was deeply disturbing. The nation watched, in shock and horror, on television, as 1,000 or so protesters stormed and ravaged the revered monument. Elsewhere, thousands of tractors ran amuck, smashing barricades, while lathi-wielding farmers broke through police cordons, marching ahead towards India Gate. The day-long mayhem left 400 policepersons and 10 farmers injured, and public property worth crores destroyed. But, from the perspective of law enforcement, it is important to look at both the specifics of what happened on Republic Day, and the larger lessons the episode holds.Why did the Delhi Police permit a tractor rally on Republic Day? The Delhi Police commissioner admitted, in his press conference, that intelligence inputs had led to banning over 350 Twitter handles fanning discontent from across the border and instigating people in large numbers to join the rally. It was also clear to all police officers that, despite assurances of the farm leaders, allowing tractors in such large numbers would be dangerous and controlling such a huge number of protesters would be almost impossible. Besides, every police unit, down to the last man, is deployed for security arrangements for the Republic Day parade, making it impossible to handle any other bandobast on the day. If the government then gave consent, it must have braced itself for some collateral damage.This then begs another larger question. Who is responsible for the safety of the Capital — the Centre, Delhi’s chief minister or the police commissioner? The Supreme Court left the matter of permission for the rally to the Delhi Police. The police suggested another date for the rally. But the denial of permission would have created an uproar among farmer leaders, civil society and the Opposition. Perhaps this led to the Centre to buckle under pressure.Why, then, didn’t the Centre leave the matter in the hands of the police commissioner, to take the decision solely on law-and-order considerations? Perhaps it would have served the interest of both the Centre and the Capital better. In light of wanton destruction of public property and brazen attack on policemen, the damage done to the image of the Capital and to our democratic governance far outweighs any advantage accrued by granting permission. The issue requires serious deliberation by the political executive for taking such decisions in future.The Delhi Police displayed great restraint — suffering injuries, but not retaliating. But was it prepared for contingencies such as tractors diverging from the earmarked routes or going rogue? Even additional manpower or hastily created physical barriers would not have helped, except shooting at the tyres. As a result, Delhiites saw cops running helter-skelter against speeding tractors, breaking police barriers, and armed mobs surging ahead — scenes hardly inspiring confidence among the public.There are at least three lessons that emerge from the ghastly incidents of that day.The first is technical in nature. There is a dire need to upgrade riot-gear equipment. Police officials continue to use old, worn-out helmets, shields and lathis. Tear gas equipment, gas grenades and bulletproof vests need to be regularly replaced. Some visuals on TV screens, watched by the world, presented an embarrassing sight, exposing the vulnerability of India’s cops against raging mobs. In contrast, watch the riot gear of the Hong Kong Police. Indeed, modern equipment and accessories need to be provided for facing riotous situations. The conventional response of merely adding numbers will not work in all situations.Second, ground intelligence requires more coverage to prevent breaches such as that of Red Fort, which should have been prevented at any cost. The performance of the 10 battalions attached with the Delhi police for handling law and order needs a serious review. Issues regarding deployment only with unit heads, training, briefing should be looked into. Transfer of senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officers immediately after incidents such as the Tees Hazari clash with lawyers has also led to some hesitation on the part officers to take firm action.Third, a considered view has to be taken on manning protests in Delhi in the future, given their frequency and intensity. A protest is a constitutional right and, hence, protest sites such as Ramlila Maidan have been earmarked. Public places cannot be occupied indefinitely, according to the Supreme Court. For 60 days, the farm agitation was peaceful, but people were suffering because of road blockades. Job losses were reported, with supply chains affected and manufacturing adversely impacted. A rough estimate of losses is around ₹3,500 crore a day, according to Assocham. All protests must be held at designated sites and, if numbers are large, then an appropriate site should be designated for the purpose. A conscious decision needs to be taken that no protest will be allowed to hamper the daily lives of Delhi citizens.Critical stakeholders failed our democracy on the 72nd Republic Day — the central government by permitting the rally; farm leaders by reneging on their promises; and the Opposition by not playing a constructive role.In the future, it is best if professional matters are left to professionals only.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer and Central Information CommissionerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/lessons-from-the-tractor-rally-on-r-day-101612098864866.html
