03-02-2021||Today's||‘We are here to entertain our fans…’||Theatre artiste, actor, anchor, Rajeev Bhardwaj feels that the love and recognition his characters have garnered over the years is his biggest reward.The Meerut born performer has been part of a number of films like ‘Mulk’,‘Super Nani’, ‘Lupt,’ ‘Traffic Signal’, and shows like ‘Bharat Ka Veer Putra-Maharana Pratap’, ‘Chandragupta Maurya’ and ‘Kulfi Kumaar’.“When my audiences praise my choice of roles and subjects it makes me content. It’s so rewarding to receive love and recognition from viewers. Many of my characters like the one I played in ‘Kulfi…’ made me find fans abroad. Actually, this is what we actors work for: to entertain our fans and to get love in return,” said the ‘Devon ke Dev…Mahadev’ actor during a recent visit to Dehradun.Bhardwaj is a qualified computer engineer who left his corporate job to try his luck in acting. Talking about his journey, he said, “After being in the corporate world for a couple of years, I decided to enter the entertainment field, though becoming a professional actor was never in my mind. I started as a dubbing artist then a radio jockey and entered the TV industry with the hit daily ‘CID’ and then numerous mythological shows happened along with theatre and films.”Currently he is being seen as Laali Rani on TV. Bhardwaj said it was truly challenging to play the role of a man who loves to dress up like a woman. “When I was offered this role for the show ‘Aye Mere Humsafar,’ I was in two minds but when I accepted it, I fell in love with the character. And trust me, my respect and admiration for women has grown manifold,” said Bhardwaj, who will also be seen doing an army officer’s role for a web series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/we-are-here-to-entertain-our-fans-101612364131492.html
03-02-2021||Today's||What the budget means for India’s social sector||Budget 2021-22, the first following the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic, was always going to be a difficult one for finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman — with the need to match high expectations with the reality of low revenues. From a macroeconomic perspective, the budget speech hit many of the right notes.The transparency in presenting the fiscal deficit numbers, the commitment to bring off-budget transactions back on the books, the repayment to the debt-ridden Food Corporation of India (FCI), the low (but realistic) revenue assumptions, and a focus on increasing infrastructure, were all positive steps.Yet, when it came to social welfare — the backbone of India’s pandemic response — the silence in the budget is revealing of the government’s discomfort with pushing a redistributive and welfare State.There is no doubt that the pandemic has disproportionately impacted India’s poor and vulnerable and India’s ability to respond quickly to the pandemic rested to a large degree on our existing welfare architecture. The Union government relied on several welfare schemes to deliver benefits to citizens. The midday meal (MDM) scheme, which caters to 116 million school-going children, was expanded to include additional grains during the summer months. The presence of millions of frontline workers allowed us to quickly ensure that, even with anganwadi centres and schools closed, we could deliver rations directly to people’s homes. Food subsidy and the presence of a large public distribution network enabled us to expand supply to vulnerable households.Similarly, the much-neglected Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) was the first to be tapped to provide employment to millions of migrant workers returning to their native states. Through the year, the government’s fiscal stimulus packages highlighted the need to ensure adequate finances to these areas. Strangely though, most of these have seen either cuts or have resumed business as usual. Let’s look at them one by one.First, nutrition. The release of the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) results shows that even prior to the pandemic, for many states, child malnutrition levels in 2019 were higher than the previous round in 2015-16. Add to that the fall in incomes and disruption of services due to the pandemic, and the numbers are likely to worsen. Estimates suggest that even a 9.5% decline in India’s GDP could lead to an additional 3.9 million children wasted or suffering from acute malnutrition.Yet, nearly all nutrition programmes have seen budget cuts. For instance, revised estimates for the Integrated Child Development Services even during the pandemic year, i.e. 2020-21, were 16% lower than those budgeted. This is despite the fact that budget estimates themselves had failed to keep up either with projected demand by the ministry or even requirements to ensure universal coverage. An Accountability Initiative study has found that for supplementary nutrition alone, approved budgets accounted for less than half the requirements.Similarly, while ₹13,400 crore was announced for the MDM scheme during the current year (due to additional allocations for providing meals in the summer months and increase in cooking costs), revised estimates are lower at ₹12,900 crore, suggesting under-spending or lower than planned coverage. Budget 2021 has in fact cut allocations further to ₹11,500 crore. Then there is the Poshan Abhiyaan — India’s flagship programme to improve nutritional outcomes in a mission-driven, time-bound manner (by 2022). Cumulatively, since the start of the programme till October 31, 2020, the Union government had released only 46% of its share. This year, even the budget has been cut by 27%. Nor was there much mention of Covid-19 warriors — the understaffed, overburdened and low-paid frontline workers. Instead, we now have a new mission called the Saksham Anganwadi and POSHAN 2.0, which combines previous schemes at an outlay of ₹20,105 crore. While details are still awaited, from a purely fiscal perspective, allocations are lower than the budget estimates for ICDS in 2020-21.Second, health. Conventionally, health outlays have referred to allocations for the health ministry alone. This time though, the government presented the health budget in an inter-sectoral manner announcing a whopping 137% increase. But a look at the direct budget for the ministry shows only a 10% increase compared to last year’s budget estimate. More puzzling is the lack of priority given to the National Health Mission (NHM) — the flagship scheme to direct non-wage expenditures on primary health to states and an important mechanism to strengthen the health system. With a 4% increase in nominal terms for NHM, allocations won’t even keep up with rising inflation.And, finally, on rural employment, consider MGNREGS. Despite revised allocations topping over ₹1 lakh crore, the highest-ever since the scheme’s launch, it is still unable to keep pace with increased demand. So much so that with two months left in the fiscal year, expenditure is already nearly ₹90,000 crore. With allocations falling this year to ₹73,000 crore, the scheme is going to continue to mount pending liabilities or payments due.With livelihoods, poverty and social safety nets still in a precarious position, the neglect of the social sector will hamper India’s attempt to build a dynamic, resilient and equitable social welfare architecture.Avani Kapur is a fellow, Centre for Policy Research and director of the Accountability InitiativeThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-the-budget-means-for-india-s-social-sector-101612274744839.html
03-02-2021||Today's||By spending, the Union Budget offers an antidote to poverty||Finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman had promised that it would be a budget like no other, the best of the century. It was a bold statement. But she has delivered.Perhaps no other FM in free India was faced with such gigantic problems — a raging pandemic; a fragile health care system bursting at the seams; low consumer confidence; farm agitation; and the border tensions with China.Faced with a once-in-a-lifetime crisis, it was time for some big decisions. The budget demonstrates that the government has the political will as well as the financial know-how to put the damaging economic crisis behind us, and push India on its way to a robust growth pathThe budget’s big-ticket ideas revolve around capital spending. Economists had urged the FM to “spend, spend and spend”. She appears to have done just that, without (rightly) bothering about international rating agencies which might have something to say about India’s fiscal deficit. But there is a national consensus to spend now, spend for the next few years, and then worry about the fiscal deficit. This is bold but timely, and will boost demand.There is a sharp increase in capital expenditure to ₹5.54 lakh crore, 35% more than in the last fiscal. This is in addition to ₹2 lakh crore proposed to be given to states and autonomous bodies for their capital expenditure.The outlay for health and well-being, to the tune of ₹2.2 lakh crore as against ₹94,452 crore in the previous year, is significant. A new centrally-sponsored scheme, called PM Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojna, to be launched with an outlay of ₹65,500 crore, staggered over six years, is another big statement by the FM that she is not afraid to spend. A proposal to spend ₹35,000 crore on vaccination is a step in that direction.But what is most striking is the Aatmanirbhar package. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi publicly reiterated his resolve to once again make India self-reliant in a virtual Davos conference organised by the World Economic Forum (WEF) recently. This is a serious pledge to make India a global economic powerhouse and generate wealth for the poor and middle-class. Modi launched this movement on May 12 last year and, since then, it has become his mantra, even his government’s dharma. Every budget in the next few years has to help the PM realise his vision of self-reliance. This budget has made a strong beginning to achieve this goal.The slogan of “vocal for local” — Modi himself encapsulated the spirit of the campaign in these three magical words — is music to the ears of Indian manufacturers and producers. The first step towards this goal was taken last year when the government brought a production-linked incentive scheme. Under this scheme, Indian companies will get 4-6% incremental concession for the next five years on making goods inside the country.The creation of infrastructure will continue to be on top of the list of priorities and the FM has listed quite a few new schemes, including the highest ever outlay of ₹1.18 lakh crore for the ministry of road transport and highways, of which ₹1.08 lakh crore is for capital. Large capex and focus on infra will boost growth and create enormous employment opportunities for both white and blue collar jobs.The emphasis on disinvestment and asset monetisation is not a novel idea, but a much-needed one. Last year’s plans were disrupted by the pandemic, but the FM has promised to be super proactive on this front in the fiscal year 2021-22, which will fill the government coffers by up to ₹1.75 lakh crore.In short, Sitharaman has created a buzz in the market. Her budget will help rebuild consumer confidence. A budget is not a magic wand to end all our economic woes and one budget is never going to be enough to tide over all the difficulties. But her intent is clear — and that is to lead India’s V-shaped economic recovery with all the government’s might.Syed Zafar Islam is a Member of Parliament, national spokesperson of the BJP, and a former managing director, Deutsche Bank, IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/by-spending-the-union-budget-offers-an-antidote-to-poverty-101612274443737.html
