05-02-2021||Today's||Ind vs NZ? It’s down to the wire||The present: A home series against England is on and India is surely looking to dominate the visitors (what fun!). The past: Memories of an astounding series win in Australia are still as fresh as the bruises on Cheteshwar Pujara.The future: India and New Zealand look set to clash for the first-ever ICC World Test Championship (WTC) title this June. It’s not necessary in sport that the two best teams of the time meet in the final of a tournament or league, but if India do make it to the final against New Zealand, that’s exactly what we’ll get. The two are, at the moment, Test match giants in a league of their own. The inaugural WTC may have run into a once-in-a-lifetime threat in the form of Covid-19 (and almost run aground), but a bit of adaptation and some vagaries of luck could bring us to this breath-taking pass. Kane Williamson and his Black Caps were only assured of a place in the WTC final this week when Australia pulled out of a three-Test tour of South Africa citing concerns about the Covid-19 numbers there. India may miss out on the final, of course. Virat Kohli and his men need to win at least two Tests in the four-match series, and ensure that England don’t win both the other matches, to get to the WTC final.Meanwhile, Australia needed to win at least two of the three Tests and stop South Africa from winning a single match, for a sure shot at the finals. They could still get there, if England win at least two matches. England have a chance if they win at least three of the four matches in the series. New Zealand, on the other hand, flattened both West Indies and Pakistan in home series wins to claim enough points under a WTC scoring system that was revised to reflect the disrupted realities of cricket being played during a pandemic. In some ways, it was that jaw-dropping win at the Gabba that made India a frontrunner for a place in the final, and, crucially, dropped Australia a few decimal points behind New Zealand (after they were docked points for slow over rates). The team that has won more Tests than any other in the last decade may miss out on the WTC final partly due to a rule that penalises wasting time. The irony! But let us shed no tears.Instead, let us consider the delicious possibilities of a match between two teams with a penchant for taking things to the wire. New Zealand and India have a lot in common as cricketing units. They fight for every inch and are fearless in battle. India proved that in Australia. New Zealand proved it during the heart-stopping 2019 ICC World Cup final. Both teams are led by clear-sighted captains with a great drive to win, but also a rock-solid commitment to fair play. There is perhaps no one more loved in world cricket right now than Williamson, whose Brooklyn-hipster urban-lumberjack beard barely conceals the kindest smile in the sport. Kohli is far too abrasive to be loved as universally, but behind his streetfighter belligerence is a man who picks up his toughest opponent when he falls (remember him appealing to the crowds to not pick on Steve Smith?). Williamson and Kohli are also two of the finest Test batsman in the world right now and this would be a spectacular match-up for that reason alone. Add to that two teams bursting with skilled batsmen and fierce fast bowlers, grit and experience, youth and exuberance. If India’s find of the season is Mohammed Siraj and his crafty bowling full of angles and movement, New Zealand’s most recent discovery comes in the form of a nearly 7-ft-tall fast bowler who picked up 11 wickets in his last Test. His name is Kyle Jamieson and he also took a fifer in just the second Test of his career, against India last year. If we have Jasprit Bumrah’s blistering pace and movement, they have Trent Boult, who partnered Bumrah in the Mumbai Indians squad in the last Indian Premier League. If India have Pujara as the bedrock of the Test middle order, New Zealand have Henry Nicholls in that pivotal batting spot. Williamson himself is only dealing in centuries, sometimes in double hundreds. In the single inning he has played this year, against Pakistan, he scored 238. There’s some uncertainty over whether the WTC final will be held at the Lord’s or Southampton’s Rose Bowl. Lord’s has history on its side of course, but its limpid wicket will not do justice to the fiery bowling both sides have to offer. The Rose Bowl is no bowler’s paradise either. Yet, at least for one side, the London ground may prove to be a nervous place to be in. After all, what could go wrong with New Zealand in a major final at the Lord’s?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/ind-vs-nz-it-s-down-to-the-wire-101612534227674.html
05-02-2021||Today's||Dealing with Resolution fatigue: Life Hacks by Charles Assisi||Most studies confirm that by this time of year, at least 80% of people have broken their New Year resolutions. I’ve been among them, numerous times. The only reason I no longer am is that I don’t make resolutions any more. After much experience of why it is a bad idea, and much reading that confirms it is, I have decided to go with the belief that it isn’t a lack of will power that leads us to break our resolutions — it’s usually the nature of the resolutions themselves. Most are so very myopic. The most common promises to the self tend to fall into three groups — losing weight, living more healthily and managing money better. There are two core problems here — a). You can’t wake up overnight an altogether different person and b) the decision isn’t always up to you. Resolutions tend to operate in absolutes and make no room for the people in our lives, the interpersonal relationships we must nurture, the investments we must make in our social groups. We have identities in each of these domains and each of those identities operates differently, with different priorities and goals. When we pursue one absolute goal, our other identities begin to suffer. And it is only a matter of time before they rebel and the resolution suffers. So if you’re suffering from resolution fatigue, consider this question: Has your resolution compelled you to give up other parts of your identity? If the answer to that is yes, it is time to revisit the resolution, tweak it, and treat it as a work in progress. There are tried-and-true mental models that can be deployed along the way. The Theory of Constraints is one of my favourites. One example of how this works was when the founder and publisher of Random House bet $60 in 1960 that Dr Seuss couldn’t write a children’s book in 50 words. Dr Suess accepted the bet. He retreated and emerged a year later to deliver Green Eggs and Ham. The book went on to sell 8 million copies and is now acknowledged as the fourth-best-selling children’s hardcover of all time. My limited submission here is that all of us face constraints. If the stated resolution is to lose weight and you’re struggling, with a voice in the head asking you to give up because time is a constraint, re-examine with honestly how much time you can really spare. And use that time, because it will add up in the long term. To ensure you do, deploy the Pledge and Radical Inflexibility. These are models that emerge from the writings of legendary management teacher Clayton Christensen and Warren Buffett, one of the greatest investors of all time. Christensen pledged to his family he would not work on Saturdays and would spend time with them instead. He stuck to that pledge to his dying day. Buffett communicated to everyone he did business with that was radically inflexible on price would not negotiate. Deploying models such as these, both have communicated through their writings, rescued them from decision fatigue. In an attempt to deploy these learnings, I applied a constraint on myself — that I would not engage with the screen before 9 am. I’ve been radically inflexible about it too. The early days were tough because I like to start early, and not having visibility on what the day may look like makes me feel terribly uncomfortable. It was just a matter of time before the head started to work its way around this constraint. I now maintain a monthly and weekly calendar that I review at regular intervals. With this one change, pockets of time began to open up in the mornings that are allowing me time to reflect, course-correct, think about the long-term. This is time I am unwilling to give up on now. It is good not just for me but for everyone around me as well. What is evident to me now is that the time invested here helps nourish my other identities as well. It’s also made it clear to me that I underestimate the effort required to complete a task, and overestimate the time I have on hand. That is why I have also borrowed a model that prudent financial planners deploy when thinking about the future — they inflate the prices of everything. As a thumb rule, I now inflate the time it will take me to complete a task. In doing so, I find that I have fallen into a virtuous cycle: I sometimes end up with even more time on my hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/dealing-with-resolution-fatigue-life-hacks-by-charles-assisi-101612524445821.html
