19-02-2021||Today's||For India’s women, a week of hope — and anguish||This week, both reaffirming and disturbing in parts, has been important for Indian women. It has been a time for regaining strength and hope, but also a simultaneous reminder of how little changes, even when things do change. The Priya Ramani win against the defamation suit by former Union minister MJ Akbar and the Unnao murders of two Dalit girls have bookended our conversation and our thoughts. I was in the crowded courthouse when the Ramani verdict came — not as a reporter, but as a supporter. I don’t know Ramani closely, but given her courage, her willingness to be the subject of scrutiny, her decision to hold power to account, and her act enabling other women to speak up, I felt this was the least I could do when, really, she was fighting for us all. Akbar, still a Member of Parliament from the ruling party, arrived flanked by a posse of policemen. Our hearts sank for a few minutes. Did the police presence indicate an adverse judgment? But if he had his troops, Ramani had a small army of women (and some men) to fortify her. And as it turned out, the judge, a man, reminded us of some home truths: The right to reputation cannot be at the cost of the right to dignity. A man of social status can also be a sexual harasser. And the most important one, for the MeToo Movement, women are entitled to express their “grievances”, at any forum and even after decades. I could not help but think of Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, the Bombay High Court judge, who had declared that in the absence of skin-to-skin contact, a 12-year-old girl could not claim that she was sexually assaulted by a 39-year-old groper. That verdict came from a woman, and the Ramani verdict from Justice RK Pandey, a timely reminder that both misogyny and feminism can be gender-neutral. More importantly, the verdict shut down the debate on the most banal and common question asked of women: Why didn’t you speak up earlier?Let me, for the last time, attempt to tell you the multitude of reasons there may be. The power differential can make it frightening. The fear of consequences to your career is real. In many professional spaces, women are fighting twice as hard as men to get to the same place and get the same opportunities. If you then speak out about your experience of sexual harassment, there is every chance you will not be sent on certain assignments. As women, many of us have internalised our lives as a prolonged version of boot camp, a sort of Darwinian call to toughen up or perish. As young women, we are terrified that men we consider our mentors can turn out to be monsters. We are yet to wrap our heads around one of the toughest existential truths — there is no connection between brilliance and decency. Our ideas of consent have evolved and changed because feminism has pushed the boundaries. Think of Monica Lewinsky, for instance, and how in the 1990s, we all thought she made a choice to have an affair with the president of the United States. Today, we would put the onus of responsibility for that choice on the man who wields the power and carries the advantage of age. Today, we would wonder which 20-something woman could or would say no to the most powerful man in the world. And finally, women don’t speak up in real- time, because look at what happens when they do. We celebrate the Ramani win because she was not punished for speaking her truth. And not because MJ Akbar has been punished. This is how low our expectations are. And this is when we are women of privilege. But think of the Dalit woman who was strangled with her scarf in Hathras or the two Dalit girls found dead and tied up in a field in Unnao and you remember how much tougher it is for millions of women in India than it is for us. One of the first stories I covered as a cub reporter was the gang rape of a Dalit woman, Bhanwari Devi, in Rajasthan. She was assaulted for trying to stop the child marriage of a one-year-old. Among the rapists was the child’s father. She took her fight all the way to the Supreme Court, from which were born the Vishaka guidelines, the mandatory workplace sexual harassment rules that we all know and practise today. It will be 30 years in 2022 since the rape. Bhanwari Devi is still to get justice. So, the next time you ask women why we do not believe in due process or why we do not speak up in real-time, you may want to pause and hold your silence. Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-india-s-women-a-week-of-hope-and-anguish-101613739781701.html
19-02-2021||Today's||Can a protest toolkit attract sedition law?||Democracies all over the world struggle to find the right balance between free speech and sedition. Some have abolished the sedition law altogether, including England in 2009, but India continues with it as a British legacy. Section 124A was added to Chapter VI of the Indian Penal Code in 1870 to deal with offences against the State. It defines any action that brings or attempts to bring hatred or contempt towards the Government of India.The key question today is whether the sedition law invoked against three activists — Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk — is justified or does it display the mighty hand of the State to stifle dissent? The Delhi Police have branded the three activists as collaborators in an international conspiracy to denigrate the Republic by resorting to violence and creating mayhem during the tractor rally on January 26. Central to the conspiracy argument is a toolkit, which was allegedly responsible for the call for global action and physical action on Republic Day. The three activists are arraigned as editors of the toolkit. The cyber unit of the Delhi Police, the lead agency for this probe, also discovered hyperlinks of Khalistan literature in the text of the toolkit. The Delhi Police have selectively leaked WhatsApp chats between Ravi and Greta Thunberg, who first tweeted out the toolkit. The chat documents Disha’s fears of being held under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for sharing the toolkit. What is a toolkit? Its dictionary meaning suggests it is a set of tools, especially one kept in a bag or box and used for a particular purpose. It is still not clear how the toolkit in question attracts the sedition law. It calls for, inter alia, a Twitter storm, protests at various Indian embassies, reaching out to public representatives. The police have not clarified the nature and details of physical action in the text. It, therefore, appears to be a standard operating procedure for mobilising people in support of the farm protests.There are two issues on which the activists can be faulted. First, they should have screened the text of toolkit carefully, looking at the hyperlinks displaying any Khalistan literature. Second, they cannot claim innocence of the credentials of the Khalistani activist, Mo Dhaliwal, when they joined a meeting called by him on Zoom with 50 others. The details of this meeting are not available but, given the interest of Dhaliwal’s group, Sikhs for Justice, a banned outfit, in any anti-government protest, one can conjecture that the meeting had to do with various issues relating to farmers and their plans for the January 26 rally. Did the meeting also call for violence and confronting the police on the day of the rally? This aspect calls for a deeper probe.But, despite this, was the arrest of Disha Ravi necessary? Forensics is a powerful tool and the police were already in possession of her laptop and mobile, from where all possible information could have been ferreted out. While it may be necessary to firmly establish whether she had an active role in planning and plotting violence on the said day, a pre-trial arrest is actually a case of punishment in advance. Two-thirds of our jails are filled with under-trials who should actually be out on bail. The Supreme Court has often said that the sedition law must not be used indiscriminately. It is also crucial to investigate whether an act leads to incitement to violence before labelling it an offence of this nature. Can the three activists be accused of instigating armed confrontation against the State? The evidence, so far, is certainly not enough to justify the charge. Yes, there was a propaganda blitz, aimed at garnering international support, based on a narrative of strong-arm tactics on the part of the government to crush the farm movement and discredit its efforts towards a solution. But the State could have had an alternative, more effective, response. Western nations which speak up against human rights violations are the same countries which support the laws to free agriculture from middlemen and bringing in competition. Indian embassies in western capitals should have gone into overdrive to explain the rationale of the farm laws, how the government has allowed the long, overdrawn siege without coercion, and even gave permission for the rally on Republic Day despite the reservations of security authorities. At a more macro-level, it is also time to look at our sedition law. It serves no purpose using it against our own citizens. Few charge-sheets are filed after lodging such cases, with even fewer convictions secured from them.The government needs to revisit its approach to the farm rally and the attendant violence. It should come down hard on the culprits desecrating the Red Fort, attacking policemen and plundering State property. It should probe the role of Sikhs for Justice in funding and the Poetic Justice Foundation in fomenting violence, and get hard evidence to seek extradition of its key leaders from Canada and other countries. But what should be done with the activists? Just let them go free after a warning. A pardon will reveal the real might of a democratic State to its free citizens.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer and Central Information Commissioner The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/can-a-protest-toolkit-attract-sedition-law-101613739245213.html
19-02-2021||Today's||Shake power structures to give women dignity||The asymmetrical shape of power that colours sexual abuse was on display on February 17 when former minister MJ Akbar entered courtroom 203 on Rouse Avenue. Escorted by a phalanx of police personnel and his team of lawyers, Akbar was there to hear the verdict of additional metropolitan magistrate, Ravindra Kumar Pandey.The verdict acquitted journalist Priya Ramani against whom Akbar had brought charges of criminal defamation. The judge accepted Ramani’s assertion that “the complainant is not a man of sterling reputation” and ruled that even though her article was per se defamatory, a woman’s right to dignity superseded the right to reputation.It’s an extraordinary judgment that has ramifications far beyond an individual case where a victim of sexual harassment has had to defend herself in a court of law. For one, it marks the first major legal victory in India’s MeToo Movement where chief justices, film actors and celebrated artists have been let off.Second, it offers a rare empathetic ear to the “systemic abuse” of women at work and acknowledges that the “time has come for our society to understand the sexual abuse and sexual harassment”. This too is unprecedented in a legal system where, hearing another case of sexual harassment, the Supreme Court ruled that it was wrong for a senior judge to “flirt” with a junior official. The use of the word “flirt” trivialised what Judge Pandey rightly calls “systemic abuse”.Despite new laws passed in the aftermath of the December 2012 gang rape, India’s women continue to fight a battle of endemic sexual violence. On the day newspapers reported on Ramani’s victory came the horrific news of two Dalit sisters, found dead in Unnao, in a state that has seen an over 66% increase in crimes against women in the past four years and where the trauma of Hathras is yet to die down. Those who say why mention caste forget the fact that it is caste-enabled power structures that facilitates this violence. This lopsided power structure is also why Bhanwari Devi, to whom we owe our law on workplace sexual harassment, is still awaiting justice after a lower court judge ruled that dominant caste men could not have raped her since she is a subordinate caste woman. Her case is still pending in the Rajasthan High Court. The MeToo Movement undoubtedly gave a few women a voice and a platform, but it left out the vast majority of India’s working women, women employed as domestic workers, in brick kilns, as farm labourers, in garment factories. Dalit, tribal, trans and marginalised voices were never heard.The verdict in favour of Ramani who had the support of both her family and her lawyer Rebecca John is worth celebrating and savouring. But it is not enough. It can never be enough until we rearrange power hierarchies to give all women the dignity and right to work without fear.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/shake-power-structures-to-give-women-dignity-101613738817526.html
19-02-2021||Today's||EU’s China dilemma is a sign of things to come||After the end of the Cold War, the world grew accustomed to the notion of a single global economy, one in which political barriers were a secondary concern or applicable only to those countries adopting a deliberate policy of isolation.Such one-world globalism was not a novel consideration. A similar idealism was a feature towards the end of World War II — at the Yalta Conference, the establishment of the United Nations, and even the Bretton Woods Conference — that persisted until early 1947. As historian Benn Steil has written, events came to a head that year. Leaders in the United States (US) concluded that the post-War European recovery could no longer rely on the free flow of commerce with a Soviet sphere of influence. The result was the division of the European — and world — economy, and the creation of the Marshall Plan, General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and the European Coal and Steel Community.Europe is once again the primary testing ground for the future cohesion of the international economy. The European Union (EU) remains one of the world’s three largest concentrations of economic activity, along with the US and China. Decisions taken by the EU — and Germany in particular — will have major ripple effects on much of the rest of the world.The persistent assumption among elites in both North America and Europe was that, despite its many differences, the North Atlantic economy would remain something of a cohesive whole. It reflected shared values and history and was characterised by dense networks of exchange and institutions. Recent attempts at advancing European strategic autonomy, led by French President Emmanuel Macron, might rankle with Americans, much as Gaullism and Ostpolitik once did. But concerns in Washington are growing that transatlantic divides on global economic issues go beyond a quest for autonomy.Such concerns were apparently realised after the finalisation, in principle, of a Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) between EU and China in December. The CAI’s supporters argue that the agreement had long been under negotiation; that it did not mark a capitulation on such matters as foreign direct investment screening, export controls, or disinformation; and that it ensures better market access, a level-playing field, and sustainability objectives in China.But the voices of criticism within Europe — particularly among the strategic community — have been overwhelming. The criticism has less to do with the economic implications — there are devils in the details and China’s commitments are questionable. But the agreement was nonetheless an unambiguous political victory for Beijing, which may explain why Xi Jinping himself reportedly intervened to ensure a favourable outcome. At the same time, the brunt of criticism has been directed less at Brussels and more at Berlin, which is accused of having pushed through the deal for the narrow benefit of German manufacturing and telecommunications corporations.Less than two weeks before CAI was agreed upon, US national security adviser-designate Jake Sullivan rather unusually took to Twitter to voice concern and suggest a delay before concluding the deal. “The Biden-Harris administration would welcome early consultations with our European partners on our common concerns about China’s economic practices,” he wrote. While European leaders had previously indicated that their troubles with the US were a consequence of former President Donald Trump’s contemptuous attitude, the failure to work with a new US administration — despite such public entreaties — suggests deeper discontent.There are some important countervailing trends to suggest that Europe’s present rift with Washington is not irreparable and that its relationship with Beijing is not without its own challenges. The first is an unanticipated consequence of Brexit. The Biden administration’s frustration with Brussels has resulted in unexpected cooperation with the Boris Johnson government in London, which has independently reached its own conclusions about Beijing. The second is an impending leadership transition in Berlin, given the outsized role that Germany played in CAI. Third, Chinese efforts in Europe have also struggled. The recent 17+1 summit — a format once perceived as undermining European cohesion — saw some participating countries downgrading their involvement. Other matters, such as the detention of two Canadians by China and developments in Hong Kong and Xinjiang have contributed to unified positions staked by European governments with their American counterparts.Amid these turbulent undercurrents, the European private sector recognises the dilemma it now faces. The ability to integrate supply chains, innovation streams, data, critical components, and finance with both the US and China appears increasingly untenable. This will, over time, prove costly, hampering efficiency, knowledge, and economies of scale. The dilemma is not unique.In both the US and India, the political consensus has shifted gradually away from economic over-dependence on China. In India’s case, it has resulted in specific outcomes — a drop in Chinese imports, greater investment scrutiny, and restrictions on digital apps and public procurement.The evolution from a one-world economy to a two-world system with its many redundancies will, unlike the post-World War II era, be long-drawn-out and costly. The differences between States, even close allies, are real but not necessarily insurmountable. Instead, greater engagement between national security communities and the private sector may be the need of the hour.Dhruva Jaishankar is executive director, ORF AmericaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/eus-china-dilemma-is-a-sign-of-things-to-come-101613658882758.html
