24-02-2021||Today's||The disruptive social effects of Hindutva 2.0||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was a result of the transformation of three crucial Ms in Indian politics: Mandal, Mandir and Markets.Almost two years later, the BJP seems to be sticking to the script, but its tactical manoeuvres, even though they have delivered in elections, are beginning to show their disruptive side effects, with the possibility of unrest. Three seemingly disparate events over the past week highlight this trend.First, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, while campaigning in Assam, said that a Congress government, if elected, would not let the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) be implemented in Assam. Gandhi was silent on the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Politically, this makes sense. Assam has had a long and bloody ethnic conflict, which was rooted in Ahoms — the indigenous landed elite — protesting against the large-scale influx of Bengalis in the state. Decades of negotiations and judicial processes ultimately culminated in the decision to update NRC, which was aimed at detecting illegal migrants in the state. Because a large number of Bengalis in Assam — migrants or not — happen to be Muslims, it suited the BJP to appropriate the demand for NRC.However, the outcome of the NRC process, which is reported to have excluded a large number of Hindu Bengalis, who are current and potential supporters of the BJP, created a challenge. This forced the BJP into rolling out CAA, a law which provides for granting of retrospective citizenship rights to non-Muslims from India’s neighbouring countries. If a large number of Bengali Hindus were to gain from the CAA route, it would leave the Ahoms with a feeling of betrayal, for they oppose immigrants, irrespective of religion. This is the constituency the Congress is seeking to tap, and the BJP is now seeking to reassure by putting CAA on hold. Second, an Economic Times report said that the Justice Rohini Commission, examining the reorganisation of reservations for Other Backward Classes (OBCs), is likely to propose a segregation of the existing 27% reservations into four bands of two, six, nine and 10%. Immediately after that, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar demanded that a caste census be conducted in the country. The BJP’s success in the Hindi belt, especially Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, can be attributed to building a rainbow Hindu collation of upper castes and non-dominant OBCs. By championing a narrative that the politically dominant OBCs had usurped most of the benefits of reservation and that the Narendra Modi government will correct this historic injustice by creating sub-categories within OBC quota, the BJP aims to consolidate its base and marginalise traditional Mandal parties such as the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Janata Dal.But this approach has the potential to trigger an adverse side-effect. India does not have sub-caste wise population data. This means that whether or not the new categories of OBC reservation do justice to demographic weights of sub-castes will remain in the realm of speculation. This will create a fertile ground for disputes among various sub-castes who could perceive the new formula as an effective reduction in reservations. There is another possibility, linked to the demand of conducting a caste census, which can create an even bigger challenge. If a caste census shows that the actual population share of communities which are eligible for reservations exceeds 49.5%, there may well be demands to do away with the 50% cap on reservations — which has, in any case, been breached in recent times. Both of these have the potential to create large-scale social unrest. And finally, facing a backlash in the traditional green revolution belt of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh (UP), and after having performed badly in the local body polls in Punjab, the BJP has begun an outreach programme among Jats. The community supported the BJP in the 2014 and 2017 elections in UP.In one such outreach event at Soram village of Muzaffarnagar, violence erupted between the supporters of Cabinet minister and the BJP’s important Jat leader, Sanjeev Balyan, and local residents. Earlier, farm protest leaders have issued calls for social boycott of BJP leaders and collective punishment for those who fail to comply with these diktats. Given the maximalist positions which the protesting farmers have taken, such altercations are likely to increase. And since the BJP enjoys power in Haryana and UP, the possibility of the landed elite in these regions seeing the State as an agent of persecution cannot be ruled out. None of these implies that the BJP will suffer electorally. It has a solid social coalition and is pitted against an emaciated opposition. However, it is exactly this electoral hegemony of the BJP which can deepen the sense of persecution/betrayal among those who feel short-changed by the side effects of Hindutva 2.0 strategy the BJP has unleashed. India’s history tells us that failure to seek grievance redressal through elections can push social groups into pursuing other methods, not all of which have subscribed to laws of the land. The BJP’s political dominance may, paradoxically in some ways, deepen social divisions. roshan.k@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-disruptive-social-effects-of-hindutva-20-101614181250159.html
24-02-2021||Today's||The Brahmaputra is in danger. Delhi and Dhaka must challenge Beijing||In recent weeks, reports of China’s plans to build the world’s largest dam project in the greatest gorge on the face of the earth has shaken many of us. For this is the heart of the river which we know as the Brahmaputra. It has flowed unimpeded for millennia, carving and clawing its way through rock, sand and ice, as the Yarlung-Tsangpo, through the Tibetan plateau and meadow, before rushing through the hidden gorge and entering India at the village of Gelling in Arunachal Pradesh.The Chinese had earlier planned to build a series of 11 dams on the river, of which several are complete. Most of these were cascade dams without pondage or reservoirs but used the fall of the river to maximise the gravitational surge of power through the turbines. China’s hydro engineers and political and economic establishment have now set their eyes on the heart of the river in the Namcha Barwa gorge, where it gathers its phenomenal pace and power on its way to Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bangladesh and eventually the Bay of Bengal.While infrastructure building is not a new development on either side of Himalayas, there has been a huge push on the Chinese side with a surge of roads, railroads, bridges, tunnels and power plants. What is the impact of noise and dynamite blasting, excavators and heavy drills on such sensitive ecosystems? Trains thunder through once silent gorges and valleys where only the chants of monks or rumble of occasional trucks, or the gurgle of the flood in summer and the cries of birds would pierce the air. But there are limits to the knowledge of engineers. We also do not know of any assessments by either Chinese or independent experts on the damage to permafrost, the vast volume of water trapped in ice form below the earth’s surface. Thawing permafrost alters natural ecosystem; makes soil vulnerable to landslides and erosion; introduces new sediment to waterways, which may alter the flow of rivers and streams; degrades water quality; impacts human life, livelihoods, and aquatic wildlife; and introduces new threats of ancient microbes.India says that issues of trans-border rivers with China are discussed through “an institutionalised expert-level mechanism which was established in 2000” as well as through “diplomatic channels”. Does exchange of data contain the impact of these huge interventions? India and Bangladesh, which is also enriched by the Brahmaputra, must take up the issue robustly.China’s decision represents a strike at the heart of a sacred and ancient land and tampering with forces we do not fully comprehend. The recent disaster in Uttarakhand is testimony to our limited knowledge. To Assam, the Brahmaputra is folklore and legend, home to a myriad of communities, cultures and faiths, the endangered Gangetic dolphins and the great balladeer Bhupen Hazarika. It is sacred to the Buddhists and it has its origins near Mount Kailash. The gods do not wish to be disturbed; they want respect.These massive interventions are an invitation to disaster downstream. Of course, we need power and energy. But dams clean the waters of nutrients; the water to enter the turbines must be wiped clean of all sand, rocks and sediment to produce hydro-electricity. Yet, it is this sediment which gives the Brahmaputra and its tributaries their nourishing powers as they reach farms and river-dependent human and non-human populations downstream. It is not the volume of the water that flows into India that matters as much as its quality.The Dhaka-based scholar Imtiaz Ahmed says that states and people should guarantee rights on the river for these impinge on the right to life. Such rights exist for seas and oceans under the United Nation Convention on the Law of the Sea.I stood once at the foot of a small gorge in Tibet and looked up. That view was enough to establish the scale of infinity between the landscape and the river — and our own puny existence. A little humility goes a long way in understanding our world.Sanjoy Hazarika is international director, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, and has worked extensively on rivers and water issuesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-brahmaputra-is-in-danger-delhi-and-dhaka-must-challenge-beijing-101614181248822.html
24-02-2021||Today's||Where Nepali and Indian interests meet||On Tuesday evening, in a historic judgment, Nepal’s Supreme Court struck down Prime Minister (PM) KP Sharma Oli’s decision to dissolve Parliament as unconstitutional, ordered the restoration of the House of Representatives, and called for a sitting of the House within 13 days.With this, Nepal has possibly averted a deep crisis, which would have torn apart its nascent democratic system, shaken the constitutional structure of republicanism, federalism and parliamentary system, pushed the country towards prolonged political instability, led to the entrenched authoritarianism of KP Sharma Oli, and eroded India standing as a democratic ally and eventually hurt its interests.To understand the significance of what has happened in Nepal, rewind to December 20. Increasingly facing pressure from his internal party rivals — former PMs Prachanda and Madhav Nepal — Oli decided to dissolve the Parliament itself. In a traditional Westminster system, the PM — who enjoys a majority — has the right to do so. But Nepal’s new Constitution specifically prohibited a PM from doing so. This was meant to prevent instability in a country which has seen close to two dozen PMs in three decades. Oli’s move to dissolve Parliament was accompanied by his push to take over all State institutions — through appointments of pliant individuals. This, therefore, was creating a dynamic where Oli enjoyed untrammelled power with no accountability.Elections sound democratic but there were multiple layers here. If polls happened, it would mean departing from the constitutional order and whether it would be fair and legitimate under Oli was a big question; if elections did not happen, and the House remained dissolved, there would be a period of unrest without an institutional mechanism to find a political alternative even as the government’s popular legitimacy dipped. This would then open the door for all forces — including conservative, royalist and anti-federal forces — which are uncomfortable within the political changes enshrined in the Constitution.Nepal’s democratic forces, civil society and the media were quick to understand the nature of the crisis. The Nepal Communist Party (NCP) has undergone a de facto split, with Prachanda and Madhav Nepal taking to the streets against Oli — though this split has not been formalised yet. The Nepali Congress (NC) leader Sher Bahadur Deuba, tempted by the possibility of becoming PM after fresh elections, was ambivalent — but the entire rank and file of Nepal’s oldest democratic force was against Oli’s decision. The Janata Samajwadi Party (JSP), led by Madhesi leaders and former PM Baburam Bhattarai, could see that despite their reservations with the current Constitution, its alternative would be a further regressive turn with a setback to their cherished principles of inclusion and federalism.It is in this context that Nepal’s Supreme Court, providing a stellar example of constitutionalism in a region where the judiciary has been perhaps too aligned with executive preferences, stepped in. The decision to restore the House is a firm rebuke to Oli — who should, on moral grounds, resign from office now. If he doesn’t, he should be prepared for a floor test as soon as the House meets — for it is unlikely he still enjoys the confidence of the Parliament he attempted to kill. The court’s decision also throws questions on the judgment of President Bidya Bhandari — who was, given her political proximity to the PM, too quick to go with an unconstitutional recommendation in dissolving the House.But more significantly, this is a moment to look forward and correct the undemocratic turn Nepal took. Oli’s aides have claimed that the court verdict will not solve the political problem — they are right. The political problem is Oli, a deeply polarising figure who has stepped outside the constitutional framework. And he has to go. The good news is that there is a possible democratic alternative which, with some handholding and careful management, can emerge.The Nepali Congress, the Prachanda-Nepal faction of the NCP, and the JSP should now come together — under the leadership of the NC — to form an alternative government, with a common minimum programme which recommits Nepal to a democratic constitutional path, pledges progressive constitutional amendments to take into account concerns of marginalised communities, and reorients Nepal’s foreign policy to underscore the centrality of India even as Nepal engages with China within a clear framework.India had, to put it bluntly, misread the situation in Nepal. It has swung from being cordial with Oli (till 2014-15) to fighting him (2015-17) to reconciling with his electoral victory (2017-early 2020) to cutting off communication with him after his ultra-nationalist turn during the border dispute (March-August 2020) to becoming his close partner and ally (August onwards). When Oli reached out to Delhi last year, desperate for a rapprochement, India decided that if the PM could step back from his anti-India rhetoric and maintain the State-to-State relationship with India, Delhi could do business with him. It chose to ignore his authoritarian and ethnic exclusivist politics and close collaboration, till that point, with China.Oli’s decision to dissolve the House also led to a split in the NCP — this was a core Indian objective for a unified, pro-China NCP had become difficult to manage. And India thought that elections would throw up a more friendly arithmetic in the House. In the process, the country— despite claims of not being involved — came across as tilting against the democratic aspirations of Nepali citizens.Delhi should see the restoration of the House as an opening. It should advise Oli not to engage in any misadventurism; deepen its communication with other political players in the fray; and quietly convey its goodwill for a democratic alternative while outlining its red lines and core interests. Nepali democracy and Indian strategic interests converge. Build on it.prashant.jha1@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/where-nepali-and-indian-interests-meet-101614174107156.html
24-02-2021||Today's||Why India must include prisoners in its immunisation drive||“Every single Indian who needs to be vaccinated will be vaccinated”. This is the rallying cry of the Covid-19 Immunisation Protocol for India. Yet, as the country undertakes its biggest immunisation drive, a question arises: Will this include people in custody?People in custody, whether accused or convicted, must be considered a priority for the immunisation drive. The Sustainable Development Goals call to “leave no one behind” has helped push boundaries and promote inclusiveness. With vaccinations now available, we need to ensure that those in custody also have access to the cure.In early December, the Government of India released India’s Covid-19 statistics and defined its path to immunisation. The Centre’s strategy is hinged on the maximisation of technology and is heavily reliant on citizens to upload accurate health data.In light of these developments, it is vital to underscore that persons in confinement continue to be disproportionately affected by the direct and indirect impact of Covid-19. Therefore, the strategy for implementation needs to be resolved through equitable allocation.In 1997, the Supreme Court in Rama Murthy v State of Karnataka upheld the protection of the health of prisoners. In Parmanand Katara v Union of India and Ors., the apex court ruled that the state has an obligation to preserve life, whether he is an innocent or a criminal liable to punishment under the law. The Constitution may not guarantee the fundamental right to health, but it is subsumed under the right to life. The Nelson Mandela Rules, 2015, frame international basic standards vis-à-vis the minimum treatment to prisoners, including medical and health standards. The Model Prison Manual also upholds every prisoner’s right to basic health needs. However, with just one medical staff for 243 inmates and high staff vacancy, concerns about testing, isolation and, now, enrolling and administering the vaccine are well-founded.The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) was constituted on August 7, 2020, to strategise for the inoculation drive. The Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work) application was developed to track vaccines, their administration and the e-recording of the inoculated.India currently accounts for close to 10% of the global total of cases, less than 1% of all active cases and 6.2% of all deaths. Last March, the Supreme Court noted that since Indian prisons were overcrowded, they could be a breeding ground for the spread of Covid-19 and, therefore, pose a threat to inmates and prison staff. Cognisant of a potential disaster, the court directed immediate steps for the release of some prisoners to ease pressure on the system. To this end, the prison population fell by a significant 10.42% by end of June, 2020. Yet, 27% of the prisons in 19 States/Union Territories continued to be overcrowded. As many as 18,157 prisoners and staff contracted the virus and 17 succumbed. This is why it is deeply concerning that prisoners are being excluded from the first phase of vaccination because they happen to be incarcerated. There is potential for further spread, since steps are now underway to recall prisoners who were earlier released due to the pandemic.The problem doesn’t end there. Co-WIN relies on access to technology ie, mobile phones for people to upload details of their comorbidities. And when it comes to people in custody, reliability for uploading accurate data rests on sticky grounds.The committee formulating the strategy needs to understand the bottlenecks which may arise for those in custody. Specific implementation plans, which acknowledge these concerns, must be rolled out. This includes checking logistical barriers, information roll-out and the final steps towards vaccination. This will be the true test of the commitment to promote inclusion and fairness.Amrita Paul is senior programme officer with the Prison Reforms Programme, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-india-must-include-prisoners-in-its-immunisation-drive-101614151425753.html
24-02-2021||Today's||When the fantasy of better battery science doesn’t match reality||With billions of dollars flowing to electric cars, investors are eagerly waiting for the next breakthrough in battery technology – one that will underpin the future adoption of green vehicles.They may be waiting a while: The technical challenges of making better batteries (and therefore, electric vehicles) are enormous and the expectations associated with them are even more fantastical.Such disproportionate enthusiasm is misplaced. Battery costs, which make up almost half the expense of an electric car, have come down, while their energy density has gone up, meaning vehicles can go further. Government subsidies are helping too. Despite these improvements, we are nowhere near the affordability, guaranteed safety or optimistic forecasts of years past. In fact, installations of older battery technologies that are safer and cheaper are rising as carmakers try to keep up with the hype.It’s clear the path to better batteries is far tougher and longer than all the rosy estimates.Technology has been forced to chase investors’ expectations. In China, the world’s largest market for electric cars where sales are growing steadily, battery installations of so-called lithium iron phosphate, or LFP, batteries – the technology of the last decade – accounted for 38% of the market, up from 33% the year before. Such batteries lag behind newer ones by as much as 30% in terms of energy density.The reality is, these powertrains are highly complex. Even as some promising advances are made, commercial viability remains a stumbling block. Chief among those hurdles is boosting energy density and along with it, safety. The more energy a battery has, the further a car can go. However, that also hastens the pace of degradation and shortens battery life. Several higher-density batteries don’t have stable chemical compositions either, leaving them dangerously vulnerable to combustion.To get over such challenges, firms are trying to make solid-state batteries that will be safer and, eventually, cheaper. Others are intent on boosting battery density by using more nickel content, and less cobalt, which is expensive and mired in supply issues. The progress so far has been limited. Investors and analysts, meanwhile, are honing in the improvements on to individual battery parts, like cathodes and anodes.The flipside of these advances are often overlooked. For instance, solid-state batteries that can store more have low power density, which means their energy delivery is slow, while those with higher nickel content are less chemically stable. In addition, solid state batteries have been known to discharge sulphides.Take QuantumScape Corp, a startup that counts Volkswagen AG and Soros Fund Management LLC among its backers. It’s trying to make safer and eventually cheaper solid-state lithium-metal batteries and recently flagged it had made a technical breakthrough. However, to produce en masse and have a market, it still needs to deal with issues including how to manufacture larger, multi-layered batteries outside a controlled laboratory setting. It posted a $1.1 billion net loss in 2020 and is targeting first commercial production in 2024.Part of the problem is, car companies are fueling the hype. China’s Nio Inc., for instance, said in January it would launch production-ready solid state batteries with greater density and range of more than 1,000 kilometers (621 miles) by the end of next year. Considering where QuantumScape and others are, that’s optimistic. Meanwhile, Nio has returned to batteries with less nickel content because of “performance and cost considerations,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts noted recently. Even though battery prices have edged down, costs are still high. Companies are trying to raise production and capacity. That’s meant more invested capital. However, total capital expenditure on the global electric vehicle lithium battery market has been getting less efficient, measured on a dollars per kilowatt hour basis. Surging prices of key battery commodities like nickel, lithium and cobalt hasn’t helped lower development costs either.With all the advances and new electric car models coming to market, there’s also safety to consider. Cars are literally catching on fire.Since launching in 2018, Hyundai Motor Co. has reported several blazes in its Kona electric vehicle related to the battery and previously recalled some of the cars to do a system update. But even those caught alight and now the company will replace battery systems in thousands of the model. Tesla Inc. has had battery fire issues in China, although its battery maker said it had nothing to do with it.Underneath all the valuation froth, it’s probably a good time to take stock of where battery technology stands.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.Anjani Trivedi is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist covering industrial companies in Asia. She previously worked for the Wall Street Journal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/when-the-fantasy-of-better-battery-science-doesn-t-match-reality-101614128749822.html
24-02-2021||Today's||Linking fashion, crafts and livelihood||Luxury textiles and jewellery are not new to India. The maharajahs patronised guilds with master craftspeople working in fine weaving and embroideries for centuries. They created custom-made clothes and saris for royalty, some of which are yet to be matched for their sophisticated concepts and superb workmanship. Indian luxury goods have always been defined by their exceptional heritage value in that they were invariably handmade, using skills inherited over generations. Bespoke textiles in India, therefore, were never meant for mass consumption, but were produced under the patronage of kings and temples.This order has changed radically in the western world. In the last five decades, many European fashion houses, created by highly talented but a small number of designers, have been bought over by multinational companies. They then began mass producing one-of-a-kind couture collections and sold them at enormously expensive prices. Marketing and not handcrafted quality dictated the sales, and technology started playing a large and vital part in the manufacture, till they were no longer totally hand-tooled.In the post-pandemic world, we will need to look at a different concept of luxury goods, especially from an Indian perspective. There are at least 16 million craftspeople in India, whose works are not showcased in museums. The production of Indian luxury goods takes place in modest environments, mostly villages in the unorganised sector. What is not modest is the creativity and handiwork of the artistes who toil in relative obscurity. It is remarkable that this sector still functions in India.In the absence of institutional support, bank credit and government financial packages, these artistes and craftspeople find no space or sympathy from any quarter. Handcrafted luxury goods are our inheritance and we have to find solutions which are innovative, and not leave it to the ministry of textiles alone.The existence of our textile heritage is almost like a miracle. It has survived due to a number of accidental factors. In its initial phases, National Institute of Fashion Technology was born, which produced the first batches of Indian fashion designers. They were encouraged to show collections, which focused on artisanal handicrafts that had survived the test of time. Part of this was due to the relatively small financial outlay required to put together collections.Though modest in commercial terms, the Indian fashion industry was able to create disproportionate hype across the country. It influenced the film world and found traction even in the rural hinterland, creating a unique identity. There was an aspiration to belong to this new fashion phenomenon, which was purely indigenous. This is rare anywhere in the world.The media had just found its wings and was only endlessly happy to cover the flow of new collections from young designers. Glamorous wedding trousseaus echoed the feudal styles of the maharajahs of yore. Fashion designers were on top of their game in India and the trickle-down effect led to the celebration of folk arts such as bandhini, zardozi and the fabulous embroideries of Kutch. Handwoven Benarasi saris, paithanis and patolas from Gujarat were also showcased across the world. There was a premium on handmade textiles and garments.In real terms, before the pandemic, the textile and apparel industry in India employed nearly 45 million people, next only to the agriculture sector. Handicraft exports from India to the United States increased 2% year on year; it was $3.39 billion in February 2020.Today, we see a tragic reversal; export orders have dried up and domestic demand, crumbled. This has resulted in large-scale unemployment across the weaving, printing and embroidery communities, which have been hit the hardest, and which have little access to credit. The communities of weavers in Benaras and elsewhere have to rely on middlemen for loans to buy yarn. This way, they get trapped in a vicious cycle which leads to great impoverishment.We will need fashion designers to become the catalysts in an industry on which so many livelihoods depend. A lot of small enterprises that survived on hype may shut shop. But with the depth of the crafts sector, there is some hope for continuing the tradition. As spending patterns become more conservative, people’s tastes also change, One hopes they will once again opt for what they understand — more classic designs, handwoven saris, authentic embroidery.I am beginning to see a fashion renaissance of Indian textiles. Rohit Bal is experimenting with dyes sourced from black carrots, which are used to make kanji, a North Indian drink; it gives a lovely saffron colour to the cloth. Last heard, Rakesh Thakur is looking at yarns dyed in indigo. I am yet again seeking the genius of the kalamkari artistes from Machillipatnam who created the exquisite flowers and shoots that initiated the chintz rage in Europe. I hope, in this way, in India at least, fashion will become more organic and sustainable.The real problem then lies with the marketing of these handicrafts. The textile ministry is making a conscious effort at documenting the crafts of the country. I sincerely hope that there are enough start-ups that can make these available in the virtual world. Websites don’t need retail space or middlemen to sell India’s rich legacy of handicrafts.They can introduce India’s vast treasure trove of luxury goods to the world. They can connect buyers with the craftsmen who make these rare luxury goods. This will revive interest in crafts. We have to think of innovative solutions to save our heritage. We owe this to future generations and to our craftspeople.Ritu Kumar is a fashion designer. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/linking-fashion-crafts-and-livelihood-101614092001949.html
24-02-2021||Today's||India will have to step up climate diplomacy||The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) hosts an annual event, the World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS). Its focus this year was, naturally, on the climate crisis. The summit was inaugurated by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. Leaders from Guyana, Maldives, the United Kingdom (UK) and the European Union (EU), apart from the United Nations deputy secretary-general (S-G), the United States (US) Special Envoy for Climate, John Kerry, and India’s external affairs and environment ministers spoke at the summit. This heavyweight participation from across the globe clearly testified to India as a major climate stakeholder.PM Modi strongly underscored India’s resolve to fight the climate crisis with concrete action. He noted that India’s emissions intensity of Gross Domestic Product had fallen by 24%, well on the way to the committed 33%-35% reduction by 2030. Moreover, India is on track for its huge target of 450 GW of renewable energy generating capacity by 2030. He also underlined climate justice. And he couldn’t be more right. More than 75% of the carbon space available to humankind has already been taken up by emissions, current and over time, of the US, Europe and China, with countries such as India — with huge development imperatives and small carbon footprints — needing carbon and policy space.For years, India was known in climate circles as an obstructionist but, in 2015, India strongly facilitated the Paris Accord and today it is, perhaps, the only country in the G20 that is well on its way to realising its Nationally Determined Commitments (NDCs). This was acknowledged at WSDS with the former Maldivian president and global climate leader, Mohammad Nasheed, noting that India’s (renewable) target is “the biggest improvement in terms of climate benefit of any country on earth”.Studies show that despite the Covid-19 slowdown, even an aggregation of NDCs leaves the world short on the Paris commitment of limiting temperature rise to 1.5 degrees C. The election of President Joe Biden and the US re-joining the Paris Accord has given the international climate scene a new impetus to aim for even higher ambition. Net-zero emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG) by 2050 is the new mantra. This goal has already been accepted by EU, UK, Japan, South Korea and is in tandem with US thinking. The Chinese have announced they will meet the target by 2060.At WSDS, India was strongly urged to move in that direction. Nasheed said: “127 countries responsible for 63% of emissions are considering or have adopted net-zero targets. Now, India, Prime Minister.” Kerry was explicit, saying, “We all have to adopt the notion of zero emissions.” And his finger pointed towards India when he noted that “90% of the world’s emissions come from somewhere other than our country (US)” and “70% come from somewhere other than China”. Strange as this may appear, but the US and China could be on the same side in global climate negotiations for enhanced mitigation.And, this time, it will also be about the credibility of commitments with UN deputy S-G Amina Mohammad saying that she looked forward to “seeing the path that you (India) will chart to get to net zero emission”.Ministries in India are notorious for working in silos. Climate is an honourable exception with the ministries of environment and external affairs working together for years. These ministries need to be even stronger in partnership for more intensive engagement across the globe, including through coalitions that push Growth with Renewable Energy, Entrepreneurship and Nature (GREEN). The International Solar Alliance needs to add to this push.Kerry’s appointment exemplifies the western tradition of special envoys for major issues of interest to them. On one occasion, India, too, has had a special envoy for climate, and on another, the principal scientific adviser led the Indian participation at the major economies meeting (on climate). Such an appointment of a special envoy is something that the government may wish to consider again.India also needs to strongly step up the projection of its most laudable climate actions and bring adaptation to focus in the climate discourse. This is most essential at key climate negotiation venues and at points of UN convergence. An excellent beginning has been the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and India’s well-regarded environment institutions, including think-tanks, could play a useful role in complementing governmental efforts. These actions need to be kickstarted immediately given that, in 2021 itself, India will be involved in several high-voltage global events. These include the G7 meeting for which the UK has invited PM Modi and where President Biden will be present, the India-EU Summit and Conference of the Parties-26, which will be held in Glasgow in November. In any case, the global discourse on climate is not just about environment or even energy, but involves global governance in which India now has a high stake.India’s climate leadership, steered by PM Modi, is rightly acknowledged and lauded. It’s time for climate diplomacy by India.Manjeev Singh Puri is a former ambassador and has served as lead negotiator for India at UNFCCC. He is currently a distinguished fellow, TERIThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-will-have-to-step-up-climate-diplomacy-101614086387118.html
24-02-2021||Today's||India can’t lose out on this window of economic reforms||There is a marked difference between the agitating farmers and the anti-social, ultra-Left and pro-Khalistani elements who are piggy-backing on them. Understanding this difference is important for citizens in general, and politicians in particular. One, this agitation is not merely a law and order issue, and dealing with it as such will be a mistake. Two, it is not focused on the interest of the farmers, and it is also not about the three farm laws alone — so any effort to explain the benefits of these laws will not cut any ice. Three, there are emerging strains between two different factions — the Sikhs of Punjab, concentrated at the Singhu border, and Jats from western Uttar Pradesh, stationed at the Ghazipur border. While those at Singhu are averse to any political intervention, at Ghazipur, Rakesh Tikait has shown indications of political ambition.How the government deals with these two strains will be important in the coming days. The plot has got thicker with global players, spanning both State and non-State actors, jumping on to the bandwagon. All of this makes it clear that this is a political movement against the Narendra Modi government, and it has to be dealt with politically. The farm laws are good for agriculture and will benefit farmers to a large extent by creating an alternative and transparent ecosystem for attracting private investment in this capital-deficient sector, which has been starved of market reforms for decades. But leaders of the movement insist on a repeal of the laws and will not accept any amendments. The government has already bent backwards, agreeing to more than a dozen amendments, allaying concerns on Minimum Support Price, and offering to suspend these three laws for up to 18 months, which will make them ineffective till that time.The government’s reluctance to repeal the laws stems from the conviction about the need for market-oriented reforms in the sector and increasing the role of private players in the agri-economy. This stand has been reiterated over two decades by agro-economists, parliamentary standing committees, empowered committees of the state agriculture ministers and several commissions. If this moment of reckoning is lost, it will cause irreparable damage to the democratic polity of the country. The question, thus, is, will India move towards anarchy? Will there be tyranny of the unelected, or will we respect democratic institutions such as Parliament, the Supreme Court and the process of law- making as envisaged in the Constitution?Reforms are difficult. Benefits come with a time lag and are spread thin, while their adverse impact on certain stakeholders are marked and immediate. Reforms need extraordinary political capital, and so the political class is reluctant to carry them out. As such, we have not seen many major reforms since 1991 (except the Goods and Services Tax and Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016); even the original ones were limited and carried out under compulsion of imminent sovereign default. The leadership at that time could not muster the courage to undertake major reforms in land, labour and agriculture segments. We lost an opportunity in the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, and if this golden opportunity is lost, we may not have any appetite left to undertake mega reforms. There are no more low-hanging fruits available for reforms.Whoever gains or loses from this agitation, the farmers will surely be at a loss. They must think afresh, for the inaction of successive governments has resulted in perpetual agrarian distress and status quo is not in the interest of farmers. We, the people of India, must decide, irrespective of the so-called shortcomings in the process of enactment of these laws, that they are the law of the land and serve the larger interest of the agriculture segment of the society, having been enacted with that intent. The government is not inclined to repeal the laws. The responsibility of building the right narrative for it rests on all well-meaning citizens. It cannot be left to political class alone. Politics will be what it is with limitations in a democratic ecosystem. Let us all rise to the occasion.Gopal Krishna Agarwal is a national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata PartyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-can-t-lose-out-on-this-window-of-economic-reforms-101614085304437.html
