27-02-2021||Today's||The 2021 elections will shape politics for years||Given that polls are held every year in some part of India, the upcoming polls in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry can be seen as yet another component of India’s dynamic democratic cycle. But these elections, arguably, have much greater significance than usual. The polls are happening in the backdrop of a turbulent time in national politics where structural changes are underway; the poll results will determine the trajectory of India’s national and top regional parties; they will, therefore, also have an impact on the nature of the federal structure that underpins the constitutional order in India; and each state has gone through a challenging time, in terms of both politics and governance, and the outcome will reflect how voters perceive the performance of the state governments in dealing with these challenges. To begin with, while there is now overwhelming evidence that state elections are fought and won on state-specific leadership and issues, they cannot be divorced from the larger national backdrop. There are three specific national-level changes, which will have an impact on state polls. The first is, of course, Covid-19. The pandemic disrupted lives and livelihoods, changed the nature of political communication, and highlighted issues which, so far, had not been at the heart of the electoral discourse — including health care. The elections will show if Covid-19 has forced a change in the way parties reach out to voters and the way in which voters decide on their choices, or whether the pandemic has, actually, not changed older political patterns. The second is the direction of economic reforms the government has undertaken. While this remains at a preliminary stage — the Centre’s moves on privatisation, for instance, have not been operationalised yet — there is now a clear sign that the government will push through liberal economic measures, which cater to the market and private sector. It is too early to link any electoral outcome to this new direction, but the farm laws and the protests around it — which were geographically concentrated around north India, but had national reverberations — provide an early indication of the political passions around reforms. And finally, in three of the five states going to polls — Assam, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu — domestic politics has a strong external dimension. The debate around the immigrants, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens brings Bangladesh into India’s domestic discourse, while the debate around Tamil rights in Sri Lanka, has an impact in Tamil Nadu. The outcome of the polls will have an impact on all these dimensions — how India’s political structures will adapt to a post-Covid-19 world; how India’s economic reform trajectory will proceed; and how India will navigate ties with the neighbourhood when the lines between the external and internal get blurred. These polls also matter because they will shape the political future of a range of parties. For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ideal scenario is retaining power in Guwahati, getting to the seat of power in Kolkata (the big prize), having an ally govern in Chennai, squeezing through as a part of a ruling coalition in Puducherry, and expanding its presence in the assembly in Thiruvananthapuram. If this happens, expect a more confident Centre, which will pursue its political and ideological agenda with renewed vigour; and even if the BJP succeeds in just winning the east while making limited forays into the south, it will see this as a political vote of confidence. For the Congress, the ideal scenario is winning back Assam from the BJP on the plank of its opposition to CAA, ensuring that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led alliance returns to power in Tamil Nadu, where the Congress has a respectable junior status in government, and proving a political point in Puducherry where its government was just ousted. In Bengal, the Congress wants to expand its presence, but while keeping the BJP out of power. But there is a paradox here — success for the Congress-Left Front will split the anti-BJP vote. So there is a clash between its local politics and its national ambition of weakening the BJP. But the most important state for the party is Kerala. For two years, Rahul Gandhi has claimed he is a mere Member of Parliament from Wayanad, and while recognising that polls will be fought on a range of local factors, Kerala will be seen as Gandhi’s test within the Congress. For the regional parties, these elections hold huge significance. All eyes are on the Trinamool Congress (TMC) — and whether, after being in power for a decade and facing an aggressive BJP, which confounded pundits by winning 18 of the 42 seats in the state in 2019, Mamata Banerjee can retain power. A victory for her, in the face of the BJP onslaught, will boost the confidence of other smaller regional forces — and she can be expected to renew efforts to forge an anti-BJP national coalition. For the DMK, out of power for 10 years in the state, and now without the guardianship of M Karunanidhi, the elections will determine the political future of MK Stalin and, determine, more significantly, whether the BJP can be kept out as a direct or indirect player in the state where there exists deep suspicion of its cultural and linguistic politics. For the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, in the absence of J Jayalalithaa and the challenge from Sasikala, who is staking claim to the political legacy of the former CM, all hopes are riding on the incumbent CM’s governance record and support from the Centre. For the Left, Kerala remains the only state where it exercises power — and whether it can beat Kerala’s electoral dynamic of voting in alternate parties to power is the big test. And then there are smaller forces in each state — including Muslim parties in Kerala, Assam and West Bengal — who aim to expand their presence, although, in some ways, their presence enables the BJP to engage in the politics of polarisation. The election outcome will then, have an impact on the federal structure. Over the past year in particular, the federal structure has come under strain. Non-BJP forces believe that a strong Centre, run by a hegemonic force, is undermining the constitutional structure by taking over state subjects and legislating on them, altering the financial structures which would enable states to perform effectively, and accumulating power while leaving responsibilities in the hands of states. The Centre believes that these grievances are a result of political opposition, and that whenever there has been a constructive suggestion by states, it has been taken on board. It is in this backdrop that a BJP win in Bengal and presence in government, directly or indirectly, in Tamil Nadu will strengthen the Centre’s hand — while a TMC win in Bengal and a DMK win in Tamil Nadu will strengthen the voice of states. In the final analysis though, the elections will reflect voter satisfaction — or dissatisfaction — with their respective state governments at a time of unprecedented suffering due to the pandemic and associated economic costs. Sarbananda Sonowal, Mamata Banerjee, EK Palaniswami, Pinarayi Vijayan and V Narayanasamy (who has now resigned) are on test. They will know how voters marked them on May 2. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-2022-elections-will-shape-politics-for-years-101614437889971.html
27-02-2021||Today's||Securing India’s international image||India is described as a flawed democracy in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s Democracy Index. It has slipped from 27 in the rankings in 2014 to 53 in 2020. But does the government care about this slippage or indeed should it care? Three recent events make me wonder. At the end of last year, an international tribunal ruled against India in a retrospective tax dispute with Cairn Energy. The tribunal called on the government to repay Cairn the $1.2 billion retrospective tax it had recovered, but it’s reported that there is going to be an appeal against the award. The government has also reportedly appealed against the award of an international tribunal, which ruled against its claim for $2.2 billion retrospective tax from Vodafone. Challenging these awards flies in the face of international business opinion. Knowing how much tax will be levied is a crucial factor in an international investor’s decision to invest in any country. By insisting on its right to collect retrospective taxes, the government is undermining the confidence of international investors in India. The second event, which did not enhance India’s international reputation, was the ministry of education’s recent instruction to all government-funded educational institutions to get a clearance before organising a virtual or online conference or service training. The respective ministry giving the clearance was instructed to ensure, among other things, that the subjects to be discussed did not refer to security or India’s internal matters. This provoked anguished letters to the minister of education from the heads of two of India’s top scientific institutions, The Indian Academy of Sciences and The Indian National Academy of Sciences.The good news is that the government has chosen to act on this feedback and reports suggest that it has withdrawn the draconian guidelines. The storm over the arrest on a sedition charge of the young climate activist, Disha Ravi, is the third event which has made me wonder how much the government cares about international opinion. The Economist Intelligence Unit’s Democracy Index attributes India’s slippage to “democratic backsliding” and “crackdowns on civil liberties”. If the government cared about the Index, it would not continue to make extensive use of the colonial sedition act under which people are losing their fundamental civil liberties. Sedition charges increased by 160% between 2016 and 2019, and although only 3% of these cases have resulted in convictions, people are still being deprived of their liberties unjustifiably. Should the government worry about possible foreign reaction to these three events? At a time when the government is looking for foreign investment to help fund its inputs in infrastructure, it is surely unwise to give the impression of India being an unreliable place to put your money by continuing to try to enforce retrospective tax judgments. The education ministry has now withdrawn the order insisting on ministries giving clearance before academics can hold online conferences, but why was it issued in the first place? If the government had cared about the opinion of the international academic community, the ministry would surely never have issued an order which damaged the global standing of Indian science, and would have limited the contribution of Indian scientists to international science. As for the third event, Disha Ravi has now been granted bail. However, in his judgment granting bail, Judge Dhamender Rana said, “The offence of sedition cannot be involved to minister to the wounded vanity of governments.” The government must heed this warning. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/securing-india-s-international-image-101614436752809.html
27-02-2021||Today's||It’s not easy being a Muslim in India||I am not easily impressed. I have eclectic tastes, which frequently change, leaving me unsure of what I like. So it’s not often I find a book compelling. Ghazala Wahab’s Born a Muslim: Some Truths about Islam in India is definitely one such. At times autobiographical, often anecdotal, frequently analytical, and full of convincing research and illuminating history, it tells you what it’s like to be an Indian Muslim.“When I started to write,” Wahab explains, “I wanted to address fellow Muslims and tell them they needed to look beyond the mullahs and embrace modernity.” But as she became aware “of just how vulnerable Muslims in India are” and how “extremely fearful”, her focus altered. “How does one tell people just struggling to stay alive they need to change their thinking, their manner of living, their approach to religion?” That, you could say, is the predicament facing our Muslim brothers. Wahab’s journey began when she realised people “perceive two distinct identities” in her — Muslim and Indian. It led her to ask: “What does it mean to be a Muslim in India?” But also a more inward-looking question: “Is it not possible to be Muslim and forward-looking?” This book is an honest but also distressing answer to both.Wahab believes there are external and internal forces that hold “Muslims in a pincer grip”. The external is “the sociopolitical discrimination they face at the hands of both lawmaking and law-enforcing authorities”. It often amounts to physical and mental violence. It denies them equal opportunity, even justice. “This forces Muslims to seek security in their own numbers, and they withdraw into ghettoes on the periphery of the mainstream, thereby limiting their choices in terms of accommodation, education and profession”. The internal force is “the vicious cycle perpetuated by illiteracy, poverty and the disproportionate influence of mullahs”. This keeps “a large number undereducated and, therefore, unemployable”. It’s also “prevented the emergence of a progressive, secular Muslim leadership”.How many of us, who view Muslims from the outside, understand this? Very few. Of our rulers, even less. This is why Muslims “carry a double burden of being labelled as ‘anti-national’ and as being ‘appeased’ at the same time”. The world Wahab reveals, the other side of a door we never walk through, is a nightmare. Ponder on what Wahab writes of young Muslims, every one of them born Indian with exactly the same rights as you and I. “Young Muslim men are frequently picked up and held without charges indefinitely under some anti-terrorist law or another.” Research shows “Muslim boys now have considerably worse upward mobility than both scheduled castes and scheduled tribes”. So is it surprising many mothers want their sons to go abroad? “A Muslim boy in India will either be a wastrel or viewed as a rioter and be killed by the police”.Some too poor to escape — yes, that’s the right word — pretend to be Hindu. They change their names to give themselves another identity. “If I have a Hindu name, no one will bother that I work with cattle skin,” Wahab was told. They’re even prepared to convert. “Magar dil mein kya hai yeh kisi ko kya pata (but how can anyone tell what is in our hearts)?” I don’t know if this is true of a few or many, but does that matter? Even if it’s one, it’s a tragedy that shames us. Yet till I read Wahab’s book, I wasn’t aware of this.There’s also another dimension — you could call it the flipside — and Wahab is equally forthright in writing of it. Moderate Muslims are not just caught between two worlds but torn apart. “On the one hand, conservative or devout Muslims disparage them; on the other hand, Hindus suspect them”. So what choice do they have but to “keep their heads down and hope they won’t be called upon to take a stand?” Yet these are the people many criticise for their silence. The truth is it’s not easy to be a Muslim in India. Both the world outside and your own community torment you. If you want to understand and, perhaps, see Muslims through their own eyes, this is a book you should read. Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/its-not-easy-being-a-muslim-in-india-101614433089075.html
27-02-2021||Today's||What is blocking Neera Tanden’s rise to the cabinet||Neera Tanden has secured a place for herself in history. If confirmed, she will become the first Indian-American to hold a Cabinet position — and not a Cabinet-rank post such as Nikki Haley who was ambassador to the United Nations — in the United States (US) federal government, as director of the office of budget and management. She will also be the first woman of colour to hold that position.If rejected, however, which is looking increasingly more probable, Tanden will become the first Indian-American blocked from a Cabinet position.That’s not a glowing pitch for the history books. But the ignominy will not be hers. It will rest on the shoulders of the US lawmakers who were unable to overcome, once again, their hypocrisy, sexism and even, racism.With Democrats in charge of the Senate, a confirmation should have been in the bag for Tanden, a Democratic president’s nominee. But in an evenly divided Senate, Tanden needed to carry the entire Democratic caucus — all 50 — to get to the halfway mark, to then be carried over the finish line by Vice-President Kamala Harris’s tie-breaker vote; without having to bank on Republicans.But Joe Manchin, a Democrat, broke ranks to oppose Tanden’s nomination, leaving her at the mercy of Republicans. She now needs at least one of them to bail her out.And so far, no Republican has come to her rescue, not even the moderate Republicans.The problem with Tanden, Republicans say, and Manchin agrees, is this — she is divisive. For evidence, they have cited her scathing tweets from the past four years, targeting essentially, but not only, Republicans.Here is what she said about some Republican senators: Susan Collins was “the worst”, Tom Cotton was a “fraud”, Mitch McConnell was “Voldemort”, and vampires had more heart than Ted Cruz.Tanden has apologised for these tweets and deleted them. But that’s not what her detractors are after. Over the same four years, these Republicans looked the other way as former President Donald Trump had been far more abusive on social media platforms and in public remarks.These Republicans — and Manchin — had also voted to confirm Trump’s ambassador to Germany, Richard Grenell, who had a Twitter reputation far worse than Tanden’s. But he probably got a pass for being a man.“I feel like there’s a little bit of sexism going on here,” William Kristol, a conservative political commentator, told the Washington Post, though he had not specifically referenced Grenell. “It just seems like these tweets sound harsher to these old guys because they’re coming from a woman,” he added, about Tanden’s posts.Could Tanden have gotten away with these posts if she was not a woman of colour? Strong and assertive women of colour have often been described as “angry”, “nasty” and “aggressive” to demean and discredit them. Remember former President Donald Trump calling Harris “‘nasty” after he had called her a “fine choice” as a running mate?Tanden is a victim of bias, of every imaginable kind. The issue is not her tweets.yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-is-blocking-neera-tanden-s-rise-to-the-cabinet-101614344580313.html
27-02-2021||Today's||Stress hits the bottom line – in more ways than you think||There is this riddle among children. A ship is anchored in a harbour where the tide recedes one foot every hour. The ship’s ladder, which leads into the water, has rungs that are a foot apart. How many hours would it take for the water to drop three rungs of the ladder as the tide lowers? The intuitive answer would be three hours — but it’s wrong. When the tide recedes, the ship lowers with it and the rungs of the ladder remain same in relation to the water. If one were to use the ladder’s rungs as a benchmark, they would miss the fact that the ship has come down by several feet.The pandemic has affected each of us to varying degrees. A year of isolation, unnatural and cramped confinement, loss of social interaction, death of loved ones, loss of jobs, uncertainty about the future and several similar concerns are taking a heavy toll on each of us, but because the “ladder” remains where it is, most corporate leaders are unaware of the magnitude of the crisis facing their teams and organisations.Mental health, specifically depression, was already a gargantuan crisis well before Covid-19. The World Health Organization had predicted depression to be largest global health burden by 2030 — ahead of heart diseases or cancer. They were wrong in their estimate by almost 10 years. Depression is now the leading medical burden in the world. By extension, it is also the leading cause of corporate inefficiency and yet remains unaddressed for several reasons.First, mental health is a taboo in most societies and definitely pariah status in corporates, which idealises the strong, stoic leader. Stress, anxiety and depression are viewed as weaknesses and anyone professing them is more likely to be eased out of the organisation than to be helped out. Second, most leaders don’t understand the construct of mental health. The statistic that one in five Indians is undergoing some form of stress hides the fact that, this “one in five” is a round robin that affects each one of those five at some point, with varying degrees of damage.Most importantly, while corporates use sophisticated tools for measuring physical presence and shallow work of their employees, they don’t meaningfully gauge their creative engagement or commitment to the organisation and colleagues. It is ironic that organisations, which schedule downtime for maintenance of their plant equipment to preserve their efficacy, believe that their personnel can continue to function effectively without any mental and emotional care. Consider these paradoxes.Working from cramped, underresourced environment of their homes with little or no contact with teammates, for longer hours, without the relief of social friends and yet being expected to deliver the same quality of work as before, is an unrealistic ask — yet the norm among corporates. Several indicators of social stability such as divorce rates, broken relationships, suicides (especially among the young), financial distress, physical and emotional health are all plummeting alarmingly, and, yet, the expectation from the employees is that they will somehow become happy and positive after logging into the workplace. The expectation that an employee who indulged in road rage (another sign of social stress) on the way to work will become an empathetic team player when he enters the campus would be laughable if it wasn’t so sad.Each of us has a finite amount of physical and emotional reserves, which get whittled away with every instance that induces stress, whether caused by professional, personal or social anxieties. With the increase in work cadence, under frustrating conditions, this limited resource isn’t getting replenished at the rate of exhaustion. The mask, arguably the most powerful symbol of zeitgeist, is perhaps an apt one. Our faces are hidden, our voices are muffled and our breath is constrained. So, no one knows how we feel, our cries for help are unheard, and we are all waiting to exhale.A large percentage of the employees are running on fumes. And corporates will pay a heavy price if they don’t see this clear and present danger.A common refrain heard these days is “taking life day by day”. This innocuous statement conceals the ominous danger looming ahead. Taking life one day at a time might be good pop psychology advice, but it also indicates the loss of agency over a horizon. Imagine the implications to a corporate if their head of strategy, or any other strategic leader for that matter, chooses the mindset of living one day at a time. Or the implications for industries such as insurance, research, infrastructure projects or specialisation studies if the current or potential workforce start thinking in such temporal terms. Or the implication for policies such as climate. The financial damage potential of anxiety is huge.This is an opportunity for corporates to accord the same importance to mental well-being, as they do for the physical safety, of their employees. Over recent decades, corporates have come a long way in terms of workplace safety because they realised the revenue and reputational costs. We need to create a similar environment when it comes to mental health. Focus on mental health is not some charitable feel-good initiative.It must be done with a hard eye on the financial performance of companies. Laptops in place of desktops, smartphone allowances, flexible hours of working and work from home were all instituted for their financial returns than merely employee convenience.Similarly, organisations must embark on rebuilding good mental health and morale through a programme as systematic and rigorous as it would for any of its organisational improvement initiatives. Otherwise, no matter how well they captained their ships during this period, it will be of little use if she has already run aground.Raghu Raman was founding CEO, NatgridThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/stress-hits-the-bottom-line-in-more-ways-than-you-think-101614344459047.html
