01-01-2021||City||Dera Bassi hit-and-run: 70-year-old farmer crushed to death||A 70-year-old farmer was crushed to death by a speeding truck at Bhankarpur village in Dera Bassi on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway on Friday while he was crossing the road, the police said.The deceased was identified as Ram Singh, a resident of the village. An eyewitness, Rajinder Singh Lucky, who runs a confectionery shop at the village bus stand, said that Ram Singh was crossing the road when a speeding truck coming from Dera Bassi side hit him, crushing him under the rear tyre.A case was registered against the unidentified driver. The body of the deceased was handed over to the family after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-bassi-hit-and-run-70-year-old-farmer-crushed-to-death/story-mzqUbhFqyY6MVF8DF55AUP.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||27 booked for drink driving in Navi Mumbai||Like Thane, the drink-and-drive cases in Navi Mumbai came down by more than 92 per cent on December 31. The Navi Mumbai traffic police booked 27 people for driving under the influence of alcohol while 340 were booked for the same in 2019.The traffic police have booked a total of 422 traffic violations on Thursday – 27 for drunk driving, 270 for riding without helmet, 101 for driving without seat belt and 24 for riding triples.Read more: Only 35 drunk drivers arrested in Mumbai on New Year’s Eve“This year’s (2020) statistics cannot be compared as due to the pandemic, the people on road were far less. The low-key celebrations and curfew refrained people from stepping out,” Purushottam Karad, DCP (traffic), said.On Dec 31, 2019, traffic police had only concentrated on drunken driving and not any other offence. “This time, the current DCP was keen on other offences too as there would be very less drink-and-drive cases due to the pandemic,” an officer from Navi Mumbai traffic unit said.Read more: Most popular hangouts wore a deserted look in Thane, KalyanA total of 275 people including staff and officers from Navi Mumbai traffic unit were checking people at all the junctions, highways and places where there were chances of people crowding for clicking photographs and selfies. The bandobast was between Thursday 6pm and Friday 3am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/27-booked-for-drink-driving-in-navi-mumbai/story-65FjUDf6ESFErdvzTuT0UM.html
01-01-2021||City||Truck driver held for death of two in Pinjore road mishap||A truck driver involved in an accident that had led to the death of two people in Pinjore was arrested, the police said on Friday.The accused, Yadu Kumar of Chamba, Himachal Pradesh, was held on the complaint of Kishan Vir of Uttar Pradesh. On December 28, Vir was taking his grandmother and uncle to Pinjore on a motorcycle when a truck coming from Baddi side had hit the bike.His injured uncle was admitted to a government hospital in Kalka where he died during treatment and his grandmother died at civil hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula.A case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-driver-held-for-death-of-two-in-pinjore-road-mishap/story-yzRlrqD3iMSeK5ZGZ27hdI.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch arrests man with carbine, 3 pistols, 15 cartridges||The Mumbai crime branch on Tuesday arrested a 21-year-old man and recovered a carbine, three pistols, three magazines and 15 live cartridges from him. Police said the accused, Pravin Borde, a native of Madhya Pradesh was sent by a person who deals in weapons, to deliver the firearms in Mumbai.Inspector Sanjiv Gavade of unit 8 of the crime branch acted on a tip-off about a person coming to Mumbai to deliver weapons in Nirmal Nagar area of Bandra (East).A trap was laid by police, and accused was nabbed near Bandra Terminus, on Thursday evening. He was carrying a bag, containing a Japanese carbine, three magazines, three pistols and 15 live cartridges. Value of the weapons is around ₹3.75 lakh, said deputy commissioner of police (crime branch) Akbar Pathan.Borde was brought to the unit office in Andheri and placed under arrest. During interrogation, police claim to have obtained the name of the sender. A police team will soon visit Madhya Pradesh to nab him, said a crime branch officer.A further inquiry is going on to check Borde’s record. Borde was produced before a magistrate and has been remanded to police custody till January 4, added the officer.Police are inquiring with Borde to trace the buyer and also trying to find out the purpose for which the consignment was brought to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-man-with-carbine-3-pistols-15-cartridges/story-OXt2AcIjU9T6hACxloqavL.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: A great New Year resolution is to get vaccinated against negativity||No looking backThe year 2020 has left behind many issues for humans to introspect on. I was one of those people shut inside my home, watching the world pass through the trauma. My resolutions for the New Year are to adhere to the precautions for keeping the Covid pandemic at bay till all is well, to shed fears and insecurities that weaken me and make me feel isolated. I resolve not to spend hours and days delving into the past to relieve minor glories and wallow in regrets over what couldn’t be achieved. I shall try to live in the present and take each day as it comes. The best thing year 2020 has taught me is to help people in distress within my capacity and resources. Subhash PuriTaking care of animals and birdsDue to the fear of the pandemic I had stopped myself from stepping outdoors and could not take care of animals and birds. So, in the year 2021, I resolve to feed them and look after them.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhWill work on writing skillsMy New Year resolution will be to pursue my passion for writing more vigorously and for improving my writing skillsRajinder ParshadI plan to help women as much as I canAs we step into 2021, we are still affected by the consequences of the past year. So much has changed. There is a shadow of fear and uncertainty looming over us. Throughout the lockdown I have been an online grief counsellor for Haryana, Panjab, Delhi ad Chandigarh. Having dealt with the sudden increase in cases of domestic violence and assault and issues related with menstrual hygiene, I have made a very specific New Year 2021 resolution. I will continue my efforts to teach more women to be self-sufficient by teaching them to stitch sanitary pads. I will also work on the mindset of people and educate them against patriarchy and assaults of various kinds.Renu Mathur, PanchkulaGet people to think positiveMany people are anxiety ridden due to Covid 2019, but though many of them are aware of safety measures they are still not following it. My 2021 resolution will be to create positivity in minds of people. We should not be afraid of contracting the virus but we should definitely follow all the precautions to avoid it. Sandeep Gupta, ChandigarhGuiding others will be my mantraApart from keeping myself healthy and happy, I want to serve society through my knowledge of astrology, numerology and tarot card reading. It would be nice if I could listen to other people’s problems and make them smile. I want to help and guide people who have faced failures and lost hope in life by counselling them. People should focus on their emotional and mental health as well as physical fitness. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliReach out to othersI am looking forward to 2021 as a year of renewal. First and foremost, I want to become socially useful. For this, I am looking forward to doing a course in first aid and connecting with the Red Cross. Besides, I shall assist the neighbourhood in taking up civic issues with the municipal corporation. Reading and writing have been my hobbies. My endeavour will be to sharpen these skills, learn gardening and cooking as hobbies. My wife is very fond of gardening. So much so, we didn’t have to buy a lot of vegetables from the markets or street vendors. I helped her water the plants etc. I want to do more of it this year. YouTube is a great teacher for cooking. My wife learnt the art of making jalebis and besan ki barfi, which we enjoyed during the pandemic. I have been teaching mathematics for classes 9 and 10 to our gardener’s son for the last two years. I found it highly satisfying and want to continue doing so this year.The best thing that happened during the pandemic was that my wife and I grew closer. Watching TV, news, drama and movies together became the routines of the day. I plan to spend more time with her this year.Lt Col GS Bedi (Retd).Nothing but masks and sanitisers for meMy resolutions for 2021 are Covid-specific since the hue and cry over the virus is continuing into the next year.1. I will not venture out without mask and sanitiser and wash my hands as prescribed 2. I will not leave home , make social visits or encourage others to visit my place unless it is absolutely necessary3. I will take utmost care to improve my immunity4. I will encourage others to follow my resolutionsAK Sharma, Chandigarh. Attract positivityThe coronavirus is not finished yet. We should resolve though to never give up hope, make positivity the motto of our life and in case faced with no solutions take heavenly help and pray to God from the core of our hearts to help the suffering humanity. Avoid negative thinking and remember, positivity attracts positivity. Ensure you eat and live healthy and remember to save money for the future. Also, don’t be dependent on domestic helpers for doing household chores. Understand the value of home made food and keep yourself healthy. Suman Kansal, PanchkulaTo pray hard for a healthy worldMy first resolution for 2021 is to pray to God Almighty to protect humans, bio-diversity and environment to make this planet healthy and happy. I resolve to do everything possible to end this hatred of caste, creed, religion and governance; make concerted efforts to negate the effects of pollution by planting more eco-friendly trees and manage garbage judiciously. I also will be helping the needy, especially birds and animals who need our help but can’t speak. Last but not least, I intend to keep my cool while driving and adhere to traffic rules. I will salute and smile at anyone who offends me because life is more precious than ego and frustration. I will also resolve to bow with respect to all service providers who make my life comfortable and worth living.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar, MohaliUpgrade tech skills as a seniorThe resolutions this year are: a. Home is paradise, so there’s no going out to hotels/restaurants or clubs for that matterb. Pay special attention to health, eat home-made nutritious food, do yoga and exercise to maintain and enhance immunity c. Follow Covid-19 protocols even if I am vaccinated d. Not to go out unnecessarily e. Life goes on, therefore enjoy it but with due precautions. There is no age bar for learning and community service after retirement from service. Seniors can play a very useful role by learning new skills such as writing, singing, dancing, yoga, walking, nature cure and meditation. Community service for the needy people and digital literacy is the need of the hour and this is my goal for 2021. One must change with times and adapt to new technology. Always remember, time does not stop, people don’t stop ageing, and learning never stops. So my humble request to seniors is to continue learning till the end. This will keep you physically and mentally fit. Col TBS Bedi (Retd), Mohali No procrastinatingI have decided that from now on I will not put off today’s work tomorrow. Also, I will live in the present without thinking about future outcomes. I will try to stay more fit by regular jogging and remain focused on my goals. Jassica, ChandigarhBeacon of strength and courage to othersMy resolutions for 2020 are:Illuminate myself: To be a beacon of strength and courage, a clear pool of wisdom and understanding, and a flame burning the truthNo fake promises: Instead of making a promise that will ultimately be broken, I will commit myself to simply being vigilant and awareBe awakened: I will try to be awakened every day to each new opportunity to share, to love, to be the temple of peace in my lifeAdapt to peace: I will definitely align myself with the spirit of peace and goodwill toward myself and others.Abhishek Kumar, Chandigarh Have faith in AlmightyMy resolution and wish is to do everything possible to make 2021 a peaceful and trouble free year. If any unthinkable and unpredictable event occurs, let the Almighty give us the necessary clues to come out of it unscathed. Dr Devinder Garg, ChandigarhBe cordial with neighbours, helpers, friendsHere are a few things I and others have to keep in mind this year: Always maintain cordial relationships with your next door neighbours, domestic helpers and friends as they are the ones usually who step up and help you during emergencies. Make sure you have enough savings to fall back upon in case you don’t have a running income and keep yourself updated on digital skills to deal with the digital world, for online transactions and to be socially connected to friends and well wishers with your handy smartphone.SC Luthra, ChandigarhGrowing plantsWhile saying goodbye to 2021 I want to salute all the healthcare workers, police officers, garbage collecters, Army, print media and electronic media who kept working to keep us safe and informed about the goings-on in the world. For the New Year I have resolved to focus on my hobbies, which are writing and cooking. I am going to focus on my studies too, maintain my immunity by exercising daily and grow as many plants as I can. This year we learnt that health is truly our real wealth so I request everyone to look after their health. This is a list that everyone should follow:1. Build a better budget.2. Quit addictive habits3. Less alcohol4. Eat healthy food5. Exercise regularly6. Take the stairs instead of elevators7. Grow more plants8. Keep homes and surroundings clean9. Donate10. Help the needy.Ishita NaraEnd casteismAll of us should understand the difficulties of others and try to resolve them cheerfully. I resolve to cooperate and support every Indian to end casteism, language and regional barriers. All Indians should try to resolve the disputes between the government and public. We should live peacefully as good friends.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliThe best thing while WFH is to exerciseThe work from home culture has its own unique set of problems. Backache due to incorrect posture and lack of exercise impacted me the most. In the pre-pandemic situation , walking from home to office and office to home was something that happened by default. It was really an eye-opener in terms of helping me understand the importance of exercise. My resolution is to make exercising a priority. Even if it is a short evening walk or a quick yoga session. Not one day in 2021 should go without me taking some time out for some physical activity.Shruti Mittal, ChandigarhStarting a journal The year 2020 brought many lessons with it. It taught us about the fragility of life and the beauty of basking in the warmth of love by being with the family during the lockdown. My resolutions include treasuring every single moment of my life by writing a journal, so I can remember the moments forever and expand my mind and not get miffed by trivial problems. And most importantly, I have to learn to be a seeker of everyday magic. Aditi Malhotra Helping others Resolutions are made on the first day of a New Year and all of us tend to forget them by the end of the first week of the New Year. The year gone by was never a year which any of us had expected but it taught us many lessons of survival. It gave us plenty of opportunities for introspection. So taking a cue from the disastrous 2020 my New Year resolution will be to help people, do some social work for the needy who may have been affected by the pandemic. I will also work towards improving my health and look at how I can protect the environment. Finally, however, what matters is executing our resolutions, which again will depend on how the new strain of the virus is going to affect our country. All of us have a role to play in protecting mother earth and so our collective resolution should be to nurture it more passionately. Anil Kumar Yadav, Chandigarh Focus on the simple life During 2021 my only priority will be to maintain good health and educate others to do so because during epidemic only those with strong immunity recovered quickly. Yoga is the best alternative. Online yoga camps got tremendous response. People have to change their priorities in life and focus on living a simple and disciplined lifestyle. RR Passi, Chandigarh Teach others yoga and pranayam I feel the best thing is doing yoga daily for at least 30 minutes and give more importance to pranayam, anulom and vilom (breathing exercises) for instance. For more details look out for Baba Ramdev’s YouTube channels. Change over to pure vegetarianism, consuming fresh giloy, five tulsi and neem leaves daily and giving up alcohol and tobacco in any form. If you don’t get neem, buy ayurvedic neem tablets. I am 82-plus years of age. I follow the routine and I do not suffer from any disease and have an eyesight of 6/6. I would want to guide others who come to me for help. Dr Harnam Singh, Chandigarh Enjoy the present The year 2020 has taught us the value of friends, family and neighbours who stood by us in times of need and will always do so. It taught us to hold on to these relationships and nurture them with love and care. Unlike all the other years when New Year resolutions meant becoming fitter, travelling more etc, for 2021 I want to be appreciative of the little joys in life, spend more time doing things I enjoy and that allow me to be closer to my loved ones. Kohima GoyalUnderstanding AyurvedaGaining more knowledge of Ayurveda is my resolution for 2021. The lockdown gave me a chance to watch Ramayana and Mahabharata on TV, which piqued my curiosity about ancient texts and science. So I started researching Ayurveda and realised that our ancestors knew a lot about medicines and natural treatments. Now I want to learn more about this science.Krrish Madaan, Ambala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-a-great-new-year-resolution-is-to-get-vaccinated-against-negativity/story-eoK68UJ0knzPnHpdnHfzlN.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||GST collections in Chandigarh see 12% jump in December||The city has registered a jump of 12% in the collection of Goods and Services (GST) Tax in December from last month.The GST collection stood at around ₹158 crore, ₹17 crore more than the November collection of ₹141 crore.“Even the gap between year-on-year collections has come down. In November 2020, the collections were short by 14% in comparison to the November 2019 GST revenue. In December, this gap decreased to 6% from December 2019,” said a UT official requesting anonymity.The gross GST collection in the UT stood at ₹158 crore in December 2020, in comparison to ₹168 crore in December 2019. In October, the UT had collected ₹151.98 crore in GST; in September, the figure was ₹141 crore.The UT could collect only revenue of ₹40.34 crore in April, which increased to ₹103.44 crore in May. After easing of the lockdown restrictions, the GST collection registered an increase in June, touching ₹158.69 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gst-collections-in-chandigarh-see-12-jump-in-december/story-S3427N4Kplwo9PQn24noDP.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Most popular hangouts wore a deserted look in Thane, Kalyan||Due to the pandemic, the Thane police claimed that the crowd at the regular hangouts in the city was not even five per cent of that expected on New Year’s Eve. Places like Masunda Lake, Upavan Lake and Hiranadani Meadows in Thane, Khadakpada, Durgadi, Ghadhari of Kalyan and Phadke Road in Dombivli wore a deserted look owing to heavy police presence at all these locations.Police officials claimed that for the first time in decades, they have seen hardly any persons on the roads in the city. Kasarvadavli police who are on duty every year near Gaimukh, Hiranandani area, claimed that there were no people on the road.Kasarvadavli police inspector AE Kaldate said, “We started patrolling since early evening and asked people to shut establishments by 11pm. For the first time in all these years, there were no youngsters or families loitering on the road. Every year, there are hundreds of people crowding the eateries in the area. Many preferred to stay indoors for celebrations. There were no complaints of nuisance or disturbances from any society members or citizens regarding any issues or problems on the day.”Read more: Only 35 drunk drivers arrested in Mumbai on New Year’s EveThe story was the same along Upavan Lake, infamous for late night bike stunts and other illegal activities. The lake also sees a large crowd, especially youngsters, on New Year’s Eve. Senior police inspector of Vartak Nagar police station, SB Gaikwad, said, “Lots of people including youngsters gather to bust crackers, cut cake, party here and play loud music on New Year’s Eve. But this time, apart from drink-and-drive cases done by traffic police, there was nothing in the area. It was quiet for a major part of the night.”There was no crowd in the hotspots of Kalyan, Dombivli and Bhiwandi too as per the local police stations of these areas. Since most shops were closed by 11pm, people chose to stock up and celebrate indoors. Few youngsters were there at Durgadi before 10pm but they too dispersed after the police presence increased in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/most-popular-hangouts-wore-a-deserted-look-in-thane-kalyan/story-azQyYmFlSLdJmfLyMHzTHO.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali saw 48% rise in Covid deaths in December||The number of Covid-19 fatalities in Mohali district went up 48% in December as compared to November even as the number of fresh cases dropped by 6% in the same period. While 2,944 people tested positive and 62 succumbed to the virus in December, the numbers stood at 3,140 and 42, respectively, in November.Mohali city continued to account for the bulk of cases, with 2,502 (85%) in December . Meanwhile, recovery rate improved in December, going up to 92% from 87% in November. In October, it stood at 93.7%. “The reason for high number of deaths is that people are not taking precautions,” said Dr GB Singh, who took over as the Punjab health director on Friday after his tenure as the Mohali civil surgeon ended on New Year’s Eve. “People are not approaching hospitals and prefer to take medicine at home. They turn up at hospital only when their oxygen level goes down, making the case complicated. Also, most patients who died were having comorbidities,” he said.Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar, nodal officer for Covid-19, raised concern over people not wearing masks in public places, especially in Mohali city. Aashika Jain, additional district commissioner, said sampling has been increased in the district with round-the-clock availability of a team at the district hospital.Chandigarh faring much betterSeeing a decline in the impact of Covid-19, the number of virus-related fatalities and infections in Chandigarh remained at a five-month low in December 2020.The UT had recorded its first case on March 18 last year following which strict curfew and lockdown was implemented. As the restrictions eased, the number of cases as well as deaths started increasing in August and reached a peak in September. The numbers decreased marginally during the festival season in November, declining further in December.In December, 40 deaths were reported, a decrease of around 25% with respect to November when 51 positive patients had died. September witnessed the highest (106) deaths.“Proper supervision and alertness is essential when one tests positive irrespective of age. However, extra caution is essential for elderly residents. To stop the disease from worsening, one should keep monitoring the oxygen saturation level and immediately reach out for help when the oxygen saturation level falls below 95%,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director of UT health department.She said that the declining trend is expected to continue if proper precautions are undertaken in the wake of the new variant of Covid-19.The stress on health institutions has also decreased with only one Covid care centre functional nowadays. On the other hand, hospitals are seeing less admission as well. At Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, only 26 residents are currently admitted.The positivity rate has also seen a declining trend with the number of cases decreasing with a corresponding increase in tests conducted. December reported around 6% positivity rate which was among the lowest in the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-saw-48-rise-in-covid-deaths-in-december/story-sPOoQ7rvuEHB6q6Nff6v0J.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Air quality remains poor in Mumbai; IMD predicts cloudy skies for Saturday||The New Year kicked-off with very poor air quality and reduced visibility owing to hazy conditions on Friday.The air quality in Mumbai and its surrounding areas continued to remain in the very poor category for the second consecutive day as the inflow of air from the land (continental air), instead of from the sea persisted.According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), an overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator- of 307 (very poor) was recorded. Of the 10 stations where the air quality was measured, Bandra Kurla Complex had the worst air quality with an AQI of 358, followed by Mazagaon where an AQI of 347 was measured. A spokesperson from SAFAR said that the air quality is likely to remain in the very poor category on Saturday as cold wave continued to hit the city. Haze, too, is likely to continue for one more day as cloudy conditions persist, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).Minimum temperatures rose further on Friday at both Colaba and Santacruz stations of IMD. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 22 degrees Celsius, which is 2.7 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature at Santacruz was 20.6 degrees Celsius, a whopping 3.5 degrees above normal and 2.1 degrees above Thursday’s minimum temperature.The maximum temperature at Colaba was 31.6 degrees Celsius, 1.1 degrees above normal and 0.4 degree below Thursday’s maximum temperature. At Santacruz mercury touched 33.6 degrees Celsius, which was 2.6 degrees above normal.For Saturday, the IMD has predicted partly cloudy skies with maximum temperature touching 34 degree Celsius and minimum at 22 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-quality-remains-poor-in-mumbai-imd-predicts-cloudy-skies-for-saturday/story-4qUYtTBU0aBYYwSwFgtg2O.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||50% Covid-19 tests in city in December were using rapid antigen kits, says Mumbai civic body||The monthly share of less-dependable, but quick-result rapid antigen tests in the city is on the rise, compared to reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered the gold standard in detecting the presence of the novel coronavirus, the pathogen responsible for Covid-19, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data. The antigen tests give results in 30 minutes, whereas RT-PCR tests take eight hours. Of the 4.48 lakh tests conducted in Mumbai in December (until December 30), 2.21 lakh (49.37%) were using rapid antigen kits, while 2.27 lakh (50.62%) were RT-PCR tests. In November, 1.68 lakh (45%) of the 3.71 lakh tests were using antigen kits, while in October, of the 4.07 lakh tests, 1.64 lakh (40%) were using antigen kits. The BMC conducted 3.51 lakh tests in September, of which 1.09 lakh (31%) were using antigen kits. Conversely, the ratio of RT-PCR tests dropped from 69% in September to 60% in October and 55% in November. Experts from the state-appointed Covid-19 task force say the scenario is not ideal and the government should rely more on RT-PCR tests to control the pandemic. Civic officials, however, say that every symptomatic citizen testing negative via rapid antigen kits is made to undergo RT-PCR test for confirmation of the infection. While the positivity rate (the number of people that test positive out of every 100 tested) of RT-PCR tests is between 10% and 12%, the positivity rate of antigen tests is only 3% or 4%. Mumbai is testing anywhere between 12,000 to 19,000 samples every day. The BMC, however, maintains its RT-PCR testing capacity is around 15,000 samples a day. The BMC has maintained that the usage of rapid antigen kits has not affected the positivity rate. In December, the city reported only 9,245 cases and 223 deaths, compared to 25,062 cases and 566 deaths in November, and 50,006 cases and 1,281 deaths in October. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “We can’t conclude that the positivity rate is going down due to increased use of rapid antigen kits, however, RT-PCR test remains the gold standard. We are very near 50:50, and this is not ideal. I would say the ratio of RT-PCR to rapid antigen tests should be 80:20.” Dr Joshi added, “Use of rapid antigen kits has also increased because of more unlocking, as we need quick results. But this can also be done by using advanced technology to get results of RT-PCR tests. Rapid kits are a good screening tool, but RT-PCR is better for diagnosis.” Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital, another member of the task force, said, “Ideally, 70% tests should be conducted using the RT-PCR method, while 30% using the rapid antigen kits. The current ratio of 50:50 is not ideal…We can confirm that use of rapid antigen kits is increasing due to unlock only when we have segregated data of how many times the rapid antigen kits were used for screening and how many times for diagnosis. If not, we should not simply assume unlocking to be the reason.” Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “I can’t comment without going through the data. However, we are conducting sufficient RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50-covid-19-tests-in-city-in-december-were-using-rapid-antigen-kits-says-mumbai-civic-body/story-yZEXGz7MLr5wTbUsnIUlrL.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan: Devgandharva music festival only for a day||The renowned Devgandharva music festival of Kalyan city will be held only for one day this year rather than the regular three days, and entry will be free for the music lovers.The organisers have requested the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) to give them the Acharya Atre play theatre in Kalyan for the same concessional rates that they offer for Marathi plays.The festival, which has seen performances by many stalwarts like Zakir Hussain, Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia, Ustad Rashid Khan, Begum Parveen Sultana, Hariharan and Pt Niladri Kumar among others in the past, is in its 19th year. Kalyan Gayan Samaj, the organiser of the festival, has decided to cut short the usual three days’ event to one and not to charge for the tickets. It is scheduled on January 24.Prashant Dandekar, representative, Kalyan Gayan Samaj, said, “We have kept it free this time thinking about the hardship everyone has faced throughout 2020. We just want people to come and enjoy the musical night with their families. Also, we as organisers did not want to cancel the event as it is one of the most-awaited events of the city.”The organisers, however, lamented that while the KDMC has announced concession in rent for drama events held in their civic-run theatres, on the backdrop of the pandemic, the musical events have not been included in this concession.“The civic body should not just consider drama and theatre events for concession in rent but also the local musical festivals. Not just Devgandharva but other musical events too. We will be meeting the KDMC commissioner regarding this,” added Dandekar.The KDMC decided to reopen its two civic auditoriums on November 26, with an exemption of 75 per cent discount on its basic rent for those organisers charging ticket fare ₹300 or less. The Acharya Atre and Savitribai Phule auditorium were shut since March 23 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.An officer from KDMC who did not wish to be named said, “There is no decision for musical events by the civic body yet regarding allotting concession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-devgandharva-music-festival-only-for-a-day/story-OJWGqd58TqzkAt4f9QGzlL.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Drop in use of tocilizumab; Mumbai doctors rely on remdesivir||As Maharashtra enters the eleventh month of the Covid-19 pandemic, the dependency on immuno-modulator—tocilizumab, which was once considered the ‘miracle drug’, has increasingly diminished. Now, as most of the patients are mild to moderately infected, the doctors are mostly relying on antivirals—remdesivir. The oxygen demand has declined by almost 40% since December 2020, due to better clinical outcomes in Covid-19 care.“In May, when the state had the highest number of Covid-19 cases, the demand for tocilizumab went up high. We instructed all the manufacturers to speed up their production. But now, the demand has fallen by almost 70-80%,” said JB Mantri, former joint commissioner (drugs) in the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) who retired on December 31, 2020.Doctors cite several reasons behind the change in trend. Tocilizumab is prescribed to seriously Covid-19 infected patients who develop ‘cytokine storm’ when the body’s immunity starts working against its cells and damages organs which can be fatal. However, remdesivir is provided to mildly and moderately-ill patients in the early stage of their treatment. In the last eleven months, due to early diagnosis, the number of severely infected patients has decreased drastically in the state which has limited the usage of tocilizumab.“The demand for tocilizumab has come down. Firstly, due to the early diagnosis, the condition of the patients aren’t deteriorating to an extent to use tocilizumab. Secondly, the early use of remdesvir and steroid treatment has made a huge difference. Convalescent plasma therapy is also effective,” said Dr Arpita Dwivedi, head of critical care unit at LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai.Other than this, doctors have observed that the repurposed drug—tocilizumab doesn’t prove effective in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. On October 21, the New England Journal of Medicine published a study on 243 patients that found tocilizumab did not reduce the risk of intubation or death as of four weeks in moderately ill Covid-19 patients.“Now that we are almost one year since Covid-19 outbreak, several significant researches have been done into it (tocilizumab). But it has failed to show mortality benefits in Covid-19 patients. The increased risk of superadded bacterial and fungal infections is also one of the major reasons to avoid tocilizumab,” said Dr Prashant Borade, head, critical care unit, Global Hospitals, Mumbai. Dr Dwivedi also said that she avoids the usage of tocilizumab for elderly patients given the increased risk of infections. The state Covid-19 task force has also removed the usage of tocilizumab from their treatment protocol.Fall in oxygen demand due to lesser patients:The oxygen demand has gone down from around 900 metric-tonne to around 400 metric-tonne recently due to the decrease in Covid-19 case and early diagnosis.“Due to the sudden rise in the demand for oxygen in the middle of last year, we doubled up the production rate. Now, the manufacturers have so much oxygen in stock that they are wanting to sell those,” said Mantri.Hospitals which had to refill the oxygen cylinders daily are now refining the cylinders thrice a week.“The demand has gone down by 70% to 80% as the number of patients has reduced. Also, the patients coming in with severe disease have reduced as early diagnosis and medical attention have improved. In general, awareness of preventive health care benefits has increased,” added Dr Borade.“Due to early diagnosis, the admission in an intensive care unit (ICU) has also dropped significantly in the last two weeks. Overall, there has been almost a 60% drop in patients who require oxygen,” said Dr Dwivedi.The severity of the infection has reduced with early diagnosis and close monitoring. The state’s fatality rate has dropped down to 2.56%. Out of the 52,902 active Covid-19 patients, over 85% are mostly either asymptomatic or mildly and moderately symptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-drop-in-use-of-tocilizumab-mumbai-doctors-rely-on-remdesivir/story-QM1NEeRrmlO0qxiRBjftaJ.html
01-01-2021||Noida||57-year-old BKU supporter from Baghpat dies at UP Gate||Ghaziabad: A 57-year-old farmer, a Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) supporter from Baghpat, died on the first day of the New Year at the UP Gate protest site amid the bone-chilling cold. Police officials said that the family did not opt for post-mortem and his body was sent in an ambulance to his hometown. The deceased, identified as Galtan Singh, had joined the protest two days ago and occupied a roadside space below the UP Gate flyover. The man had come along with his two brothers and a son who said that they will perform the last rites in Baghpat and rejoin the protest. “He came along with others from our village Nangal Bhagwanpur two days ago. Today morning, he complained of breathlessness and his son rushed him to a nearby hospital but he died before he could reach the hospital,” said Azad Singh, elder brother of the deceased. “We are taking his body to our village for the last rites. We don’t want to leave UP Gate and have told our leaders that we will rejoin the protest after completing the last rites,” he added. Thousands of protesters from western UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab are part of the ongoing protests at the UP Gate and have occupied the area since November 28 for their demand of repeal of the Centre’s three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. During the recent sixth round of talks with the government, the government representatives had told the farmers’ leaders that women, children and elderly should be sent back home as the weather conditions are adverse. “There has been a proposal to this effect from the government and we told them that this will be placed before our core committee. Meanwhile, we told people to go back but none of them is ready to go. So far, about 40 persons have died during the ongoing agitation at different protest sites. Friday’s was the first death at the UP Gate,” said Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of BKU. Following the death, farmer leaders paid tributes and also arranged for an ambulance to send the body to Baghpat. Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), said, “The family did not opt for post mortem of the deceased and we sent the body in an ambulance to Baghpat. People at the site told us that he suffered breathlessness and died soon thereafter.” Meanwhile, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary on Friday arrived at the UP Gate protest site and urged the farmers to continue their agitation. “I am here to uplift the morale of the protesters and support them. I have urged them to carry on their protest peacefully and the government will succumb to their demands. Anyone who supports farmers should come out and support them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/57-year-old-bku-supporter-from-baghpat-dies-at-up-gate/story-WZzHaGvwlC81wnZIkAXZeK.html
01-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Two arrested for insurance fraud worth over ₹20 lakh||Noida: Two persons were arrested from Noida’s Sector 58 over their alleged involvement in an insurance racket on Friday. The suspects were identified as Aslam Alam, 23, a resident of Mamura village in Sector 66, and his accomplice Ajit Singh, 24, a resident of Garhi Chaukhandi village in Phase 3. The alleged mastermind, Sachin Tomar, is absconding, said the police.Anil Kumar, station house officer, Sector 58 police station, said that the police had received some complaints about insurance fraud. “On Friday, we received information that the suspects had come to withdraw money from an ATM in Noida’s Sector 58. A team reached the spot where the two suspects were. Two mobile phones, nine debit cards and Rs 20,000 were found on them,” he said.During investigation, the police team found that all the nine debit cards had been issued on forged identities. “The police detained the two and questioned them. They revealed that they were members of an insurance racket and cheated people on pretext of facilitating their applications,” the SHO said. The police said that Tomar allegedly used to provide debit cards and passwords to these suspects. “These two arrested suspects used to call vulnerable persons and promise lucrative offers on insurance policies. Once the customers were convinced, the suspects demanded some money as a processing fee. They used to withdraw the money and stop communication with the customers thereafter,” said the SHO. The gang has allegedly duped around 100 customers of over ₹20 lakh in last six months, said the police.Police said that Tomar had allegedly worked in an insurance company in the past and had information about the working style of an insurance firm. He had then allegedly roped in the two other suspects in the gang to commit financial fraud. A case has been registered against the three under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC at the Sector 58 police station. “The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search for the mastermind,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-arrested-for-insurance-fraud-worth-over-20-lakh/story-4gTuHjvisGv7w1IMCaDtdO.html
01-01-2021||Noida||Four persons injured in accident in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Four persons were injured when their car collided with a metro pillar and overturned, late Thursday in Greater Noida’s in Knowledge Park. All four victims, between the ages of 18-22 years, were on the way to meet a friend after attending a New Year’s Eve party.Varun Pawar, station house officer of Knowledge Park Police Station, said that the accident took place around 2.30am. “Four people were travelling in a Honda City car at night. They were travelling from Expo Mart side towards Knowledge Park. When the car reached near a metro pillar of Knowledge Park station, the driver lost balance, hit the pillar and all the four persons were injured,” he said. Officers said some passerby informed the police and a team reached the spot from Knowledge Park police station and rescued the victims. They were identified as Vaibhav Gaur, 20, and his younger brother Sameer Gaur, 18, residents of Ghaziabad; Aniket, 20, a resident of Mohan Nagar in Ghaziabad and Manish Bhati, 22, a resident of Sector Alpha 1 in Greater Noida.Bhati is doing graduation in Bio-Tech from a private college in Noida while other three persons are students of BA-LLB from a private university in Greater Noida. Police said Sameer has received severe head injuries while the three others received minor injuries in the accident.The SHO said that during questioning, the three injured persons told the police that they had attended a party in Jagat Farms at night. “They were on their way to meet a mutual friend in Jaypee Aman in Noida’s Sector 151. Vaibhav was behind the wheels when the accident took place. He lost balance of the vehicle and the car hit the metro pillar,” he said. The victims are undergoing treatment at Kailash Hospital, Greater Noida. Police said they have informed their family members about the matter. “We have not received any complaint in this regard so far,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-persons-injured-in-accident-in-greater-noida/story-AMFvADApOluIdEZeoHiXJL.html
01-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, Noida to conduct dry run for Covid vaccine on January 5||Ghaziabad: As part of the nation-wide drive to check readiness of its protocols to administer the Covid-19 vaccine when it arrives, both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar will conduct their dry runs on January 5 as will the rest of the state. The national health mission (NHM) director in Uttar Pradesh told all districts’ chief medical officers to report their feedback on the same day. During the drill, all steps will be tested and assessed to find and fix any gaps in the process or report any difficulty. Aparna Upadhaya, NHM director (UP), directed that the dry run be conducted at six sites in each district, which will include three each in rural and urban centres. These centres could be hospitals, schools or other private and government institutions.Gautam Buddh Nagar has 73 sites and its district magistrate (DM) Suhas LY said they may test more than six sites.“We are yet to decide upon the number of sites where we will test our preparedness. We may take up the dry run at all the centres so that we may understand the actual preparedness of our staff and infrastructure,” he said. The district has come up with 13 cold storage points for the vaccine, besides a main vaccine depot. A list of about 21,543 doctors and medical staff who will be inoculated in the first phase has also been drawn up. Similarly, Ghaziabad has also identified about 44 sites, including 30 private healthcare facilities. It has drawn up a list of about 21,800 health care workers. “During the dry run, about 36 staff will be roped in. We have identified 29 cold chain points and one depot. We will be co-ordinating the activities from the Covid control and command centre and will identify gaps for improvement,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “During the dry run, our teams will carry vaccine boxes (with ice packs) to the vaccination facility. So, they will get attuned to the process when actual vaccine arrives.” The Uttar Pradesh government has already issued guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination and identified three categories of people who would be vaccinated in first, second and third phases. In his directions, UP’s additional chief secretary has stated that the health care workers (HCWs) which includes staff of government and private health care facilities, will get the vaccine in the first phase. The second phase is scheduled for frontline workers such as police personnel, home guards, jail staff and employees of Nagar Palikas, among others. The third category includes people aged over 50 years and also those aged below but having issues like diabetes, cancer, and high blood pressure, will get the shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-noida-to-conduct-dry-run-for-covid-vaccine-on-january-5/story-q45xb9uimvc6nJpHCPFWlL.html
01-01-2021||Noida||Rains likely, cold wave to end||The six-day spell of cold wave is likely to end in Noida and adjoining regions and rain is likely to fall in the next four days and keep the temperature relatively low, said officials from the weather department.On Friday, the minimum temperatures fell to 1.1 degrees Celsius across the national capital region (NCR), based on the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Safadarjung observatory, six degrees below the season average, against 3.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature was 19.2 degrees Celsius, against 20 degrees a day earlier.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or lower and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree Celsius in the plains.“The minimum for Noida could not be calculated but we expect the mercury to be around 3 to 4 degrees Celsius and on Saturday it could hover around 6 degrees Celsius, which may pull the region out of cold wave but would still be lower than season’s average,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to IMD, due to the western disturbance -- a phenomenon that causes snowing in the Himalayan regions and rains in NCR – Noida and surrounding areas could see drizzling over next two days, with light rain on January 4 and 5. This would lead to dissolving the dense fog layers over the region, officials said. “The wind directions have changed from north-westerly to easterly. While the north-westerly are icy cold, the easterly are warmer, thus the mercury will rise. Also the cloudiness is set to increase over next three days. The clouded sky leads to rise in mercury as the earth radiates at night and clouds help in trapping the heat,” Srivastava added. The region would however see dense to moderate level of fog on January 2 that would reduce to moderate levels towards January 3 morning due to the rains. “The rains would lead to rise of the minimum temperatures due to the easterly winds and clouded sky however the maximum may drop slightly be a few degrees,” an IMD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rains-likely-cold-wave-to-end/story-0AcQUcLUaoCMgDxuJPRrQI.html
01-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, Noida begin year with worst air in country||The new year began with Ghaziabad and Noida breathing “severe” category air and grabbing the first and second spots of most polluted cities in the country as weather turned unfavourable.In “severe” air, even healthy people may show symptoms of respiratory distress. The cold, dense fog and low wind speed kept pollutants, mostly from local source, trapped in the air, said weather analysts. They expect ventilation to improve slightly over the next 24 hours, but it may take until January 3 to pull the two cities out of the “severe” category. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the western disturbance (moisture laden winds that originate from the Mediterranean, which is responsible for snow in the northern states, led to a change of wind direction from the northwesterly to the weaker Eastely.“The pollution levels spiked because the dispersion of pollutants stopped. There are also cold wave conditions that makes air heavy and traps pollutants further making dispersion difficult. The wind speed on Friday was around 8-10 kmph, there are chances of slight rise in mercury on Saturday leading to slightly better ventilation,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on a scale of 0 to 500, on Friday was 455, Greater Noida’s was 434 and Ghaziabad was 470. An AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. Particulate matterThe concentration of fine and coarse particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10, respectively) exceeded the CPCB’s safe limits.PM2.5 levels in Noida was 382 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³), whereas the safe limit is 60 µg/m³. In Greater Noida, this was 310 µg/m³ and in Ghaziabad it was 477µg/m³. These fine particles are understood to be able to go into organs and is also a known carcinogen. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is set to improve to the very Poor category by Saturday January 2 and further improve to ‘poor’ category by Sunday January 3. “Surface winds became extremely calm as forecasted and the low dispersion condition led to accumulation and trapping of pollutants near-surface. The radiative fog mixed with high PM levels are making it Smog and reducing the visibility. However such extreme situation is short lived. The condition is likely to improve marginally by tomorrow and thereafter the fresh Western Disturbance is very likely to affect the region by 3rd January to improve surface winds speed, ventilation and some rainfall that are likely to bring significant improvement to the current AQI condition,” said the SAFAR statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-noida-begin-year-with-worst-air-in-country/story-8A8xoeRqeldtFYaJgZmubO.html
01-01-2021||City||Delhi: 26 people fined for drunk driving, total 1336 traffic challans issued on New Year’s eve||New Delhi: The Delhi Police fined 26 people for drunk driving, 174 for dangerous driving, and 706 for unauthorised parking as it reported 1,336 traffic violations across the city amid muted New Year celebrations because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Police also issued 144 challans for mask and social distancing violations from 4pm on December 31, 2019 to 4pm on the New Year day. So far, 5,13,529 people have been issued challans for not wearing mask while 38,256 people were fined for not following the social distancing rules.The total traffic violations were nearly 32% more than 2019, when 1,012 people were fined for various traffic violations. The prosecutions were done between 11pm on Thursday and 6am on Friday, when restrictions were imposed in Delhi to prevent large gathering in public places for New Year celebrations due to the pandemic. Similar restrictions were in place from 11pm on Friday to 6am on Saturday.The drunk driving challans were issued after a gap of nearly nine months, as the Delhi Traffic Police had stopped using alcometers due to Covid-19 fears. Unlike the previous years, when police would use alcometers to measure the alcohol content in breath samples, the police carried out manual checking of vehicles and used blood samples to ascertain drunk driving.As per the Delhi Traffic Police data, the drunk driving prosecution was almost 87% less than the fines issued in 2019. While 203 people were caught driving under the influence of alcohol during the New Year’s eve in 2019, this number came down to 26 in 2020. In 2018, a total of 274 people were prosecuted for the same.Senior police officers attributed this decline in drunk driving prosecution to the fact that the motorists were not being stopped for measuring alcohol content in breath samples using alcometers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-26-people-fined-for-drunk-driving-total-1336-traffic-challans-issued-on-new-year-s-eve/story-CcNJT4lJc4KMxD6Mbg0IJL.html
01-01-2021||City||Crypto-currency fraud kingpin arrested from IGI on return from Dubai||New Delhi The kingpin of a crypto-currency fraud, who had allegedly duped hundreds of people of crores of rupees and then fled to settle in Dubai, was arrested from the IGI Airport, the Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing said on Friday. There are complaints from 45 identified people against Umesh Verma, 60, at the EOW police station for decamping with R2.5 crore, said OP Mishra, joint commissioner of police (EOW). According to the joint CP, Verma’s modus operandi involved alluring people to invest in a crypto-currency known as Coin Zarus. “He would promise the victims a fixed monthly return on 20-30% on their investments in this bogus crypto-currency, as well as commission on bringing in more customers,” said the officer. He said that these virtual crypto-currencies had already been banned by the Reserve Bank of India. Verma had allegedly opened an office in Connaught Place to carry out this business and was being aided by his son and some other people in the fraud. “He had registered the victims on two fake websites and even carried promotional videos on YouTube,” said the officer, adding that the crime dated back to 2017.When the customers would ask him for returns on their investments, he would give them postdated cheques which would bounce, said Mishra. Meanwhile, he allegedly withdrew all the money deposited into his account. Within months of having started his con, he shut his Connaught Place office and moved to Dubai. The EOW had registered a case of cheating against him in September 2020.“On Wednesday we got to know that he was returning to Delhi by flight. We arrested him from the airport itself,” said Mishra. A graduate from Delhi University, Verma was earlier arrested in 2017 by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence for gold smuggling, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crypto-currency-fraud-kingpin-arrested-from-igi-on-return-from-dubai/story-GGt3zQs2CELldufVGVJPRO.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Dense fog hits flight operations at IGI, 100 flights impacted but none cancelled||The season’s worst fog spell disrupted flight operations at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport early on Friday morning, affecting close to 100 departing flights and leaving hundreds of passengers stranded. However, no incoming flights had to be diverted and no cancellations were reported. Officials said arrangements have been put in place inside the terminal buildings to minimize inconvenience to passengers and they are better prepared to fight the fog menace this season with 100-metre visibility metre— a newly installed equipment that will help them read the vertical profile of the fog, helping in much more accurate prediction.According to the officials from the airport, CAT III low visibility procedures were implemented around 4am on Friday as the runway visual range dropped to as low as 125 meters. The low visibility affected flights scheduled to depart from the airport between 4am and 7am. The delays caused a ripple effect, impacting close to 100 fights, including those scheduled later in the day. However, officials said, none of the incoming flights needed to be diverted to any other airport because of poor visibility in Delhi. “No flights were cancelled due to fog on Friday. The delay that was caused because of poor visibility, normalized by the afternoon as the visibility improved. The fact that the airport is yet to operate at its full capacity owing to the Covid pandemic helped in passenger management,” said an official from the Delhi airport.Fewer flights a reliefOfficials say that fog is expected to be less of a bother for Delhi flyers this year as the airport has only been operating at about 60%-65% of its capacity after the Covid-19 lockdown. An officer from Delhi ATC said the airport used to handle 1,400 flights (departures and arrivals) every day, on average, before the lockdown came into force in March.“At present, we handle about 850-860 flights daily. International flights are also not operating at full capacity. With fewer number of flights, there will be less contest for slots and parking at the airport during a dense fog, so it will also be easier for the ATC to slot them. The end result is less hassle for passengers this year,” the official said.However, he added, that it remains to be seen how many airlines have sufficient number of aircraft and pilots certified for low visibility operations this season.Tech to fight the fog menaceStarting this winter, the meteorological department at the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) has started using a radiometer to read the vertical density of the fog. The whole exercise, senior officials say, will lead to better planning, causing fewer last-minute flight cancellations and delays. The results, they said, will be seen probably by the end of January.The radiometer, installed atop the new air traffic control (ATC) tower, is also known as the “100-metre visibility metre”. A senior official from the Delhi airport, who is aware of the development, said this instrument needs to be installed at least 100-metre above ground level for accurate readings.“As our Delhi ATC tower is 101.9 metres tall, the instrument has been installed atop the tower. Its readings are used to study the vertical profile of the fog, according to which low visibility procedures are implemented. It will also help us decide more efficiently whether to implement Cat III or CAT IIIB operations (in low visibility) during the dense fog,” the official said.The instrument was installed before winter and will contribute to the fog analysis starting this year. “This will directly help authorities in determining on what level, low visibility measures need to be implemented and for what duration. Airlines and airport operators can use such information effectively to ensure minimum inconvenience to flyers,” said a second official.Arrangements for social distancingThe Delhi airport operator, DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) has also made arrangements to minimize inconvenience to the stranded passengers and ensure social distancing inside the terminal buildings.“We are currently handling 83,000 passengers a day. In view of the pandemic, Terminal 3 is at present is handling 18 flights every hour while Terminal 2 is handling nine flights an hour. This is in conjunction with other safety measures in place to provide a safe environment to flyers. DIAL is abiding by all social distancing protocols and progressively enhancing terminal capacity,” a DIAL spokesperson said.At present, only two of the three terminals of Delhi airport are functional. In order to accommodate more passengers when fog hits, the airport operator is planning to reopen Terminal 1 that is closed for ongoing expansion work.DIAL said while T2 and T3 have already been recommissioned, plans to recommission T1, to meet the growing passenger footfall, is in progress.The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that secures the Delhi airport has also started to mobilise its force for when Terminal 1 resumes functioning. Sachin Badshah, deputy inspector general (IGI airport), CISF, said they are ready to make the T1 force operational as and when told to. “Our security arrangements are in place for when the terminal resumes operations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dense-fog-hits-flight-operations-at-igi-100-flights-impacted-but-none-cancelled/story-0X809GMFb4p7tOztesD6eP.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Nagar Kirtan, dance performance mark otherwise muted New Year celebrations at Singhu Border||A seven-kilometre-long Nagar Kirtan attended by hundreds of farmers marked New Year at Singhu Border on Friday as protesters rung in the new year amid muted celebrations. This is the first Nagar Kirtan — a religious procession meant to mark a special occasion — organised at the border protest site by the Sikh farmers, after they had to give the ritual a pass during Guru Nanak Jayanti on November 30.The procession was headed by a tractor pulling a large customised trolley that was heavily decked with flowers and carried at least six people chanting hymns and distributing prasad. The tractor was followed by hundreds of devotees on foot, some Nihang Sikhs riding on horses, followed by other devotees riding modified vehicles. “If we were in Punjab, we would have had the Nagar Kirtan on the New Year day. Since we are settled here now, we thought it would be feasible to have the Nagar Kirtan on this day,” said one of the organisers, Jagdeesh Singh, who is from Jaldiyala in Jalandhar district of Punjab.The procession began around noon on Friday and slowly crawled its way through the maze of vehicles and people gathered at Singhu Border.Among the vehicles which were a part of the procession was a Maruti Alto modified into an open-air vehicle and a 1958-make modified Villy Jeep, which carried eight devotees.“Our New Year celebrations will happen when the government agrees to our demand. Until then, we will keep any festivities limited to religious rituals and speeches,” said Khushwant Singh Sidhu, who belongs to Jagraon village in Ludhiana. Apart from the Nagar Kirtan, another smaller function included a dance performance by a Haryana farmer. “No one wanted to celebrate the New Year here. So, I decided to put up a performance for my farmer friends from Punjab and my state,” said the performer Chand Singh, a farmer from Kathura village in nearby Sonepat, amid hookah puffs. Farmers at the borders said call dropping had been a big challenge for them on Thursday night as they tried calling back home to wish their families for New Year. Paramjeet Singh, from Rampursunra village in Phagwara, said that the five Wi-Fi points arranged by the Delhi government recently were not enough to cater to the huge number of farmers present in the area. “We usually go to sleep here by 10.30-11 pm. But last night we stayed awake until 2 am just to wish our families. I could connect to them only around 2am after repeated attempts,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nagar-kirtan-dance-performance-mark-otherwise-muted-new-year-celebrations-at-singhu-border/story-yquqwv7Me7ZlTWOGL1d6WO.html
01-01-2021||Noida||Noida: District consumer commission directs pvt hospital to pay ₹1 lakh to patient for deficiency of service||GREATER NOIDA: In a case of medical negligence, the Gautam Budh Nagar District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a private hospital in Greater Noida to pay ₹1 lakh to the patient towards physical and mental harassment, along with the treatment charges. Complainant Altaf Khan, a resident of Jewar, had got himself operated for removal of stone in his right kidney on March 24, 2018, at a private hospital in Greater Noida. However, even after the operation his abdomen pain continued, Khan told the consumer commission. Two days later, he got his X-ray done in the same hospital and it was revealed that stone was still present in right kidney. However, doctors at the hospital did not inform him about the report, Khan said. After a few days, besides abdomen pain, blood stains were noticed in his urine and he again went to the hospital where doctors advised him for stent. He got the stent fixed and was discharged on April 9, 2018. Khan said that he was asked to come on May 15, 2018, for removal of the stent. He went to the hospital on that day and got the stent removed.Next day on May 16, Kahn again had pain in abdomen and blood stains started coming in urine. He then got his ultrasound done on May 20 at another private hospital at Jewar. In the ultrasound report, two stones of 11.5mm and 18mm were reported, beside several small stones, he told the consumer forum.He then went to the hospital at Greater Noida and showed the ultrasound report. Doctors said fresh stones have been developed and another operation has to be done to remove these new stones. He was told that he would have to pay for operation, tests and medicines afresh. Then Khan approached the district consumer commission which gave several notices to the hospital but did not get any response from there. The district consumer commission comprising its president Anil Kumar Pundir and member Daya Shankar Pandey observed that the hospital has committed a deficiency of service by not providing proper treatment.“The hospital has been directed to refund the treatment amount paid, along with 6% interest. Besides, ₹1 lakh towards physical and mental harassment and financial loss, and ₹1,000 towards legal expenses too has to be paid by the hospital to the complainant in 60 days,” said Pundir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-district-consumer-commission-directs-pvt-hospital-to-pay-1-lakh-to-patient-for-deficiency-of-service/story-QRYLhPnZ1cBuTM45gu8lGJ.html
01-01-2021||Noida||Greater Noida to borrow ₹1500 crore for land acquisition||The Greater Noida Authority will borrow ₹1,500 crore from two banks to acquire land and expand the city. The Authority has 38,000 hectares notified in the district and plans to acquire 30,000 hectares. In the next few years, with an international airport and the Film City expected to come up, demand for industrial, commercial and residential land is expected to increase. The Authority too had recently won investments worth ₹6,000 crore. Much of the land to be acquired would be from farmers.“Both domestic and international investors would want to set up industrial units in Greater Noida. But we are left with no more land, Therefore we have decided to acquire more and develop basic facilities like roads, drains, sewer lines and parks,” said said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the authority. “We have already borrowed ₹600 crore and will soon borrow an additional ₹900 crore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-to-borrow-1500-crore-for-land-acquisition/story-8weUzApjr6EX0kAIyWK5mI.html
01-01-2021||Noida||Noida authority to deliver nine projects by January end||NOIDA: The Noida authority is set to deliver nine projects built at a cost of ₹415 crore by the end of January.These include the underpass at the intersection of sectors 51/52 and sectors 71/72, multi-level parking in Film City, a multi-purpose indoor stadium and a shooting range in sector 21, the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park in sector 150, a parking facility in sector 3, the Biodiversity Park in sector 91, a modern auditorium at Panchsheel Balak intercollege in sector 91, and a light and sound show centre in sector 15A.“We are giving finishing touches to these nine projects, which will be dedicated to people this month. All these projects will immensely benefit the general public and address the issue of traffic congestion and others,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority.The deadline to throw open the sector 71/51underpass was December end of 2020. And the parking facility in sector 3 was to be readied in September, 2020. Officials said that works on both the projects were hit due to the pandemic. “But we have been managed to finish work and deliver this month. Also the upcoming parking lot in sector 16A will cater to employees and visitors coming to Film City will be used properly only after offices open up with full capacity,” said Tyagi.The parking facility will be able to house 1292 cars at one go, and the underpass will improve connectivity between Noida City Centre and Parthala Chowk via Vikas Marg as well as through Vishwakarma road.The multi-purpose indoor stadium has been built at a cost of ₹101 crore and has the capacity to accommodate 4,000 people. It will have separate courts and facilities for badminton, table tennis, basketball, handball, volleyball, gymnastics, judo, wrestling, fencing, boxing, weight lifting and taekwondo.As the work on a shooting range is nearing completion, the authority has also started the process to hire a private agency to take care of the maintenance and operations of multi-purpose indoor stadium. Soon the agency will be finalized to run this facility, said officials.“The authority has spent Rs13.97 crore on the range that will provide facility for 10M Pistol, and 25M & 50M Rifle practice and events,” said Tyagi.The Shaheed Bhagat Singh park in sector 150, underground car parking in sector 3, Biodiversity park in sector 91, modern auditorium at Panchsheel Balak intercollege in sector 91 and light and sound show at sector 15A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-to-deliver-nine-projects-by-january-end/story-cGTrm05wmJYbimugOJzVDO.html
01-01-2021||Noida||At Chilla border, farmers vow to continue fight, welcome New Year with folk dances||Noida: A group of farmers protesting at the Chilla border (Noida-Delhi link road) on Friday vowed to continue their protest against the Centre’s new farm bills amid the bone-chilling cold. The farmers also organised folk dances to welcome the New Year. Tarun Sharma, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said, “We have been on protest for over a month against the farm bills. The government is adamant on its stand while the farmers are also ready to continue their fight. The temperature has fallen in the last few days but we have resolved to continue our struggle. On January 1, we offered red roses to police personnel and media people. We also organised a Ragini (folk dance) programme to entertain the protesters.” The supporters and members of BKU (Bhanu) have been protesting at the Chilla border since January 1. On Friday too, the Noida-Delhi road remained close due to the protest. The protesting farmers at Dalit Prerna Sthal distributed ‘kheer’ on the occasion of New Year, and continued with their struggle. Dr SK Giri, general secretary of BKU (Lok Shakti), said that our farmers continued protest at Dalit Prerna Sthal. “We heard that a farmer died due to heart attack at the UP gate on Friday. The farmers’ health and well being is important as the temperature is falling. On Friday, we called a doctor to check up on protesting farmers. The doctor advised farmers to observe precautions,” he said. The farmers were seen keeping themselves warm with bonfire and hookah at the Dalit Prerna Sthal. A group of street players also performed there to entertain the protesters. BKU (Lok Shakti) president Master Shyoraj Singh said that the protest will continue till the government withdraws all the three farm laws and gives in written about MSP. The farmers are protesting against the three farm laws --The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act -- for over one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/at-chilla-border-farmers-vow-to-continue-fight-welcome-new-year-with-folk-dances/story-yNFNA1HRbFsGA6oMpNtbWM.html
01-01-2021||Noida||UP Gate gets first ‘women only’ camp, more help arrives as weather goes adverse||Ghaziabad: Arshdeep Kaur, a second year law student studying in Bengaluru, is nowadays managing the first “women only” camp at the UP Gate. The facility set up recently at the protest site can accommodate over 100 women and children, said Arshdeep. She said that there were major issues for women protesters and her sister Ravneet Kaur initiated the process with help from various voluntary organisations. The UP Gate protest site is an open area away from localities, markets and other facilities. Hundreds of women are taking part in the protest and even helping out preparation of food at ‘langars’ (community kitchen). However, Ravneet found that the women are facing issues such as lack of washrooms and bathing area. “So, we came up with the special camp which now has the capacity for stay of over 100 women who can stay here along with their children. There are all arrangements of daily use items which include bedrolls, blankets, sweaters, slippers and even shoes. The women from our camp also go for having food at a langar which is just located outside,” Arshdeep, a native of Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand, said, adding that she has to skip her studies to come to UP Gate. “We have also arranged for cabin bathrooms and the keys are given only to women occupants who wish to use the facility. So, with the help of exclusive camp and bathrooms, the women also have privacy and stay comfortably in adverse weather conditions here,” she said. Over the past one month, the UP Gate has evolved in a small self-sustaining township with hundreds of camps, tractor-trolleys and other makeshift tents being stationed at the site for stay of protesting farmers. The site also has dozens of langars and medical camps running which never run out of supplies. Many farmers have also taken shelter in their tractor-trolleys which serve as a safe house in the chill. In this connection, United Sikhs, a UN affiliated international non-profit organisation, has come up with a major stock room where essential items, along with washing machines and fire extinguishers, are available for the needy protesters at the UP Gate. “Initially, we set up the facility at Singhu Border, and now it has been set up at the UP Gate too. Here, we have stocked items like fire extinguishers, blankets, slippers, shoes, ready-to-cook food items, tents, sleeping bags, and bedrolls. Besides, we have a small physiotherapy centre who takes care of farmers who come with complaints of pain, etc,” said Praminder Singh, the in-charge of the stock room. He said that the idea is to keep up with the availability of items in case anyone needs it any time of day or night. The organisation has also made available some common medicines which come in handy for basic treatment, he said. The protesters at the UP Gate site are battling odds in adverse weather conditions while different organisations have come forward to provide basic items to them. Delhi on the New Year’s eve experienced the lowest temperature in 15 year which plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that their “key demands” of rollback of the three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price will be taken up in the next meeting scheduled on January 4 with the government. “The farmers are staying despite all odds and adverse weather conditions. Only two of our demands have been met, but the key demands of repeal of laws and new law on MSP are still pending. These will be taken up on January 4. We already have plans for march to Delhi on January 26 and will also tie up cattle at police stations if our volunteers are stopped by police from coming here,” said Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and BKU spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-gate-gets-first-women-only-camp-more-help-arrives-as-weather-goes-adverse/story-kpZKaJWf6ewXoeEcSntWTO.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Dr Sarjivan Kakkar takes charge as Ludhiana civil surgeon||Dr Sarjivan Kakkar took charge as the civil surgeon of Ludhiana on Friday.He replaced Dr Rajesh Bagga, who attained superannuation on December 31. Dr Kakkar said ensuring the Covid vaccination process is carried out smoothly will be his top priority.Dr Kakkar, who is an eye surgeon, was earlier posted as civil surgeon in Barnala. He is not new to the city and was also posted at Ludhiana civil hospital and later served as senior medical officer (SMO) at civil hospital, Jagraon.He said that the mock drill of the vaccination process has already been carried out successfully. “Residents of Ludhiana have shown caution and managed to plug the second wave of Covid. However, I will urge them to continue wearing masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands,” he added.The civil surgeon said upgrading the infrastructure of civil hospital and other health centres is also a priority. Earlier, four ventilators that were allocated to civil hospitals were being operated by Christian Medical College and Hospital, as there was not enough staff to monitor them. However, things improved later, and the civil hospital received 18 new ventilators.“We are not well equipped to treat chronic patients and our focus will be to offer services to the poor and needy,” Dr Kakkar said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dr-sarjivan-kakkar-takes-charge-as-ludhiana-civil-surgeon/story-4A95wyItthpIHCVKue6b8O.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Overcharging at Ludhiana parking lot: Parking contractor’s staffer booked for extortion||A staffer of a parking contractor was booked for extortion and cheating on Friday following a complaint of forceful overcharging at the multi-storey parking lot near the municipal corporation’s Zone-A office .As per the complaint submitted by Budh Raj, a resident of Jain Nagar, Rahon Road, the accused Rahul Kumar forced him to pay Rs 60 as parking fee, even when the rate fixed by MC for four wheelers is Rs 20. He further alleged that Kumar gave him a manual receipt even when it is mandatory to issue the receipt through e-ticketing machine.High drama was witnessed at the parking lot and additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Deepak Pareek also reached the spot. Following the complaint, an FIR was lodged under Sections 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of Indian Penal Code.Station house officer (SHO) of division number 1 police station, Harjit Singh, said, “ We are investigating the matter and the parking contractor has also been summoned. No arrest has been made yet.”MC secretary Neeraj Jain said, “A complaint has not been submitted with the civic body yet. But, I have directed the superintendent concerned to submit a record regarding the entire incident, following which action will be taken after discussion with higher authorities.”An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that complaints against overcharging have been received in the past, but it is the first time that police has directly intervened in the matter without taking up the matter with the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/overcharging-at-ludhiana-parking-lot-parking-contractor-s-staffer-booked-for-extortion/story-OFy37HO01y8j8kPOlWpSsO.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cleaning Buddha Nullah, banning plastic carry bags on Ludhiana MC’s agenda for 2021||Cleaning the Buddha Nullah, speeding up development works and imposing a ban on plastic carry bags will be in the priorities of the civic body in 2021, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said.He was attending the “Paath ceremony” organised at the MC’s Zone-D office on Friday where he encouraged staffers to involve the public and resolve their problems at the earliest. “The state government is already working on a Rs 650-crore project to clean the nullah and the project is expected to commence at the ground level soon. The civic body is also involving residents by conducting awareness drives,” Sabharwal said.The civic body has also been struggling to impose a complete ban on plastic carry bags since the state government banned them in 2016. Sabharwal said that working on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), a complete ban on use of plastic carry bags in the city will be imposed strictly from this year and residents will be apprised of the alternatives. Awareness drives will be conducted and hefty challans will be issued against violators.Sabharwal said that apart from polluting the environment, plastic carry bags also choke the sewer system especially during monsoons. “Completing the ongoing development works, especially those being taken up under Smart City Project, and taking up more development works as per the needs of residents is also a priority,” said Sabharwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cleaning-buddha-nullah-banning-plastic-carry-bags-on-ludhiana-mc-s-agenda-for-2021/story-i1B5DgHbd5HfvHcLjUFMdN.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||DTCP carries out reshuffle of its staffers||The department of town and country planning(DTCP) has carried out a minor reshuffle and shifted more than 10 of its officers, including a few of the ones in Gurugram, across the state. As per the DTCP order issued on December 31, Anil Malik, assistant town planner (ATP), Gurugram, has been transferred to Rewari; Mahipal, ATP, Gurugram has been shifted to Nuh; Ved Prakash, district town planner(DTP), Sirsa, has been transferred to Nuh and Mohan Singh, DTP, Jhajjar, has been given the additional charge of Bhiwani. In a related developement, Haryana government has also given RS Bhath, DTP, enforcement, the additional charge of the newly constituted Municipal Corporation of Manesar. The transfer order of Bhath was issued by AK Singh, principal secretary, DTCP. The order stated that he was being given the additional charge of Municipal Corporation of Manesar as DTP but no additional remuneration would be paid to him. When asked about his role in the new corporation, Bhath said that planning new infrastructure in urban areas, aligning the existing infrastructure with new projects and developing a plan for villages and urban areas would be his primary objectives. Bhath also said that he would also take strict action against illegal colonies coming up in and around Manesar. Bhath said that being in charge of the enforcement wing will help him as the entire machinery can be used against illegal colonies and constructions in Manesar. “Both DTCP and the newly formed corporation will try to minimise illegal colonisations and action would be taken on priority. We have already carried out several drives in the outskirts of Gurugram but now the focus would be on Manesar while we consolidate the result of actions taken in Sohna, Badshahpur, Bhondsi, and adjoining areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-carries-out-reshuffle-of-its-staffers/story-oYbKlKSqD8ctcEIlGrbUAL.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||Manesar civic body starts mechanised sweeping of roads||A week after its formation, the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) started its first-ever on-ground operations on Friday with mechanised cleaning of roads across Manesar.Three mechanised sweeping machines of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) were launched from IMT Manesar Chowk for sweeping the roads in the Manesar area.The MCG also launched four mechanised sweeping machines of its own on Friday to provide better coverage. These were launched from Daultabad and Bhondsi villages respectively.All the seven sweeping machines were launched as part of MCG’s Swachhata Abhiyan.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, the three machines covering Manesar areas will operate in the daytime and return to Gurugram in the evening.So far, the MCM has only 22 staff members. All of them are already posted as officials in the MCG and have been given additional responsibilities of the MCM. This also includes MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, who has also been appointed as the commissioner of the Manesar civic body.With the MCG already stretched in terms of manpower and resources, the additional responsibility of executing civic services in Manesar may lead to a major impact in civic projects across Gurugram.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, until 2022, MCM will continue to remain heavily dependent on MCG for its daily operations.Singh was appointed MCM’s first chief on Monday, while the other 21 senior MCG officials including the additional municipal commissioner, deputy municipal commissioner, chief town planner, senior medical officer, and officials from the engineering, electrical, taxation, and sanitary wings were given additional charges of MCM on Wednesday.As per MCG officials, the timing of this could not have come at a worse time for the civic body,which itself is reeling under a major staff crisis. Currently, charges of five out of ten executive engineers of the MCG have been withdrawn following allegations of corruption, discrepancies, and negligence. This has resulted in the remaining engineers holding multiple posts.Further, charges of many assistant engineers and junior engineers of the MCG have also been withdrawn on similar grounds.As per MCG officials, the commissioner himself is overburdened. Besides heading two municipal corporations, Singh is also the chief administrator of the Sheetla Devi Shrine Board, and the district municipal commissioner of Gurugram. Under the district municipal commissioner’s role, Singh also heads the municipal bodies located in Sohna, Farrukhnagar, Hailey Mandi, and Pataudi.Furthermore, MCG’s own area has also expanded. A total of 16 villages located along Golf Course Extension Road (GCER) and Dwarka Expressway has been added last week, stretching the MCG’s limited resources even further.“MCM’s dependency on the MCG will remain only for a short period of time until the transition period is over. The MCM will then become a completely independent body. It is important to understand that the experience and learning which MCG officials possess will be vital in the formative period of MCM as they can ensure that the new civic body does not make the same mistakes as the MCG did,” said Vinay Pratap Singh.Singh acknowledged that the multiple charges and sharing of resources may affect the progress of MCG initially. However, he stressed that the long-term benefits will yield higher returns.“Two strong civic bodies adjoining each other will have long-term benefits. Especially at times of crisis, such as flooding, the two bodies can jointly make preparations and share their resources to tackle the situation similar to the arrangements the MCG and GMDA have. Further, they together can also execute projects together, such as hypothetically creating a new drainage channel,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/manesar-civic-body-starts-mechanised-sweeping-of-roads/story-IkR8MCuH0z9mpcCMcmJXRM.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers gather in Rewari, plan Delhi march on Jan 4||Over 2,000 farmers from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana and members of trade unions on Friday gathered at Bawal in Rewari. The farmers at Bawal were seen asking their counterparts in Shahjhanapur to join them so that they could hold a meeting and proceed towards Delhi on January 4.On Thursday, farmers had broken the barricades at Shahjahanpur and they had entered Rewari on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, crossing the Shahjahanpur interstate border in Rajasthan, as the police were not letting them enter Haryana.Hundreds of commuters were stuck on both carriageways of the highway for around two hours on Thursday before the police removed the barricades and let commuters move towards Delhi, and then towards Jaipur.Gurugram Police on Friday put in place tight security at the border with Rewari to ensure no protesters cross the border to enter the district. The arrangements could lead to traffic snarls until January 4, said police.The police said they have received information that protesters intended to block the expressway to Delhi on January 4, due to which they have deployed over 700 personnel in two shifts at all checkpoints with the national capital and another 700 at borders with Rewari and Nuh. The Haryana Police have tightened security at 13 border points with districts neighbouring Gurugram, officials said.All police personnel have also been given instructions to check vehicles heading to Delhi from other districts for protesters.Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “We are coordinating with our counterparts in Rewari district and will not let anyone block the carriageways or cross the border. We have started checking at all borders. Patrolling vehicles are taking rounds on the expressway and borders and special teams have been formed from Sirhaul border to Bilaspur, to keep a check on vehicles.”Five police control room (PCR) vans and six motorbikes have also been stationed at the Sirhaul border, Kherki Daula toll plaza, Sohna Road and Bilaspur crossing to deal with any situation that may arise, Modi said.Also, crime units have been deployed to keep a tight vigil to maintain the law and order, police said, adding that additional forces are also on the standby.Modi said that they have deployed extra forces on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway as farmers might take this route as well. “All routes leading to Gurugram and Delhi have been barricaded and deployment at all checkpoints is increased,” she said.Haryana Police allegedly lathi-charged the protestors on Thursday and used water cannons, mild force and released tear gas to stop them. However, more than 20 tractors and hundreds of farmers were able to cross the border and enter Bawal in Rewari.The community leaders have requested the police to let them cross the stretch peacefully and have tried to pacify the protestors but police at the borders have set up barricades and have refused to allow movement of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-gather-in-rewari-plan-delhi-march-on-jan-4/story-G7VulXiLuvZQEqzoIMke3J.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||City schools welcome CBSE schedule for exams||Schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) across the city have welcomed the board exam schedule for classes 10 and 12 that was announced on Thursday. Most schools said that the schedule will allow them to hold practical sessions for students and they will also get sufficient time to prepare for the exams. Schools have been holding online classes since last March, when they were closed amid the coronavirus disease. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday announced that CBSE class 10 and 12 board exams will be conducted between May 4, 2021, and June 10, 2021. The practical examinations will begin on March 1 and the results will be announced by July 15, 2021. Routinely, CBSE board examinations are conducted between February and March every year. However, this year, due to the closure of schools in view of the pandemic, the examination schedule has been delayed. Schools across the country were closed last March and classes are being held remotely to contain the spread of Covid-19. While schools in Haryana reopened for physical classroom sessions in October, some states are yet to restart schools for in-person sessions. Ramanjit Khinda, school headmistress, Kunskapsskolan International, said that while the school had been preparing students keeping in view the routine exam schedule, it was more comfortably placed now. “We were not lagging behind earlier either. However, practical sessions were a concern. Now, we think we will be getting enough time to take things forward comfortably with the students,” said Khinda. She added that the school is currently amid a winter break and decisions pertaining to the practical sessions would be taken before the school reopens. “We are on a break right now. We will discuss and take decisions in view of the board schedule that has been announced. We will be thinking about giving some practical hands-on learning to students even though we have been conducting virtual sessions till now,” she said. Nidhi Kapoor, the principal of Euro International School, said that the board had given sufficient time and children were happy with the examination schedule. “Students are happy since there is clarity on the schedule now and they will get a bit more time to prepare. We will also be starting physical classroom sessions for board classes from January 15, thrice a week, so that they are able to clarify doubts and get writing practice,” said Kapoor. She said that students who were lagging behind would get additional support through these classes. Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said that the school had not conducted pre-board exams so far and would be able to plan the same now that a timeline for the board exams has been announced. “We were waiting for the board to declare the timeline for the exams. We will be able to plan our pre-board exams while taking cognisance of the timeline. Until now, we were only having tests,” said Misra. Yash Handa, a class 12 student at KR Mangalam World School, South City-1, said that while some students are apprehensive over holding exams in a pandemic year, most were happy with the schedule since they would get sufficient time to prepare. “Some students are happy because the schedule gives plenty of time to prepare for exams. Others are worried that the exams might get delayed again due to a new wave of Covid-19. Largely, we are satisfied since there is sufficient time to prepare. However, since exams are happening late, we might have issues applying to colleges since entrances start early,” said Handa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-schools-welcome-cbse-schedule-for-exams/story-OPlsc0CuYpIkdQcDHhrcyO.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||1,400 people to help administer Covid-19 vaccine, says health department||An estimated workforce of over 1,400 people will be required to carry out the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Gurugram once the vaccine is rolled out, according to the senior health officials. These are in addition to 286 vaccinators who will be administering the Covid-19 vaccine shots. The health department has also sought help from officials of the district administration, Gurugram police, women and child development, and education departments to provide their staff for deploying them as vaccination officers at the 181 vaccination sites that have been finalised.At the state-level too, preparations are in full swing. In Panchkula, for example, a vaccination trial run will be held on Saturday as a part of the pan-India dry run.For the appropriate management of vaccination sites in district, teams of vaccinators and vaccination officers are being formed to address a wide range of issues — from crowd management and document verification to data entry on Co-Win platform and keeping a record of vaccine beneficiaries, said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO) during a Covid-19 vaccine task force meeting held on Friday.According to him, every session site will be managed by a five-member team, involving vaccinating officer one, who will be in-charge of pre-checking the registration status and photo identity verification before entering the waiting room. After that, vaccinating officer two will authenticate documents on the Co-WIN system. After the vaccination, vaccinating officers three and four will ensure a 20-minute waiting period to look for adverse events in the beneficiary. Besides, a supervisor for every three to five vaccination sites will be deployed.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “We already have 286 vaccinators. These vaccinators will be accompanied by five people. Based on that additional workforce of 1,430 will be required to carry out vaccine jab. For this, we have asked Gurugram police, women and child development department and district administration to provide the required workforce.”He said, “For vaccination officer one, we have asked Gurugram police to provide the work force. Likewise, district administration has been asked to provide data entry operators of Saral centres to be stationed as vaccinating officer two. For vaccination officers three and four, women and child development department will support with Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs).” According to him, education department have been asked to appoint teachers for the supervision of the sites.Once the vaccine is rolled out, it will be administered three times in a week – Monday, Thursday and Saturday – without disturbing the routine immunisation programme. Currently, the cold chain facility at Pataudi can have a stock of over 250,000 vaccine vials. According to Yadav, the beneficiary will be informed about the vaccination through an SMS providing date, time and location of vaccination. After getting the vaccine jab, the beneficiary will receive a message regrading date and time to get the next booster, which is likely to be after 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/1-400-people-to-help-administer-covid-19-vaccine-says-health-department/story-cuhoKSD6rNW7T5hsBrhxLP.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||Gang had planned 10 abductions to make a quick buck, says police||Fifteen days after an eight-year-old boy was rescued from kidnappers’ clutches in Palwal and two persons were arrested, the police revealed that the gang had pinpointed 10 boys to kidnap to pay off their debts.The eight-year-old was kidnapped from Ullawas in Sector 65 and a ransom of Rs 50 lakh sought. The police said the suspects had planned to target other children from the area, one by one.According to the police, the four suspects, of Palwal and Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, had allegedly agreed to the abductions as the mastermind was under a debt of Rs 5 lakh, said police.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (Gurugram), identified the kingpin as Jagdish Kumar (38), of Mirpur Korali, and his nephew, Mohit alias Bholu (22), of Rasulpur in Palwal.Kumar used to drive an auto-rickshaw to make a living and was finding it difficult to make ends meet due to decreased demand during the lull caused by the pandemic. “He approached Mohit, who used to work at a private clinic near his village, and discussed plans to earn money. After several rounds of discussion, they finally planned to kidnap a minor for ransom,” said Sangwan.The police said that they involved two more relatives and conducted reconnaissance of areas in Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram. The gang finally planned to take up a room on rent in Gurugram and zeroed in on Ullawas village, as the rent was low, said police.Sangwan said the suspects started doing rounds of the village and targeted 10 minor boys and started checking the routines of their family members, playtime, number of family members and their financial condition. “They thought of targeting one after another. For luring their target, they roped in a juvenile who was around the same age as their target to play with him and to lure him,” he said.Kumar used to ferry the victim’s mother in his auto-rickshaw regularly to get fresh vegetables from the field and tried to paint a good picture in front of them to gain trust and entry into their home, the police said. This was the only house where there was no CCTV camera installed and they had the money to pay the ransom, the police said.On December 17, the boy was playing outside his house, when he was lured for a ride in the auto-rickshaw. The auto was covered with side curtains and two more suspects boarded the auto while they were moving out of the village.Sangwan said they drove towards village Rasulpur in Palwal, nearly 93 kilometres from the city, in the auto. “As the victim tried to raise the alarm, Mohit injected a drug that rendered him unconsciousness. It took almost two hours to reach the village where they kept the victim inside a private clinic where Mohit used to work,” he said.The suspects were yet to ask for ransom and were planning to visit a local telephone booth, but were traced by the police. Two of them were arrested from the clinic and the boy was recovered.During questioning, the suspects revealed that they targeted the boy as his father drove an SUV and seemed to have a good business. They had also learned that he had recently received a big payment and it was kept at home, the police said.The police have urged residents to stay alert and not to allow their children to step out without informing them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gang-had-planned-10-abductions-to-make-a-quick-buck-says-police/story-6LwyLhmXMrmOBvjDtvRYTO.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||Speeding accounts for 43.5% of accidents since 2016, plans afoot to decrease speed limits||With 43 percent of road accidents in the city attributed to speeding, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has proposed a blanket reduction in speed limits across all highways, arterial, sub-arterial and connecting roads in Gurugram. This comes after the GMDA recently finalised the comprehensive mobility management plan (CMMP) for the city. As per the data provided in the CMMP, a total of 5,192 accidents occurred on Gurugram roads between 2016 and August 2020. In 2018, Gurugram also reported the highest number of road accidents in the state. “While the total numbers of accidents are declining from 2016 to 2019, with an annual growth rate of 3.7%, it has to decrease a lot to reach the Haryana vision zero policy (sic),” the CMMP states.Of these total accidents, speeding was found to be the cause of 43.5 percent of accidents, while another 39.8 percent of the accidents were attributed to “careless driving”. In comparison, drink driving and overtaking only constituted a fraction of the total number of accidents. Moreover, “about 62% of the accidents occurred during 6pm to 6am where the road users can achieve the maximum speeds on the network and that could be one of the major reasons for over-speeding in the city,” the CMMP states.Pataudi Road, Sohna Road, NH-48, Delhi-Jaipur Expressway and Golf Course Road were found to be the most dangerous stretches in the city with Pataudi Road and NH-48 recording the highest number of fatalities, as per the CMMP. The most dangerous blackspots, each with at least 20 fatalities recorded since 2016, include the Sidhrawali exit in Bilaspur, IMT Manesar Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Pachgaon Chowk, Farrukhnagar Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk. Four of these locations fall under NH-48.Faced with such a scenario, officials said there is an urgent need to “rationalise” the present speed limits in the GMDA’s areas of jurisdictions. “The baseline for what is an acceptable speed needs to be lowered. The data is quite clear about this. The highest permissible speed limits will be imposed on access controlled stretches where lane discipline is better observed, such as highways. On streets,which provide access to mixed land use sectors, speed limits will be more stringent. Sensitive zones, such as around schools and hospitals, will also be marked out,” said an official with the GMDA’s mobility department, preferring anonymity.Gurugram’s current speed limits apply to state highways, national highways and all roads within municipal limits. While national highways have a maximum speed limit of 90kmph for cars, 50kmph for motorcycles and 50kmph for trucks, state highways cap the speed limit at 80kmph for cars, 50kmph for motorcycles and 50kmph for trucks. Within municipal limits, the speed limit for cars and two wheelers is 50kmph, while it is 30kmph for two-wheelers.As part of the GMDA’s rationalised speed limits, the upper limit for cars will be capped at 70kmph on access-controlled arterial highways, such as the NH-48 and the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway. On access*controlled arterial roads, where there are graded pedestrian lanes, the upper limit is proposed to be capped at 60kmph. On partially access-controlled arterial streets in areas with medium built-up density, the proposed speed limit is 40kmph, while connector roads which pass through residential areas will have an upper speed limit of 30kmph.However, it remains uncertain when these new speed limits will be enacted. “We first need to conduct detailed speed studies on key road stretches, which should commence as part of Phase-1 of the CMMP’s implementation. The proposed speed limits need to be tested and refined. At the moment, only observational studies have been done which revealed that speed limits are not only flouted, but also poorly implemented. A dedicated traffic and road management cell under the GMDA has been proposed. Once these cells have been constituted under the GMDA Act they will take the matter forward,” said the GMDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/speeding-accounts-for-43-5-of-accidents-since-2016-plans-afoot-to-decrease-speed-limits/story-sGr5yah0sX4t4jLnx7CPcM.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||Cold wave conditions to abate as city expected to see a rise in temperature: MeT||The city might get some reprieve from the cold with the temperature expected to rise from Saturday onwards, as per the India Meteorological Department(IMD). As per the IMD’s forecast, the minimum temperature is expected to hover between 5 degrees and 6 degree Celsius on January 2 and 3 respectively. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the relief from the cold was on the cards with the temperature expected to rise from Saturday. “We will see a rise in temperature starting from tomorrow (Saturday). In the next 4-5 days, cold wave conditions will abate,” said Srivastava. The city’s minimum temperature settled at 4.1 degrees Celsius on Friday — three degrees below the normal, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory in Delhi. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the city’s temperature on Friday. The Palam observatory, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. The maximum temperature was recorded at 17.2 degrees — two degrees below the normal. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, light rain is likely on Saturday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 19 degrees Celsius and five degrees Celsius respectively, as per the IMD’s weekly forecast.Air quality in the city deteriorated to its worst in at least two weeks, with a reading of 376 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, indicating “very poor” air. This is up from 317 (also ‘very poor’) the previous day. Gurugram did, however, remain the least polluted city in the NCR, with Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Delhi all recording “severe” air on Friday. Manesar, as has been the case throughout this winter season, reported cleaner air than Gurugram on Friday, with 329 on the AQI bulletin (up from Thursday’s ‘poor’ reading of 252). As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to deteriorate and remain in upper end of Very Poor to Severe category on 01.01.2021 owing to extremely unfavourable ventilation conditions for dispersion of pollutants. The air quality is likely to improve on 02.01.2021 and reach from Severe to Very Poor category (sic).” However, with another bout of rain and strong winds predicted on January 3, the region may see a significant improvement in air quality early next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cold-wave-conditions-to-abate-as-city-expected-to-see-a-rise-in-temperature-met/story-GTvbIXCORBtUIcNziLY0YK.html
01-01-2021||Gurugram||25-year-old woman dies by suicide||A 25-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison, after her male friend refused to marry her around two months ago, said the police. The family members have alleged that the man is responsible for the suicide and that the woman was depressed since Diwali after he refused to marry her. The woman’s family also claimed that some members of the suspect’s family were behind the suicide and that they had mixed poison with tea or juice that was offered to the woman. On the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s family, a case has been filed under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at the Sector 29 police station. The woman, according to police, was working at a beauty parlour for the last year and had befriended the man six months ago. The suspect had initially promised to marry her but allegedly refused to do so two months ago. “She becomes friends with the man, who had promised marriage. On Diwali, she was at home when she informed us that he was refusing to marry her and that she was very disturbed,” said a relative, adding that she wanted to return to their home town in Uttar Pradesh. The family members alleged on December 23, the man’s sister called her on the pretext of helping her and poisoned her. The woman was found dead on December 24 and a case was registered on December 31. Aman Kumar, the station house officer (SHO) of Sector 29, said it seems like the woman had consumed poison after the man refused to marry her. “Initial investigation suggests that the deceased committed suicide due to relationship issues. However, the police are investigating all aspects of the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/25-year-old-woman-dies-by-suicide/story-MoqMautZiYnnGw9q78FcHN.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Residents rue lack of safety measures at construction sites in Ludhiana||At a time when multiple development projects are being taken up the municipal corporation (MC) including Pakhowal Road ROB/RUB project, reconstruction of BRS Nagar canal bridge and transformation of Malhar Road into a smart one, residents have raised concern over improper safety measures at the construction sites which may be dangerous for commuters, especially during foggy nights. Residents said that lives of commuters are being put at risk in absence of three-layer barricading and reflective tapes and LED lights at the construction sites. While Pakhowal and Malhar Road projects are being taken up by MC under Smart City Project, the reconstruction of the BRS Nagar canal bridge is being done by the irrigation department, but the funds have been allocated by the civic body.Rahul Verma, member of the Punjab Road Safety Council, said that the construction company has even failed to install early warning boards and lives are being put in jeopardy despite the company charging the department to create traffic diversions. ”There should be three-layer barricading at all construction sites wherein plastic barricading is placed at the first point, iron barricades at second and then concrete boulders are kept. On moving towards the construction site, the commuters should first hit the plastic barricading and stop. If one directly hits the boulder or iron barricades, it might prove fatal. Further, no early warning boards have been installed in the city to alert commuters,” Verma said.He added that sand bags have been kept at BRS Nagar canal bridge with no reflective tape or LED lights installed. Similar violations are also seen at Malhar Road where a motorcyclist fell into a pit dug by the authorities to install pipelines recently. Karandeep Singh, a resident of Karnail Singh Nagar, said, “A lot of accidents take place when conditions are foggy and the authorities should take note of the issue before any accidents takes place at the construction sites. The residents of the city might be aware of the construction works, but outsiders are not, and they might end up in fatal accidents” Despite several attempts, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-proper-safety-measures-at-construction-sites-puts-the-lives-of-commuters-in-jeopardy/story-0GfGrgalfZMcfvRod2B3jL.html
01-01-2021||City||Ticked off for roaming during night curfew, man thrashes cop in Ludhiana||In a shocking incident, a man reportedly in an inebriated condition, thrashed a cop after he was ticked off for roaming during night curfew on New Year’s Eve.Police have lodged an FIR against the accused identified as Ranjit Singh alias Nikka of Leela village in Raikot and arrested him.The accused was roaming near the city railway station to buy liquor. Division Number 1 SHO sub-inspector Harjeet Singh said that the PCR motorcycle squad spotted the accused roaming on the roads at 11.30 pm and stopped him for questioning.The accused, in an inebriated condition, started abusing the police personnel and later assaulted head constable Kuldeep Singh and also tore his uniform. He was arrested from the spot.The SHO said that the accused was not wearing a mask and a case under Sections 353 (assault), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act has been lodged against him.Police toil to keep people indoorsCity residents did not adhere to the night curfew as police toiled to keep them indoors on New Year’s Eve. The police were having a hard time vacating the market areas after 10 pm and urging people to return home, despite resistance shown by revellers.People gathered in large numbers at Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, and Dugri main market to celebrate New Year.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that proper security arrangements were put in place to avoid any untoward incident in the city and did not allow anyone to roam around the city after 10 pm. Shops, eateries and hotels were asked to close down at 9.30 pm.The city markets witnessed hustle and bustle and increased footfall on Friday evening after the night curfew was lifted in the city. Several eateries and hotels remained open till 11 pm. However, police continued taking action against those violating Covid norms such as not wearing masks and giving social distancing norms the go-by.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ticked-off-for-roaming-during-night-curfew-man-thrashes-cop-in-ludhiana/story-wrBpdmhqUyDItUj1oBc3EM.html
01-01-2021||City||Ludhiana MC chief moves door-to-door; urges residents to stop dumping garbage in Buddha Nullah||After the municipal corporation (MC) initiated an awareness drive to bar residents from dumping solid waste in the Buddha Nullah, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a door-to-door campaign on Friday, to seek feedback from residents. The drive was conducted in the Kundanpuri area falling under ward number 90 in which area councillor Jai Prakash along with MC officials and college students also participated.Sabharwal also urged the residents to segregate wet and dry waste before handing it over to garbage collectors. Sabharwal said, “The drive garnered a positive response from residents who are supporting the MC in reducing the pollution level in the drain. Challans are also being issued to those caught dumping waste in the nullah.”With a target to make the stream garbage-free by January 26, the MC commenced the ‘clean Buddha Nullah’ awareness campaign on December 28. Over a thousand students including NCC/NSS cadets from seven colleges of the city have been involved who are moving door-to-door in 16 wards, situated in the vicinity of the nullah, to stop residents from dumping solid waste into the stream. The civic body officials said that over 60 marshals/volunteers and 24 nodal officers have also been deputed to guard the 14km-long stretch of nullah within the city and a challan of Rs 5,000 is being imposed on violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-chief-moves-door-to-door-urges-residents-to-stop-dumping-garbage-in-buddha-nullah/story-8hdxGxZ2HP0a6QxpUFpkWP.html
01-01-2021||City||Ludhiana: New Year babies bring joy, hope amid Covid gloom||Amidst the gloom and doom of the pandemic, 20 babies were born in Ludhiana on the first day of the New Year, bringing hope and happiness to their families.While 13 children were born at Ludhiana Civil Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital reported birth of four and three babies respectively.Sharing details, SMO of Mother and Child Hospital at Civil Hospital Dr Mala said that out of the 13 babies, seven are girls while six are boys.“Many lives were lost due to the deadly virus last year, but it was reassuring to hold a child on the first day of the year. It reinstates our faith in the cycle of life,” said Dr Mala.Due to Covid restrictions, family members were not allowed to enter the pediatric ward and neonatal ward where the babies were kept. The government has made Covid-19 tests mandatory for all expectant mothers.A strict protocol was followed and mothers were not allowed to meet outsiders.Christian Medical College and Hospital’s SMO Amit Gulrez said, “New Year is the most exciting time for many families. Many women want their babies to be delivered on the first day of the year. Four girls were born in the hospital last night,” he said.As per UNICEF, with the birth of nearly 60,000 babies, India saw the highest number of births on New Year’s Day 2021 across the globe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-new-year-babies-bring-joy-hope-amid-covid-gloom/story-aaQyPvm6H7Ml7KWPOrOSXK.html
01-01-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal governor Dhankhar says country is apprehensive of violent elections in Bengal||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday claimed that the whole country is apprehensive of a bloodied and violent assembly election in the state, and asked the police and administration to maintain neutrality.It will be a massive blow to the democratic system if public servants are engaged in political work and there cannot be a bigger challenge than this to the rule of law, he said.“There is only one discussion in the country, which is apprehension that the elections in West Bengal will be bloodied and will be tainted by violence,” Dhankhar told a press conference during a visit to Purulia.The governor urged the administration, the police and also the media to create an atmosphere for a violence-free assembly poll due in April-May this year.Dhankhar said that it will be a blow to the poll process if voters are intimidated and government functionaries get involved in political work.He urged the government machinery to be neutral and to ensure that people get to exercise their voting rights in a free and fair manner during the assembly elections.The governor had on Wednesday alleged that free and fair elections are not held in West Bengal and people cannot exercise their franchise without fear.The ruling Trinamool Congress, which has been at loggerheads with Dhankhar since he became governor in July last year, has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to remove him, claiming that he has been working in an unconstitutional manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-governor-dhankhar-says-country-is-apprehensive-of-violent-elections-in-bengal/story-0CfBe7Gz5k0zC7lCNE4QLN.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Venturing out? Night curfew is on Jan 1 as well||It’s known that there was a night curfew on New Year’s Eve in Delhi, just like some other states such as Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Rajasthan. But, if you are planning to venture out today, to party till late on the first day of the New Year, or just to get weekend vibes right at the start of 2021, then must know that the order for night curfew as issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority, also imposed a night curfew in the Capital on January 1, 2021. As part of this, no public gatherings are allowed in Delhi today as well starting 11pm until 6am of January 2. “A detailed assessment of the situation in Delhi has been made and considering the threat posed by the mutant UK strain of Covid-19 virus and after observing the local incidents of Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi, it is apprehended that gatherings, congregations, and public celebrations of New Year pose a considerable threat of the spread of the virus and may cause a setback to the appreciable gains made in the suppression of chain of transmission of Covid-19 cases in Delhi,” the statement read. The order ruined plans for many a party lovers yesterday, and same will be the case tonight as well. Pankaj Gupta, a Dwarka-based entrepreneur, says, “For the last three years, our after party place has been India Gate. This time we also planned to visit India Gate together in a group after having a party in local pub in our area, but the curfew has totally ruined our plan. Now, it seems that we will be going back home after dinner.” Sharing a similar sentiment, Ojasv Tyagi, a Gurugram resident, says, “Earlier my plan was to roam around in Delhi on New Year’s Eve, but those got postponed. I didn’t know I wouldn’t be able to do than on Jan 1 as well! I’ll limit myself to Gurugram now. In fact I’ve asked my friends in Delhi to join me here in Gurugram for the long weekend.” Restaurateurs in Delhi have also chalked out a different plan, after this announcement. “We understand the zeal, but keeping in mind the guidelines laid down by the government, little changes have been implemented. Our managers personally called up everyone yesterday to inform them about this order. Everything for the New Year’s Eve remained the same, but plans were advanced by an hour. We will be winding up early tonight as well,” says Rahul Sarin from Cartoony Planet. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/venturing-out-night-curfew-is-on-jan-1-as-well/story-Gvn8ixMdPjesj1YdfdLK9M.html
01-01-2021||Kolkata||Visva Bharati administration stopped from building wall along road connecting Satiniketan, Sriniketan||The administration in West Bengal’s Birbhum district on Friday issued an order, asking Visva Bharati authorities to immediately stop the construction of a wall along a road - which connects the twin towns of Santiniketan and Sriniketan.District Magistrate Vijay Bharti, who inspected the area on Thursday, said the wall, if built, could hinder people’s movement along the route.Locals had long been using the route, and no restriction can be imposed all of a sudden, he said, adding that problems need to be solved amicably through discussions.Visva-Bharati authorities, however, refused to comment on the matter.The administration has also taken over another road -- connecting Upasana Griho to Kalisayar More -- from Visva- Bharati, which was inaugurated in 2017.Several heritage buildings, including the Rabindra Bhavan museum, and monumental sculptures -- the ones built by artist Ramkinkar Baij -- dot the 2.9-km road.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, during her recent visit to Bolpur, had said that the Public Works Department would take back the possession of the road from the varsity.Authorities of the central university had recently drawn the ire of Banerjee, after media reports suggested that vice chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty accused Nobel laureate Amartya Sen of illegally occupying land.Last year, the state had locked horns with Visva- Bharati officials over erection of a wall around the Poush Mela ground, in the vicinity of the varsity campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/visva-bharati-administration-stopped-from-building-wall-along-road-connecting-satiniketan-sriniketan/story-8AMpGBZWPO95Y7y3uXTZWL.html
01-01-2021||Bangalore||‘Yediyurappa’s assertion on completing term indication of worry’: Congress||Congress Karnataka president D K Shivakumar on Friday said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s self-certification about completing his tenure was an indication about the “danger” that is worrying him.“What was the need for a Chief Minister to say that he will remain in the post for remaining two-and-half years? Did any of us question? Let him be there for two years or one year...,” Shivakumar said.Speaking to reporters here, he said maybe some worry is troubling him and that’s the reason why the Chief Minister is making such statements. “His (Yediyurappa’s) own MLAs (from (BJP) are saying that a new leader will come after January 15.If a time has come for the Chief Minister to give certification to himself, it is then evident that somewhere something was dangerous,” he added. The KPCC President was responding to a question on Yediyurappa’s assertion that he would complete his term.There has been intense speculation in some quarters that the BJP high command is mulling leadership change in Karnataka in the days to come considering Yediyurappa’s age (77), which the party has dismissed.Stating that he was satisfied with the Congress’ performance in the Gram Panchayat polls, Shivakumar claimed the party and workers despite pressure, also misuse of money and power from the ruling party, worked efficiently and got a “good result”.“Despite being in opposition we have got good numbers,” he said, adding that from January 5 to 18 he will be touring across the state and 2021 will be the “Year of organisation” and “Year of Struggle” for Congressmen.Hitting out at the government for its “failure” in containing the UK variant of coronavirus, Shivakumar wanted to know what was the difficulty in checking travellers at the airport itself.“It is basic common sense.This shows how much the administration has failed,” he said as he blamed the Central and the state governments for the spread of the virus alleging they failed in implementing control measures in the early stages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/yediyurappa-s-assertion-on-completing-term-indication-of-worry-congress/story-s6xhbGjKyxMBWlcbx6cJzK.html
01-01-2021||Pune||PCMC to shut down Covid care centre at Annasaheb Magar stadium||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to shut down its Covid care centre at Annasaheb Magar stadium.The 816-bed facility started its operation from September 1.“The Covid care centre at Auto Cluster will remain functional. The decision has been taken following decline in Covid cases,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer at PCMC.“From Friday, we are not taking new patients. Currently, 100 patients are admitted,” Salve said.The official said that the Covid care centre will be maintained even if it is shut down. “Whenever needed, the centre will be restarted,” Salve said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-to-shut-down-covid-care-centre-at-annasaheb-magar-stadium/story-oYcYthwguOLPToAdGAUp9K.html
01-01-2021||City||Children join farmers on Delhi’s borders to ring in New Year||Tikri Bhagat Singh, 12, of Buwana village in Haryana’s Jind is among hundreds of other children, who have joined the farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders to celebrate the new-year with parents and other farmers.On Thursday, around 1035pm, Bhagat, along with Aditya Kumar, of Bahu Akbarpur village, and a couple of elderly protesters were using firewood to keep themselves warm near the main stage of the protest site. The celebrations had been done and dusted in the morning, with young farmers and elderly protesters driving their tractors around the site of their stir, while playing Haryanvi Ragnis (folk songs), with hookah in hand. Some youngsters were seen dancing, while standing on tractor-trolleys. Farmers from Punjab danced near their tents on Punjabi songs.Bhagat arrived at the Tikri border on Wednesday and says his father Balwant, who owns 3 acre of their ancestral land, has been camping here for 16 days.“Our family used to celebrate new-year at our village, but this time, my father and I are here. I know little about these laws, but our elders are saying that these will wipe-out the farming community and some businessmen will snatch our land. My father told me that this year, we suffered a huge loss in paddy, because prices have fallen. The government should accept farmers’ demand, otherwise we will also not go back,” Bhagat added.Kumar, a Class-8 student, said he was proud that as a farmer’s son that he had joined the agitation on eve of the new year. “We (kids) helped protesters by offering them tea, water, milk, medicine and by doing errands like folding carpets every morning and evening. I have not joined online classes for the past five days. If farming and land is snatched from our parents, from where we will get money for education and food. We have learnt a few slogans here. These are Modi-Khattar Kisan Virodhi (Modi-Khattar Oppose Farmers), Sadda Haq Ethe Rakh (Hand over our rights) and a few others,” he added.Kumar said it was difficult for them to spend cold nights in tents, but the enthusiasm of the elderly inspired them to stay put. Balbir Singh, a farmer from Jhajjar, said farmers had decided not to celebrate new-year function at night, as they feared miscreants would gain entry and malign their image of protesters. Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda also visited the Tikri border on Friday to celebrate the New Year with protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/children-join-farmers-on-delhi-s-borders-to-ring-in-new-year/story-s2FW0kpESxP0ng19jjNQTP.html
01-01-2021||Lucknow||Severe cold conditions in parts of UP; min temp dips to 0.5 degree Celsius||Dense fog and severe cold wave conditions prevailed at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh, with Lucknow airport recording the lowest temperature at 0.5 degree Celsius on Friday.According to the meteorological department, day temperatures fell appreciably in Kanpur and Lucknow divisions, and rose in Meerut division.The night temperature fell appreciably in Gorakhpur, Ayodhya, Bareilly and Agra divisions, it said.“The night temperature was markedly below normal in Lucknow division, Gorakhpur, Ayodhya, Kanpur, Bareilly, Moradabad, Agra and Meerut divisions; below normal in Varanasi division and normal in the remaining divisions of the state,” a MeT official said.The lowest temperature in the state was recorded at 0.5 degree Celsius at Lucknow Airport, and the highest at 22 degrees Celsius in Sultanpur.The weatherman said rain/thunderstorm is very likely at isolated places over western UP, while weather is likely to remain dry over eastern parts of the state on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/severe-cold-conditions-in-parts-of-up-min-temp-dips-to-0-5-degree-celsius/story-IMFKJTlVsuoSw73CvFbFKP.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||CM Thackeray says nobody can question Mumbai Police’s efficiency||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday praised the Mumbai Police saying nobody can raise a question mark over their efficiency, and added that he would never allow anyone to malign their image.He also said that the police force led from the front during the coronavirus pandemic in order to ensure the safety of people.Thackeray was speaking during a programme held at the Mumbai Police Commissioner’s office here, in which people were returned their stolen belongings, recovered by the police.“There is no end to the accomplishments of the Mumbai Police and the tradition of policing dates back to 150 years.With this long tradition and their efficiency, no matter how much one tries, he will not be able to malign their image andI promise that if anyone attempts to do so, I will not allow that to happen,” he said. “The mouths of those who tried to defame the Mumbai police were shut as the police’s accomplishments are huge,” he said.“During the pandemic, police worked hard, due to which thousands of these personnel contracted the infection, with some of them getting martyred in the line of duty,” he said.It is only because of police and other frontline workers that the Covid-19 situation came under control, the CM said.“During the lockdown, we had asked everyone to work from home. But imagine what would have happened if the police were also allowed to do so,” Thackeray said.“The threat of COVID-19 still persists. The pandemic is far from over yet. But some people criticise us for keeping some places shut. People should at least understand their responsibility while police, doctors, nurses are performing their duty in such difficult times,” he added.Citizens can celebrate their festivals only because of the police, who remain alert all the time and keep the common man safe, he said.During the programme, the CM felicitated some Covid-19 warrior police personnel. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and other senior officials were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-thackeray-says-none-can-question-mumbai-police-s-efficiency/story-SFD4N8BT4YE92lF3UlhzyK.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Rainfall predicted in parts of Delhi, Haryana from January 3; Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan to experience severe cold wave||The India Meteorological Department in its latest bulletin on Friday predicted that isolated pockets of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan will experience cold wave to severe cold wave conditions within the next 24 hours, while parts of Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh could receive rainfall in the course of the next 48-72 hours.Due to a Western Disturbance over the North Himalayan Region and its interaction with lower-level easterlies from the Bay of Bengal, rainfall may occur in the course of next 48-72 hours in parts of Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh “Due to interaction between the above Western Disturbance and lower level easterlies from the Bay of Bengal, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm/hailstorm at isolated places likely over Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh during 03rd-05th January with maximum intensity on 03rd and 04th January, 2021,” it said.The government agency also predicted that the minimum temperatures are likely to rise by 3-5°C over maximum parts of central and North India in the next 4-5 days. It has observed that cold day conditions are likely over isolated pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh during next 24 hours.These areas are likely to experience dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets. Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura will experience dense fog conditions over the next 48 hours.Several north Indian cities and regions have been reeling from freezing temperatures over the past two weeks. Mercury dropped to record-levels in certain cities during the New Year’s Eve.Delhi experienced a severe cold wave on New Year’s Eve as temperatures plummeted to 1.1°C. This was the lowest temperature recorded in 15 years.In southern India, scattered rainfall is expected in areas of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.The Indian Meteorological Department declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4°C. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2°C or less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rainfall-predicted-in-parts-of-delhi-haryana-from-january-3-uttar-pradesh-rajasthan-to-experience-severe-cold-wave/story-OZmiS1wxXjJuA6ayTOIJcK.html
01-01-2021||Pune||Five steps to get a driving licence online in Pune||The Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 makes it mandatory for a vehicle owner to possess a valid Driving Licence to be able to drive his vehicle in the country.Step 1:Visit the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways website parivahan.gov.in/parivahan/ and click on online services and driving licence-related services.Step 2:Select the name of your state: Maharashtra, and continue to fill in all the required personal detailsStep 3: Before submitting the application, you will have to upload all scanned copies of the required documents on the official Parivahan website.Step 4:In the final step, you will have to book a slot for your driving licence test and pay the application fees online. On the selected date, appear for the test 30 minutes before your time slot.Step 5: A driving licence in Pune is issued on the basis of the driving test. If the applicant passes the test, then the driving licence will be issued to him via speed post.To register visit www.parivahan.gov.in/parivahan/Eligibility criteriaValid learner’s licence.An individual can apply for a motorcycle with an engine capacity not exceeding 50cc on attaining the age of 16 years.An individual can apply for a light motor vehicle on attaining the age of 18 years.For a heavy motor vehicle on attaining the age of 20 years.One can apply for a permanent Driving Licence after 30 days or within 180 days from the date of issuance of the learner’s licence.Types of driving licences in PuneMotorcycle without gearMotorcycle with gearInvalid carriageMedium goods vehicleMedium passenger vehicleHeavy goods vehicleHeavy passenger vehicleRoad roller||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-steps-to-get-a-driving-licence-online-in-pune/story-wgWCuSIXT0zmt9gGMtC10N.html
01-01-2021||Pune||Slam Dunk: Minicourts in ballroooms; NBA teams on Cov offense||The NBA was one of the first major sports leagues to organise a “bubble” format leading to successful completion of its season, and giving other leagues a roadmap to follow. Despite the success of this bubble in Orlando and the current rapid rise in Covid cases in the US, the recently started 2020-21 NBA season will not be played in a bubble. This presents a litany of challenges to NBA teams, as staffs and coaches aim to prepare their teams to be in the best possible shape to win games. One of the biggest current changes to the NBA season this year, in comparison to others, has been the logistics of organising and completing daily Covid testing for all players and staff members of every team. A rigorous testing protocol ensures that players are not in contact with any staff members or coaches until they have tested negative every morning. This heavily impacts training schedules and sleep schedules of players. In an interesting display of ingenuity, a lot of teams have resorted to converting hotel ballroom spaces into mini-courts to walk through game plans and strategy coverages for team defences. Staff members utilise tape to tape down an exact replica of an NBA court (from the 3-point line and inside) on the hotel ballroom carpet, which coaches then utilise to assist players, walking through team strategic schemes on offense and defence. With the shortened offseason, compressed schedule, and rising player salaries, the importance of the physical preparation of players has been heightened even more than usual. With the NBA league revenue likely being drastically lower due to empty arenas without fans, this has made teams even more determined not to lose any money on players missing games due to injuries. In the 2020 NBA season, over $600M in player salaries was lost due to players missing games with injuries. It is critically important in the current season, for close collaboration to exist between coaches and medical staffs in managing player minutes throughout the season, along with practice schedules to ensure players are at their peak for games. Performance and medical groups have placed a large focus on recovery methods with such a short time between games for teams this season. Most teams are facing a 72-game schedule spread over approximately 145 days, which leaves teams with precious little time between games. The usual daily schedule for teams involves morning Covid testing for players, followed by physical preparation and lifting weights prior to practice. Due to restrictions on player numbers and space, teams are required to be very creative with workouts that keep players at low risk of Covid exposure, while keeping them strong for the duration of the season. Post practice, players fuel with specific nutrition designed to promote recovery and prepare them to be in optimal condition for the upcoming game schedule for the season. Finally, another component players and coaches have to adjust to this season is the presence of no fans in the stadiums, and how it influences game flow and gameplay. Fans provide a critical element and energy to ‘live’ sporting events, and the lack of fan interaction and energy can eliminate the home court advantage that is sometimes a deciding factor in a lot of NBA regular season and the playoff games. The reality of no fans means that teams are more intimately familiar with coaches play calls, can hear coverages much more easily and in advance, and this can influence game play due to players being able to anticipate and identify offensive and defensive formations, much more easily than in crowded arenas. Next week, the five essential skills that every young basketball player needs to focus on to play the game at a highly competitive level.Adi Vase is the first Indian to work in the physical coaching and sport science departments of NBA teams. Born in Pune, Vase charts the course and the basketball realities that took him from Pul gate, Pune to the San Antonio Spurs, Los Angeles Lakers and now, the Golden State Warriors. Email: adi.vase@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/slam-dunk-minicourts-in-ballroooms-nba-teams-on-cov-offense/story-eLev5sCUjb3tGnLERi6vTJ.html
01-01-2021||Pune||HT weekend fix: Pune events calendar January 1-7, 2021||January 1, FridayTribal handicrafts and handloom saleAvail upto up to 70% discount sales on tribal handicraft on Senapati Bapat road. Also on offer natural produces like honey, Tulsi syrup, and spices. One can also buy special Joha rice as well as black rice.Time: 10.00 am to 8.00 pmWhere: Ground Floor, “Kamdhenu” BAIF building, near Bank of Baroda, opposite “Prakash Bhavan”, SB road.Call:020 -25665289Mobile: 97679 96355January 1, FridayBrilliant Avenir New Year Brunch at VHCStart the New Year with some great food and drinks at Vida Heydari Contemporary, where art meets food, and raise a toast to a brighter year.Enjoy beautifully plated New Year’s day brunch with a specially curated menu by Chef Ajay Chopra, amidst ‘live’ music and beautiful greenery.Call: 85303 60888Where: Marvel Alaina, lane 8, Koregaon ParkJanuary 2, SaturdayOld city food walkExplore the traditional eating joints along with some heritage locations. Get the authentic taste of Pune by visiting restaurants which have been serving delicious food for more than 60 years. Walk through the old city and having a Puneri feast at different locations.Meeting point and time: Mahatma Phule Mandai at 9am. Walk starts at 9:15amOrganised by: The Western RoutesJanaury 2, SaturdayThe Bhide Bendre ShowA Marathi stand-up comedy show by Mandar and Pushkar BhideTime: 8pmWhere: T3M Tavern, 121, 122, near MIT, Rambaug Colony, Kothrud January 3, SundayPrabhatswar‒ Ashwini Bhide DeshpandeAshwini Bhide Deshpande will be performing in the Prabhatswar.Limited seats do grab your free passes from - Gangotree, office number 802, Siddharth towers, Kothrud, Pune.Time: at 7amWhere: Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics January 3, Sunday(Till January 7)Yoga Nidra workshopA workshop to help relieve stress and anxiety and experience a higher level of relaxation. Vidyadhar, PG DY Ed from Kaivalyadhama, MS in Counselling and Psychotherapy will be the guide.Time: 8am to 8.45amFor queries please call:+91 9730232030Webiste: www.spandayog.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ht-weekend-fix-pune-events-calendar-january-1-7-2021/story-sUk2KVB5b5Zj3ojBiZJ8NO.html
01-01-2021||Pune||2021, year for project completion in Pune||As municipal elections are slated for the year 2021-22, many projects are expected to be completed in the New Year, 2021. For the last one year, development work has been at the mercy of the Covid-19 pandemic, but 2021, given the civic elections on the horizon, may see several projects in Pune move into overdrive, in terms of completion. The eastern part of Pune city has been facing a water scarcity with many housing societies paying huge bills for water tankers. This scenario is expected to be eased as the Bhama Askhed project is to be launched today. The Metro in Pune city is likely to kick off this year. Work on the tunnels, linking to key routes has been completed with the metro tunnel boring machines doing their job.Pune city has only one government medical college government-backed, B J Medical college, attached to Sassoon Hospital. Now, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is starting its own medical college from the next academic year. This will be based at the Naidu hospital.The five-year tenure of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is going to end. Though elections are slated in January 2022, municipal elections are likely to be announced by November 2021. The ruling BJP party will try to get maximum projects inaugurated before the municipal elections. BJP won with a record majority in the 2017 municipal elections. Now, the Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) is in power at the state. Pune district guardian minister and chief minister, the NCP’s Ajit Pawar has his eye on Pune.The ruling BJP would like to finish maximum projects to have any chance of ensuring that does not happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2021-year-for-project-completion-in-pune/story-o8l2hGbMgabhPrZso5zmGN.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Honey trap gang busted in Kullu was active for 15 years||The money trail of the honey trap gang that was busted at Bhunter in Kullu on December 3 shows it had been active for the past 15 years and targeted affluent people in the district to acquire property. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said the members of the gang were already booked in five cases and faced charges of extortion, assault on public servant, house trespass, voluntarily causing hurt, provoking breach of peace, criminal intimidation and wrongful restraint. These cases were registered between 2014 and 2020. So far, seven members of the gang, including two women, have been arrested. The women would lure the targets to their houses and get intimate with them before other members would reach posing as their relatives or villagers. “They would create a ruckus and threaten the victim with a rape case and then demand money,” Singh said. The gang members would often bring the victim to their house on the pretext of selling land, obstruct the way and then enter into a quarrel before threatening to lodge a rape complaint. LAID TRAP ON SOCIAL MEDIA Singh said that a 37-year-old woman was the kingpin, the other woman was aged 27. They would forge a friendship with the target on social media and trap them, claiming they were in trouble. The police found that the gang had trapped one such person who then demanded money from his wife to pay the accused. His wife reported the matter to the police and a case was registered at Bhunter police station that led to the arrest of six members of the gang. Another case of extortion of ₹1.23 lakh was registered against the accused. The main accused woman, who had taken anticipatory bail from the Himachal Pradesh high court in another case, was also arrested. HUGE TRANSACTIONS BUT NO SOURCE OF INCOME The police impounded two cars bought with the extorted money that were registered in the name of the two women. Singh said that the accused accumulated huge wealth in 15 years despite no known source of income. “The woman kingpin had done transactions of more than ₹25 lakh from her account. She has more than ₹14 lakh balance in her account,” the SP said. Transactions amounting to ₹11 lakh were done from the joint account of the main accused and a co-accused. The other woman did transactions of ₹6 lakh and has a balance of ₹1.6 lakh in her account, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/honey-trap-gang-busted-in-kullu-was-active-for-15-years/story-aToaG8DbohYE4JMWB6KQEP.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Water waiver scheme by Delhi govt extended till March-end||The Delhi government on Friday extended till March 31 its scheme offering a one-time waiver of water bill arrears and late payment surcharge.Under the scheme, launched in August last year, all categories of houses get an exemption from late fee payments, while their pending water bills are waived partly or fully depending on the housing category.“We have decided to extend the last date for DJB’s scheme to enable more consumers to pay their water bills at reduced rates without facing any financial burden or difficulty,” Delhi Jal Board Chairman Satyender Jain said.“Till date, over 4.5 lakh consumers have availed benefit of this scheme and the DJB has earned Rs 632 crore in revenue,” he said.The scheme will cover the consumers whose bills were pending till March 31 last year.Delhi’s colonies are categorised from A-H. A-D category colonies are considered as middle and upper-middle residential areas. ‘A’ category colonies include those in Maharani Bagh, Chanakyapuri and Golf Links.For ‘A’ and ‘B’ category colonies, 25 per cent rebate is given on their principal arrears while in the ‘C’ category colonies, 50 per cent waiver is provided.In ‘D’ category colonies, people get a waiver of 75 per cent on their principal pending arrear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/water-waiver-scheme-by-delhi-govt-extended-till-march-end/story-A6ukuHaDwRe1cmCP3mhVHK.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Gurinder Singh Kairon passes away after cardiac arrest at 86||Gurinder Singh Kairon, the younger son of former Punjab chief minister Partap Singh Kairon, passed away on Thursday night after a cardiac arrest. He was 86. Family sources said he was not keeping well for the past few years. He survived by two daughters and a son. The cremation took place in Chandigarh on Friday. Gurinder Singh Kairon had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections on the Congress ticket in 1998 and 1999 from Tarn Taran constituency besides the assembly election in 2002. He ran a cinema house in Amritsar before the family shifted to Chandigarh in the 1980s. Last year, he co-authored a book on his father in which he highlighted different aspects of the former CM’s life with the spotlight on his assassination and rivalry with then Punjab Congress leader Ch Devi Lal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurinder-singh-kairon-passes-away-after-cardiac-arrest-at-86/story-E0ETDXxCTyGv0SrlbwfQCJ.html
01-01-2021||Patna||Administrative reshuffle in Bihar: 27 IAS, 38 IPS officers shifted||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Bihar government issued the transfer and posting orders of 27 IAS and 38 IPS officers with immediate effect, late on Thursday night. Twelve districts magistrates (DMs) along with 13 superintendents of police (SP) have been changed in a late-night notification. The state government also promoted 13 IPS officers and posted them. Among those shuffled are Kosi divisional commissioner K Santhil Kumar, who will now be the secretary in the home department, an official statement said.According to the notification, additional chief secretary home, Amir Subhani will also hold the charges of prohibition, excise and registration department besides the vigilance department. Principal secretary to the chief minister, Chanchal Kumar will also hold the charge of the general administration department. Tirhut divisional commissioner Pankaj Kumar has been shifted to BC (backward class) and EBC (extremely backward class) welfare department as a secretary. He will also hold the charge of managing director, Bihar state road development corporation. Manish Kumar, special secretary, Information and technology department replaced Pankaj at Tirhut. Punam, earlier posted as special secretary in the agriculture department, has now been shifted to Saran as divisional commissioner. Radheshyam Shah, special secretary of revenue and land reforms department has been shifted to Darbhanga as the divisional commissioner. Purnia divisional commissioner Safina A N was posted as the secretary of the minor welfare department. Darbhanga divisional commissioner Mayank Warvade, is replacing Asangba Chuba AO as the Magadh divisional commissioner, who has been shifted to the education department as a secretary.Divesh Sehra, MD, Bihar state SC/ST cooperative development was appointed as the new secretary of the finance department. Director of Bihar rural livelihood project Bala Murugan D has been made secretary of the rural development department. Patna DM Kumar Ravi was appointed as secretary of the building construction department and holds the charge of MD, Bihar state building construction corporation. Muzaffarpur DM Chandrasekhar Singh replaces Kumar Ravi in Patna. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar is replacing Chandrasekhar in Muzaffarpur. Sheohar DM Avnish Kumar Singh has been shifted to Jamui in the place of Dharmendra Kumar who was transferred to Rohtas. DM Rohtas, Pankaj Dixit, became the director of technical and industry department. Also Read: 3 sites in Bihar identified for Covid-19 vaccination dry runMadhubani DM D N Ramchandra replaced Saran DM Subrato Kumar Sen, who has been made the new DM of Bhagalpur. MD, Bihar state building construction corporation, Amit Kumar, is replacing Ramchandra at Madhubani.Arwal DM Ravishankar Choudhary has been transferred as the secretary, health department. Kaimur SP Nawal Kishore Choudhary has been shifted to Gopalganj in the place of Arshad Aziz, who was shifted to the sugarcane department. Madhepura DM Navdeep Shukla replaces Choudhary at Kaimur. Joint secretary, DMD, Shyam Vihari Meena shifted to Madhepura while Gopalganj DDC Sajjan R was posted as DM Seohar. Bhagalpur city commissioner J Priyadarshani has been made Arwal DM and Katihar DDC Varsha Singh has been shifted to the building construction department as a joint secretary. IPS Officers lists. 1990 batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Sobha Ohatker, advisor Bihar state planning council, has now been made DG Homeguard and fire services after promotion. Additional Director General (ADG) of state crime record bureau, Nirmal Kumar Azad, has been shifted to the Railways as ADG.IG (Modernization) Amit Kumar Jain has been promoted and posted as ADG human rights commission. IG (headquarters) N H Khan was posted as ADG (Economic offence unit). IG (special secretary home) Sunil Kumar, has been made the ADG of the special vigilance unit. IG (Training) Anil Kishore Yadav has been posted as ADG (Weaker Section). IG (SCRB) Kamal Kishore Singh was made new ADG of SCRB. Similarly, IG (appeal, welfare and budget) Paras Nath was promoted as ADG and posted in the same department as the post is upgraded. IG (special branch) B S Meena has been posted as ADG (security). Purnia range, IG Ratna Sanjay transferred to IG (modernization). DIG Kosi Suresh Prasad Choudhary made the new IG of Purnia. Pranav Kumar Praveen is replacing him in Kosi. DIG (ATS) Vikas Vaibhav has been made new special secretary home. Munger range DIG Manu Maharaaj was shifted to Saran while Shafi-ul-Haq replaced him in Munger. Lipi Singh has been made Saharsa SP. She is the daughter of JD(U)’s new national president RCP Singh. She was removed from the post of Munger SP in October last year during the assembly elections after violent clashes took place between locals and the police during idol immersion resulting into the death of a youth, who was killed in firing. The locals alleged that the youth was killed in police firing which was ordered by SP Lipi Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/administrative-reshuffle-in-bihar-27-ias-38-ips-officers-shifted/story-kGp3sLfKk4Vv9AYzzfT94H.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Tikri, Dhansa, Singhu borders to be closed due to farmers protest: Delhi Traffic Police||Several borders of the national capital continued to remain closed due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws, including the Tikri, Dhansa, and Singhu borders, the Delhi Traffic Police informed on Friday.“Traffic Alert: Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for cars, light motor vehicles, two wheeler and pedestrians. Available Open Borders to Haryana are following - Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police wrote on Twitter. The police further informed that the Chilla and Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi, and told commuters to take alternate routes via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra, and Loni Borders.“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli, and Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders,” the police said, further informing that traffic had been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road.“Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44,” it added.Farmers have been agitating at the gates of the national capital since November 26 against the recently enacted three farm laws -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.There have been several rounds of talks between the government and representatives of the farmers. These have remained inconclusive so far and there is another round of meeting between them on January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tikri-dhansa-singhu-borders-to-be-closed-due-to-farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-police/story-4q2v66s7OewdG4yEXDCZWI.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Exits to 4 Metro stations closed to control New Year’s Day crowds||The exit gates to at least four Metro stations were closed off by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to control crowds on New Year’s Day. DMRC tweeted on Friday, “Exit gates of Khan Market, Supreme Court, Central Secretariat and Mandi House are closed. Entry and interchange is permitted at these stations.”Security UpdateExit gates of Khan Market, Supreme Court, Central Secretariat and Mandi House are closed. Entry and interchange is permitted at these stations.DMRC officials said that this was done on the directions of Delhi Police, as a security measure to control the crowd in these stations. “We were told that it is around these stations that people gather the most for New Year’s celebrations. We have been operating our services with the utmost care and precautions these days on account of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a DMRC spokesperson. Delhi traffic police officials said that this was a preventive action, keeping the trends of previous years in mind. They said that during New Year’s Eve and on New Year’s Day people gather at India Gate, Connaught Place, Khan Market and around the Old Fort area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-exits-to-4-metro-stations-closed-to-control-new-year-s-day-crowds/story-sMzfrYBfVMtby4EBxplYbL.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Ex-CM Fadnavis says Maharashtra DGP faced interference from state govt||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister and the leader of opposition in the state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said it was “unfortunate” that DGP Subodh Jaiswal chose to go on .Briefing the media, Fadnavis said, “It is a very sad and unfortunate development that a good officer like him had to request for a central deputation. He is a good officer but he was frustrated due to the continuous interference from the government, particularly the state home ministry.”“Though the police department falls under the home ministry, we should provide some independence to such a crucial department for its day-to-day function,” added the Bharatiya Janata Party leader.Fadnavis alleged over interference in the police department by the Maha Vikas Aghadi-led state government and of transferring the DGP without taking him into confidence.“In any department, people come and go but the department keeps running. At the same time, it is also true that the officer of such calibre should go to another department like this. It is unfortunate,” reiterated the former chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ex-cm-fadnavis-says-maharashtra-dgp-faced-interference-from-state-govt/story-C9DWMaUi6aSDlrX0TfO0LJ.html
01-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC Foundation Day: Mamata Banerjee thanks ‘Maa-Mati-Manush’, says will continue her fight for people||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee vowed to continue her fight for the people on the occasion of her party’s 23rd Foundation Day on Friday. Banerjee had formed the TMC on January 1, 1998, after breaking away from the Congress. “As Trinamool turns 23 today, I look back at the journey we began on January 1st, 1998. Our years have been of immense struggle, but throughout this time, we have continued to achieve our objective of being committed to the cause of only the people.” Banerjee tweeted.“On TMC Foundation Day, I extend my sincere gratitude to our Maa-Mati-Manush and all our workers who continue to fight with us in making Bengal better and stronger each day,” the TMC chief posted. “The Trinamool family will carry on with this resolve for times to come!” she added.The TMC had issued instructions to its workers to conduct programmes across the state to mark the occasion. Senior party leaders hoisted the party flag at its state headquarters and hailed workers for their tireless efforts in serving people.The party seeks to retain power in the face of a dual challenge by the alliance finalised last week between the Congress and Left parties for the upcoming assembly election in West Bengal. The assembly elections are slated to be held in April-May this year. Meanwhile, the opposition Left Front and the Congress on Thursday demanded that the ruling TMC make arrangements to convene an assembly session to prove its majority amid the growing number of defections from the party to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-foundation-day-mamata-banerjee-thanks-maa-mati-manush-says-will-continue-her-fight-for-people/story-AVGTF0JwW7N3MqK1sJwyXP.html
01-01-2021||Pune||Proposal for modern jails in Maharashtra tabled before CM: Anil Deshmukh||A proposal for new modern jails all over Maharashtra was tabled in front of the chief minister and deputy chief minister of the state three days ago, said Anil Deshmukh, minister of home affairs, Maharashtra. The proposal is for 7-8 new facilities including one in Pimpri-Chinchwad and one in Mumbai.The minister was speaking in the context of the long-standing issue of overcrowding in jails in the state during his visit to Yerawada Central Jail on Friday to greet the inmates on the occasion of the new year.“Like foreign countries, multi-storeyed jails, where undertrail prisoners can be housed, were proposed three days ago to the chief minister and deputy chief minister,” said Deshmukh.Also Read: Maharashtra: Covid-19 cases decline by 82% from September to DecemberThe current population in Maharashtra jails is 30,649 as on December 31, 2020. However, that is still 8,000 in excess of the capacity of the jails in the state, which are 47 in number.In Yerawada, a temporary facility was set up at Babasaheb Ambedkar Research And Training Institute students’ hostels located around a kilometre from the central prison. However, when the pandemic comes to an end or when the school decides to reopen, the facility will have to be vacated. The temporary prison is housing 212 persons as on December 31, 2020.“The officials of the jail have managed to keep the spread of the contagion under control even though the jails are housing about 8,000 above their capacity,” said Deshmukh.The Yerawada central jail currently houses over 5,400 inmates, including women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/proposal-for-modern-jails-in-maharashtra-tabled-before-cm-anil-deshmukh/story-MOyQKKzxduqntXkRu6JKDJ.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Passengers at Delhi airport welcomed with flowers, ‘corona kit’ on New Year’s Eve||To celebrate New Year’s Eve at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport in the wake of the ongoing pandemic, Delhi Police personnel welcomed arriving international passengers with a “corona kit” and a bouquet of flowers on Thursday night. Senior officials said the idea was cheer up passengers arriving amid restrictions put in place on celebrations due to the Covid-19 pandemic and to boost the morale of the policemen deployed on duty.Deputy commissioner of police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said apart from welcoming the arriving passengers with a bouquet of flowers, the passengers were also given a corona kit containing a face mask, a pair of hand gloves and a bottle of sanitiser. The kit also had a badge to remind passengers to maintain social distancing. Also Read: Canada to require air travellers to test negative for Covid-19“The initiative not only made the arriving passengers feel good but also boosted the morale of our men deployed on duty on New Year’s Eve. The purpose behind distributing the corona kit was to make passengers aware of the Covid-19 restrictions and remind them to maintain social distancing at all points. Our men spoke with the passengers and also extended them assistance in booking cabs, helped them with porters or helped them locate the parking lots as needed,” Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/passengers-at-delhi-airport-welcomed-with-flowers-corona-kit-on-new-year-s-eve/story-8K8IosgMKj3eBarpUANwnN.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab in grip of cold wave, Hisar coldest at -1.2 degrees Celsius||There was no let-up in the cold wave sweeping Haryana and Punjab on Friday, with Hisar reeling at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius. A thick blanket of fog enveloped the two states in the morning, reducing visibility, meteorological department officials in Chandigarh said. The minimum temperatures continued to hover well below the normal limits. Hisar in Haryana had on Thursday too recorded the same minimum temperature, eight notches below normal, making it the coldest place in the two states. In Haryana, Narnaul recorded a low of 0.2 degree Celsius, four notches below normal. Sirsa, Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak and Bhiwani experienced a cold night as well at 2 degrees, 4.4 degrees, 3.5 degrees, 2 degrees and 3.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, registered a low of 6.1 degrees Celsius. Cold wave conditions persisted in Punjab with Faridkot recording a low of 0.2 degree Celsius. Bathinda and Amritsar were also in the grip of intense cold, recording 1.2 and 2.2 degrees Celsius. Pathankot, Halwara, Adampur, Ludhiana, Patiala and Gurdaspur also recorded below normal minimums at 3.1, 3.5, 3.1, 4.6, 4.8 and 3.7 degrees Celsius, respectively. With light rain forecast from Saturday, the minimum temperature is expected to rise in the next three days. (With HT inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-punjab-in-grip-of-cold-wave-hisar-coldest-at-1-2-degrees-celsius/story-G9KqAoWbiX94hq4fdvZhCM.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid-19 cases decline by 82% from September to December||Maharashtra entered the new year on Friday with a huge drop in Covid-19 cases and fatalities compared to the previous three months. In December , Maharashtra recorded a total of 103,286 Covid-19 cases, which is a 26% decrease from the number of cases recorded in November (140,121), and a 62% decrease from the number of cases recorded in October (277,484). Moreover, December’s total tally saw a whopping 82% decrease from the number of cases recorded in September, which has by far been the worst month for the state in terms of number of case. September recorded the highest number of cases in a single month since March— 576,140. Authorities had partly attributed this to the unlock plans in the city, which began from June 5, along with Ganesh Chaturthi.Also Read: Only 35 drunk drivers arrested in Mumbai on New Year’s EveThis was followed by August’s tally, which has been the second-highest so far, with 360,882 cases. While December witnessed a total of 2,275 deaths due to Covid-19 with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.2%, November recorded 3,127 deaths and a CFR of 2.2%, October recorded 6,855 deaths and a CFR of 2.4%, September recorded 11,759 deaths and a CFR of 2.01%, and August recorded 9,267 deaths with a CFR of 2.5%. In July, Maharashtra had recorded a total of 241,820 cases and 6,941 deaths with a CFR of 2.8%; in June, the state recorded 104,748 cases and 5,493 deaths with a CFR of over 5%; in May, the state recorded 56,149 cases and 1,827 deaths with a CFR of 3.2%. While April saw 10,163 cases and 445 deaths, and March saw 301 cases and 13 deaths. Maharashtra recorded 3,509 new Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths on Thursday, the last day of 2020, taking the total number of cases recorded in the state to 1,932,112, and the death toll to 49,521, with a case fatality rate of 2.56%. Presently, the state has 52,902 active Covid-19 cases, with a recovery rate of 94.64%. Maharashtra has been recording fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases daily for the past 27 consecutive days, and officials from the government believe the situation is under control. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said on Thursday, “The situation in the state is under control, despite our expectations that cases will surge. Strengthened surveillance, public participation, and herd immunity have helped the state bring down its numbers considerably in the past three months.” Maharashtra has conducted 12,747,633 tests so far. Maharashtra recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 9, 2020, in Pune, wherein a couple returning from Dubai had tested positive. Following this, Maharashtra crossed the 10,000 cases mark on April 30, the 100,000 cases mark on June 12, the 1,000,000 cases mark on September 11, and the 1,500,000 cases mark on October 9. On Thursday, Awate said, “At its peak in mid-September, Maharashtra’s positivity rate was 24.6% on an average day, which means every 4th sample that we tested was positive. Now, the positivity rate is about 7% per day.” Positivity per cent is the total number of cases that have tested positive for Covid-19, as a percent of the total tests done. Maharashtra’s positivity rate as of Thursday is 15.16%, in comparison to December 1, when it was 16.75%. In November, Maharashtra’s positivity rate hovered around 18%, in October and September it was around 20%, in August it was 18%, and in July it was 19.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-decline-by-82-from-september-to-december/story-qzNqHQk3CIdJG4V9cdA6ML.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Over 1,300 challans issued on New Year’s Eve in Delhi||The Delhi Police issued over 1,300 challans, including for drunken driving, on New Year’s Eve across the national capital, officials said on Friday.According to the police, 26 challans were issued for drunken driving, 174 for dangerous driving and 706 for unauthorised parking.The total number of challans issued is 1,336, and 221 vehicles were towed away, they said.Police said traffic congestion and violations noted were much less this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-1-300-challans-issued-on-new-year-s-eve-in-delhi/story-wY3lrYXbv86Aj20SjMalmK.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||DDA to launch housing scheme tomorrow, most expensive flat to cost Rs2 crore||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will on Saturday launch a housing scheme for the sale of 1,354 flats mostly in the High-Income Group (HIG)and Middle-Income Group (MIG) categories. Officials said all applications, payments, and possession letters will be processed online. “People will have to come to the DDA office just once to execute the conveyance deed,” said an official.Of the 1,354 flats, 230 are HIG in Dwarka and Vasant Kunj, and 704 are MIG category flats in Jasola and Dwarka. As many as 275 flats in Manglapuri, Dwarka, have been earmarked for the economically weaker sections. The remaining are Low-Income Group category flats in Rohini. The three-bedroom HIG flats in Jasola are priced at Rs2.1 crore. The costliest DDA flats yet worth Rs1.7 crore in the HIG category were sold in Vasant Kunj in 2019.Also Read: DDA requests Delhi govt to revise compensatory plantation policyAfter three unsuccessful housing schemes, the DDA is hoping for a good response to its new housing scheme as these flats are spacious and located in well-connected areas.The DDA had put 18,000 flats on sale in 2019. But it was forced to reduce the number to 10,294 as it did not get the desired response. The agency received 45,012 applications but could sell only 8,438. Around 6,000 flats have been returned, a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-dda-to-launch-housing-scheme-tomorrow-most-expensive-flat-to-cost-rs2-crore/story-CR0Btn4DYwJoUs0hrrNHLO.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Only 35 drunk drivers arrested in Mumbai on New Year’s Eve||The Mumbai traffic police have caught 35 motorists and two-wheeler riders for allegedly driving in an inebriated state on New Year’s Eve. Last year, the police had arrested 778 people for the offence.According to Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of police (traffic), during the nakabandi till 2am on Friday, the police had arrested 20 people on suspicion of driving while under influence of alcohol, and taken them to nearby government and civic hospitals for blood tests.Till 6am on Friday the traffic police had arrested 35 revelers for the offence.Also Read: Night curbs in metros to ensure Covid-safe revelryThis year, the city police force did not use breath analysers to sniff out drunk drivers because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead the policemen on duty relied on their own instincts to identify them and took them directly for medical examination.According to the traffic police, about 2,700 traffic personnel and volunteers were stationed on important arterial roads and bylanes in the city, especially in the vicinity of pubs and lounges and places where large crowds gather to usher in the New Year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-35-drunk-drivers-arrested-in-mumbai-on-new-year-s-eve/story-k0zmAmLQr1hi2htfvbs0fM.html
01-01-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur man’s stolen car found after 2 years. UP police officer was using it||The owner of a car, stolen two years ago, could hardly believe it when he received a call from an auto service centre seeking his feedback. He was equally shocked to be told by the centre that the vehicle had been returned to station officer, Bithoor police station, Kaushlendra Pratap Singh, after servicing. Singh, one of the cops injured in the Bikru ambush, in which eight policemen were killed by gangster Vikas Dubey and his men on July 3 last, would have continued using the stolen car had he not taken the car for the service.Omendra Soni, the owner of the car, said his vehicle was stolen from Barra area from a car washing centre on December 31, 2018. He said he had lodged an FIR with the Barra police but the vehicle could not be found.On Wednesday, he got a call from KTL service centre enquiring if his vehicle was running fine after the service a few days ago.“I was surprised at the query. I was told my details were with the centre due to a previous servicing of my Wagon R, that is why the call was placed for feedback,” he said.“I went to the service centre and I was told that the vehicle was returned to SO Bithoor, Kaushlendra Pratap Singh on December 22 after servicing,” he said, wondering why the police had not informed him about having recovered his stolen vehicle.Also Read: UP govt to transfer Rs 12K each to labourers selected for religious travelSingh, in his defence, claimed he had found the car abandoned after which it was seized. However, he did not elaborate on the date when the vehicle was found. When asked how a police officer could use a seized vehicle as it was not permissible, he did not answer. As per the procedure, Bithoor police should have informed Barra police about the recovery of the car. However, Barra police confirmed that it did not receive any intimation from Bithoor police.Left red-faced, the police brass has ordered an inquiry into the case. IG, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal said using a seized vehicle was against the law. The entire case would be inquired into and anyone found responsible would face serious departmental action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-police-officer-found-with-stolen-car-embarrassed-department-orders-inquiry/story-SA331N9XpCJ3URUxD4ZmXL.html
01-01-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to transfer Rs 12K each to labourers selected for religious travel||The Yogi government will provide Rs 12,000 each to a selected number of labourers, employed in close to 6.5 lakh commercial establishments and 20,500 factories and workshops in Uttar Pradesh, to undertake religious travel said officials. The process would begin from January 24, the state’s foundation day, when the state’s labour welfare board would invite applications from nearly 1.5cr labourers, enrolled with the board, to avail the benefit under Swami Vivekananda Etihasik Paryatan Yatra Yojana. “For travel, the board has identified places like religious cities of Ayodhya, Mathura, Prayagraj and Varanasi, along with Hastinapur in Meerut, Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur, the temples of Shakumbhari Devi and Vindhyavasini Devi. We will also allow travel to Agra. Apart from these, there would be some more places for which the beneficiaries would have to make an application,” said Sunil Bharala, the board chairman who has a minister of state rank.The scheme was conceptualised on November 10— the birth anniversary of Dattopant Thengadi, the RSS ideologue, who founded the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), a trade union organisation, which acts as a pressure group to enforce pro-labour policies. “We have decided to transfer Rs 12,000 each, directly into the accounts of the beneficiaries, who get selected,” Bharala said. He said the scheme named after Swami Vivekananda would be the first-of-its-kind and was aimed at ensuring that labourers not only get time off from their daily grind but were also able to acquaint themselves with the country’s rich cultural and religious heritage.“To my mind, there is no such scheme anywhere that funds religious travel of labourers,” Bharala added. The board has written to lawmakers across the state seeking their help in popularising this scheme among labourers.Also Read: PM Modi, UP CM Adityanath to lay foundation of Light House Project today“This scheme is of course unique but we have several other initiatives going for the labourers,” Bharala said adding that they were seeking help of MPs and MLAs to popularise them.“We have a scheme for marriage of daughters of labourers, named after social reformer and Dalit icon Jyotiba Phule. There is another scheme named after former President APJ Abdul Kalam aimed at helping labourers’ children pursue technical education, an incentive scheme named after freedom fighter and journalist Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi, financial compensation for kin of labourers named after Raja Harishchandra. There is another scheme to provide financial assistance for completing the last rites of labourers that is named after Dattopant Thengadi,” he said.From 2021, the labour department would launch three more schemes—the religious travel one named after Swami Vivekananda, another one to encourage sporting activities among labourers, named after former India cricketer and UP minister the late Chetan Chauhan and a scheme to help the poor purchase books, named after famous litterateur Mahadevi Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-to-transfer-rs-12k-each-to-labourers-selected-for-religious-travel/story-KYX2CiHvQB7tgdNFNG6rNK.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport launches application to offer guided virtual tour of its Jaya He Museum||The Mumbai airport authorities have launched an application to offer a guided virtual tour of its Jaya He Museum with over 5,000 pieces of artwork and artifacts. Officials said the application is available on all play stores. Passengers using the airport’s Terminal 2 can also access a web version of the tour by scanning a QR code.“Users can navigate the tour as per their preference through a menu of art content and opt for the audio-visual treat of the artwork spread across the international or domestic departures as per their choice. Moreover, the app operates on a unique technology platform that allows users to listen to the narrations offline, even with their phones on airplane mode,” a spokesperson for the airport said.The second edition of the museum’s carnival series was organised virtually in June and focussed on the art and heritage of North-East India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-launches-application-to-offer-guided-virtual-tour-of-its-jaya-he-museum/story-AepIh1PhNy75d2cnUnQI7O.html
01-01-2021||Patna||Bihar: 45 UK returnees untraceable, 101 test negative for new Covid strain||Forty-five of the 226 air passengers, who reached Bihar from the United Kingdom between mid-November and December, are still untraceable as the government has stepped up its efforts to reach to them and test them for the new strain of coronavirus. However, 101 of the 181 passengers traced so far have tested negative for the virus, according to Khalid Arshad, administrative officer of the state health society, Bihar. “Samples of 101 passengers were collected and sent for RT-PCR test. Sample collection of rest of the traced passengers is under process. None of the samples has tested positive till now,” said Arshad. Also Read: From cargo planes to vans: Here’s how Centre plans to distribute Covid-19 vaccineThe ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) had sent the state a list of 226 passengers who reached Bihar between November 21 and December 21. At least 96 of these passengers are believed to be from Patna. “It is not easy to trace all of them (passengers who came from UK). We have sent the name, contact number and address of passengers, according to the list provided by the MoCA, to our medical officers in-charge of community health centres (CHCs) to track them and collect their swab samples. Our officials are finding it difficult to trace them in some cases as all of them do not reside at the address provided to us,” said Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, Patna’s civil surgeon. Swab samples of those who could be located are being tested at the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), a laboratory of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in Patna’s Agamkuan. The state health department had asked its functionaries to trace and collect samples of all such passengers by December 30 and requested the RMRIMS to expedite their testing through RT-PCR method.The health department has already requested all UK returnees to isolate themselves and contact their nearest government health facility for the RT-PCR test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-45-uk-returnees-untraceable-101-test-negative-for-new-covid-strain/story-YCnltWBKNFCW26I8R2wQ3O.html
01-01-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: PM Modi, UP CM Adityanath to lay foundation of Light House Project today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will lay the foundation stone of the Light House Project (LHP) for the urban poor in Lucknow on Friday, the state government said in a statement.“Under this project, 1,040 urban poor of Lucknow will get a flat [each] of 415 square ft area for Rs4.76 lakh. The state government has set a timeline of a year to complete this project,” the statement added.Officials said the actual cost of each flat will be Rs12.59 lakh and the Centre, as well as the state, are subsidising the project.Modi and Adityanath will also virtually participate virtually in the foundation ceremony of Global Housing Technology Challenge India and distribution f houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) in six states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-pm-modi-up-cm-adityanath-to-lay-foundation-of-light-house-project-today/story-I6PHQWwCpeBbfeZOGVMIlN.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed; traffic diverted||Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur remained closed on Friday for those coming to the national capital from Noida and Ghaziabad because of the farmers’ agitation over the three farms laws enacted in September to liberalise the sector.The traffic police have advised commuters from Uttar Pradesh to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND, and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected. They have continued checking at these border crossing points to ensure protesting farmers do not sneak in. This has slowed down traffic.Also Read: Ringing in New Year with slogans and songs of resistance at Delhi’s Singhu borderDelhi’s border crossing points with Haryana--Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli, and Mangesh--also continued to remain closed. Jhatikara is open for light vehicles and pedestrians. A single carriageway of the Jharoda border is also open for traffic.The traffic police said they have diverted traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Commuters can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, and Dundahera.Commuters may even find the India Gate and C-Hexagon inaccessible during the early afternoon on Friday in case the number of visitors is unusually high there. If that happens, the traffic police will divert traffic before it reaches India Gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-chilla-ghazipur-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-to-other-routes/story-6LTbECuJppiqnrCEc0Zi0J.html
01-01-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Around 200 booked for violating Covid-19 safety protocols on New Year’s Eve||More than 500 people were booked by the Kolkata Police on New Year’s Eve for various reasons, including violation of safety protocols for Covid-19. “While 194 persons were booked for not wearing masks and spitting on the road, another 325 were booked for disorderly conduct till around 11pm,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. On December 25 too, the city police had booked around 558 persons for similar reasons. Around 223 were booked for not wearing masks and spitting on the roads. Also Read: Night curbs in metros to ensure Covid-safe revelryThe Kolkata Police had put in place measures and had deployed additional personnel on the ground to ensure that safety protocols were maintained after the Calcutta High Court directed the state administration to ensure that there was no large gathering anywhere. Even though no restrictions such as night curbs were imposed, the state health department came up with a series of Dos and Don’ts for the New Year celebrations. “People were advised to wear masks and use sanitiser after touching objects on public places, avoid partying in closed places and cultural programmes to avoid crowds and not to burn firecrackers,” said a senior health official. Authorities were directed to ensure that no person enters shopping malls and other public areas without a mask, to install self-dispensing sanitiser and put up additional counters to prevent long queues. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier directed government officials to remain prepared for a new strain of Covid-19 which has surfaced in the UK and a few other European countries. At least one person in Kolkata has been detected to be infected with the new Covid-19 strain, that has surfaced in the UK. He is presently admitted in a state-run hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-around-200-booked-for-violating-covid-19-safety-protocols-on-new-year-s-eve/story-ilQkAPAyLP5HCs9t89QDHM.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air continues to deteriorate, may improve from tomorrow: IMD||Delhi’s air quality continued to deteriorate on Friday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) recording 388, in the very poor zone.With the low temperature and slow wind speed, pollution levels had started increasing on Thursday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Thursday was 347, in the very poor category. On Wednesday, the overall AQI of the city was 290, in the poor zone. The CPCB on Thursday reiterated its order from December 23, asking the agencies to step up enforcement and keep stone-crushers and hot-mix plants shut till January 2. Also Read: Govt advises people to stay indoors, wear warm clothes as cold wave persistsIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that with an approaching western disturbance, wind speeds are expected to improve, bringing the pollution levels down. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said that the AQI is expected to improve significantly from Saturday. “There would be marginal improvement on Friday, but from Saturday there would be a significant improvement because of improved wind speed,” Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-continues-to-deteriorate-could-improve-from-tomorrow-imd/story-Gb4hTo538ZJHHioPLDezoO.html
01-01-2021||City||Medical store owner robbed of ₹2.5 lakh in Mohali’s Phase 9||Three unidentified men on Wednesday attacked a medical store owner near his house in Phase 9 and snatched a bag containing ₹2.5 lakh cash, the police said.Victim Puneet Goyal in his statement to the police said that he was driving to his house after closing his shop in Sector 71 at around 10pm. When he reached near a temple, he felt someone was following him. He said that when he reached his house and parked the car, three youths with covered faces came on a motorcycle.Two of them who held a rod and hammer opened the door of his car and started attacking him. He put his bag on the front passenger seat and tried to save himself and meanwhile, one of the youths ran to the other side and picked up the bag.Goyal said that he raised an alarm and his neighbours came for help, but the accused had already fled. He said the whole incident was captured on a CCTV installed in his house. Goyal said that his younger brother rushed him to a hospital for treatment.A case against the unidentified men was registered. DSP Deep Kamal said that the matter was being thoroughly investigated by the police and the recording of the CCTV footage had been taken for investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/medical-store-owner-robbed-of-2-5-lakh-in-mohali-s-phase-9/story-ouvSSAjeVKq9zvnsQseTFL.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine: Chandigarh gears up for dry run on January 2||The UT administration will conduct a dry run for Covid-19 vaccine at three health institutions in the city, including Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, Manimajra civil hospital and Sector-22 civil hospital, on January 2.The Union health and family minister has asked all states and UTs to conduct the dry run. “All arrangements are in place. The spaces have been identified and workers are aware about the process of patient verification and registrations,” said a senior UT health official.A UT spokesperson said that during this exercise, each site will have 25 preregistered persons on the CoWIN portal being called through a text message. They would be duly verified, mock vaccinated and observed for 30 minutes before being allowed to leave.This process will not only check the knowledge of the health staff but will also provide an insight into the gaps or lacunae in the vaccine distribution and administration, so that the same could be addressed before the formal rolling out of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-vaccine-chandigarh-gears-up-for-dry-run-on-january-2/story-wAywwP1XkjZKxAKWHSJXtK.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University: Syndicate’s term ends, V-C to take all decisions now||The one-year term of the Panjab University (PU) syndicate came to an end on Tuesday.The members of the syndicate, which is the highest executive of PU, are elected from among the members of the PU senate every year. This year, however, senate elections were not held despite its term ending in October; the vice-chancellor (V-C) had cited the pandemic as the reason.It was a PU tradition that its executive body would meet once a month; the last meeting of the syndicate was held in July.Earlier this month, the Punjab and Haryana high court had refused to pass any directions on a plea by seven former Panjab University (PU) senators who were demanding continuation of the terms of the present varsity bodies, including the syndicate, till the senate elections were not held.The HC had taken note of the submissions by the varsity counsel, who had told the court that there was no need to issue any interim directions, referring to Regulations of Panjab University Calendar that said “whenever there is an urgency, the vice-chancellor (V-C) may take such action as he deems necessary, and report the matter at the next meeting of the syndicate for approval.”According to the PU Calendar, the executive government of the university will be vested in the syndicate, which has powers to consider and make recommendations to the senate as it deems fit in the matters that include the appointment of officers of Class A, affiliation and disaffiliation of colleges, recommendations of the board of finance relating to the annual budget, supplementary grants, and others.Terming it as an unprecedented situation, syndicate member Rabindra Nath Sharma said, “It is a blot on the democratic structure of the Panjab University which the authorities are hell-bent on destroying.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-s-term-ends-v-c-to-take-all-decisions-now/story-EUBLhSUorJ8EsChooXbHbP.html
01-01-2021||City||Suspended SDO ends life at Sonepat jail||A 30-year-old suspended SDO of Panipat refinery, who was lodged in a Sonepat jail in connection with the dowry death of his wife, committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in his barrack, jail authorities said on Thursday.Jail superintendent Satvinder Godara said the SDO’s father is also lodged in the same jail after his wife committed suicide, accusing her in-laws of asking dowry. “The SDO was lodged in the jail for the last two and a half months. His family members have demanded a fair inquiry into the matter. He was served food with other inmates on Wednesday and then he went inside his barrack. His body was spotted yesterday. We have started an investigation at our own level and a magisterial probe is also being conducted,” the Sonepat jail superintendent said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspended-sdo-ends-life-at-sonepat-jail/story-UxX5GgLYe8oXGph0vbmSKL.html
01-01-2021||City||Nine booked for poisoning Karnal woman over property dispute||Nine people have been booked for allegedly killing a woman by giving her poison in Rahra village of Karnal district, police said on Thursday. The victim has been identified as Nirmala Devi of the same village.In her complaint, Kamlesh Rani, sister of the victim, alleged that Nirmala was killed as she had a property dispute with the accused.She claimed that on Wednesday, the accused had gone to take possession of the land and when Nirmala tried to stop them, they fed her poison.The accused are Himma, Anil, Naresh, Pardeep, Jaibhawan, Jasmer, Suresh, Gurbachan, and Raju.Assandh police station in-charge Amit Sharma said a case of murder has been registered against nine people and investigation was going on. He said the body has been handed over to the family members of victim after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-booked-for-poisoning-karnal-woman-over-property-dispute/story-stVse8XxPSpM3KCCHxuedM.html
01-01-2021||City||Kiran Choudhry joins farm stir in Dadri||Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry on Thursday joined the farmers’ agitation at Kitlana toll plaza in Dadri and extended her support to the protesters agitating against the Centre’s three farm laws.The Congress legislator said she joined the stir to express solidarity with farmers as a daughter of a soldier and not an MLA. “The Union government has agreed to two of four demands, but there was no agreement on the major remaining demands — legal guarantee on the minimum support price for procurement and repeal of the farm laws. Without delaying, the government should accept the farmers’ remaining demands and end this deadlock,” she added.Hitting out at the BJP, Choudhry alleged the ruling party was making all attempts to divide people on the issue of SYL amid farm agitation.“Who had stopped the BJP from bringing SYL water in Haryana in the last six years of their rule?” she questioned. Meanwhile, a group of farmers agitating on Delhi-Jaipur highway on Thursday removed two-layer barricading at Shahjahanpur-Khera border in Rajasthan to move towards the capital.The police tried using tear gas to deter them. Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said they stopped the farmers near Bhudla village, about 12km away from the border.“Elaborate arrangements have been made to stop them from moving ahead,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kiran-choudhry-joins-farm-stir-in-dadri/story-68R21mfIvgouieEQ3HD6aJ.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||One-stop facility for property registration in Haryana this year: Khattar||Come April 1 and property registration in Haryana will become convenient for the citizens. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said the state government was working towards facilitating one-stop registration within a district. This means that citizens will have the liberty to get the property registered at any tehsil in the district. Khattar said the government also plans to have a statewide one-stop registration mechanism where citizens can get the property registration executed in any district. “However, the statewide facility will take some time to get implemented,” the chief minister said while addressing a press conference on Thursday. Khattar announced that a special campaign will be launched to provide skill training, employment and financial assistance to uplift economic status of around one lakh families having least or no income source from March 31. The objective of this special campaign is to strengthen economic status of such families. “Emphasis will be on skill development of members of such families and providing employment opportunities besides financial assistance. If any family needs help to promote their ancestral business, then efforts will be made in that direction as well,” Khattar said. The state government, he said, has also decided to extend special parole period of 2,471 prisoners till February 15 and that of 2,117 till March 31. He said parole will be extended for those sentenced for seven years or undertrials who are accused of offences punishable up to seven years. The chief minister said in a bid to ensure delivery of public welfare schemes at doorsteps, as many as 30 portals and various digital programmes have been started. People are taking benefit of all public welfare schemes through Atal Seva Kendras, Antyodaya Saral Kendras and e-Disha Kendras, he added. Referring to the declining number of coronavirus cases in the state, Khattar said the recovery rate was 97.4% and there were about 3,600 active cases. “But it is essential that we don’t lower our guard,” he said. Giving relaxations for gatherings, the state government recently allowed a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons (i.e. 200 persons in the hall capacity of 400) in closed spaces. In open spaces, it allowed gatherings with a ceiling of 500 persons with strict observance of social distancing and safety norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-stop-facility-for-property-registration-in-haryana-this-year-khattar/story-AVskitEvhqpiyCYoTe2g6L.html
01-01-2021||City||Rohtak couple’s murder: Killed them for marrying against our wishes, says woman’s uncle||A day after a couple on its way to get married in a court was shot dead in broad daylight by woman’s uncle and his aides near Maharshi Dayanand University here, police on Thursday produced four accused in a court, which sent them to four-day police remand.Urban State SHO Bijender Kumar said the accused included woman’s uncle Kuldeep Singh, his son Manjeet Kumar, wife Munni Devi, and nephew Vikas alias Vicky, while his elder son was still absconding.He said Kuldeep Singh confessed that he killed Pooja Pawaria and her lover Rohit because they were marrying against their wishes.“He told us that his niece Pooja had married three years ago in Jhajjar and now, she was planning to marry Rohit Dhankar in a court on Wednesday. He was upset with her behaviour and advised her not to take such a step. We have launched a manhunt to nab the son of Kuldeep Singh, who is at large,” the SHO added.“We have conducted their Covid-19 test. We have handed over Pooja’s body to her maternal uncle and Rohit’s body was given to his parents. Rohit’s brother Mohit, who received bullet injuries, is stable now. We will interrogate Kuldeep and others during the remand and would recover weapons used in the crime from them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-couple-s-murder-killed-them-for-marrying-against-our-wishes-says-woman-s-uncle/story-W4CDvhjHR9lwnd2QW6h8rI.html
01-01-2021||City||209 cases of sexual assault, 69 murders shocked Karnal in 2020||Keeping a check on crime rate in Karnal will remain a challenge for police in the coming year as the district witnessed 69 cases of murder, 95 rapes and 114 incidents of sexual offences against children in 2020. Though the police claimed that there was a dip in rape cases, which were 123 in 2019, the rising incidents of child abuse pose a major challenge for the law enforcement officers.The number of murders logged a slight increase in 2020 as compared to the previous year when Karnal witnessed 62 such cases. The triple murder in Gagsina village over a land dispute earlier this month had sent a shock wave through the district. Three persons have been arrested for their involvement in the case. Also, the district has reported 164 cases of kidnapping of which, 150 have been solved with the arrest of 28 people, the police said. Incidents of forgery and cheating saw a rise as 470 FIRs were registered in 2020 against 2019’s 298. The district witnessed 708 cases of vehicle theft, 296 cases of burglary and over 100 cases of snatching. Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said curbing organised crime was the top priority of police and further efforts will be made to put a check on crimes against women in the coming year with intensive patrolling. He said the overall crime rate of the district has come down as compared to last year and several gangs were busted by the police. “Karnal police are committed to ensure the safety and security of people,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/209-cases-of-sexual-assault-69-murders-shocked-karnal-in-2020/story-kdlNZADiNQCh3VPRB8id1H.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi shows its heart: How acts of kindness touched our lives amid pandemic||From Delhi Police’s efforts to curb the pandemic to people taking feeder passes to tend to strays during the lockdown, there are many a incidents that were reported in 2020, which gave us hope that humanity and generosity still prevails in dilwalon ki dilli. As we ring in 2021, here’s a glimpse of gestures that made us smile in the year gone by.Cops turn Covid warriorsFrom working round the clock to donating plasma to those who need it, during the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Police was lauded for most of their efforts to curb Covid-19.There were many instances wherein Delhi Police helpeded senior citizens. This included a case in April 2020, when a diabetic patient suffering from severe body pain called Station House Officer (SHO) North Rohini. The SHO directed constable Manoj to provide help to the senior citizen, by delivering medicines at his place. Not shying away from donating plasma, the cops have risen above their call of duty. Until November 2020, Delhi Police had saved the lives of more than 300 coronavirus patients. In fact, one Head Constable Krishan Kumar, working with Kapashera Police Station in Delhi donated plasma five times, after recovering from Covid-19. There were also videos on Twitter, such as this one where Delhi Police officials could be seen surprising two young girls with a small birthday celebration, during the lockdown. There was also this time when the staff of Fatehpur Beri Police Station arranged a birthday cake for a four-year-old daughter of a labourer; the birthday was celebrated with the girl’s friends in the community kitchen at the Covid camp.Help from all quarters poured in for Baba ka DhabaThe pandemic has been hard, especially on people with small businesses, but Delhiites sure know how to be large hearted! A video, by a food blogger, went viral, showing an elderly couple running out of business due to customers not turning up at their roadside eatery. And the rest, is history since this place was Baba ka Dhaba. An 80-year-old Kanta Prasad and his wife Badami Devi, had been running a small stall in south Delhi, for decades, to sell small meals. But, due to the pandemic, their sales dwindled, and Prasad was captured crying while stating his plight in the video. As soon as this video was uploaded on social media, it spread like wildfire and so many people came forward to donate money and help that the couple is today not only financially stable, but has now reportedly opened a concrete Baba Ka Dhaba in a popular Delhi market! A helping hand to homebound migrantsDuring the initial months of the pandemic and the lockdown, no work lead to migrant workers face difficulty in sustaining themselves. When a swarm of labourers started walking back to their home towns, on the outskirts of Delhi-NCR, locals turned up to help those in distress by distributing food, ration and other essentials. Denizens from all walks of life came forward for this cause. Many restauranteurs came together to provide meals for those migrants who were stuck in the Capital as well as those who were walking back home empty stomach. Some went on to feed thousands of families! The National Restaurant Association of India rolled an initiative #FeedTheNeedy, and asked its member restaurants to come forward and help the poor and the homeless. Migrant Travel Support, an initiative by four Delhi residents, also made arrangements of food, and help migrants reach their hometowns.To provide hygienic, reusable sanitary napkins to migrant women who were among labourers walking back home, seven Gurugram-based teenagers started a campaign We Stand by Her, and raised funds. Strays didn’t go unnoticedThe pandemic has been hard to us, and also to our furry friends on the streets. During the lockdown, many availed feeder passes to step out and feed the strays in whatever capacity they could. Many NGOs such as 4dogsake and Jeev Shakti Foundation, and a number of individuals also stepped up to distribute food to the strays. A Delhi-based veterinarian student, Vibha Tomar was among those whose single-handed efforts to help the canines got applauded on social media. In fact, even some cops such as Sandeep Ghai, SHO, Kalkaji and his team fed birds and monkeys at Maa Anandmayee Marg and Kabootar Chowk, to help them survive the pandemic.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-shows-its-heart-how-acts-of-kindness-touched-our-lives-amid-the-pandemic/story-vMJsu7685g0yKozAVekBAJ.html
01-01-2021||City||Chandigarh tricity area logs 101 cases, 1 more death||The Chandigarh tricity area logged 101 fresh infections and one death on New Year’s eve on Thursday. At 41, the highest number of new cases came in from Mohali, followed by 39 in the UT and 21 in Panchkula.The deceased was a 72-year-old woman of Sector-44 of Chandigarh, who died at a private hospital in Mohali. Chandigarh now has 386 active cases while Mohali district has 1,100 and Panchkula 214. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-101-cases-1-more-death/story-CHbH7MvbSenDbpG8MOEnPM.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Ringing in New Year with slogans and songs of resistance at Delhi’s Singhu border||The traffic takes longer than usual on Thursday as hundreds of people drive in their trucks, buses and cars to celebrate the New Year Eve at the Singhu border in Delhi which has become an epicentre of the ongoing farmer agitation against the new agriculture laws. At sunset, several stalls start serving hot tea and coffee, yellow sweet rice, jalebis and bread pakodas to the farmers and others gathered there on the last evening of the year 2020. A long queue winds up its way to the pizza stall that of late attracted a flurry of criticism from those against the protests. People in vehicles as well as those on foot move around singing songs of resistance and raising slogans. Also, a few cusswords are directed at the powers that be. In a short while, members of the Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha march to the main stage with flags in their hands. Malkit Singh, a senior office-bearer of the sabha says, “Punjabi writers have always been conscious about supporting social and political struggles of the people. We will raise our voices until the anti-farmer laws are withdrawn.”Also, there are singers, performers and painters from different parts of Punjab and Chandigarh to show their solidarity with the protesting farmers. Well-known theatre personality Anita Shabdeesh is with her troupe from Chandigarh to stage her play ‘Je Hun Na Bole!’ (If we don’t speak now!). The play will be staged on Friday evening as part of the New Year celebrations.In a tent, activists discuss the next course of action and are contemplating how to intensify the protests. Bir Singh, a popular singer from Amritsar says, “I will be travelling through Punjab creating awareness through songs about the farmers’ hardships.” As the night descends, some groups gather around bonfires to ward off the biting cold as the langar is being served to one and all. Navpreet Singh, a class 9 student from Kaithal, talks to the visitors from her small tent set up for the women volunteers.”It is an amazing experience to be here and I am learning so much about helping and serving people,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ringing-in-new-year-with-slogans-and-songs-of-resistance-at-delhi-s-singhu-border/story-WH1J7FRy2AfvaiR27FpmfM.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh saw driest December in five years, showers likely from Jan 2||With only 9.7mm rain recorded all through the month, 2020 saw the driest December in five years, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials revealed. The previous low was in December 2015 when only 2mm rain was recorded the whole month. IMD Chandigarh director Surender Paul said, “This year, due to lesser western disturbances, the conditions for rain didn’t form and dry winds blew over the city.”The La Nina effect, which causes oceans to remain cooler, also contributed to lesser rains this December, he added. The IMD director, however, said that from January 2, residents can expect some showers due to the western disturbances. “Light rain is likely from January 2, and it is expected to intensify on January 4 and 5 with chances of thunderstorms,” he said. Paul said that the rain will help keep the minimum temperature from falling too low. “However, if it rains during the day, the maximum temperature may fall down 1 to 2 degrees below normal. Foggy conditions will also abate from January 2, only to rise again from the night of January 6. January is the coldest month of the season for the city and it’s likely that the lowest minimum temperature of the season will also be recorded in the days that follow.”The maximum temperature of the city went up from 11.5°C on Wednesday to 16.3°C on Thursday. At 4.4 degrees below normal, it was the first day without cold wave conditions in the city since December 27.The minimum temperature went down from 4.6°C on Wednesday to 2.7°C on Thursday, classifying it as a cold wave, as per IMD. A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature falls below four degrees. Below two degrees, a severe cold wave is declared.Visibility remained affected on Thursday morning and it was below 50 metres around 8:30 am, however, by 11:30 am it went up to 1,500 metres and 4,000 metres by the afternoon. On Thursday evening, visibility was below 2,000 metres.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 16°C and 18°C while minimum temperature will remain between 4°C and 7°C.9 flights delayed, 1 cancelled due to fog Due to foggy weather conditions, one flight was cancelled while nine were delayed, said Chandigarh airport officials. The Go Air Bengaluru flight was cancelled while the departure of Go Air flight to Delhi and Indigo flights to Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata and Lucknow were delayed, the officials informed. Apart from these, Alliance Air flight arriving from Delhi, Indigo and Go Air flights from Ahmedabad also reached Chandigarh late.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-saw-driest-december-in-five-years-showers-likely-from-jan-2/story-44w2mNjuHtz6BwU2VJInlL.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House: Congress declares Babla its mayoral candidate||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) remains undecided over its choice of candidate for MC mayoral elections, the Congress on Thursday named Devinder Singh Babla as its contender. Babla, who is serving his second term as a councillor, is currently the leader of opposition in the House, and also holds the post of general secretary in Chandigarh Congress. In the mayoral election scheduled to be held on January 8, the Congress candidate for senior deputy mayor post will be Ravinder Kaur Gujral and for the deputy mayor’s post, Satish Kainth has been chosen. The prospects of a Congress candidate getting elected are negligible as the party has only five councillors in the House of 26. The BJP has 20 councilors, while the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has one. The sitting MP of the city – who is currently a leader owing allegiance to the saffron party– also has one vote in mayoral elections. In 2020 election, Raj Bala Malik had polled 22 votes out of the total 27. This time around, the SAD is likely to be absent from voting in the election. BJP has prevailed in the last four mayoral elections. With MC elections due in November-December 2021, this will be last mayoral election before the term of current MC House ends. The BJP is set to declare its nominees for the posts of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor on January 4, the last date for filling nominations. On December 30, BJP national general secretary and state party in-charge Dushyant Gautam met all 20 BJP councillors at the party’s city headquarters, Kamalam, in Sector 33. During their one-on-one meeting with Gautam, the councillors were asked to suggest two names each for the three posts - mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. Their resumes were also taken. Gautam also met party workers, former BJP MP Satya Pal Jain and former president Sanjay Tandon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-congress-declares-babla-its-mayoral-candidate/story-ybBxaAGky0XerddU4TBwfI.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Proposal to hand over Sector-25 waste plant to private contractor approved||Amid repeated disruptions by Congress councillors, the municipal corporation (MC) General House on Thursday approved the proposal to hand over the controversial waste processing plant in Sector 25 to a private operator. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors passed the agenda with a voice vote without debate after Congress councillors stormed the well of the House while thumping thalis. The Congress councillors, led by leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla, were protesting against the hiked water bills received by city residents. With the plan to hand over the plant receiving House approval, the MC will now be inviting expression of interest for the upgrade and maintenance of the plant on “as is where is basis.” The MC had taken over the plant around six months ago from the Jaypee Group after a bitter dispute over its management. The plant is currently working at around 10% of its capacity, adding to the challenges of processing solid waste in a city that produces nearly 470 metric tonnes of waste daily. Like Jaypee, MC too has been disposing of unprocessed waste at the Dadumajra dumping ground. The agency hired for the purpose will upgrade or replace the existing machinery and manage the plant. A monitoring committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) visited the plant on December 7 and reviewed its functioning. The committee had directed that the plant be upgraded in order to increase the processing capacity of the plant. The plant was built in 2008 in accordance with the Municipal Solid Waste 2000 (MSW) guidelines. All machines are already 12 years old, at the end of their life. Primary and secondary shredders are not in working condition. Notably, the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research here, in a report earlier this year, had said that “complete replacement of the machinery to process municipal solid waste with new technology” was required. The civil engineering department of the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee (IIT-R), in its status report of 500 TPD (tonnes per day) solid waste processing plant, Chandigarh, had something else to say. The machinery required immediate repairs and maintenance and after that, it could “be run at 40% of its capacity”. IIT-R had advocated setting up “a new modern 500 TPD plant for dry and wet waste treatment in the given plot. For the wet waste stream, biological treatment will be required to meet Solid Waste Management Rules (SWM), 2016, the report said. Other important decisions of the day *The MC House also approved the ₹75 crore proposal for strengthening and re-carpeting of city roads and parking lots for the financial year 2021-22. The MC will carry out recarpeting work in the new financial year as per the recommendations of NITTTR. Notably, the MC is yet to start the road recarpeting work for the current financial year (2020-2021), which it plans to start in February-March 2021. Even the road works sanctioned for 2019-2020 are yet to be completed. *House waived off interest on property tax for the period between November 22, 2004 to March 31, 2006 in temporary sheds at Industrial Area, Phase I and II *The proposal for exemption of property tax for institutional/charitable trusts was also approved. *House sanctioned ₹74 lakh for cattle pound and ₹50 lakh for dog pound at Raipur Kalan for providing public health services and fire fighting. Ugly scenes for over outgoing mayor’s performance The Congress and BJP councillors clashed repeated over the performance of the outgoing mayor Raj Bala Malik. This was the last House meet under her mayorship. Tempers particularly flared when Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla used the word “bekar” (useless) while describing the tenure of Malik. Responding to him Malik said, “You are bekar”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-proposal-to-hand-over-sector-25-waste-plant-to-private-contractor-approved/story-MS61TM8iih6javrN5Ce1lN.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CHB’s IT Park project to be costliest housing scheme in city||Even after poor public response to its Sector-53 housing scheme on account of being too expensive, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is now preparing to launch a costlier scheme in Chandigarh IT Park.After a nod from the UT administrator, the CHB finalised the tentative prices for the launch of the IT Park housing project.A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly Rs 2.75 crore, three-bedroom flat Rs 1.90 crore and two bedroom flat Rs 1.30 crore. “The rates may get higher after these are finalised before the launch of the project,” said a CHB official requesting anonymity.Last year, the CHB had to shelve plans for the Sector-53 housing scheme as buyers showed little interest in it, terming it too expensive. Against 492 flats, the CHB had received only 178 applications. Under the scheme, a 3BHK flat was priced at Rs 1.5 crore, and a 2BHK was available for Rs 1.28 crore.Project launch in April 2021UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had already given a go-ahead to its design in July 2020, but due to the pandemic, the project could not take off. The CHB plans to launch the project in April 2021.CHB will develop the project on two plots, measuring 10.51 and 6.43 acres. In all, there will be 728 flats of three categories in seven-storey towers. The towers will have two basements with a provision for parking two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors.The project land is part of 123 acres that CHB got back from Parsvnath Developers after a long-drawn legal battle.CHB had decided to launch the scheme on its own after it failed to sell 18 residential and commercial sites at an e-auction in 2018. Due to the high reserve prices, not many developers showed interest in the auction. High-end flats for government officials of the Chandigarh administration, Haryana and Punjab are also planned in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chb-s-it-park-project-to-be-costliest-scheme-in-city/story-EoznDPnO8Pyt7N0yl802PM.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Look into plaints of mangrove destruction in Uran, Maharashtra CM tells authorities||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the urban development to look into the allegations of mangrove destruction in Uran, allegedly by different project proponents. The development comes a day after environmentalists had alleged that the Raigad district administration was downplaying the destruction of mangroves and had ignored a series of spot inspections earlier.  Navi Mumbai-based green organisations Ekvira Aai Pratishthan and NatConnect Foundation, along with the traditional fishing community forum Paaramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti had on Wednesday sent an e-mail to Thackeray, drawing his attention to the mangrove destruction across Uran without the high court and Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) clearances. The reply to the complaint was received on Thursday. “We received a mail from the CMO (chief minister’s office) stating that the complaint has been referred to Dr Nitin Kareer, principal secretary, revenue, and Mahesh Pathak, principal secretary, urban development department-2,” said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, alleged that the Raigad collector had declared that there are no wetlands in Uran at the recent meeting of the high court-appointed committee. “Now the collector has written to the additional principal conservator of forests (APCCF) that no mangroves have been destroyed in Uran in several cases that we brought up. The inspection by the collector’s office, without the presence of the complainants, gave a clean chit virtually to the project proponents concerned, even as there has been an irreparable damage done to wetlands and mangroves,” said Pawar. The 400-acre Dastan phata wetland (in Uran) was allegedly turned into a dust bowl in less than six months in 2019 despite the mangrove committee halting the work amid protests by environmentalists. The green groups have alleged that the collector appears to have ignored the fact that as many as 4,500 mangroves have been destroyed by Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) as tidal water flow was blocked. The mangrove committee had also imposed a penalty of Rs1 lakh on JNPT over the issue. JNPT constructed Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s memorial on the wetland without any permissions for either digging or landfilling, as confirmed by the district administration in its response to a Right to Information (RTI) application. Yet, the collector’s latest report side-tracks the wetland issue and says there was no mangrove loss at Dastan.The groups have also blamed the National Highway Authority of India for the alleged mangrove destruction at Uran. The clearance by Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) for container terminal-4 stated that there should be no mangrove destruction and the fishing community’s movements should not be interfered with during the construction and operation of the project. Through their letter, the environmentalists had appealed to APCCF and requested the Konkan divisional commissioner and head of the mangrove committee to not close these cases till the truth comes out.“We’ve filed an FIR on mangrove destruction and the matter is pending before the court. As far as wetland issue is concerned, there is no notified wetland in Uran. The activists’ demand for verification of Panje wetland can be ascertained after seeking opinion of Wetlands Authority of India,” said Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/look-into-plaints-of-mangrove-destruction-in-uran-maharashtra-cm-tells-authorities/story-84ncfBY29jBQUSkZt6OogK.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government begins drive for conveyance deed; step won’t help, say experts||The state government has initiated a special drive to help housing societies obtain conveyance deed. The drive will be held from January1-15. However, the experts and activists point out that the government policies pass on the onus of compliance on society to shield the builders.There are more than 30,000 housing societies in Mumbai and over a lakh in Maharashtra are without conveyance deed. Housing society activists also claim that the drive is just a ‘stunt’ and will not serve any purpose. Conveyance means that society becomes the owner of the land on which the building is located. In 2012, the state government brought in the concept of deemed conveyance, where the society can bypass the builder who fails to execute conveyance deed and get it from the registrar.Advocate Vinod Sampat, who deals in real estate matters questioned the very basis of this drive. “It is mandatory on the builder to transfer the land and the building to the society within four months on the completion of the project. Ideally, the builder should be taken to task for their failure, but here we have the flat owners who are put in the dock. There are provisions in MOFA (Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act) to imprison the builder and that should ideally be applied,” said Sampat.Ramesh Prabhu, chairman of Maharashtra Societies and Welfare Association (MSWA), put the onus on the procedure, which he blamed is still cumbersome. “The residents will have to run through four different departments and fill multiple forms. It will take a minimum of one year to scrape through the entire process,” said Prabhu.The builders are reluctant, as they lose rights over the land, and all benefits like extra floor space index (FSI), transfer of developmental rights (TDR) once the conveyance deed is transferred to the society. Conveyance deed allows the society to mortgage its land for obtaining loans to carry out repair works in society.A senior official of the cooperation department, on conditions of anonymity, has justified the drive. “We have simplified the procedure to obtain conveyance deed and residents need to take advantage of this. We agree that it is cumbersome, but then residents should cooperate. It will be advantageous for them in future,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-begins-drive-for-conveyance-deed-step-won-t-help-say-experts/story-QbhBXD68vjIP9b5HAc3GjJ.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro car shed row: ‘Developer, leaseholder had agreed to build on the plot’||While the Uddhav Thackeray led-Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is keen on building an integrated Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg, a series of details that have emerged, reveals complexities involved in doing so. According to a 2017 written reply by the ministry of commerce and industry to the then member of Parliament from Mumbai North-East and BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, the Centre had received a complaint about a private builder of agreeing with the Garodias (the said leaseholder) to develop salt-pan lands at the Arthur and Jenkins Salt Works, which spreads across 500-acres on both sides of the Eastern Express Highway (EEH).The state government is keen on building an integrated Metro car shed in 102-acres of this land. Further in 2019, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), in an undertaking to the ministry of commerce, had also stated that it requires 37.32 hectare of Kanjurmarg for the Metro car depot and “MMRDA undertakes to pay the market value fixed by the department for the promotion of industry and internal trade (DIPP),” for that land. The reply by the Centre also states that the said lease was terminated in 2004, post which, it challenged in the court. The reply further states, “A representation was received in December 2016, wherein, it was indicated that 1,700 acres of land situated mainly in eastern suburban Mumbai, could be made available for affordable housing and infrastructure projects.”The salt-pan tussle between the Centre and the state dates back to the 1980s. A reply in the year 2000 by the government also states that the “Ministry of industry, department of industrial development issued orders dated January 9, 1986, December 30, 1987, and February 22, 1990, transferring 5,378 acres (approximately) of lands in Greater Bombay, on `as is where is` basis with all the assets and liabilities, to the ministry of urban development, for use as considered appropriate.” Further communication also reveals that between 2000-2003, both the Centre and the state were also looking at jointly developing these lands for mass housing projects, development of public amenities, resettlement of slums and tourism in Mumbai. Shapoorji Pallonji said that in 2009, Maheshkumar Garodia had approached the company for jointly developing the 500-acre land. It also states that it had submitted proposals to the state and central government for necessary approvals in 2013 and is also continuously following-up with the proposals. It also states, “The Government of India and the government of Maharashtra have in principle agreed to utilise the salt pan lands for urban development. Moreover, the subject lands have been reserved for housing in terms of the development plan for Greater Mumbai, for the years 1967 and 1991.” The Garodia group said, “The concerned person who is the lessee of the subject property is travelling and our office is also closed till January 3, due to the holidays and pandemic. (We) Would therefore request you to kindly give us 2-3 days to revert in the matter.” In 2014, however, the state government issued an order in respect of 2,978 acres of the salt pan as belonging to Maharashtra, which was challenged by the salt commissioner before the Konkan divisional commissioner. In 2018, the then revenue minister had also issued an order declaring various salt-pan areas as belonging to the state, which was challenged by the Centre in the court.“The Fadnavis-government knew the legal and technical complexities involved in building a car shed at Kanjurmarg. Therefore, to avoid any delays to the project, Aarey was considered appropriate. The MVA government must immediately re-start works at Aarey to avoid further delays to the project,” said Kirit Somaiya, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. A 2015 reply by the Central government also states that as per a 2010 report of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, 1206 hectares of salt pan lands comes under Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ), of which 867 hectares is in the eastern suburbs of Nahur, Mulund, Kanjurmarg and Bhandup. A senior official from MMRDA said, “The Kanjurmarg land should be handed over for public good as it will be catering to four different Metro lines.” “The Fadnavis-government knew the legal and technical complexities involved in building a car shed at Kanjurmarg. Therefore, to avoid any delays to the project, Aarey was considered appropriate. The MVA government must immediately re-start works at Aarey to avoid further delays to the project,” said Somaiya. A 2015 reply by the Central government also states that as per a 2010 report of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, 1206 hectares of salt pan lands comes under Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ), of which 867 hectares is in the eastern suburbs of Nahur, Mulund, Kanjurmarg and Bhandup. A senior official from MMRDA said, “The Kanjurmarg land should be handed over for public good as it will be catering to four different Metro lines.” Zoru Bhathena, an environmental activist said, “The Fadnavis-government created these legal complexities. The depot land does not come under salt-pan land and belongs to the state government. There is no complication involved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-car-shed-row-developer-leaseholder-had-agreed-to-build-on-the-plot/story-qeAh0GrW2dShuFNQ1ZbvBN.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Hits and misses of Maharashtra’s 2020 politics||The year 2020 – the first year of the five-year term of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra – was overshadowed by the Covid-19 pandemic, which not only posed health challenges, but also left the state in an economic crisis, which will have a cascading effect on at least the next two years. After 2019, which saw an unprecedented political development, an alliance of three parties with different ideologies – the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – to form the government in the state, political uncertainty loomed over 2020. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) kept issuing veiled threats to pull down the MVA government, keeping the Thackeray government busy on two fronts – battling the Covid-19 challenge and keeping the government floating. On November 28, as the government completed a year, it got a sense of stability, but not without the newer challenges. While the possibility of an alliance between the Sena and BJP is ruled out, the forthcoming elections to the civic bodies may see a better camaraderie between the Sena and NCP, leaving the Congress, the junior partner in the MVA government, fuming. New alliance, newer equations The New Year will see mini Assembly polls to five major municipal corporations, 10 more corporations (of the total 27) and 27 (of the total 34) district councils. During its five-year term in power, the BJP had emerged as the single-largest party in local bodies, winning more than half of the corporations and district councils that govern the city and district administrations, and jumping from the fourth to the top slot. Repeating the success may be tough for the BJP this time, given the change in the equations at the state level, and what was seen from the results in the recently held elections for six Council seats for teachers, graduates and local body seats. “However, all is not well within the alliance too. Although the three ruling parties have decided to fight all elections together, differences have started to emerge at local level. The Shiv Sena and NCP are coming together in many corporations and districts to keep the Congress away. This may lead to more fighting within the alliance over the next two years,” a Congress leader said, requesting anonymity. The Shiv Sena’s recent attack on the Congress leadership and demand for a change of guard in the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was seen as an attempt by the former to woo the NCP leadership, creating a rift between the two ruling parties. Shiv Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut batted for Sharad Pawar for the post of the UPA chief. “In the state, the Congress is a junior partner at all levels – from the Assembly to corporations and councils, in terms of its strength. If the Sena and NCP share cozy relations, they should not have any objections,” said a senior Sena leader. The challenges ahead After the initial havoc over the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state, the Thackeray government got a pat on the back for its handling of the situation. The Dharavi model and transparency in record-keeping was praised by World Health Organization and even a few international publications. However, the pandemic has paralysed the economic sustainability of the state. Against the estimated revenue receipts of ₹2.56 lakh crore in FY 2020-21, the state is staring at a shortfall of about ₹1 lakh crore. This has badly affected development projects and spending on assets generation. The state has so far borrowed more than ₹65,000 crore, most of which has been for salaries, pensions and interest payment. “The state has the Herculean task of bringing the economic growth on the track. The setback in the GDP growth will show its effect for the next few years and will hamper the development works, ” said an IAS officer in the state government, requesting anonymity. “Of the 12 months, 10 have gone fighting the pandemic, which shrunk our resources too. In 2021, the development works initiated by us will be visible. From infrastructure projects in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to job generation and foreign direct investment, the results will be significant,” said minority welfare minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik. Covid-related challenges The state spent around ₹1,300 crore a year on health services and it is less than 1% of the state GDP and much less than many other states, including Delhi (₹3,145 crore), Andhra Pradesh (₹2,150 crore) and Kerala (₹1,985 crore) in 2019-20. The total bed capacity of public health institutions in the state has been 103 beds per 1 lakh people, from 88 beds per lakh people in 1971. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced to erect a 5,000-bed hospital in Mumbai to fight contagious diseases. The project has reeled under controversy over allegations of corruption in acquiring the land for it. The Opposition has also alleged large-scale corruption in jumbo Covid facilities. “There was no proper planning while erecting these facilities and most of them were erected for the benefit of contractors,” said Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition in the legislative Council. Friction between Sena and BJP The two former allies – Sena and BJP – were at loggerheads over various issues, including alleged ideological shift, joining hands with the Congress and NCP to form a government, row over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, bills related to CAA and farm laws and shifting of Metro car shed from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg. The BJP played the role of a combative Opposition over the past 13 months. The BJP’s attempt to take the rivalry to personal level by raising questions over state minister and Uddhav Thackeray’s son Aaditya hurt the Sena the most. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari joined the BJP in taking on the state government on multiple occasions. His denial to appoint Thackeray to the Council from the governor’s quota had posed a question mark on his continuation in office in April-May. The CM was later elected to the Upper house. A similar face-off between the CM and governor was witnessed later, when the latter shot a letter to Thackeray questioning his Hindutva. The CM wrote back in a similar fashion and made the letter public. “The rift between the Sena and BJP has widened not only in the state, but also on Central level. It will affect the welfare of the state as the funds given by the Centre during the BJP-led government rule in Maharashtra were much more than what were released to the Thackeray government,” said Hemant Desai, political analyst. Darekar said the BJP was not interested in pulling down the government. “The performance of the Thackeray government has been dismal on all fronts. The state has gone back by 10 years in every field be it agriculture, industrial growth or overall development,” he said. Discontent The MVA government also faced public wrath on some of its decisions. Its retraction over the announcement of waiver to consumers from the inflated electricity bills issued during Covid-19 lockdown led to discontent among citizens. Energy minister Nitin Raut expressed his inability to extend the waiver, which could have cost the exchequer more than ₹1,000 crore. The Marathas, too, are not happy with the way the state handled the reservation issues. The community leaders blamed it for the interim stay by the apex court. Insiders in the government and within ruling parties believe the decision of shifting the car shed to Kanjurmarg from Aarey Colony was hasty, without proper study. A section of the Sena leadership, too, has admitted that the high court decision of staying the work of the car shed at Kanjurmarg has been a major setback for the government. “The BJP is politicising the issue by involving the issue of ownership of the Central government. We are hopeful that Pawarsaheb will resolve it at the earliest,” said minority welfare minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik. Malik said that after the electricity waiver setback, the ruling parties have decided to not make any announcement before due consultation within the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hits-and-misses-of-maharashtra-s-2020-politics/story-SoB6PkdcRkXNpmXHOl9nOK.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Air quality drops to very poor category in Mumbai for first time this year||The maximum and minimum temperatures in the city rose slightly as the year drew to an end on Thursday.Meanwhile, the air quality in and around Mumbai deteriorated from ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ on Thursday for the first time in 2020. Experts attributed the very poor quality of air to the inflow of air from the land (continental air) instead of that from the sea.An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator – of 307 (very poor) was recorded. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) had the worst AQI (363) among all the 10 locations, followed by Navi Mumbai and Mazagaon where an AQI of 349 and 342 was measured.“AQI in Mumbai will continue to remain in the poor category due to the inflow of continental air with low ventilation and slow dispersion of accumulated pollution, mainly from biomass burning areas of Mumbai, owing to favourable wind direction,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.Meanwhile, the Colaba station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), which represents south Mumbai, recorded a maximum temperature of 32 degrees Celsius, which was 1.3 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature rose to 20 degrees Celsius, which was 0.2 degrees Celsius above normal and 3 degrees above the lowest temperature of the season recorded on Tuesday.The Santacruz station, representative of Mumbai and the suburbs, recorded a maximum temperature of 34 degrees Celsius, which was 2.7 degrees above normal. Minimum temperatures also rose significantly on Thursday, with the mercury touching 18.5 degrees Celsius, a 1.1 degree rise above normal. This was 3.5 degrees above the lowest minimum temperature of the season (15 degrees Celsius) recorded on Tuesday. In 2020, the lowest recorded temperature was 16.4 degrees, while in 2018, it was 14.4 degrees Celsius.“The rise in temperatures is mostly due to the southeasterly winds over northwest and central India,” KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-quality-drops-to-very-poor-category-in-mumbai-for-first-time-this-year/story-y9ceSsTTBh5lXebe6JZ10J.html
01-01-2021||City||Palghar head constable suicide: Senior inspector transferred to control room||The commissioner of Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) commissionerate, has transferred senior police inspector Jaykumar Suryavanshi of Tulinj police station to the control room, and a departmental inquiry is likely to be instituted in regards to the death of Sakharam Bhoye, head constable attached to the Tulinj police station, Nallasopara (East).Bhoye shot himself in Suryavanshi’s cabin last Thursday at 8.30am.Rajendra Kamble, senior police inspector, who was heading the Manickpur police station, took charge of Tulinj police station on Thursday.Bhoye had completed his night shift and shot himself in the head using his service revolver. Hearing the shot, his colleagues rushed to the cabin and found him in a pool of blood. They took him to a private hospital where he was declared dead before arrival.The reason behind the act is not known, but according to sources, Bhoye was under a lot of work pressure from his superiors. No suicide note was found at the spot.Tulinj police have registered a case of accidental death and are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-head-constable-suicide-senior-inspector-transferred-to-control-room/story-oI17N4vwc3tDFGaOtAhoEM.html
01-01-2021||City||Dip in demand for MBA, BTech courses; rise in applications for MCA: Maharashtra CET cell||Pre-admission registrations to most of the first-year professional courses ended on Thursday. While MBA and Bachelors in Technology (BTech) courses witnessed a dip in demand despite the delay in admissions, most other courses such as architecture and computers managed to attract more applications compared to 2019.As per figures shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell, registrations for MBA stood at 41,259 in 2020 as compared to 42,586 the previous year. Similarly, first-year engineering course applications for institutes across Maharashtra stood at 94,087 in 2020 – almost 4,500 lower than the 98,676 registrations seen in 2019. While the demand for engineering courses has been on a decline in the past few years, experts believe the delay in admissions in 2020 could have discouraged more students from opting for admissions to BE/BTech courses. “In all probability, the first-year batch will have their first lecture only by the end of January and that will follow a condensed academic year. I’m sure many students must’ve opted to appear for their entrance exam again in 2021 and seek admission for the first-year course in the next academic year,” said the dean of a private engineering institute.Registrations for admissions to the courses began last month.Meanwhile, Masters of Computer Applications (MCA) witnessed 5,706 registrations in 2019, which rose to 10,027 in 2020. “Most courses have managed to retain the number of applicants and some have even attracted more students, especially courses such as MCA, for which the pre-admission registration is almost double compared to 2019. Architecture and some other courses have also attracted many students,” said an official from the state CET cell, adding that the cell will share the admission schedule for all courses soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dip-in-demand-for-mba-btech-courses-rise-in-applications-for-mca-maharashtra-cet-cell/story-YMSIhCYFCP3ETCXAcQj8NI.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Drop in sterilisation amid Covid-19 fears; doctors worry||With non-emergency and elective medical procedures being halted during the initial months of the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a drastic drop in the number of sterilisation procedures that were carried out this year. These procedures have since resumed in city hospitals, but experts are concerned about the possible consequences of fewer tubectomies in women, vasectomies in men, and interruptions in the distribution of contraceptives. According to data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in 2019, there were 17,680 tubectomies and 106 vasectomies carried out on women and men respectively. However, as of November this year, only 116 women underwent tubectomy and 11 vasectomies were performed.Tubectomy, also known as tubal sterilisation, is a permanent method of birth control in which a woman’s fallopian tubes are either permanently blocked or removed to prevent fertilisation of eggs. Vasectomy is minor surgery in which by cutting and sealing the tubes that carry sperm, fertilisation is prevented.Dr Mangla Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, said the numbers for these family planning procedures have fallen drastically this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “In the initial months of Covid-19, hospitals were only allowed to perform emergency services. So other non-emergency and elective procedures were halted. The number of tubectomies and vasectomies fell drastically,” she said.With widespread fear of contracting and transmitting Covid-19, family planning service providers had to reduce their fieldwork this year. However, since the gradual relaxation of the lockdown, sterilisation procedures have resumed at many hospitals. “We are trying to increase awareness among people through different campaigns. We are hopeful that soon people will start coming forward for sterilisation,” said Dr Gomare.Dr Gomare added that in addition to fears of contracting Covid-19, there was an anxiety among many men that getting a vasectomy will affect their masculinity in some way. ”To encourage sterilisation, we provide incentives to men. We have even started no scalpel vasectomy (NSV) technique, which is more advanced and involves the most minimal bleeding. Despite this, men get scared and always push their wives for tubectomy,” she said.“People are always sceptical about the sterilisation process, especially men. Every year, we witness a 1:20 ratio of male-female sterilisation ratio in the city. So we have to sensitise people about their needs and safety. But now, as it has been stopped since March, NGOs [non-governmental organisations] couldn’t sensitise the public and so the procedure rate has gone down,” said Sunaina Majhi, a social worker who works with BMC’s family planning department.The low numbers have raised concerns among health activists and doctors who worry about unwanted pregnancies during the lockdown. “Due to the pandemic, abortion services have also been impacted, so the number of live births will increase. Women may be forced to carry their unintended pregnancy to full term,” said VS Chandrashekar, chief executive officer, Foundation for Reproductive Health Services India.Another side effect of the lockdown for women has been the that many will not have had access to contraceptives of their choices. “The distribution of condoms and oral contraceptives has taken a hit during the lockdown. So alternative birth control measures [to sterilisation procedures] have also suffered a lot in the pandemic. This will certainly push up the population of already-overcrowded Mumbai,” said activist Dr Abhijit More. “Unplanned pregnancy can also increase health complications among women,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-drop-in-sterilisation-amid-covid-19-fears-doctors-worry/story-KGUL1TjHP2HVNIcAguYBQK.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: Over 1.38 lakh seats vacant after 4 rounds in Mumbai||More than 1.38 lakh first-year junior college (FYJC) seats in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) remain vacant after four admission rounds this year, data shared by the education department has revealed. The second special round for admissions will begin on January 1 and the second special merit-list will be declared on January 5.At the end of the special admission round which concluded on Thursday evening, of the 59,322 students who were allotted seats in the round, 44,359 confirmed their seats. The state education department will upload a list of final vacancies on Friday. After the seats under various quotas including management, minority and inhouse were surrendered post third round admissions, cut-offs in prominent colleges fell for the special list which was declared on December 28. Meanwhile, several colleges have decided to start classes from this week as more than 90% seats are filled after the special round.This year, the department had declared that there will be no first come first served (FCFS) rounds for admissions. Instead, special rounds would be conducted for students who do not get admission in regular rounds. FCFS rounds usually follow regular admission rounds wherein students can claim seats against vacancies across colleges in a particular city or district and are allotted seats based on who claims them first. These rounds were introduced in the academic year 2018-19 but were criticised by many parents and experts as they allowed students with lower scores to get into top colleges against vacant seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-over-1-38-lakh-seats-vacant-after-4-rounds-in-mumbai/story-meNPyR2cw8dL49KcbvTbEN.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai shop owner held for selling expired food products after erasing date of manufacture||htmetro@hindustantimes.com The economic offences wing of the Mumbai Police raided a grocery shop in Andheri (West) and found that the owner was allegedly selling food products after expiry date by erasing the manufacturing date on the packages with a thinner. The police have seized products worth Rs2.76 lakh from the shop. Following a tip-off, police inspector Nitin Patil along with his team conducted a raid at the grocery store run by the accused Mustaki Shaikh Yusuf in Dongri area on Kama Road. During the raid, the police found that the accused was selling biscuits, coffee milkshake packs, chocolates and wafer bars beyond their expiry dates. The officers then conducted a punchnama and seized 35 boxes of biscuits containing around 840 packets, 10 boxes of cream and crisp chocolate wafer bars, 39 boxes of coffee milkshake containing 1,170 packets, 13 boxes containing 624 packets of spice mix masala, 30 boxes of whole green olives, 90 packets of butter milk and 143 fruit juice packs. The case is handed over to Food and Drugs Administration for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-shop-owner-held-for-selling-expired-food-products-after-erasing-date-of-manufacture/story-W7sxFMid1M74yMHbbFyF6I.html
01-01-2021||City||Central Railway announcers in Mumbai go on strike after one attempts suicide over non-payment of salary||More than 200 contract-based announcers of the Central Railway (CR) went on strike on Thursday at Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar, a day after one of their own attempted suicide.On Wednesday, Venkatesh Vemuganti, 28, a resident of Ulhasnagar working as an announcer appointed by A and S Outsourcing Solutions, attempted suicide. He also recorded a video of the act and posted it online. Earlier, he had even tweeted to the ministry of labour complaining about non-payment of salary for the last four-five months. He was later hospitalised in Central Hospital.“ I had no other option than taking the step as my family is solely dependent on me. I tried to meet the authorities several times for the payment but they did not respond. It is not just me who is facing this problem but around 200 like me,” said Venkatesh.“When others learned about my state, they decided to call off their duty and went on strike. I get paid ₹12,800 monthly. The agency people also threatened me, asking to withdraw my complaints.”On Thursday, the announcers thronged the Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar and began a strike. They further travelled to CSMT to meet the authorities and raise their complaints. The strike also affected the manpower for the daily announcement at the railway stations.“We will continue the strike till our demands are met. The railway has now asked the ticket collectors to do the announcements due to our absence,” Venkatesh added. Chief public relations officer of CR, Shivaji Sutar, said, “ We have done the alternate arrangements at certain stations to avoid inconvenience to the passengers.”Meanwhile, the CR officials and the contract agency refuted the allegations claiming that the payment was done.“No payment to the outsourced agency has been withheld by Central Railway. The contractor has been advised to take appropriate action,” said Sutar.The agency, in a written letter to the CR, mentioned that the said contractor was making false allegations and trying to defame the agency.Dhumketu Dharamshi, admin manager of the agency, said, “ I personally met Venkatesh and heard his problems. We have already given a cheque of ₹18,967 to him but he refused to accept it. This clearly proves that he has fabricated the story to defame the agency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-railway-announcers-in-mumbai-go-on-strike-after-one-attempts-suicide-over-non-payment-of-salary/story-UCDxn5R0yZJ76HqOsZXAAI.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Ashram chock-a-block as border stirs worsen traffic||The Ashram intersection, already the capital’s biggest traffic choke point, has been thrown completely haywire as the public works department has extended the barricades put up for the construction of a 750-metre underpass connecting it with the Nizamuddin railway bridge on to Mathura Road towards India Gate.As other Delhi-Noida border points are closed in view of the farmers’ protest, the volume of vehicles using the Ashram route to reach UP via the DND flyway and Kalindi Kunj has increased significantly, leading to a complete breakdown of traffic management at the critical intersection.A Hindustan Times spot check on Thursday showed vehicles stuck in long traffic jams even during non-peak hours. Before the lockdown, the intersection used to handle nearly 300,000 vehicles during peak hours. The figure is now down to 250,000 but the PWD extension of the barricades carried out last week has left commuters with barely half-a-lane of motorable space, which proves woefully inadequate.“Along with the (Covid-19) pandemic, there has been a shortage of labourers, which has affected some of the work but on the other hand the Delhi government is completely prepared to deal with the situation and is trying its best to meet all the necessary timelines,” Delhi PWD minister Satyendar Jain said about the delay in the underpass project.Read more| Night curbs imposed in Delhi on December 31 and January 1 from 11pm to 6amTraffic and road design experts said the only solution to clearing the congestion on the stretch was to dedicate more resources and manpower to complete the project before the set deadline of March. The underpass had to be completed in December 2020. More efficient site management is required to streamline traffic, they said.S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said, “Things have been slow because of unforeseeable events this year but authorities should have made arrangements such as additional manpower at least towards the end of the year to make up for the time loss so that the traffic chaos could be avoided.” Another expert, Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said technology for construction has advanced immensely over the last few years, which means that construction sites can be managed more efficiently to cause minimal disruption.With the new arrangement, commuters going from New Friends Colony side towards east Delhi via Ring Road have to make their way around the roundabout of barricades, which leads to vehicles from all sides getting gridlocked at the intersection.Rishi Ranjan, a regular commuter on the stretch, said over the past week the situation had become worse than ever.“There are alternative routes to reach Noida but those are either shut off or have restrictions. There is no option but to use the Ashram intersection. I did not think traffic could get any worse when the work was limited to the NFC side of Mathura Road, but I was wrong, this extension is a nightmare for commuters,” Ranjan said.Read more| India Gate open today, Covid conditions applySudheer Trehan, another commuter, waiting at the traffic signal on Mathura Road to take the left turn towards Lajpat Nagar, said even during peak hours there weren’t enough police personnel to manage traffic.“Come here in the evening and you will find this place to be an absolute mess. Vehicles are literally standing in their spot for 15-20 minutes. Can you imagine any other road in Delhi where a driver would have the time to sit in his car and talk to you? But here I am because I know I am going to be here for another few minutes at least,” Trehan said.Other issues afflict the area too. The carriageway on Mathura Road towards Sarita Vihar from Ashram, after taking a left turn near CSIR Apartments is being used for repairing a drain pipe damaged during construction work. A little further, construction material and debris are piled onto the divider — spilling over to the road — creating another bottleneck.A senior PWD official, who wished not to be named, said over 50% work on the underpass had been completed and they hoped to finish the remaining by March.“Construction work on the ramps of the underpass has almost been completed. Now we have started the digging process underneath the Ring Road portion at the intersection. This process is likely to take one-two months to complete,” he said.After being cleared in 2016, work on the Ashram underpass was delayed for want of financial approval. On December 24, 2019, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal laid the foundation stone of the project with a deadline to complete it by December 2020, which has been extended. PWD officials said construction moved slowly initially due to the protest at Shaheen Bagh and later stopped due to the lockdown. Even though work resumed towards the end of May, progress remained slow because of labour shortage and then due to pollution-related restrictions. Traffic police officials said they had installed a temporary traffic signal for vehicles coming from the Lajpat Nagar side on to Ring Road so that they do not come on to the intersection all at once. “We are working with the PWD to manage traffic in a way that does not affect commuters. The restrictions at the borders because of the farmers’ protest were not something that we could foresee while granting permissions,” a senior traffic official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ashram-chock-a-block-as-border-stirs-worsen-traffic/story-4O6atvcKSg8yRmeVgt57eL.html
01-01-2021||City||Vasai woman drowns 45-day-old infant daughter in drum, arrested||A 25-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly murdering her 45-day-old infant daughter by drowning her in a water drum. The drum was located on the mezzanine floor of her Pachubunder house in Vasai East on Wednesday evening. The accused had delivered twin girls and was allegedly being taunted by her in-laws for not giving birth to a boy.On Wednesday afternoon, one of the twin girls went missing and the grandmother rushed to the Vasai Gaon police station. “A kidnapping case was in the process of being registered when we received an anonymous call that the girl’s body was floating in the water drum located in the loft of the house. We rushed to the spot and recovered the body,” said Kalyanrao Karpe, senior inspector, Vasai police station.“We questioned the accused who confessed to the crime. The woman said that she as she and her sister-in-law both had only daughters, her mother-in-law would allegedly taunt her, saying that there was no male heir to carry forward the family name,” said Karpe. The accused claimed that she was also irritated that the infant cry all day, said the officer. The woman’s husband is a fish labourer (khalasi) on a trawler, and he had gone for a fishing trip at the time of the incident.“We have arrested the accused under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). She was produced before the Vasai court on Thursday and has been remanded in police custody for five days,” said Karpe. The post mortem report is awaited but prima facie the baby died due to drowning inside the drum, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vasai-woman-drowns-45-day-old-infant-daughter-in-drum-arrested/story-0yxchrRNxnDC7QsG2yMSUJ.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||India Gate open today, Covid conditions apply||The Delhi Police on Thursday said that it will not impose any restriction on people visiting India Gate on January 1 during the day time, if they follow social distancing and other Covid-appropriate behaviour. However, the people will be asked to disperse a little before 11pm, in accordance with the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) order on Thursday, which barred the assembly of more than five persons on December 31 and January 1 after 11pm in the capital.Thousands of people gather at India Gate lawns on the New Year’s day every year. Police said teams would deployed around India Gate so that there is no crowding. In an order early on Thursday, the DDMA said the restriction on gatherings after 11pm was being imposed as “it is apprehended that gatherings, congregations and celebrations of New Year pose a considerable threat of spread of the virus...”The non-licensed restaurants and roadside eateries at prominent market places too will have to begin wrapping up their businesses by 10pm on Friday so that the restrictions on gatherings from 11pm to 6am on Saturday are ensured, said the Delhi Police on Thursday. “We will follow the DDMA order as per the book. So, visitors to India Gate won’t be stopped on Friday until 11pm. After that, we will ensure that there are no gatherings until 6am,” said Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), who is also the Delhi Police spokesperson.By late Thusday evening, Delhi police had started setting barricades at the entry points to Connaught Place and were ensuring the unlicensed vendors shut shop Read more| Delhi records 574 Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours, one of the lowest in monthsThe police said they will ensure that there are no queues outside licensed restaurants and bars -- which have been exempted from the restrictions -- on Friday. “We have informed these businesses that their customers should be ushered in as soon as they arrive. No gathering outside such places will be tolerated,” said another senior police officer. The police have also held meetings with market and residents welfare associations to ensure a strict compliance of the restrictions. “Through the day, we will be using our public announcement systems to make people aware of the restrictions. But a little before 11pm on Friday, we will start requesting people to disperse,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP of South district, where several popular malls and markets are located. Thakur said that mall authorities are aware of the restrictions and will ensure action on their own.A second police officer requesting anonymity said that special attention will be paid to unlicensed eateries and roadside vendors which are expected to witness substantial gathering on Friday as well. Read more| UK Covid-19 variant growing rapidly, affecting more people under 20: Study“Such eateries have been asked to take their last order by 10pm and deliver them by 10.30pm so that the 11pm deadline is adhered to. The police in all districts will be armed with a list of unlicensed restaurants so that they can follow up,” said the officer.The police officer said legal action will be used only as a last resort and they largely aim to persuade people to adhere to the restrictions. “We don’t want to play a spoilsport, so we will use discretion in booking violators,” said the officer. The police have also formed teams in important markets to visit the licensed restaurants and bars to count the number of visitors, if the need be, to ensure that the occupancy is not over 50%. If the restaurants are not found to be adhering to the prescribed Covid-19 rules inside, the police will book the owners under sections of Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Jaspal Singh, joint commissioner of police (New Delhi range), said that while it will be a challenge for the police to curb the new year celebrations on Friday, the police are well equipped to disperse gatherings.The traffic police, meanwhile, will decide whether or not to allow vehicles on the C-Hexagon on Friday. Manish Kumar Agrawal, joint commissioner of traffic police, said that if the pedestrian movement is high, then vehicles could be diverted from 10am on Friday, from points before the India Gate. In recent years, the India Gate lawns have got a footfall of tens of thousands on the first day of the year. Such gathering of visitors were also common on New Year’s eve, when vehicles would completely clog the C Hexagon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/india-gate-open-today-covid-conditions-apply/story-s6xNrpYbOC9d30c093854I.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Hemant Nagrale, Param Bir Singh top contenders for the post of Maharashtra DGP||With director-general of police (DGP) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal being appointed to head the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), 1987-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Hemant Nagrale and 1988-batch officer Param Bir Singh and Rashmi Shukla are top contenders for the post.Central government’s department of personnel and training issued an order on Wednesday appointing 1985-batch Jaiswal as director-general of CISF. Jaiswal is expected to be relieved early next week, with additional charge handed over to one of the director generals. The state government, at the same time, will begin the procedure for the new appointment to replace Jaiswal.Though Sanjay Pandey (1986-batch) is the senior-most officer, according to the officials from the home department, he is unlikely to be considered for the post, because of his number of litigations against the administration. Pandey is director-general (DG) of home guards. Followed in the seniority are Bipin Bihari and Surendra Pandey (both 1987 batch) and serving as DG, Police Housing Corporation and DG, prisons respectively. The officers, however, are out of the zone of consideration as they are retiring in January and February respectively.After Sanjay Pandey, Hemant Nagarare (DG, legal and technical), Param Bir Singh (Mumbai Police commissioner), Rashmi Shukla and Rajnish Sheth (all 1987 batch) are the senior-most officers to be considered for the post.“We will send names of the officers who have completed 30 years of the services to the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) for the empanelment. Based on the seniority and the confidential reports during service tenure, the UPSC sends back panel of three officers to choose from. The chief minister and home minister take a final call on the appointment,” said an official from the home department.The Opposition has, however, slammed the state government for losing a senior and efficient officer. “Jaiswal opted for the central deputation as he was fed up with the style of working of the state government. He was not being taken into confidence while dealing in many administrative decisions including transfers of senior officers. Upset over this, Jaiswal opted for the central deputation,” said leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hemant-nagrale-param-bir-singh-top-contenders-for-the-post-of-maharashtra-dgp/story-WqlSY1OAYTmZybLIE90ZzI.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Maharashtra: December saw fewer cases than October, November||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 3,509 new Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths, taking the tally to 1,932,112 and toll to 49,521, at a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.56%. In December, Maharashtra recorded fewer cases and deaths than in the past two months (post the September peak). There were 103,286 cases and 2,275 deaths in December, against the 140,121 and 3,127 in November, and 277,484 and 6,855 in October, data revealed.As of Thursday, 1,828,546 patients in Maharashtra have recovered, of which, 3,612 recovered on Thursday. The state has a recovery rate of 94.64%. The doubling rate of cases is presently 338.5 days and the state has 52,902 active cases. Meanwhile, 4,474 United Kingdom (UK) returnees who had landed between November 15 and December 23 have been traced till date. RT-PCR tests have been conducted on 2,917 of them, with 57 positive samples, officials said. Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “The situation in the state is under control, despite the expectation that cases will surge. At its peak in mid-September, Maharashtra’s positivity rate was 24.6%, which means every 4th sample tested was a positive. Now, the positivity rate is about 7% per day. Strengthened surveillance, public participation and herd immunity have helped the state bring down its numbers considerably in the past three months.” Read: Maharashtra extends lockdown till January 31; 57 UK returnees test positiveMaharashtra has conducted 12,747,633 tests so far. The Maharashtra government had on Wednesday extended the ongoing lockdown, imposed in view of the pandemic, till January 31. However, almost all restrictions imposed in the state under the lockdown that began in the third week of March 2020 have been lifted, except for curbs on the reopening of private and government offices, swimming pools and interstate activities. Local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are yet to begin operations for all commuters.Mumbai on Thursday recorded 714 new cases and nine deaths, taking the tally to 293,436 and toll to 11,116. The CFR in the city is 3.7%. Among municipal corporations surrounding Mumbai, Thane recorded 140 cases and two deaths on Thursday, taking its tally l to 56,204 and toll to 1221. Navi Mumbai recorded 83 new cases and two deaths, taking its tally to 53,378 and toll to 1,080; Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 84 new cases and no new deaths, taking the tally to 60,653, and toll to 990; Vasai-Virar recorded 24 new cases , taking the tally to 6,648 and its toll remained 346.Pune district has the highest number of active cases (13,572), followed by Thane district at 10,228, and Mumbai at 9,325.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-maharashtra-december-saw-fewer-cases-than-october-november/story-GZ9oLlUjaQq8nsrl2VLjkO.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||NHAI to build new link to Kurali-Chandigarh road||After scrapping the project to widen the 40-km long Kharar-Banur-Tepla road in July 2019, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has come up with an alternate greenfield alignment, a 32km road from IT chowk ( PR-7) near Airport to the Kurali-Chandigarh road from the villages of Nagiari and Devi Nagar here.A greenfield road is built in an area where there is no construction.NHAI, it is learnt, issued a notification recently asking the farmers of around 60 villages for objections and acquisition of land within 21 days.The new road will decongest Chandigarh and Zirakpur by providing an alternate route to traffic coming from Delhi and going to Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.“We have issued the notification and around 400 acres land will be acquired in around 60 villages of Mohali district,” said NHAI project director Pradeep Atri.NHAI will also widen the existing road to six lanes of 40 km from IT city chowk to Ambala via Banur and Tepla.The matter of an alternate route had been taken up in February, 2020, by member of Parliament Manish Tewari with Union minister Nitin Gadkari, following which the ministry in its letter had stated that NHAI was checking the feasibility of the greenfield section.Bids for appointment of a consultant to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) had been received and was under evaluation, the letter said.After issuing the notification for widening 40-km-long Kharar-Banur-Tepla road in 2018, the NHAI had scrapped the project in July 2019 owing to high costs.Inderjit Ghai, managing director, General Highway and Infracom Private Limited, who prepared the detailed project report for the scrapped project said, NHAI had decided to explore the possibility of a new greenfield alignment. “I feel that the proposed project is also viable under Build Operate Transfer (BOT) as traffic is huge on the road and its cost can be recovered in a decade’s time. In addition, there are other benefits like reduction in pollution level, reduction of road accidents and congestion in Chandigarh city and Zirakpur, he said.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nhai-to-build-new-link-to-kurali-chandigarh-road/story-EswLxuHdE0rHXXUWgKR2xL.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government issues strict rules for latecomers at office||The Maharashtra government has changed the rules for its employees reporting late to the office on a regular basis. The state has decided to take action against employees and officials who are tardy more than twice a month. Those who have a habit of reporting late will start losing their leaves against the delay of each day.The state government has already provided flexibility in timings for those posted at Mantralaya, the state headquarters, considering that most of them stay far away and have to travel for hours to reach the island city. The reporting time at Mantralaya is 9.45am, but they are allowed to clock in by 10.45am.“From now on, those reporting at Mantralaya after 11.15am twice in a month won’t face any action but will start losing one casual leave for every consecutive late day. If casual leaves are utilised, then earned leave or unpaid leave will be deducted as punishment. The above rule is applicable for an employee or official for up to nine days in a month. In case the concerned employee or official repeats the same for the tenth day in a month, he or she will start losing paid leaves as punishment,” states the government resolution issued by the state general administration department on Thursday.Earlier, staff members were marked present for only half the day if they arrived late and did not work overtime to match the time of delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-issues-strict-rules-for-latecomers-at-office/story-UubkicumYNP0uWR9Rs4UPP.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM dedicates Kharar flyover to citizens||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday dedicated the Chandigarh-Kharar elevated corridor to the citizens as a New Year gift, saying it was the fulfilment of a long pending need of the region to ease traffic congestion on the route.With the third phase of the corridor project, from the Sector-39 roundabout in Chandigarh to Khanpur, opening on December 28, the work is now 96% complete. The road at Khanpur is expected to be completed by mid January 2021. The highway is critically important as it connects Chandigarh to parts of Punjab, besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Kharar used to earlier be a major traffic bottleneck as 50,000 vehicles were crossing the stretch on an average before the lockdown. The CM on the occasion also congratulated the civil administration for ensuring peaceful acquisition of land and resettlement of land owners, praising the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for completing the project, often delayed due to what he said were bottlenecks created during the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party rule. Govt inherited ‘messy legacy’Capt Amarinder Singh said when his government took over, it inherited the messy legacy of the erstwhile regime. Traffic was not diverted, high tension wires were not removed by the Electricity Board and acquired structures not vacated by land owners due to non-payment of land compensation amount, along with multiple court cases and stay orders. Notably, the project was started on June 9, 2016, and the first phase from the Sector-39 roundabout-Verka Chowk to Balongi Underpass was opened on September 25, 2020; the second phase (Desu Majra to Khanpur) towards Ludhiana on December 12, 2020, followed by the third phase from Daun to Desumajra on December 28, 2020. Later, in an informal interaction with the media, the CM thanked Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari for undertaking the national highway project in Punjab. Rs 27 crore sanctioned for Landran projectOn other such projects, Capt Amarinder Singh said the Katra-Delhi 16-lane expressway and other projects were in the pipeline with the land acquisition process underway. He also said Rs 27 crore had been sanctioned for the project at Landran. Earlier, speaking at the event, Punjab cabinet minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Chandigarh to Khanpur project comprising a 3.2 km long, six-lane elevated corridor supported over a single pier, with three underpasses (Balongi, Daun and Airport Road), and major interchange at Khanpur connecting to Ludhiana and Ropar road would bring to an end the frequent traffic snarls. Commuters travelling daily to and from the tricity would benefit the most, he added. Those present at the inauguration included Jagmohan Singh Kang, chairman market committee, Kharar; inspector general, Ropar Range, Amit Prasad, additional deputy general, Mohali, Aashika Jain, and senior superintendent of police, Mohali Satinder Singh with subdivisional magistrate, Kharar, Himanshu Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-dedicates-kharar-flyover-to-citizens/story-GvbyQBw3UbvvDsnCKyO9KM.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Marshal dies in hit-and-run at Kanjurmarg||A 48-year-old beat marshal was mowed down by an unidentified truck driver at Kanjurmarg while he was on duty in the early hours of Thursday.According to the Parksite police, the marshal, identified as Deepak Gupta, was standing near Huma Talkies at LBS Road leading towards Bhandup at 5am when he was hit from behind.Police said that a truck going towards Bhandup was speeding and did not notice Gupta despite him waving the orange baton alerting vehicles of a roadblock for an under-construction Metro site.Gupta was dragged a few metres before the truck driver fled. The other marshals and Metro workers later alerted the police and rushed Gupta to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.Police scanned CCTV footage of the area and obtained the registration number of the truck involved in the hit and run.“The truck that killed Gupta was identified and its number was put on surveillance. We are now tracking the owner and the driver of the truck,” said an officer from Parksite police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/marshal-dies-in-hit-and-run-at-kanjurmarg/story-sufZwL0AhVlQMFoXbwF8JP.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Subdued New Year’s eve celebrations in Chandigarh tricity due to Covid, cold||Though movement in late hours was not restricted in Chandigarh and Panckula, even as night curfew was imposed in Mohali, New Year celebrations were subdued in the tricity because of the Covid-19 pandemic and cold weather conditions. Most parts of Chandigarh were deserted and though a small crowd had gathered at Sector 17 to raise pro-farmer slogans, people dispersed by 10 pm as police had declared that the inner roads of the sector would be vehicle free zones.Few cars were on the road and a few small groups were seen heading for Sector 26 and Elante Mall. PCR vehicles patrolled the roads with police personnel using flashlights to check vehicles at nakas. Breathalysers, however, were not being used till this report was filed.Though only 50% occupancy capped off at 200 was allowed in clubs and hotels, many of them cancelled parties in the UT area. Chandigarh Club president Sandeep Sahni said they were open for dining in for members as on normal nights without celebrations. Chandigarh Press Club too cancelled events because of the hardships faced by journalists due to Covid-19,according to a release. Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) held a small members only event with a live saxophonist, said Ravibir Singh, former CGC president, who will again take charge in January 2021. Hotels and restaurants too did not plan anything out of the ordinary. “Celebrations planned by hotels and restaurants were similar to other years, only smaller gatherings were allowed in line with Covid protocols,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.The hoteliers, Gupta added, would definitely follow all the guidelines of the UT administration, and adviser Manoj Parida, who had supported them throughout the lockdown days.The head of the National Restaurant Association (NRAI’s) Chandigarh Chapter Sunveer Sondhi added that all restaurants closed their gates once 50% occupancy was reached. “Since New Year’s eve parties were not allowed in Mohali we were on our toes to ensure that the social distancing rules were followed,” he said. The Sector 17 shopkeepers also kept celebrations low key with Neeraj Bajaj, president of the Business Promotion Council, Sector 17, saying, “Shopkeepers decorated the markets block wise but no celebrations were held in the Sector 17 plaza or near the water fountain there.” Elante was offering deals for up to January 18, said Nishank Joshi, chief marketing officer of Nexus Malls.Everything shut after 9pmMohali was deserted after malls, clubs and restaurants closed down by 9 pm sharp. Yograj, the manager of Casba, a popular New Year hotspot, said no events were organised and the resort closed down at 9 pm after dinner.Another senior official of Virtuous Retail South Asia Ltd or VR Punjab in Kharar said only discounts on clothing brands and food were being offered.The Forest Hill Golf and Country Club Resort in Nayagaon too shut down by 9 pm after dinner, said manager Satish Kumar.Barricades, checksAt Panchkula, police took precautions to keep revellers off roads by putting up barricades at 12 points, including one at Morni T-point.According to the deputy commissioner of police, personnel patrolled in their beat areas and kept a check on miscreants. Police were also present near pubs, bars, hotels, resorts with barricades put up at 41 places late at night.Among party hotspots here, the Gymkhana Club cancelled all events for the first time since 1994. “Usually 800 to 1,000 people come for celebrations on New Year’s eve,” said a worker at the club. However, most hotels had 60% occupancy. An official at Bella Vista said: “We have made arrangements to ensure safety of guests. However, no party was organised here,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/subdued-new-year-s-eve-celebrations-in-chandigarh-tricity-due-to-covid-cold/story-8socSX3uZMRYGo9Uh2JoRP.html
01-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to hold Covid-19 vaccine dry run at Pune, Nagpur, Jalna and Nandurbar districts on January 2||The Maharashtra government plans to conduct a dry run drive for the Covid-19 vaccination in four districts, Pune, Nagpur, Jalna and Nandurbar on January 2. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the drive will be conducted at three health centres in each of the districts. According to the minister, 25 people at each centre have been chosen for the mock drill of the vaccination drive.The health centres will be equipped with a waiting room, vaccination room and examination room apart from facilities such as electricity connection, internet connectivity and security arrangements, Tope said.After conducting a dry run of vaccination in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat on December 28 and 29, the Centre has now planned to extend the drill to the rest of the country as part of the preparedness for the actual vaccination. In the vaccine dry run, the entire process of transporting the vaccines from storage to the site, administering them to participants and feeding data on the Co-WIN app is practised. The drive in the state was announced after a meeting between the state and the centre on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-hold-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-at-pune-nagpur-jalna-and-nandurbar-districts-on-january-2/story-Yg7ynw0KQLjP9GwxOnU5mM.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||Mercury falls to 3.3°C, may go up from Jan 2: IMD||Delhi’s average mean minimum temperature this December was the second-lowest in the last 15 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The minimum temperature on Thursday also dipped to the season’s lowest, at 3.3 degree Celsius. IMD scientists said the cold wave will continue in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) on Friday, but the minimum temperature will start increasing, and is expected to touch 7°C by Sunday. Data released by the IMD on Thursday showed that the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this December was 7.1°C, lower than 8.3°C — the normal for this month. In 2018, this had dipped to 6.7°C, according to IMD data. Before that, the average MMT for December was lowest in 2005 (6°C) and in 1996 (5.9°C). Delhi also recorded eight cold wave days this December, the same as in 2018. The city had recorded nine cold wave days in 1965, the most so far on record, the IMD said. Delhi on Thursday also recorded the lowest minimum temperature of the season, with the mercury at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker of the city, dipping to 3.3°C, four degrees below the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 17.4°C, two below normal. Dense fog also reduced the visibility at the Palam observatory to 50 metres. Fog hits flights at IGIASeveral flyers were stranded at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport on Thursday morning as fog disrupted operations, forcing two incoming flights to be diverted and delaying the departure of other flights. But no flight was cancelled, airport officials said adding that the impact was lower because all three runways were operational. Read more| 2020: A year of strange weather eventsAccording to officers, CAT III low visibility procedures were implemented around 2am at the airport, as the runway visual range recorded visibility below 200 metres. The lowest visibility was recorded at 175m, because of which two incoming flights, one from Kolkata and another from Dubai, had to be diverted to Jaipur as they could not land in Delhi. The fog also disrupted departure of scheduled flights during the early hours of Thursday. “Some departures were delayed when the visibility dropped drastically. This caused delay to the following flights also, affecting 50-60 flights scheduled on Thursday. However, the situation improved in the afternoon and also because the air traffic at the airport is less as compared to pre-Covid times,” said an officer from the airport who wished not to be named. In order to accommodate more passengers, the airport operator also plans to reopen Terminal 1, which is currently shut due to ongoing expansion work. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said clear skies over Delhi-NCR, multiple western disturbances affecting the Himalayan region and the global impact of La Niña were the major reasons behind such low minimum temperatures. La Niña is characterised by below-normal sea surface temperatures in the Pacific Ocean near the equator, a result of shifting wind patterns in the atmosphere. “Delhi recorded “near-normal” minimum temperatures till December 12 as a result of clouds and rainfall in the plains under the influence of western disturbances affecting the region,” he said. Read more| Farmers’ protest: Consensus on two issues, says Tomar; next meeting on January 4Clear skies also pushed the temperature below normal this season. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground, he added. “After December 12, western disturbances mostly affected the western Himalayan region, leading to significant snowfall and rain over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh,” Srivastava said. He, however, said that from Friday the temperatures will start rising again as an impact of another active western disturbance crossing over Delhi-NCR. On Friday, the minimum temperature is likely to remain around 4 degree Celsius, and by Sunday it is expected to increase and reach up to 7 degree Celsius. Meanwhile, with the low temperature and slow wind speed, pollution levels also spiked on Thursday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Thursday was 347, in the ‘very poor’ category. On Wednesday, the overall AQI of the city was 290, in the ‘poor’ zone. The CPCB on Thursday reiterated its order from December 23, asking the agencies to step-up enforcement and keep stone-crushers and hot-mix plants shut till January 2. IMD scientists said that with an approaching western disturbance, the wind speeds are expected to improve, bringing pollution down. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said that the AQI is expected to improve from Saturday significantly from Saturday. “There will be marginal improvement on Friday, but from Saturday there would be a significant improvement because of improved wind speed,” Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mercury-falls-to-3-3-c-may-go-up-from-jan-2-imd/story-CCuE9SGrr4ym8Cdd9t5aAN.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||BJP launching planned attacks on AAP leaders: Raghav Chadha||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha on Thursday alleged that ever since his party has extended support to the protest by farmers against the three new farm laws, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had been launching “planned attacks” on AAP leaders. The BJP, however, dismissed the allegations as “baseless”. The AAP has come out in support of the thousands of farmers who are camping on Delhi’s borders, demanding repeal of the three farm laws that seek to open up agricultural trade. The party had voted against the bills in Parliament when they were enacted in September.“Ever since Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal spoke up in support of the farmers and their rights, there have been repeated attacks on the elected representatives of the Aam Aadmi Party. These are all planned attacks. They made the police put the CM under house arrest. Then, BJP supporters and leaders attacked the residence of deputy CM and later the office of the Delhi Jal Board,” said Chadha, who is an MLA from Rajendra Nagar and vice-chairperson of the jal board. Chadha said, “It was not just physical attacks, they are trying to exert psychological pressure on us, picking and choosing different members of the AAP to attack at will......Last night, two suspicious cars were parked outside Kalkaji MLA Atishi’s residence… It is clear that the BJP is carrying out pointed attacks on us.” Read more| ‘Support historic movement’: AAP leader Raghav Chadha sets up free WiFi at Singhu border for farmersAtishi on Thursday tweeted that a “BJP leader and his aides” were trying to intimidate her and family. She said that she had sought an appointment with Delhi police commissioner on Wednesday but he did not meet her. “ …I hope he will act soon on this intimidation of me and my family,” she tweeted.Reacting to Atishi’s allegations, Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal said, “They were advised to meet the respective joint commissioners. Commissioner of police, Delhi, is responsible for law and order of the whole of Delhi. He is at present engaged in the law and order arrangements for the farmers’ agitation and New Year’s eve.” “The law and order situation in Delhi is very sound and well under control. The concerned can seek an appointment with concerned joint commissioner and deputy commissioner of police, who have been directed to look into their grievances,” Mittal said in a statement.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations. They are trying to divert attention from their failures. The AAP government in Delhi owes Rs 13,000 crore to the BJP-ruled municipal corporations. They have not paid the money and thousands of municipal employees are suffering. They are not getting salaries on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-launching-planned-attacks-on-aap-leaders-raghav-chadha/story-kcimEJRITMOGoeKIMuYbLO.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||BJP runs campaign to demand dues from Delhi government, AAP calls it drama||Office bearers of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Delhi unit, party MLAs and municipal councillors on Thursday orgainsed a public awareness campaign (Jan Jagran Abhiyan) at 10 prominent places across the city accusing the Delhi government of “deliberately” crippling the municipalities by not paying dues of Rs 13,000 crore.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), however, rejected the campaign as a drama by the BJP to divert the attention from the failures of MCDs. They BJP workers held protests, pasted posters and flew banners at flyovers and roads at ITO, Raja Garden, Dhaula Kuan, ISBT Kashmere Gate, near AIIMS flyover, Khanpur, Vasant Kunj, Wazirabad, Vivek Vihar and Laxmi Nagar among other places.Leader of the opposition in Delhi assembly Ramveer Singh Bidhuri, along with party MLAs Mohan Singh Bisht, OP Sharma, Anil Bajpai, Abhay Verma led protests in their constituencies. Read more| Night curbs imposed in Delhi on December 31 and January 1 from 11pm to 6amJai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, who participated in the campaign at ISBT, said the Delhi government was “wilfully not releasing” the dues of Rs 13000 crores to make civic bodies “financially crippled”.“They (government) are doing it so that corporations can neither do any development work nor can pay salaries to their employees on time. It (the dues) is our constitutional right and we will take it. We will continue the fight till the Delhi government releases it,” Prakash said.The mayor added that the Aam Aadmi Party was “playing politics” by not releasing the funds so that they could take advantage in the 2022 municipal elections.Delhi BJP spokesperson, Naveen Kumar said on January 3, about 300,000 workers from 13,750 booths along with RWA members, and BJP leaders would join the campaign.In a statement, the AAP said that due to the rampant corruption in the BJP-ruled MCDs for the past 15 years, they have no other way to hide their failures than spreading a lie regarding the AAP government. “The claim that AAP government owes an imaginary sum -- Rs 13,000 crore -- to MCDs is a mere drama by the BJP. The BJP leaders are trying to distract the attention of people from the issue of non-payment of salaries to MCD employees. These claims are completely orchestrated and to defame the Aam Aadmi Party government. In court orders of November 5 and December 16, it was never noted that the Kejriwal government owes any money to the BJP-ruled MCDs. More importantly, the standing counsel of the BJP-ruled MCDs also never mentioned such pending funds during the hearing in the court,” the statement said.Read more| Ashram chock-a-block as border stirs worsen trafficThe AAP added that as elections to the municipal bodies are nearer, the BJP is enacting a drama of Rs 13000 crore dues to divert the attention of the people of Delhi from its failures. “Today, teachers, doctors, nurses, safari karamcharis, etc. working under the municipal corporation are protesting, agitating and even going on hunger strike to get their salary. The MCD is involved in a corruption case of Rs 2,500 crores, which is the biggest scam in the history of Delhi. In PM (Narendra) Modi’s own survey, it was noted that the BJP has transformed Delhi into the dirtiest cities of India,” the AAP said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-runs-campaign-to-demand-dues-from-delhi-government-aap-calls-it-drama/story-gsBr7ahdTlk6JxgPmFDThO.html
01-01-2021||Delhi||As cases fall, Delhi govt orders 115 hospitals to scale down Covid beds||The number of beds reserved for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the city may drop by 14,000 beds as the Delhi government ordered 108 private hospitals and seven of the hospitals run by it to de-escalate the number of Covid-19 beds in view of fewer cases being reported. Delhi has, as on Thursday evening, reported fewer than 1,000 cases for seven days in a row. At present, only 11% of more than 18,700 beds earmarked for the treatment of the viral infection across the city were occupied. Just 19% of the 5,048 intensive care unit (ICU) beds — both with and without ventilators — were occupied as on Thursday evening, according to the state government’s Delhi Corona app. “The occupancy of Covid-19 beds has gone down and has reached a comfortable level. With over 85% of the beds vacant, the government has decided to convert the GTB and Lok Nayak hospitals that were completely Covid be made partially Covid. All other services will be restarted soon,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 pandemicThe Delhi government on Thursday decided to reduce 2,140 beds earmarked for the treatment of patients with Covid-19 across seven of its hospitals, including Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals, both of which will now start treating non-Covid patients as well. As for private hospitals, five that were completely converted into Covid-19 facilities have been asked to retain all the beds, whereas 108 others were directed to de-escalate them. Currently, the 108 hospitals account for 15,096 of all Covid-19 beds available in the city. Of these, hospitals were asked to keep a minimum of 3,077 beds. Additionally, 32 hospitals that had 1,080 beds were asked to reserve Covid-19 beds as per their discretion. PRIVATE HOSPITALS FOR THOSE WITH NEW VARIANTThe Delhi government on Thursday also ordered four private hospitals in the city were ordered to create a special isolation ward for international travellers who might have the mutant variant of the Sars-CoV -2 virus first spotted in the United Kingdom. The hospitals include Max Smart Superspeciality hospital-Saket, Batra hospital, Fortis Superspeciality hospital-Vasant Kunj, and Sir Ganga Ram City hospital. “In order to create institutional isolation facility in private sector for international passengers who have travelled from or transited through United Kingdom in the past four weeks (November 25 to December 24, 2020) and tested positive, the authorities of the following hospitals are directed to establish separate isolation unit for such passengers on payment basis with immediate effect,” read the notice by Dr RN Das, the medical superintendent of the nursing homes in Delhi.So far, beds had been designated in Lok Nayak hospital to isolate Covid-positive persons likely to be carrying the new variant of the virus. The hospital so far has 39 such persons admitted to its special isolation ward.Read more| Delhi records 574 Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours, one of the lowest in months“Consequent upon reduction in reporting of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the competent authority has decided to de-escalate the number of dedicated beds reserved for Covid in the following hospitals,” read an order by the special secretary (health) SM Ali. Both Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals will reduce their Covid-19 beds by nearly 1,000, which is the highest among the seven hospitals, as per the order. Following them will be the Rajiv Gandhi Super speciality hospital in Tahirpur that will reduce the number of beds by 150, the extra ones that were added for Covid-19 patients during the third surge in the number of cases in November. “We will take a couple of days to rearrange the facilities. We have 121 Covid-19 patients at the moment. All of them will be moved to a single block, and the other services will be started in other buildings and a plan will be made to reduce contact between the patients and the staff working in the two areas,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital. Another senior doctor from the hospital said Lok Nayak will likely restart outpatient clinics January 4 onwards and admissions of patients from among them will start in the rest of the 1,000 beds at the hospital. “This is a step in the right direction. However, there is still significant challenge for the surgery students – all anaesthesia residents are involved in the care of the Covid-19 patients and no surgeries can take place without them. Also, we have requested the administration to start the college for the undergraduate students,” Dr Keshave Singh, president of the resident doctors association of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-cases-fall-delhi-govt-orders-115-hospitals-to-scale-down-covid-beds/story-wnl2awm6kvrOuh5I3eZBeI.html
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Mastermind of Shaurya Chakra awardee’s killing in Punjab arrested at Delhi airport||Punjab gangster Sukhmeetpal Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, who is also the mastermind of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu’s killing at Bhikhiwind near Tarn Taran on October 16, has been arrested from Delhi airport. Bhikhariwal, who had been traced to Dubai since December 8, was arrested upon his arrival at the airport by the special cell police of the national capital on Thursday morning, Punjab Police officials said. They have been in constant touch with Delhi Police. Bhikhariwal’s name emerged during the interrogation of the five men arrested by Delhi Police on December 7 after an encounter. Two of the five —Sukhdeep Singh alias Sukha and Gurjeet Singh alias Bha —were from Gurdaspur district. While the other three were from Kashmir and linked to a terror outfit based in Pakistan. Bhikhariwal was rounded up by Delhi Police with the help of Dubai police on December 7 and the process for his deportation had been underway since then. MURDER MOTIVE YET TO BE ASCERTAINED Punjab Police said Sukha and Gurjeet had arrived on a motorcycle at Sandhu’s house on October 16 and shot him dead at point blank range. Eleven people, including two jailed gangsters, were arrested for the murder in November. Sandhu’s killing was orchestrated by the two jailed gangsters, Ravinder Singh Gian and Sukhdeep Singh, from Patiala and Ferozepur prisons at the behest of Bhikhariwal. The police, however, didn’t disclose the motive behind Sandhu’s killing, saying: “Only Bhikhariwal knows the reason.” Tarn Taran Police have been working on various theories, while Sandhu’s family members have been terming the killing an act of terror. Sandhu and his wife Jagdish Kaur had got bravery awards for fighting terrorism during its peak in Punjab. Tarn Taran police said they will bring Bhikhariwal on production warrant once the investigation of Delhi Police is completed. On Tuesday, a local court turned down the plea of Tarn Taran police seeking a production warrant of Sukha and Bha, citing the coronavirus pandemic. WANTED IN 10 CRIMINAL CASES IN PUNJAB Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale had said efforts were on to bring the duo on production warrant as the custodial interrogation of them is vital in the Sandhu murder case. Bhikariwal is wanted to the Punjab Police in around 10 criminal cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder, robbery, kidnapping, dacoity, drug smuggling, and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Bhikariwal, who is an accused in the Nabha jailbreak case, is also wanted in connection with the attack on a Shiv Sena leader in Gurdaspur last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mastermind-of-shaurya-chakra-awardee-s-killing-in-punjab-arrested-at-delhi-airport/story-M2IzNTD7C7YU7HaNqn2PlK.html
